30 INFLAMMATION. the time of its stagnation,” which he thus describes:—“ a. Colourless corpuscles. During the retarded flow of blood immediately preceding stagnation, an accumulation of colourless corpuscles is observed to take place on the inner surface of the walls of the dilated small vessels, similar to what occurs in the healthy state when the velocity of the stream of blood is diminished, b. lied corpuscles. While the accumulated colourless corpuscles may have even become stagnant on the walls of the vessels, the red corpuscles, though in increased quantity, in proportion to the plasma, still continued to float on, but more and more slowly until complete stagnation ensues. They are somewhat more collapsed than natural; hence they appear redder, and their nucleus is less indistinctly seen, a change similar to what takes place in the red corpuscles of newly drawn blood. The red corpuscles appeared to be the agents principally concerned in the stagnation of the blood * * * by agglomerating together, and applying themselves here and there flat against the walls of the vessels and adhering to them; whilst other red corpuscles applied themselves to those already adherent.” (p. 568, 9.) This view had been already put forward by Jones in 1842; and about the same time was described more at length by Emmert and by Vogel. The following is the brief account which Jones gives of their statement. According to Emmert, the colour of the red globules becomes somewhat deeper, and hence individually they appear less transparent; their surface is less smooth, and the irregularity of their edges is peculiarly distinct: they acquire the property of remaining adherent to each other and to the walls of the vessels when they come in contact with them. When the flow of blood becomes retarded and oscillations commence, the blood-corpuscles apply themselves, according to Vogel, more to each other; and, though still individually distinguishable, they still touch, and in the smaller capillaries are often pressed close together by their surfaces in the manner of rolls of coin. The space next the walls seems merely filled with plasma; but, in complete stagnation of the blood, it disappears, and the interior of the vessel is completely filled with blood-corpuscles closely aggregated, and forming an apparently homogeneous iudistinctly granular mass, in which individual blood cor- puscles can scarcely be distinguished: but this fusion is merely apparent; for, if the blood be evacuated by opening the vessels, the individual corpuscles again appear quite distinct.” (p. 568.)—J. F. S.J 5. Every injury which acts as an irritant upon any one organic part, may be considered as an incidental cause of inflammation. The necessary intensity of this irritation cannot, in general, be determined ; it depends upon the individual susceptibility and condition of the organs. Powerful, young, full-blooded, sanguine, or choleric subjects, are most prone to inflammation ; the disposition to which is strongest when the fibrin of the blood is increased in quantity. Inflammation arises most readily in parts which are very sensitive, and in which the capillary-vascular system is much developed. The usual incidental causes of inflammation are, a peculiar condition of our juices differing from the natural commixture, suppression of ordinary discharges, contagious matter, mechanical influ- ences, falls, blows, wounds, and so on, cooling after preceding heat, burning by fire, corroding substances, and so on. [To these we may also add, with John Hunter, “ that fever is often the cause ol i local inflammation. We see this happen every day. * * * These inflammations, in j consequence of fever, are commonly supposed to be critical; but I very much doubt the ' truth of this opinion.” (p. 257.) “ Irritating substances,” says John Hunter, “ when of no specific kind, produce in- • flammation sooner than other visible causes of inflammation. If of a specific kind, then ► the time, sort, and violence will be according to that kind. But irritating application.1 ! must be continued for some time to produce violent inflammation. These difference! i< are easily accounted for: quick death does not irritate the part killed, and the conti > guous living part, not being itself hurt, is only irritated to get rid of the dead part. A j wound is a quick irritation of a living part, so that it inflames more readily and mon u violently, according to the quantity of irritation ; but that cannot be of long standing, ai .< nature sets about procuring relief. But when irritating substances are applied, the par inflames quickly, according to their power of irritation; and, if they are continued i nature is not allowed to relieve herself, but is constantly teased, by which means thr 1 inflammation becomes also violent.” (p. 257.) “ All inflammations attended witl I