275 WHITE SWELLING. “ There is, indeed, no country,” says Russell, “ in which white swelling more fre- quently occurs than in the island of Great Britain ” (p. 53); a remark previously made by Gdxz, who speaks of it as “ ligamenta articulationis genu prsesertim afficiens mor- bus Britannis pr* cteteros communis.” (p. 15.) Morgagni mentions its unfrequency in Italy; and it would seem rare at Vienna, and in many other parts of Germany, where scrofula is much less prevalent than in the colder climates of the north. Russell says it is called a White Swelling, “ on account of the appearance of the com- plaint in its advanced stages, as the skin, in general, remains of its natural colour, however large the size may be which the swelling attains.” Or it is named an In-come, in consequence of the slow and insidious approach of the attack, as the complaint often arises from insensible beginnings, and without any known cause. Russell’s descrip- tion of this disease is well worthy perusal, and if it be not a distinct disease, which, at the onset, it seems to me to be, it more resembles the disease of the cellular membrane of joints above mentioned, (p. 210,) as described by Wickham, than any other; whilst at its termination it has more close connexion with the results of synovial inflammation. I shall first give Russell’s account of the appearances which the disease presents on dissection ; and. though his account of the symptoms are deserving attention, yet, on the whole, I think it rather preferable to give Nicolai’s statement on the latter points, as being rather in accordance with the present notions of disease. The appearances on dissection “ are,” says Russell, “ in general, sufficiently charac- teristic of the complaint. The great mass of the swelling appears to arise from an aff ection of the parts exterior to the cavity of the joint, and which, besides an enlargement of size, seem also to have undergone a material change of structure. There is a larger, than natural, proportion of a viscid fluid, intermixed with the cellular substance. And the cellular sub- stance itself has become thicker, softer, and of a less firm consistence than in a state of health. Thus it approaches somewhat to the nature of a uniform pulpy mass, and by this means undulates when struck, so as to resemble the obscure fluctuation of a fluid, and, when gently and regularly pressed, applies accurately to all the little inequalities of the bone, presenting the appearance of a solid, permanent enlargement. The consist- ence of the swelling, indeed, varies considerably according to the duration of the com- plaint. When the swelling is recent, and has increased rapidly, the glutinous fluid is more liquid, and the cells which contain it more distinctly separated, so that the distinc- tion between the fluid and solid parts is quite evident. But when the swelling is of an old date, and has grown by slow degrees, the whole of its substance becomes of a more homogeneous consistence, very much resembling a mass of soft cartilage, in which no diversity of parts is easily discernible. In this state the substance is too solid to commu- nicate to the touch any sensation similar to the fluctuation of a fluid. Another circum- stance which prevents the perception of any such symptom in those old cases, is the change which the skin undergoes, as it becomes thicker, firmer, and more insensible, ap- proaching somewhat to the appearance which the skin assumes in cases of elephantiasis. The capsular ligament would appear to undergo a material alteration in its structure very soon after the commencement of the attack. It loses the firmness of its texture, and, as the texture becomes looser, the thickness of substance increases.” Gotz says:—“ Ipsa circa articulos ligamenta turgent ac tela quoque proxima ambiens, infarcta ostenditur, sic ut simul indensam, fungosam, quasisubstantiam, mutentur.” (p. 16.) ‘'The external sur- face, too, in place of presenting a bluish colour, with somewhat of a shining lustre, is more of a dead opake white. But, in general, the most essential change is to be observed upon the inside of the ligament, which becomes covered with a layer of a soft substance, of a pale yellowish colour, and semi-transparent. This substance is often nearly one-eighth of an inch in thickness; it is commonly very soft on the inner concave surface, and firmer on the outer convex part, where it adheres to the inside of the capsular ligament with a considerable degree of firmness. In many places there is a very beautiful plexus of vessels, and at the interstice, between the surfaces of the femur and tibia, an appendage full of nlood-vessels, particularly at its edges, frequently insinuates itself to the distance of nearly half an inch. This layer of adventitious matter seems to be composed of a lymphatic exudation, and, in this respect, may not so far differ from the nature of the effusion which forms the external swelling. The greater number of vessels proves the existence of a certain state of inflammation.” (p. 30-3.) The following is Nicolai’s account of Tumor albns, as he calls this disease :— “The disease has three stages, and runs sometimes a chronic, and sometimes an acute course.. In th ejirst stage of the chronic form, pain is observed from the very commence- ment, increasing on every movement of the limb, and a sensation of wearisomeness the joint, and these sensations wander from one place to another. Pressure does not in- crease, but rather diminishes, the pain, and, therefore, the patient swathes the limb with t 2 >i