TREATMENT OF 510 Hence these fractures are so tedious and dangerous, especially when in the lower extremity, which is their usual situation. There are no bounds to the mischief done bv a compound fracture; the loss of the uniting substance by the wound, and the loss of the living principle to what remains by the exposure, are causes of the failure of the first process, and besides, the ends of the bone are sometimes so locked together, as to require to he sawed off, or so denuded of their investing membrane, as to lose their living principle, and to exfoliate, as the dead part must be thrown off before the wound can heal. This sometimes takes six or eight months, and is so extensive, as to be very dangerous. The inflammation too which follows the accident is commonly very consi- derable, and may proceed to mortification.” (pp. 508, 9.) Astley Cooper says:—“ The effect which compound fracture produces on the consti- tution is to set up a violent re-action, so as to bring about a restoration of the injured part. The degree of this effort of the system will very much depend on the manner in which the accident is treated; and I should say that it was an important injury or otherwise, according to the plan of treatment which is pursued; for if you are careful in the management of the case, you may procure adhesion of the external wound, and thus reduce the accident to the state of a simple fracture.” (p. 644.) The truth of these observations is fully confirmed by even the most limited expe- rience ; and it may he worth mentioning, as confirmation of the propriety of attempting to unite the wound, and so to produce a simple fracture, that Miescher found difficulty, in experimenting upon rabbits, to produce suppuration in a compound fracture. “ I broke,” says he, “ the shin-bone of a rabbit in the usual way, and by cutting into the soft parts, down to the fracture, endeavoured to excite suppuration, but the wound covered with a scab, was shortly closed, and the fracture united by adhesion. I then thrust the end of one of the fragments through an artificial wound; this, however, failed of exciting such suppuration as 1 wished, the projecting part ran into necrosis, and was afterwards thrown off, but the lips of the external wound girt tightly around it, were covered with a crust, and the cure went on within just as in simple fracture. At length I succeeded according to my wishes, by thrusting a small pencil of charpie through the external wound down to the fracture, and there leaving it.” (p. 219.) (2) If in simple fracture general blood-letting, or even leeches be rarely expedient, in compound fracture, at least in towns, they should never be resorted to, for patients living in such districts have not sufficient constitutional power to admit of its dimi- nution in the long run, although it might seem requisite at the onset. In country prac- tice, however, where the people are more generally healthy, and less addicted to the abuse of spirits or malt liquor, general bleeding is sometimes required, but should always be resorted to only upon the most careful consideration of the case. (3) As regards opium, in healthy persons, it is better not to administer it, as by affecting the head, its common effect, it masks the symptoms of constitutional disturb- ance, and renders them apparently more severe than they really are. If, however, the patient be of drunken habit, and there be reason to anticipate an attack of deli- rium tremens, then opium must be resorted to as an absolutely necessary part of the treatment. (4) I always prefer poultices of warm bread and water, as a tepid evaporant, accord- ing to Abernethy’s method, rather than cold applications, because they relieve the tension of the skin, lessen the inflammatory disposition, do not retard quick union, if the wound be disposed to it, and encourage the separation of sloughs, and the production of healthy granulations, if the skin be so injured as not to unite by adhesion. (5) Enlargement of the wound in compound fracture should not be lightly under- taken, and as far as my experience goes, is not often requisite ; for if the Surgeon have a little patience and dexterity, a protruding fracture may often be coaxed, if the expres- sion may be permitted, to recede into its place, when force is quite unavailing. Should it, however, be necessary to enlarge the wound, the operator should carefully select such part of it as with least division will permit the return of the bone. (6) Sawing off' the protruding portion of the fracture is still less necessary than enlargement of the wound, and should never he resorted to but on the most urgent necessity. I believe that in hut exceedingly few instances its needfulness depends rather upon the incapable conduct of the medical attendant than on the nature of the accident itself. (7) Loose pieces of bone, if not of large size, but lying between the main parts of the fracture and near the surface, especially if the wound be large and there be much bruising, are best removed at once, as they rarely unite, and commonly keep up irrita- tion till they are thrown off; not unfrequently also they prevent the union of the mam pieces, and render amputation necessary.