148 INFLAMMATION OF Brennecke, Diss. Anginse Parotideae Descriptio pathologico-therapeutica. Helrnst, 1801. Burns, Allan, Observations on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. Edin- burgh, 1811. 8vo. Good, Mason, M.D., Study of Medicine. London. Second Edition, 1825. Vol. II. 136. Inflammation of the Parotid Gland (Inflammatio parotidis) has a different course, according as it is connected with catarrhal fever, or is a symptomatic, critical, or idiopathic disease. 137. The Mumps, in Scotland the B ranks, (Angina seu Cynanche parotidea, Lat.; Bauernwetzel, Germ.; Oreillons, ou (Juries, Fr.,) consists in a sometimes cold and rather oedematous, at other times hot, tense, pain- ful flat or raised swelling of the parotid and submaxillary glands, with which also the tonsils are sometimes swollen, and swallowing and opening of the mouth prevented. The skin generally preserves its natural colour, or has an inflammatory blush. The swelling is frequently unaccompanied with fever, soon disperses, and does not easily run into suppuration ; catarrhal symptoms, chilliness, rigors, and depression commonly precede, and it is mostly connected with fever similar to catarrhal, and frequently with active fever. In these cases a metastasis of the fever easily occurs. As the swelling of the parotid gland subsides, a fresh attack of fever with severe shivering, with pain in the loins and pubes, takes place, followed by inflammatory swelling of the testicle, and, in women, of the labia and breasts. Itching and burning in the generative organs, and frequently untimely menstruation, follow. The swelling of the parotid gland often still continues; but sometimes the inflammation, though it may have sub- sided, returns to the gland. Other parts are also frequently attacked; drowsiness, severe headache, wanderings, inflammatory or spasmodic affec- tions of the breast, active vomiting, dropsical swelling of the whole body with short breathing and high fever occur. In trifling cases the inflammation often subsides in a few days, some- times later, with perspiration spreading over the whole tumour or over the whole surface of the body, with critical flow of urine and bleeding from the nose. The passage of this inflammation into suppuration or hardening is very rare. In some cases wasting of the testicle has been observed. [Dr. Mason Good (a) speaks of two kinds of inflammation of the parotid gland ; the one just mentioned, and another, which he calls Parotid Phlegmon, but both exhibiting two species or varieties, a simple or benignant, and a malignant form. The first kind, his parotid phlegmon, Good briefly characterizes as “ a tumour situated under the ear, reddish, hard; pain obtuse, suppuration slow and difficult,” (p. 326,) aud is “ troublesome, and sometimes fatal.” (p. 408.) Of its benignant variety he says :— “ Though the suppurative process is slow and inactive, the incarnation subsequent upon the breaking of the abscess is regular and unobstructed.” He mentions a case of this kind, in which a girl of fifteen years had, after the duration of the disease for ten weeks, “ for about a fortnight an evident pointing towards the surface, and a feel of irregular fluctuation ; it afterwards broke, a large quantity of good pus drained away daily, and the tumour, which at first was extensive and hard, by degrees very considerably dimi- nished, and clustered or divided into lobes, and at length disappeared altogether.” * * “ The abscess, in some cases of this variety, is of considerable magnitude, aud conse- quently the discharge of pus very large.” He says, that, sometimes, “ the pus has been absorbed, and carried off by metastasis to some remote organ,” of which he cites ex- amples. (pp. 327, 8.) The malignant variety, Good says, “ seldom appears in early life1, and, in females, seems sometimes to follow upon the cessation of the catamenia. It is still slower in its progress than the preceding; and, when at length it breaks, the pus is (a) Above quoted.