HYDROPHOBIA. 368 in it, which spreads from the wounded spot over the whole part, towards • the neck, and upon the entire side of the body. The scar inflames, swells breaks, and discharges an ichorous, foul-smelling pus. The absorbents and neighbouring glands are slightly swollen ; the pain spreads rather in the course of the nerves. The parts often become paralysed, and slight con- vulsions take place in it. In some cases, however, no change occurs in the injured part. According to Urban (b), besides the changes in the wound or scar already described, there should be always a circlet of small vesicles, from the size of a millet seed to that of a moderately large pea, containing a reddish or bluish fluid, and capable of propagating the same disease by inoculation. 362. With these appearances occur also faintness, heaviness of the limbs, dizziness, deafness, dimness of sight, shunning the light, heaviness, and great sensitiveness. The sleep is restless, broken by convulsive wakings and dreadful dreams ; the face is disfigured, pallid ; the eyes are dull, full of water, often motionless and reddened ; the spittle frequently collects in the mouth ; the pulse is small, irregular ; the breathing is oppressed, J broken with sighs ; the voice hollow and trembling; there is nausea, dispo- sition to vomit, actual vomiting of green bile, pain at the pit of the stomach ; costiveness, and pale urine. After these symptoms have continued for a longer or shorter time, a burning internal heat comes on, great thirst, and dryness of the throat, abhorrence of all drinks, so that every attempt to take any fluid (1), and subsequently the very sight of water, or of any glittering object, the least breath of air, and so on, excites the most severe contrac- tion of the throat, and convulsions (2). Spasm attacks the muscles of the neck especially, but often there is general tetanus. The patient can some- times swallow fluids if he do not see them. Often is there an uncontrollable disposition to bite (3). Symptoms of actual raving may occur, in which the patient can scarcely be restrained, and screams and rages extraordi- narily (4) ; but sometimes he is completely insensible till death. Clammy spittle flows from the mouth, or it is spit out, and collects like foam about the mouth (5). The patient can swallow solid food. Bilious vomiting fre- quently occurs. In men a disposition for connexion, and continued erection of the penis occurs. When the raving symptoms have passed by the patient ) feels exceedingly weak, the pulse is extremely small and frequent; some of the limbs are often paralysed, and the notion of his dreadful condition often brings the patient to despair, and even to seek self-destruction. Death at last follows (6), the symptoms continuing to increase, on the second or third day, rarely later, from wearing out, or from inflammation of the internal ;• organs, or from palsy and apoplexy (7). [(1) “ They will in the true disease,” as stated by Elliotson, “ generally make, too, the greatest possible efforts to overcome the difficulty of swallowing, and although they many times put the cup from their lips, their courage failing after they have promised to attempt to swallow, they will frequently at last, as in this case, by great effort, open the mouth, throw the head back, and gulp down considerable draughts of fluid in vio- lent haste, even in the midst of their greatest difficulty of swallowing.” (p. 289.) (2) “ The most characteristic, indeed, the peculiar feature of the disease,” says Er- LIOTSON, “ that which is, perhaps, pathognomonic, is the effect produced on the dia- phragm, and muscles of the throat by the slightest draught of air, the smallest sudden drop of fluid, or even by the slightest sudden touch that may be made with the finger upon any part of the body. * * * The effect of the cold air, etc., even that of a fly settling suddenly upon the skin, of a sudden strong light, the least agitation of the bed or bed-clothes, very much resembles that produced on us all, upou stepping into a cold bath. A sudden and involuntary inspiration is made, followed by several shorter ones; and, in a case of hydrophobia, the muscles of the throat are, at the same time, violently