SEQUENCES OF GONORRHCEA. 1G6 (a) Quoted at the head of the article. (6) Above cited. dilation. Every gonorrhoea which is tested by inoculation in its various periods, without producing auy result, is only a simple affection, and incapable of communicating syphilis, whether primary in another subject, or constitutional in the one first affected.” (p. 59 ; Fr. edit.,p. 133.) It is very commonly held by those who consider gonorrhoea and syphilis as distinct diseases, that in the former there is not ulceration, the gonorrhoea being, as described by Wallace (a), a “ diffused and superficial disease, with increased and altered secretion, but without loss of substance or ulceration.” (p. 233.) But, as Ricord observes, it is well known and proved by pathological anatomy, that, as the speculum shows us every day, gonorrhoea is often accompanied or followed by erosions, or more or less extensive destruc- tions of the mucous membranes; but the ulcerated form of gonorrhoea, if I may thus ex- press myself, does not render it more capable of being inoculated than that which is not; the gonorrhoeal ulcers being essentially distinct from chancre.” (p. 53; Fr. edit., p. 119.) The best account of gonorrhoeal sores and their consequences is certainly that given by Travers (b). “ The distinguishing features of sores produced by gonorrhoeal matter are,” says Travers, “ circularity, flatness without induration, whether raised or level, with the sur- face ; seldom solitary, often several; the greater frequency on the anterior and posterior verge of the perpuce, or beside the frsenum, i. e. at the angles of reflection between the layers of the prepuce, or the close and loose investment of the glans, than elsewhere. In the female, they are likewise commonly situated at the junction of the mucous with the cutieular membrane upon the labia, or at their inferior commissure. Their margin is blunt, but not indurated ; the character of the granulation is spongy and indolent, and, though they clean readily, they heal slowly.” (p. 13.) “ The proper gonorrhoea, or inflammatory secretion from the sound mucous lining of the urethra, while confined to it,” says Travers, “ is incapable of producing secondary symptoms to the individual; its bubo, if present, is sympathetic, so is the sore throat, or inflamed membrane of the eye or nose, if one or all should follow; i. e. they have no character but that of simple and superficial membranous inflammation. As these un- questionably do sometimes follow, though in so slight a degree as to be scarcely notice- able, the circumstance can only be explained by attributing it to the same consensus l partium which determines the selection of these parts for the specific appearances when the matter of secretion is absorbed, and acts as a morbid poison. But, when the matter of gonorrhoea is absorbed by an excoriated surface, and this surface becomes an ulcer, the matter which it secretes is capable of producing, by its absorption into the system, secondary symptoms in the individual. The absence of secondary symptoms in pure gonorrhoea depends, therefore, not upon any difference in the quality of the matter, but upon a law of the animal economy, that the inflammatory secretions of the sound sur- i face are not absorbed into the system.” (pp. 10, 11.) “ The secondary symptoms of the gonorrhoeal sore are as strongly marked,” continues Travers, “ present as distinct a character as those of lues. The glands in the groin are oftener large and indurated, than otherwise, in protracted cases; but, as in proper gonorrhoea, the affection is sympathetic. The appearance of secondary symptoms is cer- tainly not peculiar to these cases. The inflammation of the velum palati and uvula is diffuse and superficial; the surface is roughened with innumerable small and shallow indentations where ulceration has taken place. They are so slight as often to escape ordinary observation. They are seen chiefly upon the tonsils, uvula, apex, and edges of the tongue. * * * The gonorrhoeal sore throat is accompanied by considerable irrita- bility to stimulant fluids especially. The exacerbated ulcer of lues, with its abrupt high- coloured margin, is not more strongly characterized, or more readily distinguished. The cutaneous affections are slight, and, in character, presenting less variety than those of lues, so far as my observation enables me to speak. The papular and squamous are the most common, the pustular and tubercular occasional. The lichen and psoriasis upon the trunk and limbs, and the achor and acne indurata thickly distributed upon the face and the verge of the hairy scalp, are the forms which I have chiefly recognised, (pp. 14, 15.) . With regard to the gonorrhoeal sore throat, since it was first pointed out, many years since, by Travers, I have continually observed it, I think quite as frequently when there was merely discharge without any sore, as when with it; and so surely does it accom- ; pany gonorrhoea that, if perceived in the throat, I invariably inquire if the patient have a clap, and scarcely remember to have found it absent. I think it has a very close re- semblance to the non-specific aphthous sores in the mouth and throat indicative of mucous irritation in the bowels, and the sores are generally about the size, or somewhat less,