OF ABSCESS. 91 way with the lancet, and, without the use of any other local means than moist warm poultices, the cure has been effected more quickly and with less trouble than by other modes of treatment. The opinions relative to the treatment of this cold or lymphatic abscess are so various, doubt- less because they are confounded with congestive abscess and with the swellings of mucous bags {par. 17.) Corresponding general means must be employed with the local treatment; we must use strengthening remedies bark, rhatany, sweet flag, with diluted acids, a strong nourishing diet, and attention must be paid to cleanliness and good air. According to Kluge (a), the lymph should he discharged by an incision, or, if that be not sufficient, the whole front wall of the swelling must be cut away, the opening of the hardened lymphatic vessel must be found, which is usually super- ficial and easily discernible by the trickling of the lymph; a bristle must be intro- duced into its open mouth, and then the vessel must be slit up for half an inch or an inch, until the healthy trunk is reached. The bristle is then to be removed, and either a compressing bandage applied, or, if there do not occur a proper degree of inflammation, the opened lymph-vessel must be touched along the part which has been slit open with a pointed piece of nitrate of silver up to the healthy portion, and then the compress applied. Upon the subject of opening abscesses consult Abernethy on Chronic and Lumbar Abscesses, iu his Surgical Works, London, 1815, vol. ii. p. 153. Sciiaack und Mursinna, fiber de oft unzulangliche Hiilfe bei lymphatischen Gesch- wulsten : in Mursinna’s Journal, vol. i. p. 2. 1800. Beinl, A., von einer eigenen Art Lymphgeschwiilst, und der zweckmassigsten Methode, die selbe zu heilen. Wien, 1801. In Abhandl. der med. cliir. Josephin Akademie in Wien, vol. ii. Rust, einige Reflexionen fiber die Natur und Heilung der Lymphgeschwiilste, in Harless Jahrbfichern der teutschen Medicin und Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 155. And in Rust’s Magazin, vol. i. Jacopi, Operazioni e Sperienze fatti nel instituto clinico di Chirurgia di Pavia nel anno 1812, 1813, vol. ii. Chelius, in neuen Chiron herausgegeben von Textor, vol. i. part i. von Walther, fiber die wahre Natur der Lymphgeschwiilste; iu Journal fiir Chi- rurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. i. p. 584. 62. The further treatment after opening an abscess must be quite simple ; we must endeavour to keep up merely a free undisturbed escape of pus, and to preserve a proper vital correspondence. No further local treatment is required beyond the use of moist warm poultices. The edges of the opening draw together, the walls of the abscess approach and adhere, granulations (Fleischwarzen, Germ.) are produced from the bottom of the abscess by the development of fine vessels and delicate cellular tissue, which become more and more solid, are covered with a thin skin, and form a scar (Cicatrix, Lat.; Narbe, Germ.; Cicatrice, Fr.) A more active degree of inflammation, when continued or developed after the opening of the abscess, in consequence of which its edges swell, its neighbour- hood becomes very sensitive, and the suppuration diminished, is usually consequent on improper treatment, on the use of tents and so on, and can only be relieved by the aforesaid treatment, which diminishes the irritation. 63. If a proper degree of vitality be wanting in weak constitutions or in abscesses in parts far distant from the heart; if the edges of the (a) ZemdsCH, as above.