415 AND UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES. dangerous to life ; and, if these have once set in, the operation will not longer have a satisfactory result. If, also, certain injuries of this kind be cured without trepanning, it must not mislead to the supposition that the trepan i is useless or superfluous ; the question is not, whether, in certain cases, a cure may not be effected without the trepan, but whether the trepan is the most proper and certain remedy for the restoration of the patient. As I was formerly a defender of the more extensive prophylactic application of the trepan, but from the result of careful observation and experience have withdrawn from it, the opinions here brought forward may be so much the less the object of doubt. 434. Upon the following grounds trepanning is to be considered as in- dicated, indeed, immediately required, without secondary symptoms: 1. In fractures of the skull with impression. 2. In fractures of the skull, with splinterings of the bone, directed against the dura mater; for instance, in fracture of the frontal bone, in wounds inflicted with blunt swords, in stabs, in shot-wounds, and so on. 3. In separation of the sutures. 4. In cases where foreign bodies have penetrated from without into the cavity of the skull. For these cases the trepan may, however, be unnecessary, if the con- dition of the bony walls and the separation of their edges permit the re- moval of splinters and foreign bodies, and, if in separation of the sutures, the escape of the extravasation and of the secretion of the wound from both sides be allowed ; or when a piece of bone can be entirely removed, and no further splintering exists. 435. In the subsequent course of injuries of the head, trepanning may be necessary: 1. In fracture of the skull, with symptoms of compression, when they l continue after bleeding and proper treatment. 2. In extravasations of blood, if the symptoms be not diminished by energetic and proper treatment, if it be certain that the violence have ope- rated on one particular part of the skull, namely, at the course of the middle meningeal artery. 3. When, notwithstanding proper treatment, symptoms of inflammation of the brain continue, connected with those of pressure, especially when a I circumscribed painful tumour rises, in opening which the pericranium is found separated ; or the bared bone shows a grayish colour, and its texture > is changed. 4. When the secretion of the wound cannot properly escape from the wound in the bone, when the dura mater is separated to a greater extent, and there is also a collection of pus (1). o. In caries and necrosis, with separation of the dura mater, and collec- tion of pus between it and the skull (2). 6. In continued severe headache, with convulsions or epileptic symp- toms, which decidedly arise from the place of the earlier injury (3). 1 [(1) Of these also have been considered already, compression from depressed 1 fracture (par. 395); from extravasation of blood {pars. 432, 33); and from collec- tions of pus ( par. 387.) (2) With regard to trepanning in cases of caries and necrosis, unless symptoms of ' i compression have come on, which is not of very frequent occurrence, it is better to leave them alone, taking care, however, when pus collects beneath the scalp and cannot readily ! escaPo, which in these cases happens again and again during the course of the natural cure, that it should have a free outlet by cutting freely through the skin. From time to time a careful examination should be made to ascertain if the dead bone be loose,