581 BONES OF THE LEG. 701. If the shin-bone alone be broken, (Fractura Tibicc, Lat.; Bruch dcr Schienbein, Germ.; Fracture du Tibia, Fr.,) the fracture has usually a transverse direction, and may happen in the middle or at either end. The broken ends are rarely displaced, and then only according to the thickness of the limb. This happens so much less frequently, the nearer the fracture is to the upper end of the bone. The diagnosis is, there- fore, often difficult; the patient frequently can walk after the injury ; he feels a fixed pain ; an irregularity is often discovered at one part of the shin-bone, and often crepitation on moving the broken ends. The treat- ment of this fracture is easy ; a slight extension is sufficient, if the broken ends be displaced, to put them right, and a simple contentive apparatus, as recommended in fracture of both bones of the leg. 702. Fracture of the Splint-bone (Fractura Fibula, Lat.; Bruch der Wadenbein, Germ. ; Fracture du Pcrone, Fr.) may be produced by an inward or outward turning of the foot, or by the immediate effect of violence ; and the fracture may be either in the body of the splint-bone, or in the neighbourhood of the outer ankle. In fracture of the body of I the splint-bone the limb is not shortened, and retains its natural direction ; a slight yielding is scarcely felt at the seat of fracture in pressing the finger along the bone. The violence received on the outside of the leg, i and the great ecchymosis assist the diagnosis. This fracture is fre- quently accompanied with dislocation inwards of the shin-bone, and if it be mistaken, the foot retains its disposition to dislocate after seeming : reduction. The inner ankle always again leaves the joint surfaces of the /. astragalus, thrusts the skin violently inwards, which becomes inflamed, breaks, and even runs into mortification. The broken end may alone be •i displaced, and driven inwards against the shin-bone. If the seat of frac- i ture be very low down, it may be discovered by the touch, which is not possible in the upper third of the splint-bone. Crepitation is often ob- i! served on pressing the fractured ends inwards, or in alternate adduction I and abduction of the foot. The most striking sign is always the inclina- tion of the foot outwards, so that its inner edge is downwards, and the outer upwards. If dislocation of the shin-bone inwards be connected with i this fracture, the bone is shorter, its long axis falls on the inner side, the l whole shin-bone lies obliquely from above inwards, and produces beneath the skin, especially at the lower part, a considerable prominence. The • splint-bone follows the same direction as the shin-bone to the seat of i fracture, from which it is directed obliquely outwards. The foot is not i only inclined outwards, but so turned upon its own proper axis, that its i sole is turned up, and its inner edge directed downwards. Fracture of the i splint-bone may also be connected with dislocation of the foot outwards, I often simultaneously with fracture of the inner ankle or of the shin-bone, l> and other complication may exist, as, in dislocation of the ankle-joint, will be more particularly described. 703. The treatment of simple fracture of the splint-bone is unattended I with difficulty. The foot must be kept bent inwards, to separate the broken ends from the shin-bone. This is effected by the same apparatus [' as that for fracture of both bones of the leg, with this difference, that the inner splint is applied only to the inner ankle, but the outer continued i below the outer ankle. Or, upon the inside of the leg is put a folded N chaff’pad, the bottom of which rests on the inner ankle, and the upper end i upon the inner condyle of the thigh-bone. A sufficiently strong wooden