G90 SEQUESTER. trates it; in necrosis the bone is even and hard, and though rough, not, however, yielding and soft; the bony splinters thrown off are in caries small, dust-like, and destructible; in superficial necrosis they are layer-like, in deep necrosis large, firm, and of the natural condition of bone ; the periosteum or medullary membrane is in caries usually much changed or destroyed, whilst the one or the other or even both in necrosis preserve their integrity, therefore nature does little in caries ; in favourable cases the openings become callous, and similar changes are produced in the bony substance, or granulations arise from the bone which become connected with those from the soft parts but are rarely con- verted into bone and form only misshapen masses, whilst in necrosis a more or less com- plete reproduction of the destroyed bone is effected. The course of necrosis is mostly tedious, but often also quick and connected with active inflammation, which is rarely the case in caries. After opening the abscess, the pain in necrosis usually subsides, whilst in caries it mostly increases (a). The notion that in curies the organic principle (bony gelatine) has entirely disap- peared, and instead of it a peculiar fatty matter produced which fills the cells of the carious bone, whilst in necrosis the formative principle remains unchanged and its respective relations, that is, as they are found in health, remain, (Delpech, Berard, Pouget and others,) is not confirmed by Mouret’s experiments (&), as, according to him, the fatty matter in which every writer believed, is always found in recent caries, well dis- tinguished from rancid fat by its smell, which may serve as its characteristic ; but all the bones he examined have a fibrous jelly-like substance, and contain a proportionate quantity of saline substances, as in healthy bone ; it is therefore impossible by the che- mical characters indicated to distinguish caries from necrosis. 872. Nature endeavours to separate a piece of dead bone, usually called a- sequester, from a healthy bone, by the process of absorption, which at the line of connexion between the dead and the healthy bone, produces a loss of substance (1). As long as the exfoliation goes on by absorption and granulation, the small fleshy wall surrounding the fistulous opening remains, according to Dzondi’s observations, unchanged ; but it shrivels as soon as that process is completed, and the separated piece is thrown off’externally, at the same time the previously very small round hole becomes irregularly enlarged. After this separation of the sequester, its expulsion is possible, and usually happens without hindrance, excepting such as the soft parts offer, if the dead piece belong to the external surface of a flat or tubular bone. Compensation for the lost piece of bone is effected by nature in various ways. If the necrosis extend only to the external layer of the bone, whilst the internal remains alive, which happens only in slight injuries from mechanical influence, abscess and the like, the piece of bone, if the periosteum and soft parts remain uninjured, is enclosed in bone newly formed by the periosteum and is separated within by the granulations formed from the living layer. The piece of bone exhibits a rough surface, pro- duced by absorption. If the periosteum and the soft parts be destroyed on the affected parts of the bone, and it is bared of soft parts, or entirely separated from them by blood, suppuration, and the like, the granulations arising from the compact bony mass can only effect imperfect compensa- tion, so that a depression or deficiency remains at the place of loss. Here the piece of dead bone keeps its smooth surface and its whole thickness. In every severe inflammatory irritation of the surface of the bone, there occurs a corresponding plastic activity in the medullary canal, and new bone I is produced, which, opposite the point of greatest irritation, fills up the medullary cavity. In internal necrosis, if the layer of bone concealed i within the medullary canal die, the compensating substance is formed from I the periosteum, and becomes one with the external layer of the cortical substance, which remains healthy, excepting that the latter swells and | (a) Richter, above cited, vol viii. pt. i. p. 128.—Dictionnaire de Medecine et Chirurgie Prat., Article, I Uite‘<e- (6) Revue Medicale, 1835.