430 WOUNDS OF THE EAR, NOSE, CHEEK, forehead, and the cheek is to be kept up by the bandage called monoculus. Small strips of plaster are to be laid between the threads, and the motions of the eyelid are to be prevented by vertical strips of plaster. 460. Wounds of the Ear are difficult to unite on account of the many elevations and depressions of the auricle ; and it is for the most part neces- sary to put in, at several points, sutures, which should penetrate only the external skin. If the ear-passage be also injured, it must be stopped with cliarpie, by which the edges of the wound are brought together, and its secretion prevented collecting there (1). Charpie having been laid about the whole ear and in its cavities, it is to be covered with a compress, and the whole fastened with a cloth folded together, which being placed under the chin is carried up over the ears and bound together on the head. If the external ear be completely cut off, or attached only at a small part, its union must always be attempted. [(1) If the gristly part of the ear-passage be cut or torn, on no account mustCHELius’s recommendation of stuffing it with charpie or lint be followed. It is not necessary, for the parts can easily be kept together by supporting the back of the auricle ; and it is sure to be mischievous and painful, because it plugs up the hollow in which the inflammatory swelling has opportunity otherwise to take place. If there be much bruising, it is pre- ferable to cover the whole ear with a bread poultice, and bring the edges of the wound together afterwards when they have begun to granulate.—J. F. S.] 461. Wounds of the Nose may split it either in the middle or on its wings, or a part of the nose may be almost or completely divided like a flap. Cuts which split the nose in the middle may be united with sticking plaster, and the union assisted with compresses and a double X-bandage, or by a piece of sticking plaster, cut out in shape of the letter (J. If the wings of the nose be divided, they must be united with the suture, which should hold only the skin. Wounds which divide the length of the nose horizontally, or more or less obliquely, so that a piece is either entirely divided, or remains only slightly attached, must be united by the stitch and by stick- ing plaster. But when a small portion of the tip of the nose, in this direction, is lost, a piece of plaster put on obliquely may be useful. Elastic tubes are to be placed carefully in the nostrils, and properly fastened to the bandage. The bandages for the nose, to wit, 1st, the simple bandage ; 2nd, the single accipiter; 3rd, the double accipiter; 4th, the nose-sling; 5th, the upsilon-bandage; 6th, the X-bandage; 7th, the double X-bandage of Schreger, the operation of which consists either in lateral compression of the nostrils, in pressure upwards or downwards, are, as regards their application and operation, extremely uncertain, and may be rendered super- fluous by the proper employment of sticking plaster (as the four-headed sticking plaster and plaster bandage of Bottchkr.) 462. Wounds of the Chech may mostly be united by sticking plaster ; but when they gape much, are angular, the lips completely divided, or the salivary duct injured, they require the suture. In all penetrating wounds of the cheeks and lips, w hen any vessels are to be tied, the ligatures are to be applied in the mouth, and to be led out from one or other of its corners. If, in injuries of the salivary ducts, the wound do not heal perfectly by quick union, and the spittle flow from the still open aperture, the healing of the duct must be always attempted, and the origin of salivary fistula pre- vented by repeatedly touching with lunar caustic, and by compression of the parotid duct with the halter bandage. Chewing and speaking are also to be forbidden. 463. Wounds of the Tongue, when superficial, heal if it be kept at rest; but deeper and especially transverse wounds require sutures. The patient