IMPERFECTIONS OF THE NIPPLES. 154 July 31. The tumour was removed, and, on cutting into, was found to contain the cyst of an abscess about the size of a walnut, and containing pus. The surrounding parts were thick and hardened, but there was not any appearance of scirrhus. She did well.—J. F. S.] 153. Imperfections of the nipples, if they be too small, inflame, or are overspread with a pustular eruption, render suckling painful or impossible, and frequently give rise to inflammation of the breast gland. Small and deep-set nipples erect themselves best if during pregnancy a ring of horn or wood be worn, in the aperture of which the nipple may be placed. In- flammation of the nipple at first requires lotions of cold water with a little spirit or red wine. If they crack, Hufeland’s ointment (a) is the best; but, according to my experience, it ought not to be employed without putting on nipple-shields directly afterwards, for the purpose of preventing the linen sticking. This disease may be often prevented, if, in the latter months of pregnancy, the nipples be frequently washed with red wine or with spirit and water. A pustular eruption drying into a scab often sur- rounds the nipple to a greater or less extent, and occurs mostly in persons who have formerly been subject to the itch or herpetic eruptions. Parti- cular attention to cleanliness, and frequent rubbing in an ointment of hog’s lard and flowers of sulphur, or, if little inflammation accompany it, frequent dabbing with solution of sublimate, is according to my experience always sufficient to prevent this eruption, and never have I been compelled to resort to a general plan of anti-herpetic treatment. For this cracking of the nipples, accompanied with so much pain, Cooper recom- mends a solution of borax with a little spirits of wine; HaNney (b), touching with lunar caustic and wrapping in zinc ointment; from time to time, before putting the child to the breast, it is to be washed with a saturated solution of borax. Upon the application of the “ cosmetique infaillible et prompt contre les ger§ures au sein, compose par Liebert,” see Volz (c). IV.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE URETHRA. Allen, J., de Fluoris Albi charactere ac notis, quibus cum Gonorrhoea convenit vel differt, et utriusque curatione. Lugd. Bat., 1751. 8vo. Murray, J. A., de Materia Arthritica ad verenda aberrante; in J. P. Franck. Delect. Opusc. Medic., p. 5. Baldinger, E. G., Programma, quo Gonorrhoea ab amore meretricio virus venereum defenditur. Goetting., 1778. 8vo. Hunter, John, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease. London, 1786. 4to. 3rd Edition. 4to. London, 1810. Edited by Everard Home. Decker’s Ablandlung iiber den Tripper. Leipz., 1787. 8vo. Tode, J. C., iiber die Erkentniss und Heilung des Trippers. Koppenh. und Leipz., 1790. 8vo. Bell, Benjamin, A Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulenta and Lues Venerea. 2 vols. Edinburgh, 1793. 8vo. 2nd Edition. 1797. Ansiaux, J. C. M . P., Sur la Blennorrhagie. Paris, 1807. 4to. Autenreith, De morbis quibusdam, qui Gonorrhoeam male tractatum sequuntur. Tubing., 1807. 4to. Cullerier,—Article Blennorrhagie; in Dictionnaire des Sciences Me'dicales, vol. ui. ■ Cooper, Astlf.y, Surgical Lectures; in Lancet. 1823-24, vol. ii. (a) Journal der practischen Ileilkunde, vol. xiv. (6) Med. Gazette, Sept. 1834 p. 3.—R. gummi arab. 3'j i ol. amygdal. Si88; (c) Heidelb. Med. Annalen, vol. iv. part bals. Peruv. 3j ; aq. rosar. jj. Misceat. Fiat lini- p. 517 mentum.