GONORRHOEA IN FEMALE. 159 156. The continuance of these symptoms varies. In slight cases they soon pass by, the discharge gradually diminishes, and (under proper management, commonly in from three to four weeks) completely ceases. Frequently, it becomes chronic, and the discharge (gleet) assumes a thin serous ropy character, appears in very small quantity, especially in the morning, after emptying the bladder or after any irritation, and may in this state continue for many months or even years. [“ The discharge from gonorrhoea is very much affected by constitutional causes.” says Astley Cooper. Thus, if with “ abundant discharge, considerable pain, and even chor- dee, the patient should get a fever, the discharge disappears, the pain ceases, and he will be entirely free from all symptoms of the disease for a period of from seventeen to twenty days. As soon, however, as he begins to recover from his fever, the discharge of matter will recur, the pain and chordee return, and a long time may elapse before the disease can be removed.” (p. 191.)] 157. The consequences of gonorrhoea by the changes it produces on the mucous membrane of the urethra are thickening, narrowing, stricture, and swelling of the prostate gland. 158. In the female the vagina is the seat of gonorrhoea. The inflam- mation spreads externally upon the labia, urethra and clitoris. Painful tickling arises in these parts, and soon a copious flow of differently condi- tioned mucus takes place which produces excoriation, and the gonorrhoea is easily propagated to the rectum (1). The voidance of urine is painful. The symptoms of gonorrhoea are generally less distinct in women than in men; the mucous discharge, however, soon becomes chronic and very obstinate. The detailed symptoms, the manner of its origin, as well as the occurrence of menstruation and the unchanged colour of the face, distin- guish female gonorrhoea from the whites (_fhior alb us vel leucorrhcea) (2). [(1) When the urethra had been affected with the disease, Record states, that “ on introducing the finger into the vagina, and pressing the convexity of the urethra, pus was seen to proceed from the interior of the canal, whose surface, as seen through the meatus urinarius, appeared swollen.” (p. 173; Fr. edit., p. 332.) “The acute urethritis is seldom accompanied by retention of urine, and, when it does exist, it is generally of short duration, and yields to antiphlogistic treatment; but, nevertheless, sometimes it requires the use of the catheter, which ought to be introduced with the parts exposed, notwithstanding the objections raised, as less pain will be caused than if the surgeon have to feel his way.” (p. 322; Fr. edit., p. 678.) In the five cases which Ricord describes as utero-vaginal gonorrhoea, and which inoculation proved not to be syphilitic, there was, besides a purulent discharge from the mouth of the womb, upon the cervix uteri, “ either an ulceration in form of a blister, (p- 161; Fr. edit., p. 310); or several points deeply eroded with a grayish surface, covered with albuminous adhering secretion (p. 162; Fr. edit., p. 313) ; or a bleeding ulceration (P- 166; Fr. edit., p. 320); or a superficial granulated ulceration, penetrating to the cavity of the cervix uteri (p. 172; Fr. edit., p. 332) ; or erosion at several points, as in some cases of balanitis.” (p. 175; Fr. edit., p. 335.) [Hunter says that “ sometimes the bladder sympathises, producing the same symptoms as in men, and it is probable that the irritation may be communicated to the kidneys. It has been asserted that the ovaria are sometimes affected in a similar way to the testi- cles in men; I have never seen a case of this kind, and I should very much doubt of its existence, for we have no instance in other diseases of the ovaria sympathising with those parts or at least producing such symptoms as would enable us to determine they did.” (p. 68.) Ricord, however, does believe in the occurrence of ovaritis as a complication of gonorrhoea, and speaks of its treatmeant. Not unfrequently the labia swell under a sharp attack of gonorrhoea, and the nymphae, ¥ together with the prceputium clitoridis, become infiltrated with serum, and of consider- able size, giving to the latter an appearance of being twisted, similar to that sometimes observed in phimosis, or paraphimosis, in the male. Hence Ricord compares it to “ a kind of phimosis or paraphimosis,” and he speaks of it as occasionally terminating in gangrene, which, however, 1 do not recollect to have observed.