449 WOUNDS. closed with a clot, after which the extravasation may be discharged in the usual way. Only in large, open wounds is the immediate ligature of the intercostal artery possible. If the pleura be not wounded at the same time with the intercostal artery, it maybe attempted to stanch the bleeding by filling the wound with charpie. 494. Wounds of the internal Mammary Artery must be distinguished on anatomical principles and by examination, as in wounded intercostal artery. Between the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs it must be nearly always accompanied with a division of the rib-cartilage; and it may be wounded without effusion of blood into the cavity of the pleura. What has been said in reference to stanching bleeding from the inter- costal, in part, also, applies to that from the mammary artery. It may, perhaps, be taken up on the second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces. As to the other modes of treatment, only compression, by means of folds of linen filled with charpie, and the remedies advised for stanching bleed- ing from the lungs are to be employed. 49 a. When the large vessels in the cavity of the Chest are wounded, the person dies quickly ; only when the wound is small can he live for a little time. If no very large vessel be wounded, the symptoms vary. If the lungs be wounded at a part where they are connected with the pleura, there will not be any effusion into the cavity of the pleura, and that space only made by the wounding instrument into the lungs will be filled with blood ; it flows out, if the external wound be sufficiently large, or filters into the cells of the lung itself. But if the lung be wounded at an unattached part, the blood will flow into the cavity of the pleura, and the symptoms already described will be produced. 496. The stanching of bleeding from wounded lungs can only be effected indirectly. 1. The power of the circulation must be so reduced by the most strict antiphlogistic treatment, by large repeated bleedings, that by the greatest quietude of the patient, by continued use of cold applications to the chest, and cooling medicines, a plug may be formed in the opening of the vessel, which, under the weakened circulation, cannot be thrust out by the force of the moving blood, and consequently the wounded vessel is obliterated. The bleeding must therefore be so often repeated as the pulse begins to rise and to threaten, by the increased motion of the blood, the thrusting out of the just formed clot. 2. The blood must be retained in the cavity of the chest, partly for the purpose of assisting the formation of the plug, partly to prevent its earlv throwing off. The wound must be therefore, as already said, well closed with sticking plaster. If under this treatment the bleeding stop, of which we become aware by the cessation of the primary symptoms, by the return of the natural warmth, and so on, and the symptoms of extravasation still continue, then, after two or three days, we must proceed to open the cavity of the chest. Only when there is manifest danger of suffocation is this to be done earlier; in which case, however, a repetition of the bleeding is always so much earlier to be feared. The union of penetrating-wounds of the chest, recommended on the grounds just men- tioned, is objected to by Vbring (fit), for the following reasons:—“ 1. In most penetrat- ing wounds of the chest, injury of the thoracic viscera also exists, and if primary bleed- mg do not at once take place, most commonly, in injury of the lungs, consecutive extravasation occurs. 2. The signs of a penetrating wound are extremely doubtful, and (a) Above cited, p. d2. 2 G VOL. I.