ADVENTITIOUS MEMBRANE. 231 venting the bones being distinctly felt, and in some measure altering the form of the joint, (pp. 218-22.) . “The patella and the extremity of the femur are the parts on which the ulcerative process can be best traced, on account of the disease being in these less advanced. In the former bone, the first part that commonly gives way to ulceration is the margin of the cartilage, where the synovial membrane is reflected from it. At this point sulci of different depths are formed, which cannot be always distinguished until the thickened edge of the synovial membrane is raised. The ulcerated surface sometimes exhibits parallel vascular lines, verging towards the centre, and having their origin from the synovial membrane. The synovial membrane at this part, if the vessels are well filled with fine injection, appears highly vascular and fringed, or villous, like a mucous mem- brane. This increased vascularity is particularly noticeable at the edge of the membrane and in those portions of the fringed margin that correspond to the ulcerated surface of the cartilage; the other parts of the synovial membrane have their vascularity but slightly increased. This highly vascular fringe of membrane is a newly organised, and will be found in some parts to be a superadded, structure, for the purpose of producing ulceration of the contiguous cartilage. It may, when recently formed, be raised in some parts from the synovial membrane, but is found to adhere very slightly to that part of the cartilage where ulceration is going on; this adhesion is not perceived unless the joint is opened with great care. * * * The process, therefore, by which the ulceration of car- tilage is in this case effected, is analogous to that by which the sequestrum of the cylindrical bones under necrosis takes place. Indisposed to ulceration, from the low degree of its organization, it is acted upon by the newly organised synovial surface, which is rendered highly vascular, and by means of its villous processes forms a groove in the edge of the cartilage, thus commencing the work of destruction. The cartilage at the edge is sometimes entirely destroyed, so as to lay bare the bone, in which case vascular granulations also arise from the surface of the exposed bone, and assist the membrane in the work of absorption. This, however, is more usually observed in the most acute form of inflammation. In the more chronic form, the vascular fringe of synovial membrane contracts adhesion to the surface of the cartilage in which ulceration is going on, and gives rise to the formation of a new membrane, which spreads gradually over the surface of the cartilage. A diseased joint is hardly ever examined without exhibiting one or more of the bones partly covered with this pulpy membrane. When injected, its vascularity is found to vary according to the activity of the inflammation in the joint; when first formed it exhibits considerable vascularity during the ulcerative process: when the cartilage has been wholly absorbed, and the ulcerative process has been checked by the inflammation being arrested, this membrane then serves another purpose ; it becomes the medium of union between opposed surfaces of bone, or the means of anchylosis. Long after all inflammation has subsided, one of the condyles of the femur is often found adhering to the tibia by means of this mem- brane, which appears white and ligamentous; a layer of cartilage often remaining be- tween the membrane and the bones, as if the process of ulceration were arrested.” (p. 223-226.) Goodsir (a) holds with Key in the deposit from the synovial membrane being the cause of ulceration in cartilage; for, as “ in the thin articular cartilages of the adult human subject, few or no vessels can be detected, it is evident that in the process of ulceration in cartilage, it cannot be the usual blood-vessels of the part which are the active agents, still less likely is it that lymphatics, the existence of which has never been asserted in this texture, are the absorbing instruments.” He then proceeds:—“ If a thin section, at right angles, be made through the articular cartilages of a joint, at any part where it is covered by gelatinous membrane in scrofulous disease, or by false membrane in simple inflammatory condition of the joint, and if this section be examined, it will be found to present the following appearances. On one edge of the section is the cartilage unaltered, with its corpuscles natural in position and size. On the opposite edge, is the gelatinous, or false membrane, both consisting essentially of nucleated particles, intermixed, especially in the latter, with fibres and blood-vessels; and, in the former, with tubercular granular matter. In the immediate vicinity, and on both sides of the irregular edges of the section of cartilage, where it is connected on the membrane, certain remark- able appearances are seen. These consist, on the side of the cartilage, of a change in the shape and size of the cartilage corpuscles. Instead of being of their usual form, they are larger, rounded, or uniform ; and, instead of two or three nucleated cells in their interior, contain a mass of them. At the very edge of the ulcerated cartilage, the The Process of Ulceration in Articular Cartilages ; in his Anatomical and Pathological Observations. Edinburgh, 1845. 8vo.