SALIVARY FISTULA. 715 the mouth was formed, and then the seton having been removed, the external wound which had been left open, was touched with caustic and healed. Beclard in two cases successfully employed a leaden style, one end of which he passed into the mouth and the other into the interrupted duct, and completed the operation by bringing together the edges of the external fistulous orifice, which had been previously pared, with a twisted suture. A much more simple and equally effectual plan is to pass, through the fistula in the cheek, into the mouth a needle and thread, the latter of wrhich is to have a knot made on its end, only of sufficient size to be received when drawn from the mouth into the bottom of the fistulous aperture. The end in the mouth is to be tied on a little bit of stick close to the inside of the cheek. In the course of two or three days the knot ulcerates into the mouth and a new way is formed, by which the secretion of the gland passes, and if the case turn out well, the fistulous orifice soon contracts and heals, care being taken by a compress to prevent the saliva finding its way out externally. Some- times, however, it is very difficult to induce the external wound to unite, and the pro- duction of a new surface, either by paring the edges or touching with caustic, and keeping them in apposition is necessary.—J. F. S.] 909. It is always necessary that the patient, when the external fistulous orifice is to be closed, should keep the lower jaw as quiet as possible till the cure is completed; and only take fluid food through a tube. A carious tooth is often the cause of failure of the operation for salivary fistula, and must therefore be removed before the operation is repeated. 910. The swelling up of the Stenonian duct into a fluctuating tumour, which must be distinguished from an encysted tumour, may, if the duct only be stopped up, be perhaps removed by the introduction of a fine probe. If this be not possible, the swelling should be opened with a lancet from the mouth. If a stony concretion have formed in the salivary duct, it must be cut upon within the cheek, and taken out. The continued flow of the 1 spittle prevents the closing of this opening. [“ The ducts both of the parotid and submaxillary glands,” says Syjue (a), “ are liable to become the seat of calcareous concretions, which are named salivary calculi. ! Their composition is phosphate of lime, agglutinated by a small quantity of animal i matter. They have usually a yellowish-white colour, oval figure, and finely tuberculated surface. They vary in size from that of a millet-seed to that of an almond with the shell. In the parotid duct, they are very rarely met with, but in the submaxillary duct, not unfrequently. [I doubt their frequency even in the submaxillary duct; Astley Cooper in his Lectures used to mention having removed one from the mouth of the elder Cline, and Lawrence in his Lectures (b) speaks of having taken out one “ which was about the size of a small bean.” (p. 765.) In the Museum of the Royal College of I Surgeons of England there are only six specimens, either from the duct or substance of I the submaxillary gland; but one from the parotid gland; and some small concretions l from the tonsils. Besides these I do not know of any other instances, and have never seen I one.—.T. f. s.] “ They occasion pain, swelling, and hardness,” continues Syme, “and sometimes impede the flow of the saliva or give rise to the formation of an abscess. In the parotid duct the symptoms thus produced are apt to be confounded with those of rheumatism, tooth-ache, gumboil, or suppuration of the maxillary antrum-, while under the tongue, they may be occasionally mistaken for those of encysted tumours. In all s; cases of doubt, it is right to search the duct with a probe, and to feel for the calculus, by E pressing on the place where it is suspected to be. So soon as a free incision is made, the concretion escapes, together with the fluid accumulated about it. The original situation of these concretions is immediately within the orifice of the ducts; but they have also been found imbedded in the substance of the submaxillary gland, where they excited an increased and unhealthy secretion, with general swelling and hardness of the gland. In such cases the calculus, if distinctly recognised, may be extracted by cutting down upon it, from the mouth.” (p. 427.) Among the specimens at the College (c) there is one large submaxillary calculus an inch and a half long and three quarters of an inch broad, taken from a very old man, who (a) Lancet, vol ii. 1830. the Calculi, &c.. See., contained in the Museum of (6) Principles of Surgery. the Royal College of Surgeons in London. 1845. ('■') A descriptive and illustrated Catalogue of 4to.