393 OF THE SKULL WITH IMPRESSION. often perfectly sensible and free from headach and giddiness immediately after the injury. Whether it may not produce such an effect at some remote period, is not so easily deter- ; mined, since this cannot be ascertained but by a continued acquaintance with the persons [ who had received the injuries. All, however, whom I have had an opportunity of knowing for any length of time after the accident continued as well as if nothing of the J kind had ever happened to them. (p. 14.) Though a slight degree of pressure does not ■1 immediately affect the functions of the brain, yet it may act in another way; it may 4 excite inflammation of that organ, as it does of other parts of the body. Its power in ■i, this respect, however, will probably lessen by the part becoming accustomed to it; and j ■: the cases on record, where fractures with depression have done well, as well as those of J recovery from apoplexy, are proofs that the cause which in the first instance was in- jurious by its pressure may continue to exist without inconvenience. Such cases ought surely to deter surgeons from elevating the bone, in every instance of slight depression, :|j since by the operation they must inflict a further injury upon their patients, the conse- i quence of which it is impossible to estimate. From all therefore I have learned from >i i books, as well as from the observations I have made in practice, and from reasoning u i upon the subject, I am disposed to join in opinion with those surgeons who are against Iqi trephining in slight depressions of the skull, or small extravasations on the dura mater. l! * * * A circumstance, however, frequently occurs that may render the surgeon doubt- i fill as to what course he ought to pursue ; this happens, when at the same time that the i. skull is slighly depressed, the patient labours under the effects of concussion. * * * As the ti effects of the latter gradually abate, a little delay will enable the surgeon to decide upon l < the nature of the mischief, and take his measures accordingly. Where the patient re- *ti tains his faculties, nothing farther is necessary than a continuance of the antiphlogistic plan ; and should any inflammation afterwards take place, the same means employed, in [*! a degree proportioned to the urgency of the symptoms, will, in most instances, be suc- fei cessful, without elevating the bone.” (p. 21-23.) It must not, however, be forgotten, that, although to the teaching of these two great K) masters in Surgery, the almost universal practice, now pursued in this country, of not dij trephining simple fractures of the skull, with depression but without symptoms, must be ij-t; ascribed, yet the practice did not originate with them: for Dease appears to me to have n) been the first, who, led by the result of his own observations, broke through the practice l| of trephining in cases of simple fracture of the skull, for fear of inflammation and sup- ; i puration of the dura mater, especially laid down by Pott, whose practice he for some i time followed. In his Introduction he says :—“ I considered those fatal consequences j too often to proceed from the obstinacy of the patients in not submitting early to the i ! necessary evacuations, and their general neglect of keeping to any low regimen ; as the j : greater number by far of them were under no apprehension of danger, from a wound un- attended by any other disagreeable circumstance, so that until they were seized with m those symptoms which shewed the suppuration begun, they, for the most part, followed i. their usual employments. I determined, therefore, to persuade such as presented tliem- . i selves, especially those who had wounds where the cranium was so injured as to make me apprehend the dura mater or its vessels suffered, as in those who had simple frac- 11 tures, to come into the hospital, informing them of the bad consequences their not com- plying would be productive of. All those who fell under my care, in such circumstances, i; from the beginning, I treated in the manner I then thought most likely to prevent any t future inflammation and suppuration taking place in the brain or its meninges; profuse 'I bleeding,purging, severe regimen, &c., were not spared; and all those who had simple M fractures were immediately trepanned. However, I can assure the reader, the event by ■i I no means answered my expectation ; for, notwithstanding, fevers, sliiverings. and all the rj concomitant symptoms of matter underneath the cranium, succeeded as frequently in ten, twelve, or fourteen days, and terminated as fatally as if they were entirely left to nature; ■ \ and such as recovered I could by no means attribute to the treatment, as many in similar i j circumstances did well, without having the least alarming symptoms intervene, although they neglected all ^dvice, and some lived very irregularly; and even in such as were j after seized with symptoms they did not appear earlier or more severe, than in those who were treated with the most exact attention. “From this I am induced to think that a surgeon who applies the trepan in simple 11 fractures, where he has not a strong probability of the detachment of the dura mater, ' 1 extravasation, See., in order to obviate the consequences of its future inflammation and | suppuration, subjects his patient to a severe operation, ever more or less dangerous in ! flself, often productive of disagreeable effects, which remain during life, and by no means indicated ; and that the good effects of profuse bleeding, in disengaging the parts : affected, are extremely doubtful.” (p. xxii-xxvi.)