OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 789 artery may be torn. The olechranon forms a considerable projection, on the back of the upper-arm, whereby the lower part of the m. triceps is twisted, and above the projection of the olechranon the upper-arm seems to be somewhat hollowed. On the front of the joint is felt a large hard swelling, beneath the tendon of the m. biceps; the fore-arm is fixed in a half-bent position, except when there is considerable tearing of the liga- ments. 1047. If the cubit alone, be thrown backwards, without simultaneous dislocation of the spoke-bone, behind the upper-arm-bone, the deformity of the joint is considerable, the fore-arm anti hand being twisted inwards, the olechranon projecting, whilst the head of the spoke-bone retains its natural position ; on the outside of the elbow-joint a remarkable projection, and on the inner a pit; the fore-arm cannot ,be straightened except by violence, which will reduce the dislocation, neither can it be bent farther than to a right angle (A. Coopek) ; the arm has been, however, observed motionless in extension, and every attempt at bending was painful and unsuccessful; pronation and supination could, however, be freely per- formed, the latter somewhat less than the former. If the fore-arm be but little bent, the annular ligament of the spoke-bone remains uninjured; but on greater bending, this ligament, the upper part of the interosseous ligament, and several muscular fibres are torn, and the head of the spoke- bone rests against the upper-arm. The distinguishing marks are, projec- tion of the olechranon, and the twisting of the fore-arm inwards (a). 1048. The lateral dislocation may be either complete or incomplete; that outwards is more frequent than that inwards. In the former, the internal joint-surface of the upper arm-bone projects more or less, and the joint-surface of the cubit is thrust outwards ; the point of the olechranon rests on the back of the upper-arm, in consequence of which the fore-arm is fixed in a slightly bent position. In the latter, a part of the sigmoid cavity projects, more or less, on the inner, and the joint-surface of the upper-arm-bone on the outer side; the fore-arm is permanently bent. These dislocations cannot happen without tearing of the ligaments of the elbow-joint; even the muscles of the fore-arm may be torn at their origin ; hence also frequently, the fore-arm is not so fixed in its position, as in dislocation backwards. In complete lateral dislocation, the pro- jection of the ends of the fore- and upper-arm are much more decided than in the incomplete, and on account of the great tearing of the soft parts the fore-arm is movable in every direction. As in dislocations of the fore-arm, the joint-surfaces are mostly still in contact, so there may be crackling on moving the joint. 1049. Dislocation backwards of the fore-arm, is mostly produced by a fall upon the outstretched hand, whilst the fore-arm is bent and the upper fixed. If the fore-arm be violently forced to one or other side, lateral dislocation may be produced. 1050. Dislocations of the elbow-joint always produce severe inflamma- tory symptoms, and may lead to gangrene and nervous symptoms ; generally, however, they are not dangerous. If left alone, they in a short time become irreducible; the dislocation backwards has, however, been reduced after existing two or three months. If in dislocation backwards, the joint- (a) Cooper, Asti.ey, above cited, p. 472.— July, 1839, No. 228—Michaelis in von Grabfe Ut'vue Mcdicale, 1830.—Sedillot; in Gazette and Walther’s Journal, vol. xxix, p. *,%. Medicale, 1839, No. 24.—Froriep’s N. Notizen,