691 EXFOLIATION. softens, and thus assists in repairing the loss. If the whole thickness of the bone die, new bone is formed by the periosteum around the old, and the latter is diminished by absorption, in consequence of the increased vascular action and sympathy with the periosteum, and thereby its bulk is lessened, in proportion as the formation of the new bone from the peri- osteum proceeds. If a portion of a tubular bone with the investing periosteum be destroyed and separated, the compensation results less from the opposite ends of the bone than from the soft parts. The granulations filling up the interspace gradually thicken to a cartilage-like mass, in which subsequently ossification follows. In the capsule which surrounds the sequester, openings (cloacee) are produced, the origin of which is not yet sufficiently made out, of various form, size and number, which com- municate with the fistulous passages in the soft parts. The reproduction of bone does not depend on the periosteum, but only on the softened and outstretched tissue, which naturally close set, forms the thick texture of the bony walls. [(1) “ Necrosis and exfoliation are not,” justly observes Lawrence, “synonymous expressions. When a portion of bone has perished, has become mortified or gangre- nous, it is separated by a natural process from the healthy portion of the bone; and that separation, under certain circumstances, is called exfoliation; so that exfoliation is consequent on the necrosis; that is, the necrosed or mortified or dead portion of bone exfoliates or separates. Exfoliation is, therefore, a subsequent process, consequent on the previous death or necrosis of the bone.” (p. 3C0.) The term exfoliation commonly applied to the separating sloughs of bone, in conse- quence of their occasional leaf-like form, is not improperly objected to by Weinhold, who observes, that “ as much more frequently the sloughs assume other and very- different forms, it is evident that this designation is not quite fitting, but that it would be [better to call it separation, by which would be more correctly expressed what was in- tended to be said.” (p. 22.) At least as early as 178<3—7 (a) John Hunter observed:—“We have many opinions of this process (exfoliation) from different authors, but all are very imperfect. The bone that separates cannot come away by rotting, for it is only dead, and not in the least putrefied. * * * When a piece of bone becomes absolutely dead it is then to the animal machine as any other extraneous body, and adheres only by the attraction of cohesion to the machine. The first business of the machine, therefore, is to get rid of this cohe- sion and discharge it. For effecting this separation there are several natural and suc- cessive operations. The first effect of the stimulus is on the surface of the living hone, which becomes inflamed; whether new vessels are formed, or the old ones become larger, is un- determined ; but by injecting the surface of the part it appears evidently much more vascu- lar than the other parts. The surrounding parts also inflame, as the periosteum and cellular membrane often take on ossific inflammation. This produces another process; first, absorption of the earthy matter, and all the surface between the living and dead parts of the bone become as soft as if steeped in acid, while the dead part remains as hard as ever. To complete the separation the absorbents continue their office and absorb the living parts also, and the first process is in a small degree attended with the second. The operation of separation does not take place equally ; it begins at the circumference, and continues on to the centre, and before the centre has begun the absorption of the earth the circumference has begun the second. This progressive process in the suppu- ration causes the exfoliation to be tedious, so that the centre is the last place that separates. In pretty broad exfoliations, long before the centre has gone through the operation, the living parts perform their office in producing granulations from the sur- face, and continue, in proportion to the waste, to fill up the space.” Shortly after, in speaking of the spicula which remains on the exfoliating ring of a trephine-hole in the skull, Hunter also observes :—“ It appears from this last supposed case that it is my opinion that the absorption is of the surface of the living bone, but I by no means wish to be understood that no absorption of the dead piece can take place; for, on the con- r trary, I believe that nature sometimes finds it necessary to the completion of her pro- fa) The date of the copy of notes from which Palmer has published his edition of Hunter's Lectures on the Principles of Surgery.