135 CARBUNCLE. Ritter has a one-sided notion of the origin of boils from retention of the animal refuse, and of their dispersion by the early application of cupping-glasses (a). [I do not agree with Chelius that general treatment in boils is unnecessary; when such is the case it is the exception, not the rule. Most commonly the general health is disturbed, and requires putting to rights by attention to the hepatic functions, and the proper employment of tonics.—J. F. S.] V.—OF CARBUNCLE. De Herrera, C. P., De Carbunculis Animadversiones. Pintiae, 1604. 4to. Tossi, M. A., De Anthrace seu Carbunculo Tractatus. Venet., 1618. 4to. Frank, G. Dissert, de Carbunculo. Heidelb., 1682. 4to. Bordenave, T., De Anthrace, Theses Anatomico-Chirurgicse; resp. J. J. Robin, Paris, 1765. 4to. Bromfield, W., Chirurgical Observations and Cases. London, 1773. 8vo. Becking, H. W., Der gutartige Carbunkel und dessen medicinisch-cliirurgische Heilung. Stendal, 1786. 8vo. Chatenet, H., Essai sur 1’Anthrax. Paris, an ix. 8vo. Larrey, Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, yoI. i. p. 104. Cooper, Asteey, Lectures on Surgery, vol. i. p. 242. Dupcytren, LeQons Orales, vol. iv. p. 109. Copeland, Jaaies, on Furuncular Diseases ; in his Dictionary. 118. Carbuncle (Carbunculus, Anthrax, Lat.; der Karbunkel, Germ.; Charbon, Fr.) is an inflammation of the skin and underlying' cellular tissue, with considerable hard swelling, which runs into gangrene through- out its whole extent. It is distinguished from boil only by the severity of the inflammation and by its great disposition to run into gangrene ; and from malignant pustule (par. 34), with which it has great similarity, and has been by many confounded, in that the latter is always the consequence of an imparted peculiar poison. Under an attack of severe burning pain, a circumscribed hard swelling is produced, on which numerous pustules arise; these bursting, many sieve- like holes are formed in the skin, from which bloody ichor escapes, and at the bottom of which mortified cellular tissue is seen ; the skin grows dark, blue, or black, and quickly runs into gangrene. Sometimes the deep parts are all in a state of mortification before it appears externally. If the skin be destroyed by running together of several apertures, or by mortification, the dead cellular tissue appears as a whitish-gray lump, or, in large carbun- cles, as a black, dry mass intermixed with grayish-white and bloody shreds, with great surrounding inflammation, which runs into suppuration, in which case, after the throwing off of the dead cellular tissue a large ulcer is pro- duced, at the bottom of which muscles, tendons, bones and even more important organs, are laid bare. The size of the carbuncle is very dif- ferent, often as large as the hand, often still larger. It usually occurs on the neck, between the shoulder-blades, upon the back and buttocks. Fever very commonly precedes carbuncle, or accompanies it from the first; and is sometimes only slight, sometimes nervous, putrid and so on. lienee arises the difference between symptomatic, malignant, pestilential, idio- pathic, and benignant carbuncle. [“The inflammation that produces the carbuncle is,” says J. Hunter, “of a different nature from any of the former; it is stationary with respect to place, and is pretty much (a) In Journal von Grakfe und von Walthek, vol. iii. part. i. p. 81.