735 ANAL FISSURES—TREATMENT. the disease lias continued some time, in addition to these local symptoms there is wasting, i and extreme nervous sensibility, sometimes hypochondriasis, sometimes even retention of urine.” (p. 126-30.) “ Although there is not the same danger in regard to Fissures at the Anus, as in some other diseases in the neighbourhood of this part, yet,” says Dupuytren, “ they are in general accompanied with such violent pains, that it is of importance to relieve i them as soon as possible. The pains have a character in some degree peculiar ; they i increase gradually, and continue long after passing stool; sometimes lancinating ; they iare, however, most frequently burning; and patients abound in extreme terms to describe them. Usually they compare them to the sensation of a hot iron penetrating the rectum; they so dread passing their motions, on account of the horrible pain which accompanies and follows that function, that they are often observed to strive for a long i time against this imperious need, and even to deprive themselves of food to restrain it. These peculiarities are sufficient to discover the nature of the disease. * * * The disease i consists in a lengthy and superficial ulceration, about the margin of the anus, in the radiating folds of the mucous membrane of this part. On separating the orifice, and directing the patient to strain, a narrow cleft is observed, with its bottom red, and its ' edges slightly swollen and callous. But to ascertain its extent upwards, it is often ne- j cessary to introduce the finger into the rectum. It is more commonly seen at the sides or back of the anus, than at its fore part * * * It very rarely extends through the i whole thickness of the mucous membrane. The importance of this affection depends i principally on the painful spasm of the constrictors of the anus. The fissure is but ■ accidental, as is proved by the existence of painful constriction, without any cracking, i which, according to celebrated Surgeons, is as 1 to 4. This spasm is so great, that the I introduction of the mildest bodies is intolerable; the tip of the finger, the pipe of a syringe, excites the most violent pains; and the resistance offered by the anus to every 1 attempt at introduction, is a new characteristic sign of the affection. The causes of ; anal fissures are numerous; constipation, and the spasm it produces, specially dispose to I the disease; very hard substances which scrape the mucous membrane, and distend it exceedingly, may give rise to it; the administration of clysters by awkward persons, especially when metallic tubes, pointed or rough are used, are often the immediate cause; they are met with in persons affected with haemorrhoids, and venereal poison flowing from the generative organs, which happens with many women, is a very common cause of this affection.” (p. 282-85.) Brodie (a) says that “ the contraction of the sphincter at first appears to be merely spasmodic, without any other change of its condition ; but in proportion as muscles are called into greater action, so they become increased in bulk; and in conformity with this general rule, when spasmodic contraction of the sphincter muscle has existed for a long time, the muscle becomes considerably larger than it was in its natural state before the disease existed. This disease is not of uncommon occurrence; it is met with chiefly in women, especially those disposed to hysteria. It is, however, met with in other women, and sometimes in the male sex. The patient under these circumstances is forced to strain very much in passing her evacuations; and this is especially the case when the faces are hard, or even solid. There is pain not only when the faces are being passed, but for a very considerable length of time afterwards; and in some cases the pain will remain from the period of one alvine evacuation to that of another, so that it is constant, or nearly so.” (p. 26.) The fissures present various differences according to their situation, “ those below the m. sphincter ani, affecting almost entirely the cutaneous tissue, and not the anal mucous surface, produce,” says Dupuytren, “ a more or less severe pruritus, but they interfere little with going to stool, occasion no constriction of the sphincter, and consequently are little painful. They most commonly result from venereal affection. The fissures above the sphincter, attack the mucous membrane, and can only be discovered by the use of the speculum. On introducing the finger into the rectum, there is felt at the part where they are situated, a cord knotty and hard, pressure upon which excites severe pain. They excite, when the patient goes to stool, an indescribable pain, but which ceases immediately after the motion. The faces are covered with puriform mucous, and of a bloody appearance next the fissure. Usually they result from ulceration of internal piles, during the passage of hardened substances. Finally the fissures at the top of the sphincter are more serious than the former; and it is in them that the so painful constriction of the sphincter, and the other symptoms already mentioned, are observed.” (p. 284.) It is doubtless to this form that Brodie refers, when he says, “ in connexion with the spasmodic contraction of the sphincter muscle, you will frequently (fi) Lectures on Diseases of the Rectum ; in Med. Gazette, vol. xvi.