LUMBAR ABSCESS. 187 beneath the skin, after a more or less lengthy course, the pus projects, and causes a swelling which terminates by forming an abscess. This purulent collection, known by the name of congestive abscess, but more properly called symptomatic abscess, is a very serious disease, and generally considered fatal.” (pp. 13(5, 7.) The disease may and frequently does arise from external violence, blows, strains, or the like; but its commencement is in the spine, whence it is propagated to the muscles, which, however, are in fact only absorbed to form a route for the matter produced by the diseased vertebra' to escape. | Inflammation and suppuration in the psoas muscle, or in the lumbar mass of muscles, without disease of the spine, is rare, and more especially in the former. Of the nine- teen cases given by Abernethy, only two are mentioned in which there was no actual disease of spine.—J. F. S.] [181*. Psoas abscess, when protruding below Poupart’s ligament, may, on account of having the same seat as femoral hernia, be mistaken for that disease, especially as it dilates on coughing, and to a certain degree returns into the belly when the patient lies down. But it is generally of larger size, of greater breadth than femoral rupture, and the fingers cannot be at all thrust behind it, as they can be partially behind the her- : nial sac. The principle distinction, however, is the long continuance of pain in the loins previous to its appearance, and which, indeed, still conti- nues : and the pain produced by attempting to extend the thigh backwards upon the pelvis, and which can only be effected to a limited extent. When the abscess appears in the loins there is no difficulty in determining its character by its history and by its dilatation on coughing. Pulsation may sometimes be communicated to it from the neighbouring large vessels, and under such circumstances it has been mistaken for aneurism.—J. f. s. John Pearson well observes:—“ The situation of the external abscess is not uniform; most commonly it is at some distance from the original seat of the disease; nor is the * point at which it projects forward to be considered as forming a portion of the abscess. The fluctuation of the matter may therefore be mos tpalpable about the loins, or at the hip, in the groin, or near the rectum, and sometimes it points towards the lower part of ' the thigh, in the direction of the large blood vessels.” (pp. 96, 7.) “ As the purulent matter is situated behind the peritoneum, and the erect position of the body is favourable to its progression downwards, we do not often meet with instances where it is effused into the cavity of the abdomen.” (pp. 98, 9.) Samuel Cooper (a) mentions a remarkable case of lumbar abscess, under the care of i Ramsden, in which “ the tumour extended, from the ilium and sacrum below, as high as the ribs; its diameter, from behind forwards, might be about six or eight inches; it was attended with so strong a pulsation, corresponding with that of the arteries, that it was considered to '.2 a case of aneurism of the aorta. After some weeks, as the tumour in- ' creased in size, the throbbing of the whole swelling gradually became fainter and fainter, and at length could not be felt at all. The tumour was nearly on the point of bursting, and Ramsden, suspecting that it was an abscess, determined to make a small puncture in it; and a large quantity of pus was evacuated at intervals.” (p. 944.)] 182. The dispersion of the inflammation of the lumbar muscles would be in most instances possible, were not the symptoms often at first so slight as to be usually neglected. The Cure is directed by the degree of the inflammation and its causes. In severe inflammation the antiphlogistic treatment is properly adopted, blood-letting, the application of leeches or cupping-glasses. As the inflammation diminishes, the resolution is to be en- couraged by volatile ointments and perpetual blisters. If the cause be rheu- matism or gout, and the inflammation be insidious, solution of acetate of am- monia in infusion of elder flowers, antimonial wine in small doses, Dover’s powder, camphor and the like, may be given ; but especially warm baths, rubbing in volatile ointments, blisters, and issues, are to be used. («) Surgical Dictionary,—Article, Lumbar Abscess.