OF TIIE TIIIGII-BONE. 56 and cause the inaction of the m. glutens medius. According to Guthrie (a), the inver- sion of the foot does not depend on fracture within the capsule; but this sign is rather diagnostic of a fracture through the great trochanter, when part of it remains connected with the shaft. J. Syme (b) presumes that the inward turning of the foot occurs in cases in which the fracture near the head divides part of the great trochanter, where the muscles which draw it outwards are attached, and that part remains fixed to the middle portion of the hone upon which the middle gluteal muscle is attached. Stanley supposes that rotation of the foot inwards occurs in fracture within the capsular ligament when that part of the capsule remains uninjured, which corresponds to the front of the neck. According to Dupuytren and A. Cooper, rotation inwards happens when the fracture of the neck is from without inwards and from behind forwards, so that the point of the lower fractured portion projects forwards, and of the upper, backwards. Mercier (c) supposes that the rotation of the foot depends entirely and alone on external causes; on the position given to the limb, in putting the patient on his bed, perhaps also on the accident; then it may be that the patient in falling on his hip, fell more backwards than forwards, and that the great trochanter was driven in the corresponding direction. The rotation inwards does not depend on anatomical refla- tions; for, 1. There do not exist any which can produce it; nearly all the muscles endeavour to produce the opposite direction, and all the relations mentioned by writers can at most only render them favourable. 2. All the relations and causes are contradicted by various and even opposite facts; for this inward rotation has been observed in fractures both within and without the capsular ligament, in fracture of the neck, and in | fracture immediately below the great trochanter, of which Mercier has given an I example. 3. Apart from the pain caused to the patient, we may very easily manage to bring the foot from within outwards, and the contrary. 4. If, when lying on the back, the patient will incline outwards, the foot previously turned inwards, an effort of the will is required, to make the whole limb perform the necessary half circle on the ■ heel. The difficulty is very remarkable if there be only a slight bending of the limb at ; the knee-joint. If in a healthy state an effort be necessary for this purpose, how happens it that when the thigh is broken, especially when the muscles which rotate outwards, a can no longer act? The limb must therefore remain turned inwards when that is the position given to it. Larrey assumes rotation of the foot inwards in every such inlock- ing of the broken ends, an opinion which, although confirmed by many observations as those of Delpech, is generally without foundation. The diagnosis of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is otherwise generally easy; the crepitation which is frequently very obscure, becomes usual 1}' so much less so than the other signs of fracture already noticed, and the motions of the limb which are necessary to produce crepitation, endanger greater irritation, and especially in extensive j; tearing of the fibrous covering of the neck of the thigh-bone. A separation of the head of the thigh-bone from the neck consequent on external violence, when ossification is incomplete, which is possible only in young subjects in which the epiphysis is not yet consolidated to the rest of the bone, is in no respect distinguished from the fracture within the capsular ligament (1). [(1) A case of this kind I have at present (Aug. 1845) under my care, in a boy of ten years of age who fell out of a first floor window upon his left hip. The foot was I slightly turned out, and scarcely any difference in the length of the two limbs could be observed. The thigh could be readily moved in any direction and without much pain ; but on bending the knee and rotating the limb outwards a very distinct dummy u: sensation was frequently felt, as it seemed within the hip-joint, as if one articular surface had slipped off another, which led me to suppose that the head of the bone had been broken from the neck through the epiphysis within the capsule. Two days after my colleague Green carefully examined the case with me and agreed in the opinion I had formed of it. The boy himself suffered so little inconvenience that he had two or three times got out of bed and walked about for a short distance. He was put upon a double inclined plane, the presumed nature of the injury not seeming to require further treatment.—J. F. S.] 671. Fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is distinguished from severe contusion of the hip-joint in the length of the limb, in the latter case, being unchanged if put in the same position as the sound one ; in the (a)Remarkson the Diagnosis and on the Inver- the Toes; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical sion of the Foot in Fracture of the neck and upper Journal, April, 182(5, p. 408. part of the Thigh-bone; inMed.-Chir. Trans, vol. (c) Gazette Medicate, vol iii. Second Series. No. xiii.parti. p. 103. 36. 1835. (ft) Case of fractured Femur, with Inversion of