302 COMPRESSION AND (3) In bleeding from the nostrils, which is often very troublesome, the'best remedy as a compress is a piece of dry sponge, which may be easily introduced in the following man- ner : A long stout thread having been attached to the extremity of a bougie, the armed end of the bougie is to be passed into the bleeding nostril, and carried back into the pharynx. The surgeon then passes his finger, or a pair of forceps, through the mouth into the throat, and, having found the thread, draws it forwards through the arch of the fauces and out of the mouth, leaving the bougie still remaining in the nose. To the thread thus drawn out a piece of dry sponge slightly greased is to be tied, and then the bougie gently drawn from the nostril, by doing which the thread pulls the sponge back into the throat, and against the hind opening of the nostril. The thread is still to be pulled, and the entrance of the sponge assisted by passing the finger into the pharynx and disengaging the sponge from the soft palate and thrusting it upwards; as soon as it is on a level with the floor of the nose all difficulty ceases, and, by pulling the thread, it can be fixed in any part of the nostril which may be chosen, but about midway is best. For performing this operation there is a clever French instrument (whose invention I do not know) which I brought many years since from Paris; it consists of a short catheter, the stilette of which, double the length of the tube, is a curved flat«spring, having at its top, rounded as if it were the end of the catheter, and with an eye in it. The instrument is introduced with its point downwards, along the floor of the nose into the throat, and the stilette being thrust in, the curved spring projects into the mouth, and, being brought between the lips, a piece of thread and sponge is attached to it, after which the stilette is retracted, and with it the sponge, into the throat; the sponge is then pulled up close to the end of the stilette, and is easily introduced into the nostril; after which the instrument is to be withdrawn. With this apparatus the operation is performed in two or three minutes, with but little inconvenience to the patient, and it is far preferable to the bougie. (4) Occasionally very severe bleeding occurs from wounding the pudic artery itself, or the division of one of its large branches close to the trunk during the lateral opera- tion for the stone. Under such circumstances it is useless to attempt to hook up the vessel with a tenaculum, or to carry a ligature round it with a needle, for it is gene- | rally wounded so deeply that the exact situation of the wound cannot be seen. Under such circumstances pressure of the vessel with the finger, which is to be gently shifted till the bleeding is stopped, is the proper treatment to be pursued. I recollect a case | of this kind during my studentship, in which either the internal pudic artery itself, or the I artery of the bulb close to its origin, was wounded; the bleeding was very severe, and in the course of a few minutes the patient nearly died from the loss of blood. The finger was introduced into the wound, and the artery being found was readily pressed against i the ascending branch of the haunch-bone, and the bleeding arrested; but it was necessary j to keep up the pressure for fifteen hours. (5) But it frequently happens in stabs into the thick fleshy parts of the hand or foot, that I pressure is of no avail; it seems to answer the purpose for a time, perhaps for hours, after which the blood begins to find its way out beneath the compress, and free oozing i occurs, and will continue to such extent as to blanch the patient’s countenance and r very seriously reduce his constitutional powers. In such cases some surgeons grope | about in the wound, enlarging it or not as may suit their fancy, in search of a little | vessel, which can scarcely be expected to be found, and which they rarely do find, but > instead they render the disposition to bleeding greater, and also damage the tendinous > and nervous structures, so that very serious consequences result. This practice is there- ‘ fore very bad, and ought not to be pursued. It is quite right at first to sponge out the wound gently and carefully, and, finding the bleeding vessel, to tie it; but, if this can- ■ not be effected, it should not be persisted in, and the edges of the wound having been h brought lightly together, a constant application of lint dipped in cold water is to be made, I and the hand or foot raised so considerably as to discourage the flow of blood towards the wound, and to encourage it from the wound ; the patient being kept in the recumbent position in bed at the same time. This practice is often quite sufficient without anything further being required. Other surgeons, if the wound be in the hand, prefer taking up <, the radial or ulnar artery at the wrist, according as they believe the bleeding vessel to ; have its origin from one or other. But taking up one is rarely of much use on account a of the communication between the vessels in the palm ; and even if both be tied, their i interosseal branches often carry sufficient into the hand to keep up the bleeding, so that, at last it becomes necessary to tie the brachial artery also, which generally puts an end j to the business. But it is a very serious and painful proceeding for the patient, and the I practitioner before adopting it should be well assured of its neceessity. When bleeding > continues after the use of compression, it very frequently ceases by removing the pres- q