633 MILK-CRUST. 798. The local treatment must lessen the irritation, loosen the crusts, and cleanse the sores. This must be effected by frequent washing of the !head with softening decoctions, by rubbing in mild salves, fresh butter, sulphur-flowers and hog’s lard, by softening poultices of mallows and hemlock. This treatment, with at the same time cleaning the head with combing, or cutting off the matted hair and removing the lice. If the I ulcers be obstinate, sulphur ointment must be used, or a solution of subli- mate employed. This local, with internal treatment, corresponding to the general state of the patient, and a properly regulated diet, lias up to the present answered to my wishes in all cases. Other remedies that have been recommended are. solution of sublimate with verdigris, solu- tion of liver of sulphur, decoction of tobacco, red and white precipitate I ointment, unguentum oxygenatum, cegyptiacum, citrinum, solution of sul- phate of potash with lime water, soap and spirits of wine, and so on. In very obstinate cases, according to Astkuc and others, a plaster of gum ammoniacum and vinegar, thickly spread on leather, and applied for six or eight weeks, will effect the cure. The pulling out the hairs with forceps, or with strips of sticking plaster, is rarely, and only necessary iwhen by their irritation they keep up the sore. The sudden tearing off of a pitch plaster, applied over the whole head, and therewith the sudden removal of the hair is objectionable. When the scalled head has continued a long while, artificial sores must be produced by mezereon, issues, and so on, before the cure can be effected. C.—OF MILK-CRUST. Strack, C., De Crusta lactea infantum, ejusdemque specifico remedio. Dissert, altera proem, ornat. Frft., 1779. 12mo. Wichmann’s Ideen zur Diagnostik, vol. i. p. 43. Autenrieth, Versuclie fur die praktische Heilkunde aus den klinischen Anstalten zu Tubingen, vol. i. pt. ii. 799. Milk-crust (Crusta lactea, Tinea faciei, Lat. ; Milchborke, Germ. ; Croiite laiteuse. Fr.) consists in smarting spreading ulcers, which arise from little vesicles on the cheeks, ears, forehead, or chin ; these burst and pour out a yellowish fluid, which dries into white or yellowish crusts. The discharge from the ulceration is sometimes trifling, sometimes con- siderable. The eruption spreads gradually over the whole face, with which usually inflammation of the eyes is set up, even over part of the head, the neck, and other parts, and the child wastes in consequence of the continual restlessness. When this eruption is more moist and eating, great smarting is pro- duced from little blisters like pimples, slightly raised above the skin, and dusky, which soon spreading on the face and other parts, form dusky crusts; and the children, from their continual uneasiness, often waste, become feverish and miserable. The disease is, in this form, called Crusta serpiginosa. 800. Crusta lactea is generally a disease void of danger, and of inde- finite duration, not unfrequently subsides of itself, (in which case the urine is turbid and smells like cat’s urine,) and recedes without scarring. It occurs generally in infancy, but also in children from four to seven years of age, and even later. Its causes are too copious nourishment,