574 " FRACTURES OF T11E THIGH-BONE where it rests upon the knee-cap so that it may not press it severely; the inner splint should extend from the perineum, and the outer from the great trochanter to the sole of the foot, and a large hole made in each corresponding to the ankle. All the splints should be thickly padded and have their ends well defended with the pads. A Scultktus’s bandage of sufficient length to cover the whole limb and foot having then been laid upon the padded hind splint, the limb is to be gently lifted, and the splint having been put behind it up to the tuberosity of the haunch-bone, the limb is placed upon it, gentle extension made, the bandage and side splints applied, and then the front one, after which all the splints are tied together with three bands upon the thigh and two upon the leg. If there be any disposition to spasm or dragging up the lower part of the fracture, a sand-bag may be attached for two or three days to the foot; after which it is rarely needed. I prefer this to most other apparatus, because the patient is generally very easy with it, and is capable of moving about a little in the bed without disturbing the fracture. (2) The plan here proposed of replacing the splints after every six days is faulty, as being liable to produce disturbance of the fracture. They are best left alone as long as possible, except so far as merely tightening the bandages when they become loose. If the case do well, it is rare that the splints need reapplication more than once or twice during the cure. It must be remembered, however, that, under these circumstances, the fracture has not been set till after the subsidence of all swelling, during which time I the limb is merely laid upon a pillow.—J. F. S.] 2. The Apparatus with splints, with the limb bent, and lying on the side or on the back. The bent position of the limb was proposed by I Pott, for the purpose of relaxing the muscles of the thigh. The ailing . I thigh is to be laid on its outer side, with the knee-joint half bent; the ] whole of the patient’s body should be inclined to the side. The setting is perfected in this half bent position. The apparatus consists of two splints, j placed on the hinder and fore part of the thigh, and attached with the { eighteen-tailed bandage. The whole limb rests on a pillow. As with this i apparatus the motions of the knee are not interfered with, the position i does not tend to the perfect relaxation of the muscles, and imperceptibly i the upper part of the body sinks down in the bed straight by which displacement of the broken ends is favoured, the bent position has been changed, and, as in fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, (par. 677,) the limb is put on a wooden stage formed of two boards, connected l at an obtuse angle, and of which the oblique surfaces require a suitable I bending of the limb. These are covered with pillows and provided with pegs on the sides, to prevent the displacement of the limb. "When the limb is placed on this stage, the setting is to be completed, the thigh surrounded with compresses, and Scultetus’s, bandage, and steadied with three splints on the outer, inner, and fore part. (C. Bell, A. Cooper.) i 3. Tho permanent extension may be employed either on the plan of De- I sault, as in fractured neck of the thigh-bone; or after Brunning- hausen, also as in fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, except that : together with the outer splint, a second is to be applied on the inner, a n third on the front, and a fourtli on the back of the thigh. If both extre- is mities be connected at the foot and knee, according to Boyer and Hagedorn, as in fractured neck of the thigh-bone ; or according to Sau- I ter, in which case the permanent extension is made whilst the limb is I bent, and the limb kept suspended. Here also Earle’s bed {par. 677) is suitable, and the apparatus proposed, by Granger (a), for the purpose of connected permanent extension with a double inclined ] board. For the same purpose is Mossisovic’s (b) equilibrium plan. (a) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,April, 1821. p. 194. f. i. ii. .. J (6) Darstellung der ajquilibrial-Methode zur BlUme, Einfache Beinbruchmaschine zur Hen sicheren Ileilung der Oberschenkelbriiche oline ung der Schenkelbriiche in gebogener Lage. Wurfr ^ Verkurzung. Wien., 1842. burg, 1831 ; with one plate.