178 INFLAMMATION OF TESTICLE. not to be reckoned, venereal; because the same symptoms follow every kind of irritation on the urethra, whether produced by strictures, injections, or bougies. It may be ob- served here, that those symptoms are not similar to the actions arising from the appli- cation of the true venereal matter, whether by absorption or otherwise; for they seldom or ever suppurate, and when suppuration happens, the matter produced is not vene- real.” (p. 57.) Astley Coopkr holds with Chelius’s opinion. He says :—“ I have seen this organ, (the testicle) so frequently enlarged during the existence of secondary symptoms of syphilis, more especially in combination with a cutaneous and periosteal venereal affec- tion—and have observed it additionally swollen and painful in the evening, although relieved by the recumbent posture in bed—and known it yield so easily and readily to the influence of mercury, and just in proportion to the disappearance of the venereal symptoms, that I think it quite unreasonable to doubt its liability to be affected by the venereal poison. # * * The testicle and epididymis become four or five times their natural size. The pain which accompanies the disease is not severe, but it is increased towards evening. When one testicle is enlarged, the other is apt to become affected; and, I think, in the majority of cases, that the disease exists in both testicles. * * It is rarely a concomitant of the syphilitic sore throat only ; but it frequently accompanies the venereal eruption and periosteal inflammation. The distinguishing mark of this disease from the simple chronic enlargement of the testicle, will be found in its succeed* ing syphilitic symptoms, and often in its being combined with those I have mentioned, as well as in its obeying the law of syphilis, viz., of its being liable to an evening exa- cerbation. (pp. 102-4.) I am sure I have seen such enlargements of the testicle com- bined with syphilis, and that their best mode of treatment is similar to that for iritis. * * * I feel assured that the testicle becomes affected during the progress and influence of the syphilitic poison upon the body, in some persons; and that mercury, whilst it subdues the other symptoms, is also the only cure for this disease.” (p. 110.) Eight cases are given by Cooper in support of his opinion of the syphilitic character of this enlargement. Eicord also agrees with Cooper : he says:—“Syphilitic sarcocele must not be confounded with gonorrhoeal epididymitis ; * * * it is seldom found as a sole sign of a secondary affection, but is commonly preceded or accompanied by other symptoms of general infection ; it frequently attacks only one testicle at a time. * * * The disease is frequently accompanied or preceded by nocturnal pains in the loins. The induration may have its seat in the epididymis or the cord; but it is the substance of the testicle which is almost invariably affected. Syphilitic sarcocele may often be complicated, which renders the diagnosis very obscure.” (p. 303; Fr. edit., p. 640.) Notwithstanding these high authorities, I must confess I have great doubt as to the swelling of the testicle depending on a syphilitic cause.—J. F. S.] Third. It may be produced from external injury. Fourth. From cold, especially in persons who sweat much, on the peri- naeum, and on the insides of the thighs. Fififth. Violent exertions may produce increased congestion of blood to the testicle and, its return being impeded, may excite inflammation. [Hunter says he has “ known the gout produce a swelling in the testicle, of the in- flammatory kind, and therefore similar to the sympathetic swelling from a venereal (gonorrhoeal—j. f. s.) cause, having many of its characteristics.” (p. 60.) Astj.ey Cooper mentions enlargement of the prostate gland in old age, as occasionally accompanied with swelling of the testicle; also inflammation of the neck of the bladder; a stone passing through the ureter, or pressing upon the commencement of the urethra i from the bladder. This latter circumstance I have seen two or three times. Another cause of mild, but sometimes severe, though easily manageable, inflamma- tion of the testicle, is that arising from congestion of semen in the seminal tubes ; which is of very frequent occurrence in lads soon after puberty. First one testicle is attacked with swelling, tenderness, and pain, which speedily subsides on taking a purge, and keeping quiet for a few days; but, in the course of four or five weeks, the other testicle is, in like manner, attacked. And when it gets well, the first affected is again attacked. This will go on for three or four years, to the patient’s great inconvenience; but no danger is to be apprehended from it.—J. F. S. J 171. The inflammation of the testicle generally soon becomes acute. The testicle swells considerably, and the swelling is further increased by exudation into the cavity of the vaginal tunic; the skin of the purse is