MALIGNANT PUSTULE. Go ■which it is described as “ A singular case of Erysipelatous Inflammation of the lower Eyelid, terminating in gangrene in the short space of six hours.” ■johu Barker, aged 52 years, currier, stout and robust, came to the Ophthalmic Insti- tution, and, immediately after, in consequence ol the nature of his ailment, by Mr. Lawrence’s advice, was sent into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Feb. 18, 182(3. He stated, that the day before yesterday, whilst at his usual employ- ment, he struck his right eye with a skin of leather, which at the time caused him great pain and uneasiness. At this time there is an erysipelatous inflammation extending around the organ, but more especially on the lower lid and adjacent portion of the cheek, in the centre of which there is a hard and indurated lump, more prominent than the rest, feeling like carbuncle. It has a very livid hue, and may be said to have gone into a state of gangrene. Since his admission into the hospital, he has not complained of any particular pain in the part, nor is the constitution apparently much affected ; the tongue is but slightly loaded; the pulse feeble. Mr. Lawrence made an incision through this hard and indurated portion, when a little dark blood escaped. The globe of the eye not in the least affected. Two grains of sulphate of quinine to be taken every six hours, and six ounces of port wine, daily. Feb. 22. The pulse having been quickened last night, the wine has been in conse- quence discontinued ; and a dose of house medicine given this morning. The tumefaction above the lid still continues, and there is now a distinct line of de- marcation around the gangrenous spot before alluded to. The whole of the inflamed i skin, has a peculiar, hard, brawny feel, very similar to carbuncular inflammation. Mr. , Lawrence stated, that when the man came to the infirmary, there was no unusual vas- i cularity of the eye; a slight serous effusion only had taken place beneath the conjunctiva palpebne. A slight puffiness is observable about the under lid of the corresponding eye, but there is no redness. Pulse soft and compressible ; bowels open and tongue moist. The quinine to be continued ; the wine resumed, but omitted at night if necessary. Feb. 25. Has passed a good night and the condition of the parts is improved. The l wine and bark, being too stimulating, are both discontinued. A more scarlet or what may be termed phlegmonous inflammation now surrounds the dark gangrenous portion of skin, which is about the size of a half crown in extent; and the contiguous parts have a less brawny feel. Pulse 90, soft, and the patient free from any particular pain. Wears a poultice to the part and takes saline mixture. March 1. But little constitutional derangement is manifest. The eye examined to-day, but presented no unnatural appearance. Neither of the tarsi are implicated, although the swelling commences immediately below the lower one. To continue as before. Mr. Lawrence observed, that Beer only mentions two cases wherein such a sudden change had taken place, and those resulting from the sting of bees, whereas, in the pre- sent instance, the mere contact of the leather had produced it. lie also remarked that the only author who had mentioned any case like the present was M. Delpech of Mont- pelier, who has described two or three cases as occurring in butchers and tanners, where the parts went into a state of mortification in the space of a day or two after the occur- rence of the accident, although there was no severe contusion of the parts. He ascribes it to some peculiarity in the skin with which they were struck. March 7. The process of separation goes on favourably; that portion of the slough which is nearest the eyelid has become detached, and is found to extend to some depth. The bowels are kept open by medicine, and a poultice is applied to the part. C: March 10. A portion of the slough was removed to-day. For the last two days, as he has had a feeble pulse and complained of great weakness, six ounces of wine, daily, have been allowed. March 13. The whole of the slough has now been detached, and, as was suspected, the tarsus is quite undermined along its central part, which has caused its dropping, £nd, consequently, a degree of ectropium. The surface of the sore discharges pretty freely, but has a healthy aspect. Continue as before. March 16. Every thing to be omitted but the wine. March 19. The edges of the sore have already considerably approximated, and the granulations have nearly rendered it a mere superficial ulceration. Continue as before. Mr. Lawrence says, that he shall be obliged, at a future period, to remove the everted portion of the conjunctiva palpebne. March 23. The ectropium is lessened, and cicatrization of the sore only now remains to complete the cure. The man was permitted to leave the hospital, and to continue his visits to the Eye Infirmary if he found necessary. In reference to this case Lawrence observes, in his note, “ the essential circumstances ' o this case were a reddened and thickened state of the skin on the cheek, just below the ^ OL, I. p