184 METASTASIS, &c. About six weeks since he was attacked with a thick glutinous discharge from the urethra, which lie cannot ascribe to a recent cause, not having had any connexion for a long while. The discharge continued pretty copious till within the last three days, when it diminished considerably, and the left testicle began to swell: it is now twice as large as natural, flattened, and very painful. I ordered him a dose of rhubarb and ca- lomel, and the testicle to be strapped. Oct. 26. The size of the testicle much reduced, and the strapping therefore to be re- applied. The discharge has rather increased. Oct. 29. In consequence of the continued increase of the discharge, an injection of nitrate of silver, three grains to a pint of water, was ordered, by the use of which, in the course of a few days, the discharge was lessened. Nov. 9. The testicle has returned to its natural size. He is complaining of headache, and feels swimming and giddiness. Nov. 12. Has violent pain across the temples; pupils dilated and fixed, and vision dimmed; hearing very acute and he is much disturbed by the slightest noise; pulse 80, full and very incompressible; tongue white •, bowels soluble ; urethral discharge les- sened. R pil. col. c. cal. gr.x. stat., c. c. ad jjxij. nucha et empl. lytt. postea adldb. Nov. 14. Has not slept for the last two nights; mouth more drawn up since yester- day than heretofore ; hearing very acute ; vision more dim. The shooting pain across the forehead is more severe, and comes on every ten minutes in paroxysms; is perfectly sensible, and answers without hesitation ; bowels confined. DischargeJ'rom the urethra entirely stopped. R pulv. rliei. c. hydr. 9j.; hirud. xij. temp. Nov. 15. Mouth more drawn; head symptoms as last reported; pulse 108, softer; bowels open: complains of nausea. R hydr. chlorid. gr.ij., ant. potass, tart. gr.^. 6tis.\ hirud. xij. temp. Nov. 17. This afternoon he had an attack of violent pain in the belly, with tenderness on pressure ; pulse 108 and feeble. He was put in the hot bath, and a mustard poultice applied to the belly, by which he was relieved. But in the evening he had violent spasmodic pain, and it was found his bowels had not been relieved for the last three days. R ol. ricini ^ss., tinct. opii tqxx. stat. This relieved him of the pain in the belly in the course of an hour or two. The head symptoms still continuing, a blister was applied to the nape of the neck. Nov. 18. Had no sleep last night, but was quiet; and has had this morning about half an hour’s sleep, the first he has had (according to his own account) since the 12th ult. Pain in the head violent as ever; pupils fixed and eyes vacant; pulse 108, feeble, sharp, but soft; tongue brownish; bowels open. Nov. 19. Still most violent head-ache, and complains of pain in the belly. Put into a slipper bath immediately, which much relieved him; his head to be shaved, and cold lotions to be applied. R tinct. rhei 3iv., tinct. op. Trjxx. ex aqua menthapiper. Nov. 20. His head aches much less: the pupils contract sluggishly on the application of light; pulse 108, feeble; bowels freely opened. Nov. 21. Slept well last night; has less head-ache, but the pupils still continue slug- j gish; the countenance is less anxious ; pulse 84, softer. Nov. 22. His mouth having now began to be affected with the mercury, and his 1 symptoms being improved, the pill was directed to be taken at night only. Nov. 29. Has continued mending ; the head-ache has ceased, and his mouth has now i reverted to its usual drawing up, the medicine was therefore left off. A gleety dis- charge from the urethra has re-appeared. Dec. Left the house quite well. The discharge has gradually subsided without any > treatment.—J. F. S.] 179. The proper application of the plaster requires great care; I have r observed injurious effects from compression, in the practice abroad, by in- attention to this circumstance. The advantages of this mode of treatment are, according to Fricke’s numerous observations, quick subsidence of the pain, a more rapid cure of the disease, simplicity, cheapness, and little want of attendance.