785 OF TIIE UPPER-ARM. 1036. Besides the modes of reducing dislocations of the upper-arm already given, the following still require to be mentioned :— 1. In recent dislocation the patient may be laid on his back upon a table or sofa, in such way that the affected arm may be completely on the edge ; a wetted roller is to be applied on the arm above the elbow, and over this a handkerchief is to be fastened. The Surgeon, standing with one foot on the ground, places the heel of the other in the patient’s arm- pit, so that he finds himself in a half-sitting posture by the side of the patient. By means of the handkerchief he extends the arm for three or four minutes, in which way, under ordinary circumstances, the head is easily reduced. If more power be required, a towel instead of a handker- chief should be fastened around the arm, by which several persons may pull, whilst the heel is still in the arm-pit. In order to relax the m. biceps the fore-arm must be bent. In this mode of reduction there is less extension of the limb than lateral separation of the head of the arm-bone from the blade-bone. On this account probably has Bertrandi («) proposed, that the Surgeon should place himself between the legs of the patient as he lies in bed, and make use of his left foot if the dislocation be on the right, and his right foot if it be on the left side. Salter’s ([b) treatment corresponds to this; the patient being placed on a seat, the dislocated arm is to be drawn down perpendicularly on the body, fixed in this direction by the one hand of the Surgeon at the elbow-joint, and drawn towards the ground, whilst with the other hand the head of the bone is thrust upwards; at the same time an assistant may further the extension, by drawing down the hand, but which is not always, nor ever with violence, to be done. In dislocation inwards the arm is to be inclined more forwards. 2. The patient, being seated on a low stool, the Surgeon separates the dislocated arm so far from the body, that he can put his knee into the arm- pit, and whilst he places his foot by the side of the stool, he puts one hand upon the arm-bone, immediately above the condyles, and the other upon the acromion, then presses the arm downwards over the knee, and in this way reduces the dislocation (e). 1037. If in very powerful persons, or in old dislocations, these modes of treatment be unsuccessful, and it be necessary to overcome the muscles by continued and gradually increased extension, the pulleys are to be employed as most convenient. The patient is to be put on a stool, the shoulder fixed with a retractor, and this attached to a hook fixed in the wall on the patient’s sound side ; the extension-bandage is to be put on above the elbow, and, by other bandages connected with the pulley, fastened to the other wall. The direction of the extension is to be similar to that made by assistants; and it must be made gradually, if intended to be kept up for some time. When it has attained sufficient degree, the Surgeon puts his knee in the arm-pit, places his foot on the stool, and raising the head of the bone, thrusts it gently into the socket, which, at the moment when the extension is left off', usually happens without any snap. The various contrivances proposed for reducing dislocation of the upper-arm are in part superfluous, in part unsuitable, because the mechanical violence acts too much on the head of the bone itself; or the extension cannot be made after every one s favourite direction. To these contrivances belong the ambe of Hippocrates, the machines ot (а) Institutiones Chirurgicw, vol. v. selgelenkes ; in IIufeland s Journal, vol. xliii. (б) Ueber die Einrichtung des verrenkten Acli- pt. i. July, lSlb, p. 130. f /A A e rr vv Ponpvn iv 43!?. VOL. I.