KNEE-DISEASE. 271 rounded, and the skin itself reddened and hotter. Febrile symptoms ac- company the exacerbations which occur at various periods. 251. If the head of the bone escape from the socket, the curved form of the shoulder is entirely lost; the acromion juts out; in the arm-pit, the sunken head of the bone is felt, which gradually softens above towards the collar-bone, so that the arm is somewhat shortened and directed backwards, and its motion hindered : or, the swelling of the shoulder increases, becomes harder and more painful on pressure, and on every motion of the arm. Here, as in coxalgy, collections of pus take place, which, in the end, hurst, and form fistulous passages. Carious destruction of the head of the upper arm-bone, of the socket, of the ribs, and so on, occur, and profuse suppuration, which destroys the powers of the patient. In favourable cases, a new socket is formed for the head of the upper arm-bone, or it anchyloses with the shoulder-blade. 252. On examination of the joint after death, the cartilaginous covering of the head of the bone, and of the socket of the blade-bone, is found either partially or entirely destroyed; carious destruction of the bone, which generally does not reach far down the shaft of the upper arm-bone; fre- quently the head of the bone is swollen up, covered with fungous growths, its cells enlarged and filled with blood or yellowish red exudation ; the capsular ligament and surrounding tissue thickened and loosened up, the synovial membrane degenerated ; pus poured out into the cavity of the joint, and into the various muscular interspaces. 253. The etiology, prognosis, and treatment, correspond with those laid down in coxalgy. III.—INFLAMMATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. ( Weisse Kniegesclnvulst, Tumor Albus Genu, Gonalgia, Gonarthrocaee.) 254. The pain is at first generally very trifling ; the patient feels rather a stiffness of the knee-joint, and the pain only comes on with active motion, i Sometimes it is confined to one spot, sometimes spread over the whole joint. This state may often continue for a long while, with alternate improvement ] and relapse ; the pain at last increases, and the joint begins to swell. Fre- i qnently the pain is severe from the first, and the swelling soon appears. In many cases it is elastic and fluctuating, but has not the form of the joint; u in others it yields but little to pressure, and is often so hard that it might be taken for bone. In proportion as the swelling of the knee increases, ' the leg becomes more bent; walking becomes very painful, or quite im- ' possible; the skin over the swelling is shining white, exceedingly stretched, and at last bluish through the swelling of the veins. The pain now in- creases to a great degree; the swelling becomes at some parts distinctly 1 fluctuating; the skin grows red and thin: it bursts, and discharges thin ■ pus, mixed with cheese-like flakes. The openings often close and break out afresh. In general, the powers of the patient sink very rapidly; a probe passed into the joint shows carious destruction; hectic fever, with colliquative diarrhoea, comes on with more severe pain in the knee-joint, and death ensues, if the limb be not removed in proper time. The dura- tion of the disease is uncertain. ' 255. What has been already said as to etiology applies here. The dif- ference in the course of the disease depends on whether it has commenced * ^ 11;flammation of the ligaments and synovial membrane, or as ulceration