472 EXTRAVASATION OF THE upon each other, so that there is no space between them. These effusions therefore, when they occur, spread not always in every direction upon the surface of the intestines, but collect in one spot. [“ Effusions of blood from large vessels,” Travers remarks, generally “ prove fatal by their volume suspending or interrupting the functions of life. * * * The complete ef- fusion of bile, urine, or feculent matter, prove uniformly fatal, by their quality inducing a destructive inflammation. The symptoms of an effusion which oppresses the vital functions by its volume, or arrests them by inducing syncope, will be easily distinguished from those of an effusion which excites inflammation. The former indeed usually sub- side in death, before the latter are engendered. It would be difficult to determine the fact of faecal effusion, perhaps in most cases impossible. * * * The train of symptoms characterizing a peritoneal inflammation, the result of local injury, differs in many re- spects from that which has been described as belonging to puerperal peritonitis. Indeed few symptoms of the disease, originating from the same cause, are not varied and mo- dified in different subjects, so as to prevent us from regarding them as diagnostic. In some cases the belly is distended, in others soft ; in some it is acutely painful to the touch, in others it will bear a degree of pressure; the pulse is often small and rapid, but I have known it moderately full and not much exceeding its natural frequency. Distressing nausea and vomiting, constipation, acute pain and restlessness are invariably present, and are perhaps the only symptoms which may be considered certain in their occurrence.” (p. 71-74.) “Sometimes the effusion of the contents of the intestine,” says Hennen, “takesplace very soon after the receipt of the wound; in other cases, especially of gunshot, it does not appear until the eschars separate.” (p. 406.)] 534. The contents of the intestine do not extravasate so readily as blood, because the resistance of the walls of the belly is greater than that which it has to overcome, in order to its being driven forward in the intestinal canal. The effusion of faecal matter happens more easily in the small than in the large intestines, easier in torn than in cut wounds; more easily in oblong than in transverse wounds, but more especially when the intestine is full, or the resistance of the walls of the belly is diminished by effusion of blood, or by the entrance of air into the cavity of the belly. In how far the changes which take place in the different wounds of intestines can render difficult the escape of the feculent matter, depends upon the causes already stated (joar. 523.) [Travers observes:— “ It appears that effusion is not an ordinary consequence of penetrating wounds, that the same opposition to effusion exists after death as before it, and consequently that such opposition must depend on passive pressure, not on active resistance. If the gut be full and the wound extensive the surrounding pressure is overcome by the natural action of the bowel tending to the expulsion of the matters. But in defect of either of these states, effusion cannot follow. If the canal be empty at the time of the wound, no subsequent state of the bowel will cause effusion, nor can effusion take place from a bowel at the moment full, provided it retains a certain portion of its cylinder entire.” (p. 25.) He further adds:—“When, however, air has escaped from the bowel, or blood has been extravasated in quantity within the abdomen at the time of the injury, the resistance opposed to effusion will be less effectual, although the parietal pressure is the same, as such fluids will yield more readily than the solids na- turally in contact.” (p. 26.) “ The impediment to effusion of intestinal matters consists,” according to Travers, “ first, in the resistance which the mechanism of the abdomen opposes, and secondly in the circumstances contingent upon and peculiar to intestinal wounds. By the former I mean the general contact and equal pressure before explained, (viz., if the chest or belly of a living animal could be inspected, whilst the boundaries remain entire, it would be found that the contents were in actual contact with the parietes; that an intestine, for example, was on every side in contact with the surrounding intestines, or with the peritoneum lining the muscles. Instead therefore of floating loosely, as has been repre- sented, it is supported by the equable pressure of the parts in its vicinity (p. 9);) by the latter the processes of eversion, contraction, and peritoneal adhesion.” (p. 132.)]