[ 781 ] VI.—OF DISLOCATION OF TIIE UPPER-ARM. (Luxatio Humeri, Lat.; Verrenkung des Oberarmes, Germ.; Luxation du Bras, Fr.) Bonn, Abhandlung von Verrenkungen des Oberarmes. Leipzig, 1783. Desault, above cited. Warnecke, Abhandlung iiber die Verrenkung des Oberarmes aus dem Schulterge- lenke und deren Heilart. Nurenberg, 1810; with plates. Boyer, above cited, p. 174. Mothe, Melanges de Chirurgie et de Medecine. Paris, 1812. Busch, Dissert, de Luxatione Humeri. Berlin. 1817. Dupuytren, De la difference dans le Diagnostic des Luxations et des Fractures de l’extremite supe'rieure de l’Humerus; in Re'pertoire General d’Anatomie et de Phy- siologic Pathologique, vol. vi. part iii. p. 165. Malgaigne, Luxations de 1’Articulation Scapulo-humerale; in Journal des Progres des Sciences et des Institutions Me'dicales, vol. iii. Paris, 1830. Cooper, Astley, above cited, p. 415. Crajipton, Philip, M.D., On the Pathology of Dislocation of the Shoulder-Joint; in Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, vol. iii. p. 42. 1833. 1027. The free motions of the shoulder, the great misproportion be- tween the size of the head of the upper-arm-bone and the flattened hollow of the joint-surface of the blade-bone, the slight strength of the capsule of the joint, and the frequent operation of external violence upon the shoulder-joint, render the dislocation of the upper-arm more frequent than that of any other bone. 1028. The head of the upper-arm-bone may be displaced in three different directions: 1, Upwards (and inwards) ; the head of the bone rests on the front edge of the blade-bone, between the insides of the long heads of the m. triceps and the m. suhscapularis. 2, Inwards; the head of the bone recedes between the subscapular pit and the muscle of the same name, beneath the m. pectoralis major. 3, Outwards; between the infra-spinate pit and muscle. [This is the dislocation backwards of English Surgeons.—J. f. s.] The dislocation downwards is the most common, that inwards more rare, and that outwards the rarest. The dislocation upwards is impossible, partly on account of the acromial process, and the firmness of the joints especially, partly because the upper-arm cannot, on account of the trunk, be driven inwards as much as necessary in order to dislocate it upwards. Astley Cooper (a) speaks of a fourth partial dislocation, when the front of the cap- sular ligament is torn, frequently only stretched, and the head rests against and on the outer side of the coracoid process of the blade-bone (&)• 1029. If the head of the upper-arm-bone be dislocated doivnwards, it may be drawn inwards by the contraction of the muscles, (but the m. tri- ceps extensor prevents it being pulled outwards,) and thence gradually upwards towards the collar-bone. In the dislocation outwards such consecu- tive displacement towards the spine of the blade-bone is not possible. In dislocation of the upper-arm-bone, there may be therefore a fourfold varying position of the head of the bone: 1, downwards ; 2, outwards, always primitive; 3, inwards, frequently primitive, usually consecutive, and, 4, ji inwards and upwards, constantly as consecutive dislocation. A. Cooper, (n) Above cited, p. 446. — IIaroravk, W. ; in Edinburgh Medical and (6) Dupovtren, Lecons Orales, vol iii. p. 105. Surgical Journal, October, 1S37.