713 TREATMENT. moistened with decoction of marshmallows, which should be covered with a compress dipped in spirits of wine, and supported with a suitable compress, for the purpose of preventing the escape of the spittle by the slough pro- duced, and also to induce its How into the lower end of the duct. By tins plan, as well as by compression of the duct, in most cases its closure and destruction is effected, which Desault and Richter aim at in reference to the salivary gland, by endeavouring to destroy its function with con- tinued pressure. Schreger (a) also notices a fistula which closed by compression of the duct behind it, with a steel neck circlet descending from the top of the head, and by touching it with lunar caustic. Here also belongs Viborg’s proposition in cases of salivary fistula, where the usual modes of treatment have been inefficient, to lay bare the hinder end of the duct, by a cut directly down from the cheek-bone, and to bind and unite the wound with sticking plaster. In this way, from Viborg’s experiments on brutes, it results, that after tying the Stenonian duct, the parotid gland swells, gradually subsides, and the destruction of the gland is effected. 908. The production of an artificial duct is the usual mode of treating a salivary fistula, and is always indicated, if the division of the duct have been of long standing, the fistulous opening callous, and the lower end of the duct have become impervious. It is effected in different ways : 1. The callous edges of the fistula having been pared with the knife, a tube with a small trocar is thrust through the cheek, near the hinder I opening of the salivary duct, somewhat downwards, and in an oblique direction, in doing which the tongue is to be defended from injury by the finger introduced into the mouth, or by a piece of cork. The trocar is now withdrawn and a thread of silk-worm gut introduced through the tube, which is also then to be removed. The patient should now chew, for the purpose of discovering the aperture of the salivary duct by the flow of the spittle, and the gut in the wound is then to be thrust into this opening for about six lines ; the patient then chews again to see whether the spittle flows out between the gut and the wall of the duct, on failure of which, a thinner gut must be introduced. The end of the gut hanging in the mouth is to be brought out to its corner, and fastened with sticking plaster on the cheek. The edges of the wound are to be brought, by properly applied sticking plaster, into the closest union, covered with lint, which should be fastened with sticking plaster, and a cloth placed beneath the chin and bound together on the head. The bandage must not be renewed till the edges of the wound have united, which happens in from thirty to forty hours, if the operation succeed ; and some hours after, the gut also may be removed. De Roy was, according to Boyer (6), the first who employed an artificial opening by means of perforating the cheek, for which purpose he used the actual cautery which he thrust directly from without inwards. Percy (c), after penetrating the cheek, introduced a leaden thread into the upper end of the Stenonian duct, and the other end of the thread through the artificial opening in the mouth, where he bent it round, and fixed it by slight pressure of the cheek against the teeth. This treatment renders the suture and cauterization unnecessary. 2. The cheek being penetrated, as in the former case, a leaden thread or string is introduced through the tube, the two ends of the thread bent round like a hook after the removal of the tube, and left for four or six weeks; the external fistulous opening, after having been pared, is to be (a) Grundriss der chirurgischen Operationen (b) Traite des Maladies Cliirurgicales, vol. xxvii. vol. i. p. 84. Third Edit. p. 27(5. (c) Boyer, above cited, p. 280.