566 FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE absence of crepitation and by the usual circular movement of the great trochanter in rotation of the limb. It is distinguished from dislocation of the thigh-bone outwards and upwards and outwards and downwards, by the turning of the foot inwards, which always accompanies these disloca- tions, but in this fracture is very rare, and even then less complete than in dislocation ; the foot also, when in fracture there is inversion, is more easily, though with pain, drawn outwards and lengthened. It is distin- guished from dislocation upivards and inwards, in which the foot is directed outwards, whereby, as especially in dislocations, the limb becomes very immovable, and it is impossible, without great violence, to restore it to its natural position; the dislocated head can also be felt. [In the examination of thigh-bones, instances have been often met with, in which from the diminution of the length of the neck of the thigh-bone, in old persons espe- cially, it has been thought that such had been fractured and were united by bone. In reference to this point, Astley Cooper observes:—“ The neck of the thigh-bone in old persons is sometimes undergoing an interstitial absorption, by which it becomes short- ened, altered in its angle with the shaft of the bone, and so changed in its form as to give an idea, upon a superficial view, of its having been the subject of fracture, so as to lead persons into the erroneous supposition of the bone having been partially broken and re-united.” (p. 124.) Gulliver, however, has shown (a) that the same appearances may be observed in younger persons, and he gives several remarkable instances, all of which followed injury to the hip, although at the time the patients were not mate- rially influenced by the blow ; but limping and shortening of the limb from shortening of the neck of the bone gradually came on. The most striking examples are the case of the soldier Fox, (p. 99,) who had fallen down a ship’s hold five years prior to his death; and also the case of the soldier Lynn, (p. 315,) who met with the accident in the same way, but continued his duty without inconvenience for three years, after which he gradually became lame, and in the course of eighteen months was entirely unfit for service; soon after he was bitten by a poisonous snake and died. In both these instances examination of the parts after death was made, and the neck of the thigh-bone found much shortened, together with spreading of the head.—J. F. S.] 672. The opinions of Surgeons on the prognosis in fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone are very different. Some believe that a greater or less degree of limping is in this accident an irremediable consequence; others that bony union is impossible ; others consider this fracture as differing only from others in the difficulty of its treatment. A. Cooper admits bony union of the fracture external to the capsular ligament, but considers, that in fracture within the capsular ligament, it does not take place with callus, on account of the absence of proper apposition and con- nexion of the fractured ends, (wherefore also no continued apposing pres- sure of the two broken surfaces can take place, although the proper length of the foot is preserved,) on account of the low degree of vital < activity, on account of the want of activity in the head of the thigh-bone to produce bone, and on account of the extension of the capsidar ligament by the increased quantity of synovial fluid. A. Cooper held bony union possible only in those cases in which the fracture passes through the head of the thigh-bone, and the end itself is not completely separated, or the bone is broken without tearing of its periosteum, or of the surrounding ligament, or when the fracture has an oblique direction and is partially within, partially without the capsular ligament. A. Cooper has never other- wise seen bony union of the fracture within the capsular ligament. These reasons, which had even earlier been advanced, were contradicted by Boyer, and more recently by Earle ; experience also has proved that (a) Cases of Shortening of the neck of the Thigh-bone, with remarks; in Edinburgh Medical and Sur- gical Journal, vol. xlvi. p. 97, and p. 313. 18oG.