SENILE MORTIFICATION. 57 and have now exposed a large portion of the shin-bone, which is apparently dead; a considerable part of the Achilles’ tendon has become gangrenous. The drain upon his constitution has lately been much increased, and it is now a question whether amputa- tion be not necessary, and also whether he is in a condition to bear it. Sept. 6. The wound is more healthy, and the gangrene seems to have stopped. Another abscess, merely superficial, which had formed about the middle of the thigh, burst yesterday. Sept. 11. Sleeps well and feeds well, but does not get flesh ; there has been a slight ,i increase of sloughing on the instep, but it is now cleaning. The discharge from all the wounds is very free, and the granulations rather more florid. Sept. 13. Appetite failing. An abscess on the inside of the calf, which seems to ex- tend among the muscles, opened, and about three ounces of pus discharged. Sept. 20. Still declining, and during the last two or three days sloughing has re- curred. Amputation was therefore proposed, but he would not consent. Sept. 24, 9 a. m. Much exhausted; pulse quick and scarcely perceptible; counte- nance pallid ; voice weak ; the sore quite bleached. I ordered him brandy and egg, as much as he could be induced to take, which somewhat revived him, and afterwards he l took some wine. At 1 a.m. bleeding occurred, probably from the saphenous vein, as it I traversed the wound; it was, however, easily checked, and did not recur. He continued gradually sinking, and, on Sept. 25, 2 p.m. He died. Case 2.—E. U., twenty-seven months old, of scrofulous habit, has been weaned about thirteen months, and, like the children of the poor generally, since fed on bread and ! butter, with tea. She has been always healthy till about sixteen days since, when i the whole surface of the body became so scarlet that it was supposed to have scarlet fever. Two days after she was observed to point continually to the left side of her : chest, and on examination there was found on the axillary margin of the pectoral : muscle a dark-coloured swelling, in circumference about the size of a small tea-cup. Soon after the redness of the body subsided; but her belly was enlarged and the legs i i swollen. It would, therefore, seem probable that the previous disease was scarlet : fever. At the present time (Sept. 8) there is a well-formed brown slough, surrounded with a dusky-red elevated edge of skin with similar inflammation extending about half-way < down the left arm, also upon the neck and back, reaching as far as the right shoulder. The cellular tissue of the right arm-pit hard, inelastic, and painful, as if another slough were likely to take place. A layer of the slough was removed, and strong nitric acid applied with a feather; after which it was covered with nitric acid lotion and linseed- meal poultice. To the back of the neck a linseed poultice with acetate of lead wash was applied. Five grains of extract of bark every four hours, and an ounce of gin every six hours, were given in arrow-root. i Sept. 10. The sloughy sore is cleaning; but the hardness on the right shoulder has increased; the inflammatory blush has spread considerably, and now covers all the chest and the belly as far as the navel, extending down on either side towards the flanks. On the left arm it reaches below the elbow, and on the right half down the upper arm. i The cellular tissue on the loins is oedematous. As the gin is rejected, a couple of tea- i ' spoonfuls of port wine with syrup was ordered frequently during the day, but not to exceed four ounces. Two grains of mercury with chalk, and four grains of rhubarb with as much carbonate of soda, nightly, were prescribed. aSept. 11. Has had three dark-coloured stools, but her appearance not improved. She continued sinking, and about 4 p.m. died. No opportunity of examining her body occurred.—J. F. S.] 26. The mortification dependent on very low vital activity which generally attacks the feet and more rarely the hands of old people (Senile Gangrene, Gangrcena senilis, Lat.) must be considered as peculiar. Under this name, however, conditions have been classed together which, «it least in reference to their origin, must be distinguished from each other. ° 27. In persons who in every respect have lived irregularly, and whose living powers are in a great degree exhausted, who have suffered much trouble, and had irregular gout, specially in the feet, an erysipelatous inflammation with dusky redness and severe pain arises after any injury,