786 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION Oribasius, Pare, Gersdorff, Scultetus, Purmann, Petit ; the reductois of Ravaton, Hagen, Freck, Mennel, Schneider, Brunninghausen, and others. 1038. If the dislocation have existed some weeks, the arm must, pre- vious to extension, be moved forcibly in every direction, for the purpose of loosening it, and the relaxation of the muscles must be effected by the means already mentioned. After the reduction of these old dislocations, an emphysematous swelling is often observed beneath the great pectoral muscle, which soon disappears under the use of dispersing remedies. Weiniiold cut through the tendon of the m. pectoralis major, because it did not yield in an old dislocation (a). The dislocations at the shoulder- joint may often be satisfactorily reduced, even after a long time, especially in relaxed persons ; the attempt at reduction, however, is not to be carried too far, as dangerous symptoms may ensue (b). Gibson noticed a rupture of the axillary artery in reducing an old dislocation. Dieffenbach (c), whilst making extension and counter-extension in the usual manner, in a dislocation of two years’ standing, divided the tendons of the m. pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, the m. teres major and minor, beneath the skin, and the false ligaments surrounding the new joint, upon which, with the extension made, the head suddenly returned into its socket, and he then applied over it a pasteboard apparatus. 1039. The Congenital Dislocation of the Upper- Arm-bone (Luxatio con- genita Humeri) does not, according to R. W. Smith (d), who first noticed it, happen so very rarely. In the early period of life, before the more perfect development of the bones, and before the more powerful action of the muscles, the external appearance of deformity may possibly escape observation ; but when the shoulder-bones have attained to their perfect development, when the bony processes about the joints project, and espe- cially when the muscles operating on the shoulder-joint and upper-arm acquire their full activity, then first are the characteristic marks of conge- nital dislocation not easy to be mistaken. Smith has noticed two kinds of congenital dislocation, viz., the subcoracoid and the subacromial dis- location. 1040. In the congenital subcoracoid dislocation, the head of the upper- arm-bone, when the arm hangs down on the side, is situated beneath the coracoid process, and the outer part of the glenoid cavity can be felt beneath the projecting acromion ; if the elbow be drawn forward over the chest, the head of the upper-arm-bone slips backwards over the acromion, and completely leaves the unnatural part of the articular surface, which can now be distinctly felt; the shoulder has not its natural rounded form, but is flattened. The muscles of the shoulder and arm are much shrunk, and also the muscles passing from the chest to the blade-bone and upper- arm, only the m. trapezius shows the least of this, and seems to be almost the only muscle, which still acts upon and moves the blade-bone ; the diseased arm is nearly half an inch shorter. The motions of the arm are very much restricted ; elevation and abduction are not possible, and even the forward and backward motions cannot be performed without corre- sponding movement of the blade-bone. Although the muscles of the fore- arm are not so much shrunk as those of the upper, yet flexion is so diffi- (a) Zwanzio de Luxatione Ossis Humeri, et pre- (c) Vereinszeitung, 1839, No. 51. cipue Incisione Aponeuroseos Musculi Pectoralis (rf) An Essay upon the original or congenital Majoris ad cur. Luxat. inveter. llaloe, 1819. Luxations of the upper extremity of the Humerus; (b) Flaubert, Memoire sur plusieurs cas de in Dublin Journal, vol. xv. p. 236. Luxation, dans lesquels les efforts ont ete suivi Frorief's N. Notizen, July, 1839. No. 225 and d'accidens graves; in Repert. gfn. d’Anatomie 227. et de Physiologie Pathologique, vol. iii. fuse. i.