225 CARTILAGE. reddened by imbibition of the red colour of the blood, and the reddening is greater, the more the cells proportionally exceed the basement; most distinctly therefore in foetal cartilage. If the blood in the living body carry unnatural colouring substances, as for instance the bile pigment, it penetrates the cartilage, which, therefore, in jaundice, be- comes yellow, as noticed by Bichat.” (pp. 808, 9.) Toynbee (a) observes, in reference to articular cartilage:—“ Although they are pro- perly considered as non-vascular tissues, they appear to be pervaded by blood-vessels at an early period of their development, or, perhaps, it would be more correct to say, that as growth proceeds, the cartilage increases, so as to occupy the space that had previously been permeated by vessels. I have been able,” he continues, “ to demonstrate that • vessels are never found within these cartilages when fully developed; but at that period vessels form convolutions in their immediate vicinity. These vessels are separated from articular cartilage, at adult age, by a layer of bone; and in fibro-cartilage, at the same period, they uniformly terminate within the boundary of its fibrous tissue. Over a cer- ; tain portion of the free surface of both these tissues blood-vessels extend, but they do not penetrate into their substance. The investigations which are about to be detailed i lead, I think, to the certain conclusion, that articular cartilage in the adult state is prin- ij cipally nourished by fluid derived from the vessels of the cancelli of the bone to which ' it is attached, which exudes through the coats of those vessels, and makes its way into the substance of the cartilage through the intermediate lamella of bone. The cartilage of fibro-cartilage is nourished, in like manner, by liquor sanguinis, derived from vessels i situated in the contiguous fibrous portion. The vessels ramifying in a certain extent of the free synovial surface of both these species of cartilage, contribute, doubtless, to their ji nutrition, but not to near the same extent as do the vessels of the opposite side. With •i. respect to the actual process of nutrition, I shall only observe here, that the cells of i these structures must be regarded as having the function which has been ascribed to those of all non-vascular tissues, viz., that of promoting the circulation of and modifying the nutrient liquor. In connexion with this process, however, it will be seen that arti- I cular cartilage presents, in its adult state, very minute canals, which may be regarded as existing for the reception of the nutrient fluid, and for its circulation through the mass of cartilage ; their presence is especially required in this particular form of carti- laginous structure, from the great degree of density which it possesses. * * * The portion of bone upon which articular cartilage rests is, in some instances, formed by the - ossification of a distinct cartilaginous epiphysis. In non-epiphysal bones, the extremity of the shaft of the bone performs the same functions with regard to the articular cartilage situated upon it as do the epiphyses in those hones which are provided with them. There is this difference in articular cartilage, with regard to its nutrition during and after its development, that in the former state there is no positive separation of it from the cartilage which is subsequently converted into bone, and in which its nourish- ing vessels are contained; whilst, in the latter state, these vessels are separated from i it by an osseous lamella. The free surface of articular cartilage during, as well as after, its development, is covered by synovial membrane, to which it is attached by cellular membrane.” (pp. 162, 3.) Toynbee concludes, from examinations he has made, “that during the most early periods, the cartilage of the epiphysal extremities of bones does not contain any blood- vessels, and that, notwithstanding their absence, the cells of this cartilage are developed, and its growth carried on ; and that, at the same time, the cells of the epiphysal and the 1 articular cartilage are formed and developed without the presence of vesselsand fc> “ that, at the more early period of fcetal development, the synovial surface of cartilage does not contain blood-vessels.” (pp. 164, 5.) According to the same observer, in the second stage of development the epiphysal i' cartilage “ presents, except at its articular surface, numerous depressions of various li depths. The deepest may be regarded as canals, some of which are single, others bifid; they terminate in blind sacs. The direction of some of these canals is towards the centre i of the epiphysis, of others towards its point of attachment to the osseous shaft, and of t others towards the articular cartilage. Some of these canals are of a large size, and it are frequently considerably dilated at their blind extremities. They do not penetrate 1 into the substance of the articular cartilage; they are for the reception of branches of v sanguifeftus vessels. When the epiphysis is minutely injected, the depressions upon its n surface will be found to contain congeries of convoluted vessels, which are more drawn a out the deeper the depression, until at length, in the interior of the canals and their i- divisions, single and nearly straight vessels are found. These epiphysal vessels have a very peculiar disposition. They consist of an artery having a course more or less (a) Already cited. VOL. I. q