TREATMENT. 749 and six months after the operation he first observed feculent matter in small quantities to pass from the urethra, whilst attempting to make water in the erect posture, and at the same time pressing on the anus to prevent the escape of the urine through it. Ordi- narily, when he is costive, the motions pass in small bits from the anus, and small pieces about the size of peas, and occasionally longer, on an average, about a tea- spoonful, are daily voided by the urethra; but this rarely continues for more than a day or a day and a-half at a time. Ever since the operation he has been much troubled with wind, of which night and morning he passes considerable quantity, which, collecting in the bulb, produces great pain till voided by the urethra. He always passes much mucus by the rectum, and sometimes also from the penis. Occasionally after connexion, he has observed a little moisture about the anus, with the usual sensation of water pass- ing by it. The fistulous opening is sometimes sore, especially when the bowels are much relaxed, and then stools and urine mixed pass like pease soup from the urethra. About four times within the last eleven years there seems to have been a gathering for about a fortnight, during which no wind passed by the urethra, and he suffered great pain till the wind again escaped. This was soon followed by blood and pus, after which lie got better, and went about as usual. He now never leaves his bed without it being wet, the urine having flowed unwittingly through the anus, as he supposes; and, in making water, he is obliged to sit on a chamber-pot, to avoid the inconvenience of the water streaming down upon him. Occasionally he has heat at the lower part of the rectum, hardly amounting to scalding, and he thinks that in the last four years the quantity of stool passed by the urethra has increased. When a catheter is introduced through the penis, the point passes directly into the rectum by a narrow slit, about an inch and a-half long, immediately above the m. sphincter ani, unless by the finger pre- viously placed in the gut, the tip of the instrument be lifted up and prevented entering. On consulting with my friend Green, whose patient he was, it was determined that I should perform the following operation, on Nov. 18. Having bound him and placed him on the table, in the same posture as that for the lateral operation for stone, the forefinger was introduced by the rectum into the fistulous orifice above the sphincter, but its tip only could penetrate into the cavity of the bladder, after passing for about an inch seemingly along the opened under-surface of the prostate part of the urethra. A staff' was then passed by the penis, and its tip having been tilted by the finger into the bladder, was held as in the operation for the stone. A curved blunt-pointed bistoury was next passed on the finger into the rectum, and thence into the fistulous opening till its extremity lodged in the groove of the staff', towards which having turned its edge I cut through the sphincter by drawing the knife to the perinceum, and then removing the staff", the finger readily entered the bladder. For the purpose of obtaining a complete view of the fistulous opening, Weiss’s speculum vayincc was passed into the rectum, and the aperture was then found to be an inch long, and half an inch wide, with a rounded and very thin edge; but it was requisite to continue the opening of the urethra still more forward into the perinceum, before the fistulous opening was sufficiently exposed to permit the paring of its edge. I first, however, separated each side of the wound in the rectum, from its connexions with the neighbouring parts, which on the left side, where the cut in the former operation had been made, was of a gristly hardness. The bleeding from these edges was free, a vessel or two required tying, but they continued oozing freely, and were only checked by repeated bathing with cold water. The upper part of the fistulous aperture was then seized with Lisfranc’s tentacles, drawn down, and about half an inch of it cut off, which was followed by free bleeding, probably from the veins at the neck of the bladder. The sides of the upper part of this wound were then brought together with a single interrupted suture, so as to shut off the communication between the bladder and rectum ; but the lower part was left alone, the object being to endeavour to establish a fistulous opening in the perinaum as the most likely mode of closing that between the rectum and bladder, and to render this more likely, the wound in the perinceum was continued forward till the urethra was opened as far as its passage through the triangular ligament of the pubes. A female catheter was then passed by this opening into the bladder, but as bleeding continued after he was put to bed, it was withdrawn, and having a collar of sponge wrapped round, it was replaced, in hope that the swelling of the sponge would compress the bleeding vessels. About six hours after the operation, he voided by the catheter some very bloody urine, soon after felt sick and faint, and almost immediately had two gushes of clotted blood, (about half-a-pint,) accompanied with air from the rectum. He complained of much pain in the loins, and of being distended with wind. As I thought the swollen