744 PERINEAL FISTULA; Iu one case in which, by a deeply-eating ulcer, the urethra was completely destroyed to a considerable extent, Charles Bell undertook the formation of a new passage for the urine. A hollow sound was introduced through the fistulous opening, and through the orifice of the urethra a silver tube six inches in length, into which a metal sound and a pointed stilette could be passed, was passed by the urethra to the beginning of the fistula. He then thrust the stilette through the body of the penis, near the original canal of the urethra, and endeavoured to bring its point on one side of the fistula into the groove of the hollow sound, following the proper canal of the urethra. This canal was then rendered callous by continuing the tube in it. During the course of this ope- ration no blood was lost, the symptoms were not severe, but there remained a small lateral opening at the previous seat of the fistula (a). 963. Complete urinary fistula in the hinder part of the urethra, of which the inner opening corresponds to the bulb, the membranous or prostatic part of the urethra, (Fistula urethro-perincealis,) arises either from a previous incomplete fistula, {par. 946,) or after infiltration of urine, most commonly depending on stricture, bruising, tearing, or wound of the urethra, or stone, severe inflammation and ulceration. The external opening is either in the perinceum, in the neighbourhood of the rectum, on the penis, or in the groin ; often there are several openings existing at once on these several places, which, however, are connected only with one in- ternal opening. These fistulas are generally accompanied with consider- able hardening of their neighbourhood, with hardness of the whole peri- nceum, and even of the scrotum. The urine, whilst being passed, escapes through them only in part, or it flows entirely through the fistula ; in which case, if long continued, the fore part of the urethra contracts and shrivels up. If in old strictures there be a paralytic condition of the neck of the bladder, the urine will constantly and unwittingly flow by the fistula. In consequence of the continued irritability of the fistula, and its neigh- bourhood, of the suppuration and so on, the general health gradually suffers much, the patient wastes, the digestion becomes bad, and on the least occasion, severe though generally slight consecutive fever ensues. [Brodie observes, that “ a fistula in perinceo occurs in some cases, as a consequence of gonorrhoea; in other cases as the consequence of stricture, either independently of gonorrhoea, or long after it has subsided. These two kinds of fistulce in perinceo require each a separate notice. A man has a severe gonorrhoea; the urine comes away in a very small stream, because the urethra is inflamed, swollen, and contracted. At last he complains of pain in the perinceum ; a tumour is found there, and this state of things is frequently attended with a complete retention of urine in the bladder; at other times, however, it is attended only with an increased difficulty of making water. By-and-by the tumour bursts, or perhaps the Surgeon feels fluctuation in it, and opens it with a lancet, pus is discharged, then the difficulty of making water subsides, and a day or two afterwards the patient finds that whenever he voids his urine, a portion of it comes by the opening in the perinceum. In another case, the patient has, perhaps, never had gonorrhoea; or if he has had one, it has subsided and left a contraction or stricture of the urethra. On some occasion he lias more than usual difficulty in making water, but not amounting to a complete retention of urine. Under these circumstances, he dis- covers a swelling in the perinceum, which increases in size, and becomes painful and tender. The tumour bursts, or the Surgeon opens it; matter escapes also in this case, and afterwards a portion of the urine comes away through the opening Where this disease is connected with gonorrhoea, there is generally only a single abscess; but when it is connected with a stricture of the urethra, there may be many abscesses formed in succession ; so that a patient having a stricture of the urethra of long standing, may have fistulce formed in various directions, opening into the perinceum, in the middle of the scrotum, nay, even in the groin, or on the nates, or one of them may, perhaps, open into the rectum.'’ (p. 4S6.) As regards the immediate cause of these kinds of perinatal abscess, as “ in many cases the contents of the abscess bear manifest indications of urine having been mixed (a) System der operativen Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 102.