[ 48V ] i VI.—OF WOUNDS OF THE PENIS. 551. Either one or both cavernous bodies, or the canal of the urethra, may be wounded, or the penis itself may be for the most part or completely cut off. The bleeding in these wounds is always great, and comes from the cells of the cavernous bodies, or from the special vessels of the penis. 552. If the wounding of the cavernous bodies be only partial, a close application of the edges of the wound is usually sufficient to stanch the bleeding. A catheter is to be introduced, the wound united with sticking plaster, and this supported by a circular bandage compressing the penis. The same applies to injury of the urethra. If apart of the penis be com- pletely divided, each vessel must be tied as in amputation of that organ. 553. If in a strong erection, the penis be forcibly bent down, a tearing of the cavernous bodies, or rather of their fibrous coverings, takes place ; the blood escapes through this opening into the surrounding cellular tissue, and fills it out like a bag, which is always filled with blood when the penis becomes erected (1). At last the blood coagulates in the sack, and subse- quently inflammation, ulceration, and bleeding occur. If the swelling be large, the functions of the penis are completely destroyed by the great curving to which it is subjected. In this complaint nothing is to be ex- i pected from compression, or any other means ; the only remedy is amputa- tion of the penis. [(1) This accident occasionally happens in chordee ; and there is an example of the rupture of the spongy body in front of the purse, in St. Thomas’s Museum. But it also sometimes occurs during coitus, of which one instance has been already mentioned, (par. 155, note 7,) in which great sloughing of the perineal parts took place. The reviewer of this work in the Medico-Chirurgical Review (New Series, vol. ii. p. 1C1) says :—“ We have witnessed some cases of it, (extravasation of blood in the corpus spongiosum during coition,) and have found the priapism to subside gradually as the blood became absorbed. We recollect some time back reading a case, in which a sur- geon thought it necessary to cut into the corpus spongiosum, to relieve the extreme tension of the penis, and the patient ever afterwards lost the power of erection.” This asserted loss of power of erection after cutting into the spongy body of the penis, is, I believe, generally incorrect. Our common practice in perinaeal abscess from stricture, is to cut through the middle of the spongy body for an inch or two, but in such cases I have never known any occurrence of the alleged misfortune. Professor Moli.er of Elsiugore mentions (a) a curious example of gangrene of the penis, which the patient attributed to having fallen on a hand-spike eight days before, and receiving a severe contusion on the region of the pubes. That such was not the real cause of the mischief was proved on the day following his admission, 22nd April, 1844, into the Royal Hospital, when “ on removing the dead skin and cellular tissue, a deep suppurating wound upon the inferior side of the penis, anteriorly to the scrotum, was laid bare. In this a hard body, subsequently discovered to be a ring of metal, was found, completely surrounding the root of the penis. With some difficulty this ring was re- moved by means of a fine elastic saw, and, as it was one of that description usually employed to string keys upon in which the extremities are not united together, the affair was soon over. At one spot the ring was deeply hacked, in all probability by the patient himself during his endeavours to get rid of it. Through a perforation in the bulbous portion of the urethra flowed urine mixed with blood and some matter.” Ten days after his admission he died under hectic symptoms. On examination there was found in the urethra a large ulcer, four and a half inches from its orifice. In the belly much urine mixed with matter. The fundus and a considerable portion of the corpus vesica; in close adherence to the parts around, with great alteration of structure and consistence, almost gangrenous. On the cervix vesicce were two small openings with rounded margins. Several small holes in the fundus seemed rather produced in the attempts to separate the bladder from the other parts, to which it had become so closely attached. On the external covering of the intestines was a considerable exuda- (a) llibliothek fiir Laeger, 18-14; and also in stract of the Medical Sciences, vol. i. p. 124. Ixm- Rankino, W. H., M.D. Cant., Half-yearly Ab- don, 184.3. sm. bvo.