738 URINARY pleta interna) usually occurs in the urethra, rarely in the ureters or bladder, and depends on tearing by external violence, retention of urine, neighbouring abscesses, ulcers, rough catheterism, or an imprisoned stone. The diagnosis depends on the previous symptoms, on the sensation of pain during or after passing water, on the bloody purulent discharge from the :urethra, but especially on a swelling, which increases during micturition, diminishes or disappears entirely by pressure, in consequence of which urine mixed with pus, flows from the urethra, or on the appearance of an undefined extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue. In persons who have lost flesh by sweating or in any other way, there often occurs, without any previous contagion, a flow of mucus from the urethra, and a swelling at some part of its neighbourhood, which runs into suppuration, bursts, and gives escape to the urine, in which the flow of mucus from the bladder continues, but "without any stricture existing. The destruction of the urethra depends on ulceration of the mucous membrane or abscesses in the lacunae (a). [This incomplete fistula I have seen though not very frequently, and have more com- monly observed it in front of the perinceum, and involved in the scroturn, sometimes at its hind and at other times in its front part. It has been exceedingly well described by Brodie in the following terms :—“ I shall next describe a case which used to perplex me very much when I first met with it. A patient may come to you who has, perhaps, had gonorrhoea formerly, which has been followed by a stricture, perhaps a very slight one, of the urethra, or at any rate there has been a discharge from the urethra, which he calls an obstinate gleet, telling you at the same time that nothing will cure it. You examine the perinceum, and you find in it a little tumour, not bigger apparently than a horse-bean or filbert. You can just feel it, at some distance below the skin, and the patient tells you that he has had it ever since he has been the subject of this obstinate gleet, and that sometimes there is a little pain in it. Now such a little hard tumour is nothing more nor less than a blind fistula. There is a small orifice in the urethra, and a narrow channel communicating with it, which leads into a cavity in the centre of this hard lump, and every time the patient makes water a very small portion of urine finds its way into this cavity. In consequence of the smallness of the central cavity and the great deposit of solid matter on its outside, the fluctuation of fluid in it is not perceptible. Such a case as this is not a very uncommon occurrence, and I have known a patient labour under this sort of hard lump in the perinceum for many successive years, suffering a good deal of inconvenience from it, but not suffering excessively. I have cured several cases of this kind by a very simple process. All that you have to do is to make an opening into the cavity in the centre of the tumour. But the cavity is very small aud how are you to find it? You may run a lancet into it; but it is very probable that it may pass on one side of the cavity, and therefore some management is necessary in performing the operation. You are to introduce the lancet a little obliquely, so that you may, as it were, almost cut the tumour in half. When you have done this the blood aud the deep-seated situation of the tumour prevent you seeing whether you have made the opening into the central e^ity or not. Introduce a piece of lint, so as to prevent the wound uniting by the first intention. Two or three days afterwards you take out the lint, and then you ascertain whether, when the patient makes water, any comes by the opening made with the lancet. If this be the case you may be certain that you have penetrated into the cavity, and then you have only to dilate the urethra with a proper instrument and the patient will get well. But if you find that the urine does not flow through the artificial opening, you may thus proceed:—Introduce a piece of caustic potash through the opening you have made down to the bottom of it, in the centre of the tumour, so as to make a slough there. A portion of the tumour will slough out, and it is most probable that the cavity in the centre will be exposed, and then a cure follows. You should apply the caustic potash in such a manner that it may act on the part on which you wish to act, defending at the same time the neighbouring textures, the skin especially, by washing it with vinegar.” (p. 489.)] 947. Complete urinary Fistula (Fistula urinaria completa) is the most common. Its internal opening arises either from the kidneys, ureters, bladder or urethra, and its external aperture,, often very far distant from the internal, is found in the loins, in the groin, above the share-bone, in (a) Cooper, Astley.