281 TREATMENT. rv abscesses have already taken place, the prognosis is always very unfavour- able ; if left alone, symptoms of hectic consumption come on, when they burst, and the patient quickly sinks ; or they contract to fistulous open- ings, discharge but little serous or purulent fluid, and the patient lives a long time in a miserable condition. Very commonly no treatment can pre- vent this melancholy result. The practitioner must be exceedingly care- ful with little children who do not yet walk, because in them the most important diagnostic character is deficient. To determine more precisely the seat of the disease, various distinguish- ing signs have been given. According to Copeland, great sensibility of the diseased vertebrce on external pressure, and on rubbing down with a sponge dipped in hot water. According to Wenzel, the pain should be in- creased by pressure with both hands upon the shoulders acting on the parts be- neath, or on the application of volatile irritants, especially caustic ammonia. According to Stiebel, the situation of the disease is more distinctly shown in a warm bath with potash. But all these methods of proof give no decided result; and I have observed, on the contrary, many cases in which, as the result proved, no spondylarthrocace was present, although it had been indi- cated by these tests. (Melker) («). I consider especially important in the diagnosis of this disease, the peculiar carriage of the body which often pre- cedes, but always accompanies, weakness of the lower limbs. The knees of the patient in standing are somewhat bent, and the head inclined backwards, so that the neck sinks between the shoulders; in walking, the arms are bent at the elbow-joint and hold to the trunk; the patient always seeks after a resting-place with his hands, places them upon the hips, and in stooping, upon the thighs ; in bed he can turn only with difficulty, and very commonly sweats at night. This disease is clearly distinguished from the curvature depending on rickets or improper action of the muscles, though it may be connected with them. In adults the disease is more dangerous than in children. In children whose head and the upper part of whose body are very heavy, there often appears, when they first begin to walk, a bending of the spine and a weakness of the legs, so that they draw them back at every attempt to place themselves erect. This con- dition, which depends on weakness of the muscles of the back and the weight of the head, may be, as I have frequently seen, mistaken for spondylarthrocace. Careful ob- servation of the condition of the body, examination of the spine in the prone position, aud the projecting curve which the spine forms in sitting and standing, easily determine the diagnosis. [The distinction between curvature of the spine from caries, and that from rickets, is very well marked, and the two can rarely be mistaken. In caries, the spine is always bent forwards, and, having usually a sharp abrupt form, is called the anyular curvature, or, from its direction, the anterior curvature ; and there is rarely, if ever, more than one curvature of this kind. But in rickets, as Lawrence well observes, “ you never find a single turn only in the vertebral column. If the vertebrce. were weakened in the loins, so that the column would bend towards the right side, that must necessarily be followed by a bending of the spine higher up towards the left side, in order to preserve the line of gravity of the body. If the vertebral column were to bend altogether towards the right side, the weight of the head and upper parts of the body could not be supported at ‘dl. Thus one curvature in the bones of the spine necessarily induces a deviation in another part. *You sometimes find that you have two, three, or more of these curves; the effect of one compensates for the other; so that, however great the curvatures may be, the weight of the upper part of the body still falls upon the pelvis and lower extre- mities. The curvature, which takes place in consequence of this condition of the spinal column, is on one side, and is commonly called the lateral curvature of the spine, from the circumstance that the incurvations are all of them towards the side; so that some- times the spine exhibits, under these circumstances, very much the form of the letter S, (a) Diss. de Medullas Spinalis Erethismo. Francof., 183S.