VENEREAL ULCERS. 640 days’ use) are usually sufficient for the cure of the disease, if the medical officer in charge sees that the remedy is properly used. Preparation of the sulphuret of lime.— Take of sublimed sulphur 16 lbs. and of quick lime 32 lbs. and boil in 80 lbs. of •water for three quarters of an hour. Let the mixture rest for some time until it settle, and then let the clear fluid be decanted off. Boil the residue afresh in about the same quantity of water, treat it in a similar manner, and add this decoction to the first. Usually 140 lbs. of the sulphuret, at 12° by the areometer are thus obtained. If the liquid be more dense, it should be lowered to this standard by the addition of rain water (a).] 811. In Complicated Itch the local treatment must be preceded by, or accompanied with the internal remedies in part already mentioned, sulphur alone, or with antimony, purgatives, woody drinks, and the like. If the itch by its long continuance have very much weakened the patient, or if a scrofulous, syphilitic, scorbutic, gouty, or rheumatic dyscrasy exist, the proper remedies for them must be employed. 812. Itch ulcers may be bathed with sublimate water, aqua phage- denica, in addition to sulphur ointment, or any of the above-mentioned salves. If these ulcers be of long continuance, it is advisable to establish issues before stopping them up, which in a very old itch is especially not to be neglected. 813. If the itch be quickly suppressed, we must endeavour to restore the enxption by blisters, by rubbing of tartar emetic ointment, washing and rubbing the skin with irritating remedies, and even by inoculating the itch ; at the same time also external remedies acting on the skin, especially sulphur and antimony, must be used. VI.—OF VENEREAL ULCERS. Astruc, J., Demorbisvenereislibri novem. Edit. Nov. Venet., 1760. 2vols. 4to. Fabre, Traite des Maladies Veneriennes. Third Edit., 1773. 8vo. Hunter, John, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease. London, 1786. 4to. Girtanner, C., Abliandlung fiber die venerischen Krankheiten. Gottingen, 1793— 1803. 3 vols. Svo. Flecker’s, A. F., Deutliche Anweisung, die venerischen Krankheiten genan zu er- kennen und richtig zu unterscheiden. Second Edit. Erfurt, 1801. 8vo. Clossius, K. F.,Ueber die Lustseuche. Second improved Edit. Tubing., 1799. 8vo. Swediaur, F., Traite complet sur les symptdmes, les effets, la nature, et le traitement des Maladies Syphilitiques. 2 vols. Seventh Edit. Paris, 1817. 8vo. Lagneau, L. F., Expose des Symptomes de la Maladie Venerienne. Third Edit. Paris, 1812. 8vo. Louvrier’s, J., Nosographisch-therapeutische Dartsellung syphilitischer Krankheits- formen. Nebst Angabe einer zweckm'assigen und sicheren Methode, veraltete Lust- seuehenfibel zu heben. Second improved Edit. Wien und Krems, 1819. 8vo. Wendt, J., Die Lustseuche in alien ihren Richtungen und in alien ihren Gestalten. Third Edit. Bresl., 1825. Svo. Ritter, G. H., Darstellung der scheinbaren Aehulichkeit und wesentlichen Ver- schiedenheit, welche zwischen der Sclianker und Tripperseuclie wahrgenommen wird; 35 jahriger Beobachtungen und Erfahrungen mit Bemerk. fiber die wichtigsten Punckte der venerischen Krankheiten. Leipzig, 1819. Svo. Carmichael, R., M.D., An Essay on Venereal Diseases, and the uses and abuses of Mercury in their Treatment. Second Edit. London, 1825. 8vo. Ib., R., M.D., On the Symptoms and Specific Distinctions of Venereal Diseases, j London, 1818. 8vo. (a) Braithwaitk s Retrospect of Practical Medicine and Surgery, vol. x. p. 115.