FRACTURES OF THE HAND- 562 fall on the hand, and on getting up, the elbow could be neither bent, nor perfectly extended, the cubit projected considerably backwards, the joint had its natural form, and the arm was bent. Although an apparatus of splints was applied for many months, yet the same appearances continued. Brassand and Kuhnholtz («) have noticed between the cubit and the pulley of the upper arm bone, a hard somewhat movable body, against which the cubit struck in bending. In reference to the treatment of such case, Cooper is doubtful whether it will have a satisfactory result; for he supposes that the broken coronoid process unites only by ligamentous substance. Cooper found, in a corpse, an example of broken coronoid process united by ligament, and freely moving on the cubit; the sigmoid cavity was also so changed, that in straightening of the arm backwards, it is pulled over the condyle of the upper arm-bone. Ja:ger (b) saw an imperfect fracture of the coronoid process, a deep fissure in its articular surface with considerable effusion of blood into the joints. XIV.—OF FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE HAND. 663. The Bones of the Wrist (Fractura Carpi, Lat.; Bruch der Knochen der Handwurzel, Germ.; Fracture du Carpe, Fr.) can only be broken by great violence, acting directly upon them, and the fracture is always accom- panied with crushing and wounding of the soft parts, by which great inflam- mation, mortification, nervous symptoms, or destructive suppuration may be produced. These cases require the general treatment of compound frac- tures, and amputation, immediate or subsequent, may be necessary. 664. Fracture of the Mid-hand hones (Fractura Metacarpi, Lat.; Bruch der Mittelliandknochen, Ger.; Fracture du Metacarpe, Fr.) is also, for the most part, accompanied with crushing and bruising; the fifth bone is most frequently broken. Slight irregularity and crepitation is always readily observed. When the broken ends have been pressed into their place, a compress and a pasteboard splint is to be laid on the back of the hand, along the broken bone, and the whole hand put, with the palm down- wards, on a flat piece of wood, and there fastened with a circular bandage, passing from the tips of the fingers to the wrist. 665. In Fracture of the Finger-hones, after setting, the finger is to be rolled with a narrow bandage, and fastened to a small splint, or the hand laid on a flat board, to which it should be fastened with a circular bandage. If these fractures be accompanied with so much crushing that there seems no possibility of preserving the parts, amputation should be at once per- formed. XV.—OF FRACTURE OF THE THIGH-BONE. (Fractura Femoris, Lat. ; Bruch des Schenkelbeines, Germ.; Fracture du Femur, Fr.) 666. Fracture of the Th igh-hone, is distinguished as A. Fracture of the Neck, and b. Fracture of the Body; and in the latter it may occur in the upper middle or lower third. A.—OF FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE THIGH-BONE. Sabatier, Sur la Fracture (lu Col du Femur; en Mem. de l’Aead. de Chirurg., vol. iv. (n) von Froriep's Notit7,en,vol. xiv. p. 311. (6) Above cited, p. 482.