133 KINDS OF BOILS. sometimes extends to the hack and rump, and even occasionally attacks the upper limbs. When the? parts confining it are set at liberty, large ulcerations occur. It is generally critical; specially occurs after gastric and adynamic affections; rarely attacks other than elderly persons, and hence has been called Old People’s Boil. According to Malvani, its course is less quick than that of the common boil; it suppurates more slowly, for vesicles do not appear on it till the third or fourth week. 3. The Pustular Boil (Furoncle Pantile) is a slightly elevated but wide swelling similar to a pustule. It is acccompanied with pain, distension, and often with slight fever. It proceeds very slowly, requiring many months, and even a year to bring it to perfection. The aperture on its top resembles that of a weaver’s shuttle ; subsequently the boil dries up, and, if scratched, falls into powder. It occurs in all parts of the body, and, on its subsidence, leaves an ecchymosed spot, similar to that which ushers in its appearance. Its tip is generally red, hard, very shining, and gives place to a slight serous exudation, which ceases for some time, is repaired at intervals, but the hardness continues and is only resolved by furfuraceous scales. 4. The Asthenic Furuncle of Dr. Copeland (a) (Furoncle Atonique of Guer- sent) (b) was described in the spring of 1823 by both those physicians. They agree in having observed it in children previously much weakened by disease ; in persons -who are subject to gastro-enteritis with adynamic symptoms; in latent pneumonia, during the course of small pox, and so on, according to Guersent, and where the weakness has been caused by chronic disorder of the bronchi, or asthenic inflammation of the sub- stance of the lungs, according to Copeland, who adds that coma generally comes on before death, in addition to the well-marked symptoms of adynamia noticed by him and Guersent. The eruption appears chiefly on the trunk, the lateral parts of the neck and thighs, but, Guersent says, more rarely on the limbs. Copeland states, that in the cases he has observed, “ the number of furuncles has been considerable, not fewer than five or six, and in two cases they were about twenty. Guersent’s paper, however, does not lead to the supposition that in his cases the furuncles were numerous. Both describe them to begin as circumscribed swellings, of little extent, but resistant to the touch, of a livid violet colour, but sometimes "without any remarkable change in the colour of the skin. In the second stage, a very small purulent phlyctsena appears on the top of the swelling, and, when it tears, the true skin shows beneath a little grayish patch, ■ softened and perforated through and through like a common boil. At first a bloody serous fluid exudes, the swelling softens, and the aperture in the skin enlarges, which in two or three days, and sometimes even in twenty-four hours, forms a perforation from five to six lines in diameter, completely round, and exactly like a hole which has been made with an auger. During this time the swelling rapidly subsides. The cel- lular tissue does not separate like a core, and rarely detaches some fragments. The bottom of the ulcer presents a grayish sanious and dryish appearance, and whilst its edge is well defined, the surrounding skin, paler and softer than natural, is entirely separated from the cellular tissue to the extent of several lines. This atonic furuncle very commonly follows leech-bites; the perforation in the skin then seems to have been made with a trocar, but this triangular form soon rounds as it spreads, and becomes completely circular, as if it had arisen spontaneously. If the leech-bites have been grouped together, and each bite have given rise to a little furuncle, the skin after a few days ap- pears perforated at every bite, and resembles a suppurating carbuncle, but with this dif- ference that there is neither fulness nor swelling, and that the holes are larger and more regular than in carbuncle, such as might be made by small shot. The ulceration, which is the third stage of atonic boil, is generally indolent; in some cases, however, it is painful. It remains stationary for eight or ten days, more or less, according to the general condition of the patient. When the ulcer is disposed to heal, the cellular tissue becomes moist, brightens, and becomes slightly reddened, the skin gradually attaches itself to the subcutaneous tissue; some fleshy granulations rise from the bottom of the ulcer; the aperture in the true skin diminishes a little, and, as in all ulcers of the skin, a soft scar, slightly depressed, is produced, and which, in its extent only may be compared to that succeeding a large vaccine pustule.” (pp. 337, 8.) In addition to ; these observations of Guersent, it is noticed by Copeland that the cellular tissue is 1 destroyed by rapid ulceration or phagedenic absorption; that the ulcers have no dis- I charge nor any tendency to scab; that, in the two cases he examined after death, no attempts at reparation were visible in the ulcerated perforations, nor any injections nor ‘j inflammatory appearances in the margins: the chief alterations were moderate ema- :| elation, congestion, and injection of the membranes of the brain with slight serous l effusion, congestion of the substance of the lungs, with limited hepatization in an early (<i) Above quoted. (ti) Du Furoncle Atonique; in Archives Generates de Medecine, vol. i. Jan., 1823.