TREATMENT of 514 the external wound, and this can only be effected by steadying the broken bone, as well as the soft parts, by the immediate application of the appa- ratus ; which done, the limb is to be put into the position determined on, and so propped by pillows, or fixed by bandages to convenient parts of the bedstead, that all motion should be guarded against. The wound now alone remains to be dressed ; and Asteey Cooper says:—“ If there be a slight haemorrhage, do not be searching for a small vessel, but place a little lint over the wound, and by making gentle pressure on it you may easily suppress the haemorrhage. Next bring the integuments as neatly over the parts as you can, and dip a dossil of lint in the blood and put it on the surface of the wound, which irritates the least of any application I know of, and appears to approach the nearest of any other to the natural covering of the parts. In this way the wound unites by the adhesive pro- cess, and the union of the bone goes on as in simple fracture, and is cured in one-fourth part of the time which would be required if the wound were allowed to be filled by granulations.” (p. 646.) I must confess I prefer some slips of sticking plaster to the dossil of lint over the wound, for as it rarely happens that the surface of the wound immediately unites by adhesion, although the parts below may, the oozing serum, or the pus which speedily forms, is confined under the hard crust of the lint, and certainly produces a sore, which will be deep, according to the quantity confined ; whilst, on the other hand, the fluid soon manages to find its way out between the interstices of the plaster, and thus this inconvenience is avoided. It is also advisable, in compound fracture, to cover the fractured limb with a piece of linen dipped in an evaporating lotion of spirits of wine, liquor of acetate of ammonia and water, a fourth of each of the former, and two-fourths of the latter ; and the linen should be re-wetted by gently squeezing a sponge over it as often as it dries. For the more effectual cooling of the limb, a cradle should be put over it, over which merely a sheet is to be thrown. And this is no trifling part of the treatment, for if, as not unfrequently happens, a heap of bed-clothes be put upon the cradle, on the plea of the patient feeling cold, all evaporation is put a stop to, the limb is put in a steam-bath, and might as well be wrapped up in a poultice. The patient’s feelings as to temperature should not be overlooked; the body and other limbs should be covered so as to render him comfortably warm, but the injured limb must only have the cradle and a single sheet. Even if the wound in the skin be torn and its edges shreddy, a condition far from uncommon, it is always best to attempt its union by adhesion, for though the whole may not unite, very commonly a large portion of it will, and the danger of the injury w ill be proportionally diminished. But if the wound be much bruised, together with the tearing, there is little hope of union by adhesion, and therefore either a poultice alone should be at once applied, or two or three adhesive straps far apart and a poultice over them, which must be changed three or four times a day. In those cases where adhesion is attempted, the dressings should not be removed unless the patient complain of pain in the wound, either accom- panied or not with surrounding inflammation. If the case go on well, there i is rarely uneasiness till after four or five days; the dressings should then ■ be removed, after having been moistened by the application of a wet poul- tice for a few hours ; and according to the appearance of the wound, it |