362 SYMPTOMS OF madness here,’ said the gentlemen. lie had scarcely spoke, when in a moment the dog quitted the sop, and with a furious bark sprung against the wall, as if he would seize some imaginary object that he fancied was there. ‘ Did you see that?’ was my reply; * What do you think of it ?’ ‘I see nothing in it,’ was his retort; ‘ the dog heard some noise on the other side of the wall.’ At my serious urging, however, he consented to excise the part. I procured a poor worthless cur, and got him bitten by this dog, and carried the disease from this dog to the third victim. They all became rabid the one after the other, and there my experiment ended. * * * I have again and again seen the rabid dog start up after a momentary quietude, with unmingled ferocity depicted on his countenance, and plunge with a savage howl to the end of his chain. At other times, he would stop and watch the nails in the partition of the stable in which he was confined, and fancying them to move, he would dart at them, aud occasionally sadly bruise and injure himself, from being no longer able to measure the distance of the object.” From this state, however, “one word recalls him in a moment. Dispersed by the magic influence of his master’s voice, every object of terror disappears, and he crawls towards him with the same peculiar expression of attachment that used to charac- terise him. Then comes a moment’s pause—a moment of actual vacuity; the eye slowly closes, the head droops, and he seems as if his fore feet were giving way and he would fall; but he springs up again, every object of terror once more surrounds him, he gazes wildly around, he snaps, he barks, and he rushes to the extent of his chain prepared to meet his imaginary foe.” (pp. 131, 2.) (2) “ It is not every dog that, in the most aggravated state of the disease, shows a disposition to bite and mentions the case of a Newfoundland dog, the details of which are of the deepest interest. “ On the other hand,” he says, “ there are rabid dogs whose ferocity knows no bounds. If they are threatened with a stick, they fly at, and seize it, and furiously shake it. They are incessantly employed in darting to the end of their chain, and attempting to crush it with their teeth, and tearing to pieces their kennel, or the wood work that is within their reach. They are regardless of pain. The canine teeth, the incisor teeth are torn away; yet, unwearied and insensible to suffering, they continue their efforts to escape. A dog was chained near a kitchen-fire. He was inces- sant in his endeavours to escape, and when he found that he could not effect it, he seized, in his impotent rage, the burning coals as they fell, and crushed them with his teeth. If by chance a dog in this state effects his escape, he wanders over the country bent on destruction. He attacks both the quadruped and the biped. He seeks the village street or the more crowded one of the town, and he suffers no dog to escape him. The horse is his frequent prey, and the human being is not always safe from his attack.” (p. 140.) (3) “ In almost every case in which the dog utters any sound during the disease, there is a manifest change of voice. In the dog labouring under ferocious madness it is perfectly characteristic. There is no other sound that it resembles. The animal is generally standing, or occasionally sitting, when the singular sound is heard. The muzzle is always elevated. The commencement is that of a perfect bark ending abruptly and very singularly, in a howl a fifth, sixth, or eighth higher than at the commencement. Dogs are often enough heard howling, but in this case it is the perfect bark and the per- fect howl rapidly succeeding to the bark. “ Every sound uttered by the rabid dog is more or less changed. The huntsman, who knows the voice of every dog in his pack, occasionally hears a strange challenge. He immediately finds out that dog, and puts him as quickly as possible under confinement. Two or three days may pass over, and there is not another suspicious circumstance about the animal; still he keeps him under quarantine, for long experience has taught him to listen to that warning. At length the disease is manifest in its most fearful form.. “ There is another partial change of voice to which the ear of the practitioner will by degrees become habituated, and which will indicate a change in the state of the animal quite as dangerous as the dismal howl; I mean when there is a hoarse inward bark with a slight but characteristic elevation of the tone. In other cases, after two or three distinct barks will come the peculiar one mingled with the howl. Both of them will terminate fatally, and in both of them the rabid howl cannot possibly be mistaken.’ (p. 138.) (4) The dog not only “ can look at, lick up, and drink water and other fluids,” as here described, but Youatt says, has “ an insatiable thirst,” resulting from the altered cha- racter and diminished quantity of saliva presently noticed :—“ The dog that still has full power over the muscles of his jaws continues to lap. He knows not when to cease, while the poor fellow labouring under the dumb madness, presently to be described,and whose jaw and tongue are paralysed, plunges his muzzle into the water-dish to his very eyes, in order that he may get one drop of water into the back part of his mouth to