451 EMPHYSEMA. at once; and. this treatment will be found to afford the most certain preventive to em- physema, future hemorrhage or collections of matter. I scarcely recollect an instance where it was necessary to remove the adhesive straps, or (where it was gun-shot) the usual dressings.” The patient is to be left quiet, in a cool place, and often needs no further aid; “ but if the case is very severe, he will possibly lie for some hours in a state of comparative ease, till the vessels again pour forth their contents, and induce fresh spitting of bloody froth, and a repetition of all the symptoms of approaching suffoca- tion. The laucet must again be had recourse to; and, if by this management, repeated as often as circumstances demand, the patient survives the first twelve hours, hopes may begin to be entertained of his recovery from the immediate effects of the hamiorrhage. In the after-treatment of a wound of the nature here described, we shall be considerably assisted by the aid of medicine, but until the danger of immediate death from haemor- rhage is over we must not think of employing anything, except depletion, by the lancet; it and it only can save the life of the wounded man.” (pp. 372, 73.)] 497. Emphysema is that swelling which arises from the escape of air into the cellular tissue. It only rarely occurs in large and direct wounds ; more commonly in those of which the external opening is not wide, and which have an oblique direction, as in stabs; and it is very common in broken ribs, when the bony points penetrate the lungs, and in shot-wounds, on account of the great swelling which closes the external opening. 498. Emphysema takes place when the air penetrates through the ex- ternal wound into the chest, and on account of the outer and inner wound not being parallel, is driven into the cellular tissue; or in wounds of the lungs when the air is driven through the cells of the lungs into the cavity of the pleura, and thence through the wound into the cellular tissue. In the former case the swelling is not large, and does not spread beyond the circumference of the wound ; in the latter the swelling is much more ex- tensive and may spread over all parts of the body, the palms of the hand and the soles of the feet excepted, in consequence of which the patient has a frightful appearance. Emphysema is readily distinguished from all other swellings by the natural colour of the skin covering it, and by its peculiar crackling sensation when touched. [“ Emphysema, the third consequence of wounded lungs, is,” says Astley Cooper, “ less dangerous than the others. It sometimes extends to the face, covering the neck and also a large part of the trunk.” (p. 232.) Hennen observes that in military sur- gery emphysema “ does not occur perhaps in one case of fifty, and that, iu a great proportion of those where it does take place, under judicious treatment it is trifling. Sometimes, however, it is indeed tremendous in appearance, and most distressing in reality. * * * I have seen a bayonet thrust in the chest, where all distinction of chin, neck, and chest were confounded in one general and unbroken surface ; and it has been found that the air has entered the more condensed cellular substance, forming the envelopes of the different organs, and even into the substance of the viscera themselves: one proper application of the scalpel would have prevented it all.” (p. 376.) I have seen one case of emphysema, merely from broken ribs, much like that men- tioned by Hennen, in which the whole upper part of the chest, the neck, and head were swollen so much, and the features so destroyed, that together they were as formless as, and had a great resemblance to a large loaf which had been soaked in water. A few punctures, however, gradually voided the air, and the patient did well.—J. F. S.] 499. When the air escapes from the lungs into the cavity of the pleura, and there collects, the same symptoms of compression of the lungs are produced as in extravasation of blood. Breathing is disturbed, and be- comes extraordinarily difficult; the patient sits up, and bends forwards; the countenance becomes reddened and swollen, the pulse small and con- tracted ; the extremities cold, and the oppression will quickly destroy the patient. [Hennen relates a very remarkable case of secondary emphysema, in a soldier who "was shot by a rifle bullet, which entered a little above and behind the articulation of the 2 g 2