OF THE ACHILLES’ TENDON. 493 months, except it be by getting familiar with his present mode of walking.” (pp. 437, 38.)] 567. Various apparatus for bringing the two ends of the tendon to- .T-ether have been employed, which more or less correspond to the indica- tions stated. To these belong the bandage, and the peculiar shoe or slipper. A few cases are known in which, after tearing of the Achilles’ tendon, union has occurred without surgical assistance; but these little support the opinion of Bibkac and others, that the simple care of the patient not to bend the foot, assisted by constant rest, is sufficient for that purpose. 568. The bandages proposed by Gooch, Petit, Schneider (a), De- sault, and Wardenburg, produce, besides fixing the position of the foot and knee, a compression of the muscles of the calf, which prevents their retraction. In cases where the separation of the ends of the tendon is not great, a moderately curved splint applied and fastened upon the instep is sufficient. Gooch covered the leg with compresses and cotton, and bandaged it, with the foot straight and the knee bent, from the lower part of the thigh to the toes. Petit’s bandage consists in the application of a longuette, from the bend of the knee, over the calf and heel, to the very toes, which are fastened by numerous circular bandages to the knee ; and by the rolling round and drawing together of their ends, the foot is kept extended with the knee bent. Desault modified this bandage, by filling the hollow on both sides of the Achilles’ tendon with charpie and graduated com- presses, and the application of the languette to the under part of the thigh. For the certain preservation of the extension, a splint should be applied on the ankle-joint and instep, as Schneider also has recommended. W ardenburg has endeavoured to render the bandaging most safe ; by bending the knee and straightening the foot, he brings the two ends of the tendon into contact, or, if this cannot be done without danger, into oppo- site approximation; if a space still remain between the two ends, this must be got rid of by simply drawing down the calf, when it can be done in a few days. The hollows on both sides of the tendon are then to be filled with charpie, and the region of the tear rendered so level that the rolling may produce equal pressure. If there be a wound, it must be covered with wadding; a long pad is then to be applied of sufficient length, that at the lower end it should project somewhat beyond the toes, and at the upper end above the knee-joint, and at both parts should be bound lengthwise. With a three-finger-wide roller some circular turns above the calf are to be made around the leg, (beneath which also some thick compresses, as large as one’s hand, are to be laid, for the purpose of keep- ing down the muscles of the calf if they have been much drawn up,) and carried in spiral turns to the injured part, where the end of the bandage is to be fastened. Witli another longer bandage, after having fixed the lower end of the long pad as firmly as the proper direction of the foot requires, the foot is to be rolled from the toes to the ankle-joint; one or two turns are then to be made over the last turn of the first bandage, and the two turned-over ends of the long pad fixed. For the purpose of giving the limb its proper firmness, two cylindrical splints of wood or iron plate filled with linen or flannel, are to be applied on the knee and instep, from the toes to the middle of the thigh, and fixed by broad straps, which are drawn through buckles on the splints. If there be a wound, the turns (a) Cliirurgische Bibliothek, vol viii. p.708.