697 TREATMENT. forth to a considerable distance, at others trickling down the limb, but in neither case restrainable. He lost great quantities of blood, and fainted seven or eight times. When admitted on the following day his face was quite blanched and very anxious; he was extremely exhausted; pulse small, thrilling, and 150. On pressing the small livid fistulous opening in the thigh, thin serous blood slowly discharged, and the finger seemed to sink into a deep cavity; pulsation was quite distinct in the swelling; the lower part of the thigh-bone was enlarged, and the popliteal space filled up, but the artery was felt pulsating below. Amputation was proposed, but he would not consent. The thigh continued swelling above the bandage, became gangrenous nearly up to the buttock, and he died on the evening of the 6th of January. On examination the pop- liteal space was found filled with thick grumous clots; on the artery, just below its entrance into the space, was an opening. The lower part of the thigh-bone was consi- derably enlarged, rough, and a large portion of its posterior or popliteal aspect de- stroyed, so as to admit the fingers into a large cavity within. In the upper part of this cavity was discovered the sharp point of a sequester, movable, and accurately corre- sponding to the aperture in the artery, which it evidently seemed to have occasioned.] 874. In the treatment of necrosis, nature must be assisted in throwing off the sequester, which is then to be removed. If at the first there be severe pain, inflammation and fever, it must be attempted to lessen them by general and local blood-letting, according to the strength of the patient, by softening poultices and the like. If syphilis, gout, or other dyscrasic dieases be connected with necrosis, the contraindicated remedies must be made use of. Where the general condition of the patient is good, and the necrosis originating from external causes, the separation of the sequester usually occurs soon, provided nature have not been disturbed by improper treatment. If the patient be well, his powers must be supported by good nourishing diet and strengthening remedies, The local treatment must be quite mild ; moist, warm, slightly aromatic applications should be used, as in caries, and the fistulous openings covered with charpie, soaked in mild ointments. All irritating treatment to promote the throwing off of the sequester, as the enlarge- ment of the fistulous apertures, the application of sharp spirituous remedies, the actual cautery, the repeated boring of the dead piece of bone, are hurtful, inasmuch as by their effect on the living part they increase the destruction, but on the dead bone have no effect at all (a). 875. When the sequester has separated, which is known, on exami- nation, by its mobility, it is not unfrequently thrown out by nature, or gradually removed by absorption. But if, on account of its peculiar position, on account of the surrounding soft parts, or of the bony capsule enclosing it, this be not possible, the sequester must be removed by art. For which purpose, oftentimes a simple incision of the soft parts of sufficient size is alone needed; if the sequester be enclosed in a bony capsule, after exposing it by a longitudinal incision, the apertures must be enlarged with a bistoury, if the bone be soft enough ; boring the capsule with the trepan, or the removal of a portion with chissel and hammer, or with Hey’s saw, may be required. The sequester is then to be seized with the forceps, or with the fingers, and gently drawn out, especial care being taken that none of it be left behind, and that the inner wall of the bony capsule be not injured. If the sequester be so large that a con siderable opening is required for its removal, it is often better to break it to pieces with the forceps, so as to be able to remove it by a small opening. After its removal, the wound is to be lightly filled with charpie, every- thing removed which can disturb the development of the granulations, and care taken for the sufficient outlet of the pus. (<i) Weidmann, P., nbove cited.