TREATMENT OF 196 applications'of a blister. On the other hand, it must be stated that many patients derive no advantage whatever from the blister.” He further, and very justly, notices :—“ The same applications, I have observed, produce very opposite effects on different patieuts: thus I have known common linseed oil spread over a whitlow afford instantaneous re* lief in some cases, and, in others, so far from proving beneficial, aggravate all the symp- toms. Soft soap or common brown soap, warmed and applied to the affected part, occa- sionally acts in a wonderful manner, assuaging the pain and subduing the swelling in a very short time. Poultices sometimes give relief, and are useful always in softening the skin and removing tension ; but, when the swelling is very great, the pain intense, and matter evidently formed, the most effectual mode of easing the patient is to lay the part open freely with the knife.” (p. 188.) Hunter observes, that “ the application of poultices in these cases is of more benefit than in any other, because here they can act mechanically, viz.'the moisture being imbibed by the cuticle as in a sponge, and thereby softening the cuticle, by which means it be- comes larger in its dimensions, and less durable in its texture.” He advocates of course the early opening of these abscesses ; and, speaking of the fungus which almost invariably protrudes through, as also when the skin gives way of itself, he says :—“ It is a common practice to eat this down by escharotics, as if it was a diseased fungus; but this addi- tional pain is very unnecessary, as the destroying a part which has only escaped from pressure cannot, in the least, affect that which is within; and, by simply poulticing till the inflammation and, of course, the tumefaction subsides, these protruded parts are gra- dually drawn into their original situations.” (p. 470.) With the practice of freely opening the whitlow I fully concur, and the sooner it is done after suppuration has taken place, and the cuticle is raised like a blister from the true skin, the better. The suppuration takes place usually in twenty-four or forty-eight hours from the onset of the disease, and should be carefully watched that it may be punctured immediately the pus has been poured out. The longer cutting through the skin is delayed after this event, so much the worse; for, beside the separation of a larger extent of cuticle and even of the nail, and the continuance of violent pain from the pressure which the pent-up matter makes on the sensitive extremities of the nerves at the tips of the fingers, the pus presses also on the cutis and causes it to ulcerate, thereby rendering the cure at best tardy; and often producing a very ugly and tiresome sore. After the pus has been discharged by puncturing or cutting through the cuticle, it is best to notch out a little bit of the skin, to ensure a free and constant escape for the mat- ter, otherwise the cut edges often become glued together by the drying of the pus be- tween them, and then it again collects, and sometimes needs a fresh cut. If the pus be confined beneath the nail, as is sometimes the case, the nail having been scraped, it should then have a little hole carefully cut through it to let the matter out. It rarely happens that the whole nail at once separates from the true and highly sensible skin beneath, but is held sometimes at the root, side, or end according to the part at which the pus has been poured out. I do not think it advisable to thrust in lint to save the soft parts beneath, as scraping the centre of the nail, from root to tip, till it will bear scraping no longer without bleeding, or, in other words, till it is almost completely scraped through, allows the edge of the nail so to alter its place that little or no irritation is produced by it. All that is necessary is to give free vent to any matter which may exist, to keep the parts clear from any dirty or irritating substances and to prevent the loosened part of the nail (the movement of which causes much pain) being disturbed, which is best done by wrapping in a poultice, or covering with wax and oil dressing, for I am not disposed to remove any part of it so long as the cutis beneath continues suppurating, as the nail protects it best, just as the cuticle does a blister-sore, and, as the new nail forms, it gradually stretches beneath it, and then, but not till then, may portions of the old separating nail be cut off. If, however, as is sometimes the case, the loosened nail digs in and irritates the sore; if the cutis have ulcerated in consequence of the pus not having been evacu- ated sufficiently early, or, if it twist up, as it will occasionally do, and continually catch in the dressing, then it may be cut oft'. I am no advocate for tearing off the nail, nor any part of it, and I can scarcely imagine that in this form of the disease it is ever necessary.—J. F. s. Higginbotham advises brushing over the whitlow with nitrate of silver, and considers it very good practice. I have not, however, had any experience of it. Gibson men- tions that Perkins of Philadelphia is said to have frequently removed whitlows in a very short time by an admixture of corrosive sublimate and white vitriol, applied to the part on lint steeped in tincture of myrrh, and suffered to remain for several days. Gib- son has tried the remedy in several instances, but cannot say it has answered his expec- tations in any one case. (p. 189.)]