THE TEETH. 701 air and food, pain of varying severity and duration occurs, frequently also inflammation of the gums and the like. In the second case, no change is, in the beginning, observable on the crown of the tooth, but pain first occurs, is more or less severe and of indefinite continuance, though always soon returning, as often as it is suddenly excited by cold air, cold drinks, and the like. At last, on examining the tooth, a brownish or blackish spot, more or less deep, is observed in the enamel, which gra- dually enlarges, becomes darker, and destroys the enamel, when the in- ternal substance of the tooth is found to be decayed, so that the enamel is often merely a thin shell which is easily broken. When the crown is destroyed by caries, it spreads also to the root of the tooth, which is likewise destroyed, and then commonly the gums and alveolar process suffer. The gum surrounding the diseased root, puffs up and inflames, (Paridis,) and not unfrequently an abscess is formed. Oftentimes the membrane lining the tooth-socket also inflames, pus wells up between the gum and the tooth-fang, frequently very severe pain occurs which spreads over the entire half of the face, and is accompanied with swelling of the cheek. [Occasionally it happens, that without any caries of the tooth, irritation is set up in its socket, and when the jaws are firmly closed the pressure of the tooth into the particular socket causes severe pain. In a very few hours the lining of the socket be- gins to swell and inflame, lifts the tooth much above its proper level, and consequently renders the closing of the jaws still more painful, and chewing the food almost agonizing. This continues for hours, and sometimes for two or three days, when suppuration com- mences, the pain and swelling subside, and the tooth again descends to its natural place. This unpleasant process is of very frequent recurrence, gradually separates the gum from the fang till the two are quite apart, and the tooth seems held merely by the vascular and nervous connexion of the ends of its fangs, when its looseness and the con- stant source of irritation it becomes, leads to the tooth being pulled out. Under these circumstances I have unfortunately had personal experience, that the fang is encrusted with a granular deposit seemingly bony. Leeching the neighbouring gum is all that can be done ; but when the process has been once set up, it recurs again and again, till the connexions of the tooth and gum are entirely destroyed, although the tooth itself ! remains entirely free from caries.—J. F. S.] 883. Caries at the root of the tooth is often announced, for a long while, by very equivocal symptoms. Pain occurs in the tooth, but rarely of long continuance, inflammation and swelling of the gums about the diseased tooth, which frequently becomes very severe, abscesses in the gums, outside the mouth, upon the cheek, at the part corresponding to the root of the affected tooth ( Tooth-fistula.) The crown is, under these circumstances, often still completely healthy, and the diagnosis can only be properly determined by particular observation of the symptoms men- tioned and by the circumstance of the tooth smarting when touched with a metal probe. 884. Besides these symptoms caused by carious teeth, there occur not un- frequently, caries of the alveolar processes, diseased changes of the Iligh- morean cavern, if the tooth be in the upper jaw (1), as well as swellings and excrescences upon the gums, {Epulis,) which are of different kinds, sometimes soft and spongy, sometimes firm and hard, sometimes slightly or not at all, but at others severely painful; sometimes they have a broad, sometimes a pedicled base, and various size, but always red, and they are situated more commonly on the under than on the upper jaw (2). [(I) Occasionally the inflammation extends from the sockets of the upper molar teeth into the Highmorean cavern, the lining of which becomes inflamed and suppurates.