410 EFFECTS OF CONCUSSION ON THE BRAIN, changed. Extravasation and concussion may occur together at the onset or extravasation may accompany concussion. [It is often very difficult to distinguish between drunkenness, and either concussion or compression; especial care should therefore always he taken to ascertain as far as possible the condition of the patient previous to the accident, lest he should be lost by too light consideration of his symptoms. 3 In persons of drunken habits delirium tremens may come on after concussion, as well as after any other accident. 1 have seen one example of this kind, but believe it to be rare. The treatment will require the closest attention, and the administration of opium is necessary as in other cases of the same disease.—J. F. S.] 422. Inflammation of the brain may be connected with concussion, and then the symptoms of oppressed sensation and motion may be accompanied with those of irritation. The pulse becomes fuller, the patient more restless, appears wild, is delirious, convulsions come on, respiration is slow and snoring, and subsequently symptoms of pressure on the brain ensue. 423. The changes produced on the brain by concussion are various, and may be divided into primary and consecutive. They consist either in a sudden degression of the activity of the brain and. nerves, in which after death no trace of any mechanical injury, frequently only a sinking together of the brain, which does not completely fill the cavity of the skull, is found ; or in tearing of the vessels, or even of the brain itself, and inflammatory congestion (1). In concussion the vessels of the brain are always more or less debilitated, so that, when the first symptoms of concussion have passed by, they cannot withstand the subsequent influx of the blood, and in this way gorging with blood and its effusion through the relaxed walls of the vessels takes place. In concussion of the brain there are, therefore, various conditions to be remembered, namely, torpor and weakness of the nervous system, irritation and inflammation, extravasation, and not unfrequently concurrent affection of the liver. Dupuytren (a) distinguishes, in reference to these various changes of the brain, be- tween Commotion and Contusion; the former he considers to depend on sudden depres- sion of the activity of the brain and nerves, in which no trace of any injury can be dis- cerned ; the latter he holds as a similar change in the brain to that which occurs in bruises, viz., bruising, tearing, and extravasation of blood. The patient recovers from the symptoms; in the next few days inflammatory symptoms occur and cause death, as has been already mentioned in unfavourable inflammation of the brain, (par. 404-406.) In tearing of the substance of the brain the symptoms should, according to Wal- ther (6), come on at once and without remission, but continue till the setting in of en- cephalitis without increasing or diminishing. Only in a single case has Walther no- ticed a perfect intermission of the symptoms. The most constant symptoms are loss of consciousness, the deepest coma without possibility of wakening, convulsions, vomiting, subsequently palsy comes on, probably at first as a symptom of inflammation and perspira- tion. This statement does not concur with that of others. Astley Cooper (c) relates a case wherein, from tearing of the substance of the brain, no other symptom of brain affection except loss of speech occurred, and this came on after three days. [“ With respect to the state of the brain under concussion, when the injury has not been excessively severe, it seems that the symptoms are merely the effect of a disturbance of the natural course of the blood through the brain. A fit of vomiting, by forcing the blood through the brain, will sometimes almost immediately restore the functions of the mind and body. It seldom happens that this state of the brain destroys ; but when it does, nothing is found upon the examination which will account for the symptoms. It is therefore an alteration of functions, but not a disorganization. But when the con- cussion is very violent it is attended with lesion of the brain, with slight laceration of it accompanied with slight extravasation.”—A. Cooper, (p. 262.)] 424. The causes of concussion are either shaking of the whole body (1)> (a) Lecons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, p. 503. (6) Above cited, p. 70. (c) Above cited, p. 2G3.