210 SUPPURATION IN CELLULAR TISSUE OF JOINTS. limb should be as much as possible in such position that, if stiffness and anchylosis should happen, it may be the least inconvenient; in the knee- joint, for instance, in a straight posture, but at the elbow-joint half bent (2). [(1) The suppuration which CHELiushere mentions, has certainly nothing to do with the ligaments, but is that “ Disease of the cellular membrane of joints” spoken of by Wickham, which has resemblance, in some respects, to the white swelling described by Russell and Nicolai, but seems to me on the whole, very different. “Inflammation,” says he, “ having its seat in the cellular substance, existing as a primary affection of that tissue, and continuing to occupy that part only of the joint, gives birth to a succession of symp- toms wholly distinct from those which are the effect of disease, in any other part.” It is first indicated by “ swelling more or less, according to the situation and extent of the inflammation. If the cellular substance within the joint be affected, and the inflamma- tion be of a chronic character, the swelling is but slight, but if that structure which invests the capsule be attacked, the swelling is very considerable, and the inflammation generally more active in its progress. The first stages of the disease, under all circum- stances, are nearly the same, differing only in degree The swelling of the joint is equable and firm, and, as the skin becomes placed on the stretch, grows shining and white: this stage, which may be called the adhesive, will last sometimes for many months, and produce very great irritation on the general system.” As the skin stretches more, the sensibility is much quickened, and the patient’s sufferings much aggravated, so that “ at times he cannot bear the weight of the bed-clothes. * * * The pain, until the arrival of this symptom, is more obtuse, and oftentimes but very slight. The duration of this stage varies very much; but the approach of that which is attended by the suppurative process, is, for the most part, marked by the usual constitutional symptoms indicating the forma- tion of matter, such as rigors and succeeding heat, and general febrile paroxysms, which assume, if the suppuration be large, a hectic character. It sometimes happens that the constitutional disturbance is so great as to require the removal of the limb, and that before any other structure is implicated; but it is more common for inflammation to propagate itself by contiguity to the synovial membrane, and afterwards to the articulat- ing cartilages, when it becomes confused with the peculiar symptoms attendant on disease of those parts.” The disease of the cellular membrane appears in two forms : “ the one in which a single, or more, spots may have been the seat of the inflammation, having its origin from some injury which the part may have received, and pursuing a chronic course to the formation of small sacs of pus in those situations, which, perhaps, ulcerate through the synovial membrane; the second case is that in which the whole of the cellular membrane, surrounding the articulation, becomes inflamed, and ultimately envelops the joint in one large abscess. The first case is the more common of the two; the latter, the effect of a sudden attack of inflammation, and more active in its course.” (p. 84-6.) In 1839,1 amputated the knee of a man, aged twenty-seven years, for disease of the for- mer kind, which had resulted from slipping down stairs and bending his knee under him sixteen months before. The examination of the joint presented a large abscess on the inner condyle of the thigh-bone, which it had flattened and somewhat roughened without laying it bare; another long abscess extending from the knee upwards behind the ham- string, and downward, about three inches, below the head of the fibula; the skin over both abscesses very thin, but neither communicating with the other, nor with an open wound above the outer condyle, the remains of an abscess which had burst five weeks before the operation. Behind the knee, in the popliteal space, was a fourth abscess, large and deep. Neither of the four had any communication with the cavity of the .knee-joint, which did not contain any pus, but the synovial membrane, around the knee-cap, was thickened, soft, and jelly-like. Earlier in the same year I saw a case of the latter kind in a woman who, about a month previous, had received a blow on the inside of the knee; a fortnight after she w as attacked with severe shivering, which was followed by much swelling and pufliness about the joint, especially on the inside. A puncture was made just below the knee-cap, and twelve ounces of good pus discharged, but it was requisite to make a second opening two days after, and eight ounces more matter passed out. She did well. In a second case, where I had been attending a lady for many months, with what seemed to me chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, with large effusion in the cavity of the joint; suppuration occurred some time after, whilst she was inBarbadoes; the abscess was opened, and she did well. Both these cases I, at the time, considered connected with the joint; but the result proved that such could not have been the case.—J. f. s.