THIGII-BONE—TREATMENT. 569 the feet to the lower, and the upper part of the body to the upper part of the bed, and the simple contentive apparatus,) either permanent extension is produced by the extended position of the limb, or the limb is kept in a half-bent position with or without extension. The simple contentive apparatus, and fastening with the spica coxa (Pare) ; with two chaff pillows on both sides of the limb, fixed with straps (Sabatier); by tying both feet together with a pad between the thighs (Guyot) (a) by concave splints of tin, wood, leather, and the like (Fabr. Hildanus, La Faye, Arnaud, Duvkrney, Hedenus, Titeden, Botticher) ; by a pelvis-belt, and bending the thigh on a splint placed in the ham, and binding the feet together (Bernstein) ; by enveloping the limb with compresses and an eighteen-tailed bandage, by straw splints on both sides of the limb, enclosed in a wide napkin, fastening of the outer straw splint with a broad pelvis-girdle, and along the limb with bandages (Larrey) (6), are not sufficient in true fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone ; they can only be employed in cases in which, for the above- mentioned reasons, there is but little shortening or inlocking of the upper fractured piece. 676. To the machines for extension of the limb in the directly straight position belong— 1. Desault’s Apparatus.—The essential point of which is, that after the whole limb has been swathed in Scultetus’s bandage, a permanent extension is kept up by means of a splint reaching from the crest of the hip-bone to beyond the sole of the foot. At the upper end of this splint is fastened a long pad, which is applied on the inner upper side of the thigh, and at the lower end a similar one, which is applied over the ankle. Besides this, a second splint is to be placed on the inner side, and a third on the front of the limb, which last is to descend from the groin to the knee ; between these splints and the limb chaff pillows are to be placed, and the splints fastened with five straps; the outer splint especially, by a girdle running round the pelvis. Van Houte’s alteration of Desault’s splint is for the purpose of keeping up ex- tension in the long axis of the limb by means of a cross board connected at right angles with the splint (c). Similar to this, except that to the cross board an inner splintys fastened, is Volpe’s machine (<1). Also Josse’s (e) apparatus, with a pecu- liarly arranged bed. Meyer’s (/) machine. Physick’s (g) apparatus, in which the external splint is continued to the arm-pit; that of Houston (ft); also Alban’s (z) machine, which consists of a strong splint fixed on the outside of the ailing limb and to the pelvis: the extension is effected by means of a kind of lever contrivance at the lower end of the splint. Gressley’s (A) apparatus. 2. Brunninghausen’s Apparatus.—A soft cotton strap is first applied upon a soft pad, over the ankle of the ailing limb, and carried like a stirrup around the sole of the sound foot. To prevent the rotation of the limb outwards, a suitable splint of padded tin or lacquered leather is to be applied on the outside of the thigh, and fastened with a padded bandage around the pelvis and knee. Bending of the knee-joint on the sound side is to be prevented by a gutter-like splint, which should extend from the middle of the thigh to the middle of the leg. (а) Journal Hebdomad, vol. xiii. p. 30. (б) Journal compl. du Diet, des Sciences Medic., pt. xxx. p. %; Recueil des Mcmoires de Chirurgie, Paris, 1821, p. 271. (c) Aver tier breuck van den Hals des Dijebeins. Rotterdam, 1816.—Chirurg. Kupertaf., pi. Ixxxii. (d) Chirurg. Kupertaf., pi. Ixxxii. f. 4, 5. (e) Repertoire Generale d'Anatomie et. tie Phy- siologic Chirurgicales. 2c. Tufn. 1818.—Froriep's Chirurg. Kupfert., pl.ccxiii. (/) Die doppelte Ausdehnungs-Schiene zur Ileilung des Schenkelhalsbruches. Wurzb. 1826; with one copper-plate. 4to. (g) Froriep s Chirurg. Kupfert., ccxiv. f. 10. (A) lb. pi. cccli. f. 1. (i) Lanoenbeck's neue Bibliothek fiir die Chi- rurgie und Ophthalmologie, vol. i. p 262. (ft) Memoire sur un nouvel Appareil pour les Fractures du Col du Femur. Paris, 1832.—Vel- peau, Examen d'un nouvel Appareil imagine par Greseley. I’aris, 1832.—1‘roriep s Chir. Kupt., pi. ccxc.