136 CARBUNCLE, circumscribed, even forming a broad, flat, firm tumour; it begins in the skin, almost like a pimple, and goes deeper and deeper, spreading with a broad base under the skin, in the cellular membrane; and, although considerably tumefied, yet this does not arise from the extravasation of coagulating lymph producing adhesions which are to retain life, for the very cells into which it is extravasated become dead. It produces a suppuration, but not an abscess, somewhat similar to the erysipelatous, when the inflammation passes into the cellular membrane; for, as there are no adhesions, the matter lies in the cells where it was formed, almost like water in an anasarca; but still it is not diffused through the uninflamed cellular membrane, as in the erysipelatous, for it appears to extend no further than the inflammation. One would almost imagine that there was a limitation to the extent beyond which this species of inflammation could not go, and at these limits the adhesive inflammation took place to confine the matter within the bounds of the carbuncle. A diffused ulceration on the inside, for the exit of the matter, takes place, making a num- ber of openings in the skin.” (pp. 272, 3.) Hunter’s observations, that “ there are generally more carbuncles than one at the same time, a great number succeeding each other, which would almost seem to produce each other in this succession,” I cannot, from my own observation, confirm. Generally I have noticed them to occur singly, but occasionally there may be more.—J. F. S. The carbuncle “ appears,” says the same writer, “ to have some affinity to the boil; but the boil differs in this respect, that it has more of the true inflammation, therefore spreads less, and is more peculiar to the young than the old, -which may be the reason why it partakes more of the true inflammation.” As todhe causes of the disease he observes: — “ As death is produced in a great deal of the cellular membrane, and, I believe, in it only, except the skin giving way, which I believe is by ulceration principally, it becomes a question whether this mortification arises from the nature of the inflammation, or rather from the matter being confined in the cells of the cellular membrane ? I suspect the latter ; for, I find that if this matter escapes from these cells, and comes into uninflamed cells, it produces mortification there.” (pp. 273, 4.) Copeland (a) well observes:—“Anthrax rarely occurs excepting in habits of body evin- cing more or less cachexy, with sanguineous plethora, and disorder of the digestive func- tions. For some days before its eruption, the patient complains of anorexia and increased disorder of these functions, and of lassitude, chills, or shiverings. With the development of the tumour the febrile commotion increases, and presents the usual concomitants of inflammatory fever. If sphacelation takes place, or if the ulceration is protracted, the attendant fever assumes gradually an adynamic character; and, in delicate, old, or very cachectic persons, it is nervous or adynamic from the commencement.” (p. 1055.) Perrez (b) gives the following account of the physiology of carbuncle :—“ The ma- lignant carbuncle of ontologique authors is a violent inflammation of the tegument and subcutaneous cellular tissue, produced from an irritation pre-existing in some organ, and most commonly in the organs of digestion, whence it is conveyed to the tissue where the carbuncle is developed. The irritation causing this inflammation is so active and severe that it is almost impossible to prevent the production of gangrene in a more or less large part of the tissue it attacks ; but we may, by prompt and powerful antiphlogistic means, arrest the progress of this inflammation, and thus stop the gangrene and other consecutive symptoms. Whatever be the organ whence the irritation causing carbuncles springs, the violent pains, of which the inflamed part is the seat, may reproduce a more or less severe irritation, exasperate that -which already exists, and produce in some organ, but most commonly in the stomach, a fresh irritation, all of which may become dangerous if not physiologically contended with. * * * If an irritation be established in an import- ant organ it produces the following effect on the carbuncle:—the irritation which has caused the latter will be repelled by that of the recently affected organ; the carbuncle becomes pallid, the pains diminish, but the new irritation will increase, and with it the patient’s danger. This must be put a stop to, and then the inflammation will reappear on the skin, or even, according as the remedies employed have diminished the disposition to irritation, the inflammation may not reappear. The carbuncle will be averted without the complete cure of the patient being retarded. In some rare instances, this same dis- position to irritation will be so great, that the carbuncle and the secondary irritation wdiich it has brought back, exasperated, or produced, will co-exist with equal intensity. The gorging caused by the inflammation is sometimes so considerable, and so very rapid, that it cannot be stopped quickly enough, neither can the tissues stretch sufficiently to avert the strangulation of the gorged parts, and hence results gangrene.” (pp. 585, 6.)] (a) Above quoted. (6) Observation d’un Anthrax ou Charbon Matin, Annates de la Medecine Physiologique, vol. vii. traite physiologiquement et gueri; in Broussais’ Paris, 1825.