561 OF THE FORE-ARM. by Desault, Feiler, and Earle. The arm is to be put into a state of slight flexion, and the hand and fore-arm swathed with an ascending- spiral bandage up to the elbow. An assistant then holds the bandage, the upper is to be pressed down to the lower end of the fracture, taking care that the skin do not fold over the seat of fracture, and a sufficiently thick compress is to be put on the upper fractured piece, the ends of which should pass round to the bend of the elbow. The compress is to be fixed with a QO bandage, and then the* bandage carried up spirally to the upper part of the upper arm, for the purpose of rendering, by sufficient pressure, the ml triceps extensor cubiti actionless. The fore-arm is to be supported in a sling. The bandage must be renewed as often as it becomes loose, and at the twenty-fifth or thirtieth day may be re- moved entirely, when we must endeavour to get rid of the stiffness of the joint by motion and volatile frictions. If much inflammation and swelling have already set in, they must be first removed by suitable treatment before the application of the apparatus. If the fracture be compound, very severe symptoms commonly arise, which are to be treated after the general rules. Feiler has added to this apparatus a cap made of leather, and a glove connected by straps to the cap, which is put upon the olechranon, so that the arm is kept in a proper degree of flexion, and the upper sufficiently close to the lower fractured portion. Earle, after having prevented the lateral motion of the upper fractured end with a light compress and strips of sticking plaster laid obliquely over the elbow, and having brought the broken ends close together, applied a splint of stiff pasteboard, softened in warm water, upon the front and back of the arm, and fastens it with a circular bandage. The pasteboard remains on the arm till dry, during which time the patient lies on his back, with the arm on a pillow. The dry pasteboard is then to be taken off, and padded with buckskin. These splints should be sufficiently strong to prevent every motion of the joint. [Notwithstanding all the inconveniences described by Chelius as connected with the straight position in the treatment of fractured olechranon, I must still advise its employment. I have used it very frequently, and never with the least inconvenience to or complaint of the patients.—J. F. S.] On Fracture of the Olechranon,'compare— Sheldon, Essay on Fracture of the Patella and Olechranon. London, 1789. Camper, P., Dissert, de Fractura, Patellae et Olechrani. fig. illust. Hag. Com. 1790. 4to. Bottcher, J. K., Auswahl des Chirurgisclien Verbandes. Berlin, 1795. 8vo. p. 198. Dbsault, CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol.i. p. 1G3. Wardenburg’s Ziisatze zu Desault’s Bemerkungen fiber den Bruch des Ole- kranums. Feiler J., fiber den Bruch des Olekranums. Sulzbach, 1811. 8vo. Cooper Astley, above cited, p. 485, PI. xxix. Earle, above cited, p. 143 Alcock, Practical Observations on the Patella and Olechranon. London, 1823. Amesbury; in London Medical Repository, June, 1825. 662. Analogous to fracture of the olechranon may be considered the fracture of the coronoid process of the cubit. This fracture is extremely rare, and was first described by A. Cooper (a). It occurred through a (n) Above cited, p. 483. 2 o VOL. I.