FOR FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 541 save one life in a hundred by it, we should deserve well of mankind ; and if any good does ultimately result from it, Henry Cline has the merit of proposing it.” (p. 11-1G.) Abernethy, in speaking of the same subject (a), says: — “I certainly would not do it (the operation of removing the vertebral arch) at first, as I should then expect to have not only the inflammation from the accident, but have it increased by the in- ■ flammation of the operation. I would wait as in cases of fracture with depression of the skull, till the first inflammation has subsided. 1 think that it is a proposition too i hardy to be acquiesced in ; but I see nothing in it but what is rational, it is the only mode that occurs to one’s mind. The testy observations of Charles Bell are of little value ; he must have well known that the proposal of this operation originated with the younger Cline, though he has chosen to say that Astley Cooper “ proposes to trepan and raise up the depressed bone.” (p. 77.) His sneering question and corresponding answer—“ if the ring of the ■ vertebra be broken down where is the necessity for applying the trephine ? You have the projecting spinous process; you have the inferior and superior edge of the bone on which to place your elevator or to lay hold of with your forceps. I cannot for the life of me imagine any reason why that ring of bone should be trephined, and in two places,” (p. 20,) may be easily dealt with. He might have known that the vertebral arch itself was not always broken either on both or one side, but that either the ar- ticular process or processes of the vertebra below were broken off, and the arch of the compressing vertebra allowed to drop into the notches for the passage of the nerves, or that without any fracture of those processes, the arch might be lifted over into those notches, or that simply by the falling forward of the upper vertebra in consequence of the fracture of the body of that below it, the cord might be compressed by the curva- ture so produced, just as happens when the upper part of the spine falls forwards in caries. As to the objections about “ the degree of violence necessary to the accom- plishment of the operation,” and that “ the man must be already dead whose condition is not made worse by such an operation as this!” (pp. 21, 22,) I can only say that in Tyrrell’s operation, which I witnessed, and in that which I performed, no violence was either required or used; in neither did the patient suffer much; nor was his condition rendered worse, but in Tyrrell’s case immediately improved. The object of Bell’s attack on this operation must be referred to his angry feeling towards Cooper, the wrathful expression of which in print, is deeply to be regretted, even had there been i sufficient cause. Nor should I have referred to him at all, had he not unjustly given to one person that which belonged to another, so as more efficiently, as he thought, to empty on him the vials of his wrath. Brodie is certainly not favourable to this operation; for, he observes:—“ If the whole or nearly the whole, of a vertebra be driven forwards, the depression of the posterior part of it will of course occasion a diminution of the spinal canal; but the removal of any portion of the vertebra which is accessible to an operation will be of little avail, as the irregularity in the anterior part of the canal, made by the displacement of the body of the vertebra, must be the same after, as it was before, the operation.” (p. 160.^) Tyrrell’s case, however, entirely disproves this opinion, as regards the edge of the vertebral body ; for immediately the pressing arch was removed, the man had feeling in the thighs, and which gradually extended further, although previous to the operation all the parts below the fracture were completely devoid of sensation. Brodie continues:— “ If there be simply a fracture on each side of the spinous process, with a depression of the loose or intermediate portion of bone, of course there must be a corresponding dimi- nution of the size of the vertebral canal; but as that canal is much larger than the spinal cord which it contains, it does not follow that the spinal cord is really com- pressed, or that any material diminution of the symptoms would follow the elevation of the depression ” (p. 160.) To this it must be answered, that the operation would of course never be thought of unless symptoms of compression existed, and the sort of fracture of the vertebral arch, which Brodie mentions, would not be likely to cause them. But in most of the cases I have seen, the fracture has been either through one or both articular processes, or one side only of the spinous process, or the compression has been caused without any fracture of any part of the arch, simply by the body of one vertebra falling forward before that of the one beneath it, and of which the upper and fore part had been torn off, and thus a compressing curvature of the spine produced, as in caries. His objections, therefore, do not apply to the kind of injury for which the operation is proposed. The only reasonable objection to the operation of trephining the spine is, that we cannot, previous to the operation, ascertain whether the spinal cord be simply com- (a) MS. Lectures.