GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 336 injured. The kind of body projected, I have observed, is principally musket-balls, some- times cannon-balls, sometimes pieces of broken shells, and very often, on hoard of ship, splinters of wood. Indeed, the effects of cannon-balls on different parts of the ship, either the containing parts, as the hull of the ship itself, or the contained, are the prin- cipal causes of wounds in the sailor; for a cannon-ball must go through the timbers of the ship before it can do more execution than simply as a ball, (which makes it a spent ball,) and which splinters the inside of the ship very considerably, and moves other bodies in the ship, neither of which it would do if moving with sufficient velocity : musket or cannon-balls seldom do any immediate injury to those of that profession.” (p. 523.) Dupuytken observes:—“ The effects of gun-shot depend on two principal circumstances; the manner in which the gun has been charged, and the distance at which it has been fired. If a gun be loaded with powder only, without being rammed down, its discharge makes little noise, but is quite sufficient to bruise the skin severely, if its contents be re- ceived at a short distance. If the gun, though loaded only with powder, have been more or less tightly rammed, its effects vary according to the degree of resistance, and the dis- tance of the body struck ; of which I witnessed the following example:—Two persons quarrelled, one of the two, excited by rage, discharged a gun loaded with powder only into the belly of the other, who dropped dead on the spot; the distance between them being only one or two feet. On examining, to ascertain the cause of death, we found the clothes torn, the wall of the belly pierced with a hole about an inch in diameter, and the intestine opened; the gun-wadding was in the middle of the belly, and there was not any other opening : it was ascertained that the gun contained only powder. I have known many other similar instances. Very often suicides, in the trouble and agitation by which they are possessed, forget to put the bullet into the pistol. The different parts of the walls of the mouth are violently distended by the rarefaction of the air. Sometimes the wadding passes through the palate. If the shot pass backwards, the vertebral column is certainly not damaged, but the soft palate is torn, and sometimes even the lower jaw is broken. * * * Small shot of different sizes act in two ways, either as they strike cn masse, and, as it is said, make a bullet, which depends on the quality of the gun and the little distance of its aperture, or whether the shot spread and fall singly. In the former case its effect is very violent, and produces upon the living body results more serious even than a bullet. In this way the son of Marshal Moncey was accidentally killed; and every sporting season adds fresh victims, either of imprudence or awkwardness. Very frequently a single bullet will pass through the lung without producing death, whilst a charge of shot tears the organ to pieces, and infallibly destroys the party. In the second case, that is if the shot are received at a distance, it is very rare that any serious conse- | quences ensue, unless the part hit be of great importance. An eye, struck by a single shot, is almost always lost without remedy. If the heart, stomach, or intestines, be struck, ■ serious misehief may ensue; but these projectiles rarely penetrate farther than the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue.” (p. 419-422.) I have had two cases under my own care, in which the former kind of accident occurred. In the one, a man received the whole charge of common small shot from a fowling-piece, I at the distance of a very few yards, on the upper outer part of the thigh, near the great j trochanter, by which a single round hole, about an inch in diameter, was produced, with i but little bruising. The accident had occurred about two hours before he came to the l hospital, having been brought from a distance of three miles. He was in a state of col- : lapse when he arrived, and died very shortly after his admission. On examination, the ‘ upper part of the thigh-bone was found broken to pieces, and the muscles in shreds; the femoral vessels (if I recollect, for I cannot find any note of the case) were torn asunder. ! The haemorrhage had been free. The second case was under my care last year:—A lad, in whose pocket a pistol discharged and shot him in the fore and inner part of the thigh, about the middle, producing a wound about the size of a halfpenny. The pistol was * loaded with shot, and he said he had a sixpence in his pocket, which it was thought might have entered the wound. Suppuration commenced on the third day, the slough i separated on the eighth, and suppuration was free. On the ninth day two shots were dis- charged, and on the day following a large piece of wadding, which left open a long sinus i extending nearly to the knee. On the eleventh day another piece of wadding was dis- charged; and on the twentieth, after some pain along the thigh up to the groin, a second large mass of wad came away. By the thirty-second day the discharge of pus had ceased, <4 and the wound had healed to the size of a sixpence; but a week after it became irritable, and pain extended up the thigh. The sore became more irritable and spread to the size of a crowrn-piece, and he seemed running fast into a hectic state ; but on the forty-third L day two more shot were discharged. Immediately he began to improve, and in the course n of five weeks he was perfectly well. I have several times seen persons peppered with