160 DISTINCTION BETWEEN GONORRIICEA AND LEUCORRHCEA. Abscesses in the labia or nymph® are not of unfrequent occurrence as concomitants •with gonorrhoea, and Hunter considers them “as similar to the inflammation and sup- purations of the glands of the urethra in men.” (p. 68.) Ricord speaks of simple ab- scesses complicating urethro-geuital gonorrhoea; but I cannot clearly make out whether he refers to the labial or nymphal abscesses just mentioned, or to abscess actually in the vagina itself; if the latter, I have never seen the disease. He says:—“ These abscesses sometimes depend upon the inflammation of the cysts, which some women have at the entrance of the vulva; in all cases they ought to be promptly opened. It should be noted that suppuration here quickly succeeds to inflammation, and, if the pus be not allowed to escape, infiltration of the loose cellular tissue surrounding the rectum, and, lastly, perforation of this intestine, thus forming either complete or incomplete fistules.” (p. 323 ; Fr. edit., p. 680.) (2) The distinction between clap and the whites in ■women is by no means so easy as Chelius presumes ; indeed, according to Dr. Locock’s (a) account of the latter, it is scarcely possible to distinguish them, except by the history, which is not always to be relied on. Locock says:—“ The discharge of simple leucorrhcea is mucous—merely an increase of the natural moisture of the part; it becomes more abundant than in health, but retains its character of mucus, being clear, transparent, colourless and glutinous to the touch. This rarely goes on to a great extent -without being altered in its ap- pearance, and much more watery. In general this sort of discharge is accompanied with but moderate symptoms, is more gradual in its progress, and is unattended with pain ; there is little or no inflammatory action present. In other cases the discharge is whitish and opaque, becomes creamy when rubbed between the fingers, and rendering water turbid. This sort of discharge has been considered by Sir Charles M. Clarke andothers to depend on an inflamed condition of the cervix uteri; it is rarely abundant, but occasions much disorder of health and local pain. A watery discharge resembling serum is a very common result of more acute inflammatory action in the mucous bur- face, and, in general, appears suddenly as the effect of cold or any active excitement. It occasionally becomes very abundant, is attended with much local heat and soreness, and soon becomes puriform or mixed with purulent matter, and sometimes with bloody streaks. When it is fetid, brown, or coming away in violent gushes, organic disease of the uterus is to be feared, the nature of which can only be ascertained by an examina- tion per vaginam. Purulent discharge from inflammatory action may also take place from the vagina, independent of gonorrhoea from impure connexion ; and this may be said to form one variety of leucorrhoea, as, although it may often arise from organic disease of the uterus, it is not unfrequently met with in a perfectly healthy state of that organ.” (p. 35.) “ In the mildest form of the disease,” Locock observes, “ the men- struation is either scanty or too profuse thus, its presence cannot be considered as dis- tinctive of gonorrhoea, or its absence of leucorrhoea, as presumed by Chelius. “ The most acute form of leucorrhoea is,” proceeds Locock, “ most commonly the effect of cold, of metastasis, or of some local irritating cause, and consists of a profuse watery or purulent discharge, accompanied with local pain and soreness; the vagina is hot, very tender to the touch. * * * All these forms may end in chronic leucorrhoea, where the discharge is more or less profuse and constant, mucous, or purulent, or a mixture of both; it may become green and offensive, and yet may be the result only of functional dis- order. The quantity poured out is sometimes very abundant, even to the extent of a pint and a half in twenty-four hours; it will then be expelled in gushes in any change of posture.” (p. 36.) Unless the symptoms of debility resulting from this state of things be checked, the patient dies exhausted. In summing up, Locock makes the following excellent and judicious observations: “ It is important to be able to distinguish between gonorrhoea and common leucorrhoea ; * * * but it is very doubtful whether any very accurate diagnosis can be formed. It has been stated that in a recent gonorrhoea there is ardor urince which does not accom- pany leucorrhoea, unless unusually acrid. But how are we to distinguish in a case of this unusually acrid leucorrhoea, or where a gonorrhoea is not recent? The redness and tumefaction of the labia, nymph®, &c., can only be seen in a recent gonorrhoea, and they may be seen in severe cases of leucorrhoea, particularly in those following local irritation, or possessing more acute inflammatory action. One other test is mentioned by authors, that in leucorrhoea the discharge ceases during menstruation, but does not in gonorrhoea. This, however, is denied by other authors, and, as Dr. Jewel observes, “ this is a point which cannot easily be decided, as, from the colour of the menstrual secretion, that of the leucorrhoeal or gonorrhoeal must necessarily be in a great measure obliterated.” (pp. 38, 9.) (n) See Ills article on Leucorrhcea ; in Cyclopaedia of l’ractical Medicine, vol. iii.