270 SHOULDER-DISEASE. and, in greater destruction of the soft parts by the burrowing of the pus, provided the powers are not too much exhausted, the exarticulation of the thigh-bone is the only, although very doubtful, means for the possible recovery of the patient. The circumstance of the hip-socket being usually affected in carious destruction is principally against this operation. The amputation of the head of the thigh-bone (as recommended by Jaeger) has been proposed by Kirkland, Richter, and Vermandois, instead of the more dangerous exarticulation, was successfully performed by White, and, without benefit, by Hewson. Kerr and Baffos performed the exarticulation of the thigh-bone without advantage. In both cases the hip-bone was affected; in Baffos’s case, however, death occurred three months after, and when the wound was perfectly healed. Charles Bell’s proposition (a) to saw through the neck of the thigh-bone, in order to produce anchylosis by the quietude of the head of the thigh-bone (!) is decidedly less suitable. [Coulson mentions ,as an instance of spontaneous reduction of a thigh-bone dislocated by hip-disease, the following case, communicated to him by Barry of Richmond. It will be seen, however, from the account, that the replacement was not effected sponta- neously, but rather by the nurse lifting the head of the bone over the edge of the socket into its proper place. It is, however, a very interesting— Case.—I. S., aged forty years, who had been for a number of years employed in car- rying the produce of a market-garden to town, and generally by night, and had of late years suffered from rheumatism and occasional hepatic derangement, was, in February, 1836, labouring under the most aggravated form of ulceration of the cartilages of the hip-joint, induced by a fall from a cart on the frozen ground about a month before. In the following month luxation had taken place on the dorsum ilii ; the head of the femur can be felt, and the limb is shorter by about three inches and a half, with a slight inver- sion of the foot.” Suitable treatment was adopted, and in the May following extension was made for a few days, “ to relieve the pain caused by the unusual action of the m. glutcei, and for about four days the intention was fully answered by these means; but the extension becoming a source of irritation, was discontinued two days after, being 2nd of June; and about seven weeks from the time of extension, while the female at- tendant was helping him to turn in bed, with her right hand on the inside of the thigh, and her left between the acetabulum and the new position of the head of the femur, the bone was felt by her hand rushing past this intermediate space. Next day,” says Barry, “ I found the limb restored to within half an inch of its proper length, with neither inversion nor eversion of the foot, and pain gone. The patient says he heard the sudden * snap,’ and exclaimed, at the same time, that mischief had been done! It was, as has been seen, unlooked for reduction. In November following, the man walked about on crutches, and had not any pain.” (pp. 103, 4.) Ducros’s case already mentioned appears to have been cured by continued extension for fifty days.] II.—INFLAMMATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. ( Omalgia, Omartlirocace.) 249. This disease runs through the same three stages as coxalgy. The pain, at the onset a more constant symptom than in coxalgy, is tearing, darting at one part or other and descending to the elbow. It is felt when pressure is made with the finger in the arm-pit directed forwards. The arm wearies with but slight motion, and the pain is increased every time it is moved, especially when raised. No disease is distinguishable on the shoulder. The pain increases after some time, especially at night. The sensibility and weakness of the arm become very great. 250. Gradually the arm becomes bent at the elbow-joint, and sticks out from the body; every movement of it becomes painful: it grows flabby and wastes. The shoulder sinks in, and loses its rounded form ; the folds of the arm-pit also grow deeper; between them the head of the bone is felt, and the arm-pit is more filled. The diseased arm seems longer when com- pared with the healthy one. Often also, the shoulder swells, becomes more (a) London Medical Gazette, 1828, Jan.