801 OF THE THIGH-BONE. his back, the pelvis fixed with a girth, as in the latter case, the dislocated limb grasped above the ankle and drawn over the uninjured one. In general, however, it is necessary further to fix the pelvis by means of a second strap, which passes around it and crosses the former. If the dislocation have existed several weeks, it is best to put the patient on the sound side, to fix the pelvis in the manner mentioned, to apply the girth attached to the pulley around the thigh, and to raise the thigh when the foot is drawn down ; the foot, however, is not to be brought too much forwards, because otherwise, the head of the thigh-bone overshoots the socket («). In the dislocation backwards and doivmvards, the patient must be placed on his side, the straps for extension and counter-extension employed as directed, and the extension carried on, the thigh at the same time being- directed obliquely over the middle of the other. Whilst this is doing, an assistant grasps a cloth, applied round the upper part of the thigh, with one hand, and draws it up, whilst with the other he presses up on the pelvis (b). In the dislocation inwards and upwards, the patient is laid upon his side, the pelvis fixed, and extension made above the knee. The thigh is drawn in the backward direction, around its upper part a cloth applied, which an assistant draws, whilst with the other hand he thrusts back the pelvis, in order to lift the head of the bone over the edge of the socket (c). The reduction of the dislocation inwards and upwards, is often rendered more easy and quick than in the other way, by Palletta’s method, in which the dislocated thigh is suddenly and violently bent towards the belly, when it has been abducted as much as possible (d). [ In the dislocation downwards Astley Cooper used to say, in his Lectures, that it might be reduced by interposing the bedpost between the thighs close up to the pelvis, and then making extension. Morgan and Cock., of Guy’s Hospital, have reduced several dislocations of the hip- joint by placing the foot between the thighs, so that it presses against the upper part of the dislocated bone, and thrusts it away from the pelvis, extension and rotation of the limb being at the same time made by assistants. The principle of the operation is precisely similar to that in reducing a dislocated shoulder by putting the heel in the arm-pit. This practice was first introduced about ten years since by Morgan (e), and by it he has replaced a dislocation upon the pubes, one on the oval hole, and one upon the back of the hip-bone, without difficulty, which he principally attributes to diverting the patient’s attention from the operator’s efforts by unexpectedly pricking or pinching. Cock has reduced one dislocation on the pubes, and two on the back of the hip-bone, by the foot between the thighs ; but he informs me that the greater number of the persons so treated were weak or elderly. Till making inquiry, I was unaware of so many cases having been thus managed. I do not know that the practice has been elsewhere adopted, but I shall certainly try it, at the first opportunity, as it saves all the trouble and incon- venience of pelvis-straps and pullies.—J. F. S.] 1079. The completion of the reduction of a dislocated thigh-bone is indicated by the audible noise, with which the head returns into the socket, by the natural length and direction of the limb, by the cessation of pain, and by the free motion of the thigh. The replaced thigh is frequently longer than the sound one, which depends on the swelling of the ligaments of the joint. In using the pulleys, the head of the bone often returns into the socket without any noise, and the reduction is only noticed when the extension is given over. If the extension have not been sufficient, it must be resumed as quickly as possible, before the muscles have time to contract afresh. In order to prevent the recurrence of dislocation, it is (а) Cooper, Astley, pi. viii. fig. 2. thropique de Paris, 1818, p. 285.—Ammon, Par- (б) Ibid., pi. ix. fig. 3 (c) Ibid., fig. 4. rallel, p. 1<0. (d) bulletins des Sciences par la Societe Philan- (e) Guy s Hospital Reports, ' ol. i. p. ... VOL. I. 3 F