625 GOUTY ULCERS. sometimes it disagrees with the stomach and the patient loses appetite and becomes worse instead of better. Under either of these circumstances it must be left off. When used as an ointment, a drachm of the salt to an ounce of lard is a very useful application ; more commonly employed, however, to glandular swellings than to sores. It is best applied either simply spread upon lint, or by dressing the surface after the . removal of the cuticle by a blister. Either of these modes is preferable to rubbing the i ointment in, for frequently when the skin is thin and the patient irritable, after three or , four rubbings the skin inflames, the cuticle cracks and it is necessary to withhold the application to prevent the establishment of a sore. 1 Some Surgeons are fond of painting enlarged scrofulous glands with tincture of I iodine, which very commonly blisters the skin; or if it do not, it destroys the cuticle, i which flakes off in large pieces. I do not think it a very efficient remedy, though by some so esteemed. (I have given cod-liver oil several times with much advantage ; but it is abominably nauseous, and as it owes its efficacy to the iodine it contains, it is certainly preferable to give the iodine in some more agreeable form.—J. F. S.j 777. The scrofulous inflammation of the upper lip, nose, and cheeks, which often leads, by ulceration, to considerable destruction, in which the cartilages of the nose shrivel, is, with simultaneous general treatment, not so easily checked and diminished with anything, as by bathing with « decoction of solarium nigrum, alone, or with the addition of sublimate or ( repeated touchings with nitrate of silver. When the scrofula is very inve- i terate and connected with considerable degeneration, a satisfactory change in the whole body, and a cure, can alone be effected by either of the last- ! mentioned modes of treatment, by the hunger-cure, by the smear-cure, Zittmann’s decoction, and the like. IV.—OF GOUTY ULCERS. Sydenham, Thos., M. D., Tractatus de Podagra et Hydrope. Loudon, 1G83. 8vo. Grant, Beobachtungen liber chronische Krankheiten, vol. i. Yon der Gicht. Leipzig, 1792. Rowly, William, The Gout and Rheumatism cured or alleviated. London, 1780. 8vo. Wenzel, Dissert, de Ossium arthriticorum indole. Mogunt., 1791. Barthez, Traite des Maladies Goutteuses. 2 vols. Second Edit. Montpellier, 1819. 8vo. Scudamore, Chas., M. D., A Treatise of the Nature and Cure of Gout, &c. Fourth Edit. London, 1823. 8vo. von Vering, J., Heilart der Gicht. Wien, 1832. 778. Gouty Ulcers {Ulcera arthritica, Lat. ; arthretischen Gcschwiire, Germ.; Ulceres arthritiques, Fr.) are consequent on the existence of gout in the body, with which they are more manifestly or secretly connected. They are usually superficial, their bottom is wide, reddish brown, smooth, contracted, and seemingly very deep, from the wasting of the cellular tissue, and from the union of the skin with the underlying fibrous tissues ; they secrete a quantity of serous fluid, which corrodes the parts surround- ing the ulcer, and not rarely blackens the linen. Their edges are mostly irregular, pale, and hard, but under inflammation rosy and painful. They become worse periodically, from bad air, or the gouty affections become worse on the incipient improvement of the ulcer. 779. These ulcers occur either from accidental injury during general gouty affections, or after gouty inflammation and swelling, which run into ulceration ; they are therefore situated mostly in the lower extremities, and in the neighbourhood of joints. Their diagnosis is generally easy, VOL i. 2 s