SYPHILITIC SOKES. (343 passage for the extravasated juices; continued sympathy also more readily takes place in them. The itching is gradually changed to pain; the surface of the prepuce is in some cases excoriated, and afterwards ulcerates; in others a small pimple or abscess appears, as on the glans, which forms an ulcer. A thickening of the part comes on, which at first and while of the true venereal kind, is very circumscribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the surrounding parts but terminating rather abruptly. Its base is hard and the edges a little prominent. When it begins on the frcenum or near it, that part is very commonly wholly destroyed, or a hole is often ulcerated through it. * * * The original excoriation or wound may heal although con- taminated, and afterwards become a chancre, (p. 233.) Lawrence observes, that “ generally speaking, the process of ulceration in a syphilitic sore is not very rapid ; it is rather a chronic kind of ulceration, though there is con- siderable difference in the various kinds of sores which belong to this disease. Usually speaking, the syphilitic sore is of a circular figure, but not necessarily so. The sores which are produced by the application of venereal poison to the external organs of generation are various in their appearance. We cannot describe one particular character of sore, as the result of venereal poison. We find that there are several, all of them seeming to be equally produced by that cause, and yet differing materially from each other in their characters.” He divides these sores into five kinds: 1 st, the simple ve- nereal sore, (venerea vulgaris of Evans,) a superficial ulceration, taking place very commonly on the internal surface of the prepuce. Usually there is more than one; generally a sore upon the corona glandis, frequently two, three, or four of them, in that situation just behind the prepuce; or such a number may form around the orifice of the prepuce itself. Iu the first place there is a degree of excoriation from ulcerative ab- sorption; after a certain time the excoriation thus produced is filled up, so that the sore becomes again level with the rest of the surface, the continuation of the reproductive process goes on, and produces an excess of substance in that particular part, so that it projects above the surrounding surface and then the part cicatrizes. These are the stages this sore goes through, and it will often occupy four, five or six weeks in pro- ceeding through the different stages. It is also very painful, and commonly the surface bleeds when the dressings are changed and the part is exposed. * * * 2nd, A venereal sore in which the margin of the ulceration is elevated, and a little indurated; * * * there is a roundish kind of margin ; the surface of the sore itself has something in it of a peculiar character, and the discharge from it is scanty in quantity; it bursts and forms a thin scab. 3rd, The indurated chancre, that is, a venereal ulceration taking- place on an indurated basis, so that the margins of the sore and the basis on which it is formed present an unnatural hardness.” This is Hunter’s chancre, but Lawrence does not agree with his views in reference to the hardened base and edges being essential to the character of a true syphilitic sore. “ 4th, The phagadenic primary sore, pre- senting the removal of a part by ulcerative absorption; the part has a sharp edge, is sometimes undermined, and the surface is irregular and ragged; there is an eating away, as the term implies, of the textures of the part; there is no formation of granula- tions ; there is nothing like an attempt at the reproductive process, and there is a thin ichorous and very offensive discharge from the sore. Sometimes this phagedenic ulceration extends slowly on the prepuce or glans, and greatly destroying those parts ; at other times it goes on with much more rapidity; the surface of the sore assumes a livid appearance; there is an ichorous discharge; the ulcerative process goes on,and it frequently destroys the whole of the organ. 5th, 'The sloughing or gangrenous chancre, where there is a loss of vitality, and the surface of the sore assumes a dark, black, and manifestly a sloughy appearance. The surrounding parts are highly inflamed in this case; there is considerable redness, swelling, and acute pain; there is also loss of vi- tality, and the ulcerative surface of the part that has sloughed is separated, and a fresh slough forms over the part; thus the sore becomes rapidly larger and it spreads in every direction, until the part is destroyed by that kind of process constituting sloughing pha- gedena. * * * This sloughing change is found to take place under two different circum- stances. We very commonly see it as the result of neglect and intemperance, in the cases of sores that may not have been sloughy [originally, and where persons having primary syphi- litic sores take none of the precautions to get rid of them,but continue their occupations and go on with their intemperate habits, causing a high degree of inflammation to be super- induced upon a complaint which is of itself originally of an inflammatory nature ; but in other cases the sloughy state is observed from the very first; there is a high degree of constitutional disturbance under this form of change ; there is a full and hard pulse, more particularly when it occurs in young robust persons; a white tongue, and in fact the general symptoms that characterize high inflammatory fever.” (p. 765-66.)]