HARE-LIP. 599 •which are best left alone. If there be any oozing, or if drivelling from the nose, it may be gently mopped with a piece of soft linen, but as little as possible. (2) The time recommended by Chelius for leaving the pins in is too long; thirty or forty hours at the utmost is amply sufficient, and sometimes even less; for so soon as pus is observed about the needles it is proper they should be withdrawn, as they then cease to be of use, and only cause irritation; and this occurs more or less quickly according to the powers of the constitution. In removing the pins it is best to draw them gently through each coil of thread with a pair of stout dressing forceps, supporting the wound at the same time with the finger and thumb; and after their withdrawal the thread should be gently picked off with the finger-nail or with a probe, The upper two pins and threads should be first removed, and a long strip of plaster carried across the lip from ear to ear, which done, the lower pin and thread are to be taken away. The plaster may be reapplied two or three times daily or every second day, but its use is rather precautionary than necessary.—J. F. S.] 729. If much inflammation of the wound occur after the operation, the threads, if too tightly drawn, must be loosened, and lead wash applied. Cramps and convulsions require narcotic remedies. If the needles tear out, the union must be again restored by the twisted or interrupted suture (1) ; or if the separation of the edges of the cleft be partial, the union must be assisted by the continued application of sticking plaster. This is, indeed, best in the first instance, because the needles introduced through the in- flamed edges of the wound again tear out. The needles are most certainly prevented tearing out if they are passed in and out from the edge of the wound, and not left in more than three days. Van Onzenort’s advice is to pass the needle on each side of the wound through pieces of leather, to prevent the tearing away. [(1) If the needles tear out, an accident which I have never known to occur, I think it would not be advisable to reintroduce them, as there could be no more probability of union occurring than in a torn wound, and their presence would therefore only increase the irritation. It would therefore be best to leave the parts alone, and to repeat the operation at a future opportunity.—J. F. S.] 730. In double liare-lip, when the middle piece is sound and large, the edges on both its sides must be pared and the needle passed through the edges of both cleft and middle piece ; but if it be small and crumpled it must be removed. If the cleft pass into the nostril, the lip must be separated from the gum equally high, the upper part of the cleft freely ' pared, and the upper needle introduced as high as possible («). 731. Nothing has been done towards the union of the cleft in the hard palate. It has been recommended to make continued pressure on both upper jaw-bones with a stirrup-like apparatus (1). If nature do not close these clefts, the inconvenience may be diminished (b) by a sponge in- troduced into it and fastened upon a silver or leather plate. [(1) Mutter, who advocates early operating on cases of hare-lip and cleft palate mentions, among the advantages of so doing, that “ the influence exerted by the pressure of the cheeks and lips upon the maxillary boues is sometimes sufficient of itself to cause an entire closure of the fissure in the hard palate. We have thus, when the patient grows up, only the cleft of the soft palate to contend with.” * * * After the lip has en- tirely healed, I have derived much advantage from causing the nurse to introduce her finger and thumb as far as possible into the mouth between the cheeks and alveolar pro- cesses, and make lateral pressure upon the latter several times a day. I have also resorted, in very bad cases, to a small silver clamp, composed of two flat blades and a regulating screw. The blades being properly adjusted, one upon each side, the screw is gently turned so as to produce the requisite degree of pressure. If called to a child a few years old, affected with hare-lip and a cleft palate, we have no time to lose, and should operate on the lip at once. Even in these cases I have seen quite a wide cleft closed by the action of the cheeks aided by the silver clamp.” (p. 26. j (a) Froriep's chirurgisclie Kupertafeln, pi. (a) Diefeenbach’s proposition; in Hecker’s ccxxv. ccxxvi. literarische Annalen, July, 1827.