PULPY DEGENERATION OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 217 ment like brickdust. In the synovial form, the fever is either less intense from the be "inning, or soon moderates, after the joints begiu to swell; the tongue is less foul; the patient sweats much less. It is to this form that the term rheumatic gout is often applied.” (pp. 621, 2.) Of the chronic rheumatism Watson also mentions two kinds:— « One attended with local heat and swelling, although the constitution at large sympa- thises very little, or not at all, with the topical inflammation; the other characterized rather by coldness and stiffness of the painful joints. In the former of these, the pains are increased by pressure, and by movements of the limbs, and by external warmth, the warmth of a bed for example; and there may be even some slight degree of pyrexia at night. In truth, this form of chronic rheumatism claims a near relationship with the acute, into which it sometimes passes, and of which it is frequently the sequel.” (pp. 628, 9.) Gonorrhoeal Rheumatism and Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia were, I believe, first mentioned publicly by Astley Cooper, and “ the first of these affections,” he considers, “ is not an unfrequent disease;” but it appears to have been previously observed by the elder Cline; for, in reply to the question put to him by Cooper, Whether he had ever seen rheumatism produced from gonorrhoea ? he said :—Several times.” Cooper’s account of the disease is described in his usual homely but graphic manner, in the following, his first Case.—“ An American gentleman came to me with a gonorrhoea, and, after he had told his story, I smiled and said, ‘ Do so and so,’ particularizing the treatment, and that he would soon be better, but he stopped me and said, ‘Not so fast, sir ; a gonorrhoea with me is not to be made so light of; it is no trifle; for in a short time you will find me with inflammation in the eyes, and in a few days after I shall have rheumatism in the joints. I do not say this from the experience of one gonorrhoea only but from that of two, and on each occasion I was afflicted in this manner.’ I begged him to be careful to prevent any gonorrhoeal matter coming in contact with the eye, which he said he would. Three days after this I called on him, and he said, ‘ Now you may observe what I told you a day or two ago is true.’ He had a green shade on, and there was ophthalmia of each eye. * # * In three days more he sent for me rather earlier than usual, for a pain in his left knee; it was stiff' and inflamed. I ordered some applications and soon after the right knee became affected in a similar manner. The ophthalmia was with great difficulty cured, and the rheumatism continued many weeks afterwards. * * * Whether it is by absorption of the poison or the constant irritation produced by the inflammation of the urethra, I do not know; but certain it is that gonorrhoea produces ophthalmia and rheumatism, and when not a single drop of matter has been applied to the eye. The inflammation generally attacks both eyes and is of long duration.” (pp. 273, 4.) Brodie also speaks of cases of inflamed synovial membrane after gonorrhoea; these were in every instance accompanied with purulent ophthalmia, which, in most, but not in all, preceded the affection of the joints, which recurred often, again and again ; and in one case the joint was affected nine times. For our knowledge of that form of diseased synovial membrane, which may be called pulpy degeneration, we are indebted to Brodie, who describes it as consisting “ in a morbid alteration of structure, which takes place in the synovial membranes of joints, and which, as far as I have seen, is peculiar to these parts. I have never known an instance of the same diseases in the serous membranes, which so nearly resemble the former in their nature and functions ; nor even in the synovial membranes that consti- tute the bursae mucosae and sheaths of the tendons.” (p. 77.) The disease seems to commence in the reflected portions of the synovial membrane, converting them into a light brown pulpy substance, varying from a quarter to a half, or even a whole inch in thickness, intersected with white membranous lines and red spots, formed by small vessels injected with their own blood. It then attacks the synovial membrane, which over-spreads tke cartilaginous covering of the ends of the bones, beginning at their edge and extending gradually over them, ulceration in those cartilages going on correspon- dently, till the carious or ulcerating surfaces of the bone are exposed. The cavity of the joint sometimes eoutains pale yellow fluid in the floating flakes of lymph, or pus, which is discharged externally by ulceration ; but sometimes neither. Or abscesses may exist in tlie altered synovial membrane itself, without communication in the joint. Lawrence says, that “ the ligaments, perhaps, are free from disease, and so, perhaps, are the car- tilages; at all events, if either are affected, it will be the cartilages(p. 482:) on this point, therefore, he does not agree with Brodie. The latter author considers that this disease “ belongs to the same order with tubercles of the lungs, scirrhus of the breast, the medullary sarcoma or fungus haematodes of the testicle, and numerous other dis-