95 OF GANGRENE. If the gangrene be connected with active inflammation, softening, and in very severe pain, soothing poultices are to be used; but, if the gan- grenous part be free from pain and shrivelled, stimulating remedies are required, in order to excite suppuration on the boundary of the slough ; with which object it is most advisable to use warm aromatic poultices. The remedies which prevent the influence of the gangrenous juices, by absorbing or decomposing them, are quinine, oak or chestnut bark, camo- mile, vinegar, wine, brandy, camphor, hydrochlorate of ammonia, turpen- tine, diluted mineral acids, pyroligneous acid, carbonic acid, effervescing fluids, powdered charcoal. In moist gangrene, these substances are better used in powder, but in dry gangrene fomentations or poultices. In all cases the stench is best diminished by the employment of aromatic or simply moist warm poultices, and by suitable cleansing at each time of their re- newal. It is still further lessened by the very useful strewing of powder, which, by its partial drying, often directly prevents the outflowing of the gangrenous juices. The operation of these remedies may be promoted by scarification or cutting into the gangrenous parts. The scarifications must not, however, penetrate into the living part, or they will favour the action of the gan- grenous juice, accelerate the increase of the gangrene and cause dangerous bleeding; their principal object must be to prevent the collection of the gangrenous juices. In the gangrene of old people (gangrcena senilis) scarifications are always dangerous; so long as the toes are still attached at some parts, they must not be removed. 73. The sloughs having been thrown off by this treatment, the remain- ing wound must be managed according to the rules laid down for treating abscesses, and the vital activity of the patient must be supported by the suitable employment of bark and a nourishing strengthening diet. 74. In most cases nature, after the gangrene is defined, throws off the gangrenous part, and amputation is not required. Amputation is not ap- plicable in gangrene depending on an internal cause which is still in ope- ration ; for, in such case, after the performance of amputation, gangrene again takes place in the wound. But when the gangrene has affected the whole thickness of a limb, and is defined, and the separation of the dead • part cannot be expected ; or, when produced by external violence, it is ) proceeding, but the causes of the gangrene can be removed with the i gangrenous part, amputation is to be considered as necessary and likely to save life (1). It is, however, here to be borne in mind that gangrene in the deeper parts commonly makes further progress than the external l appearance indicates. The amputation must always be performed in the healthy part. (1) Such is the opinion of Larrey (a); but the opposite is especially supported by Pott. When the gangrene remains stationary, the greatest danger is over. However desi- rable it may be to relieve the patient of the mortified part, yet in many cases is he unable to bear the shock of the operation. Here, then, in combination with a treatment suited to the diseased condition of the patient, it is more advisable, if the soft parts are divided down to the bone, to saw the latter through below the limits of the healthy part. N Diseased condition of the remaining ulcerated surface, may at a subsequent period ren- f der amputation necessary. [So far as my experience is concerned, I believe that amputation should on no ac- l count ever be performed, so long as the gangrene is in progress, whatever be its cause ; (a) Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. iii. p. 142.