58 DRY OR MUMMYLIKE viz., after the violent action of frost, contusion or wound of the toes in cutting the nails or corns. This redness spreads more or less, forms blackish bladders on one or more toes; the cuticle separates, and the exposed true skin exhibits a deep dusky redness. The inflammation usually spreads still further, but slowly ; attacks one after another all the toes; and usually in its progress the part next to be attacked swells, and is excoriated. Some- times it is circumscribed, in which case the toes dry like mummies and fall off. Most commonly the mortification spreads over the ankle-joint, and in its further extension death ensues from exhaustion : it may, however, be confined to different parts, and nature may bring- about a separation of the mortified part. The pain is usually severe, and is soon accompanied with fever. 28. In this kind of mortification the depressed condition of the vascular and nervous activity must be considered as the actual cause why in the operation of the above-mentioned hurts, the inflammation quickly passes • into mortification and drying up, mostly of the parts farthest distant from the centre of circulation. This mortification exhibits some similarity to the dry mortification of frostbite. 29. The other form of this mortification happens without any previous local injury, but after general indisposition of more or less duration, such as depression of spirits, listlessness, unquiet sleep, debility, sparing, high- coloured urine, laborious breathing, palpitations of the heart, anxiety, pain at the pit of the stomach, small, weak, irregular, or intermitting pulse, shiverings, or constant internal cold. In the part in which subsequently the gangrenous drying appears, pains of varying severity come on, sometimes accompanied with cramps in the extremities: these go on for weeks,and even for many months, before the local destruction is observed. Or the patient has a sensation of cold in his extremities, a recurring sensation of being asleep for a longer or shorter time, insensibility to external irritation of the fingers and toes, entire loss of motion. Without any local cause the patient observes on his toe or on his finger a black, blackish-brown or brownish (never dusky-red according to Balling) colour, without any tense swelling. The part dries, the cuticle loosens itself, the part becomes quite black and lifeless. The prognosis of the disease varies: often is only one toe or one joint thrown off', or it attacks all the toes, confines • > itself to the foot, or spreads up to the knee. The process of separation is connected, as in common mortification, with a bounding red line and slight suppuration. This kind of mortification may occur on various parts at the same time. The same appearances take place in children: the extremity becomes black-blue, its temperature diminishes, and it seems to be completely atrophied. In one case Balling observed a blackish- yellow colour and dried skin. Sometimes a lower degree occurs, and then from the first the extremities are livid and oedematous. [This form of mortification is Travers’s chronic gangrene, which he says “ is generally an idiopathic affection, i. e. independent of injury, and which he has never known to be traumatic. * * * The main distinction between this and acute gangrene i is, that from the first the part thus affected losing its temperature and colour becomes dry, tough, and shrunken, instead of moist, soft, and swollen, and takes on a yellow or blackish-brown appearance, nearly resembling that of a mummy.” (p. 211.)] 30. This form of mortification or mummy-like drying up is always the consequence of an exhaustion in the peripheral parts of the vascular and nervous systems. This condition occurs most commonly in old, decrepid