161 KINDS OF GONORRHOEA. It will be here convenient to notice the pudendal discharges which occur very fre- quently in female children soon after birth, which are generally purulent, and produce redness and swelling of the external generative organs, and not seldom accompanied with excoriation and sloughing of the skin, which may, as I have seen it, more than ouce or twice, extend to the upper part of the thighs, in consequence of the irritating nature of the discharge. Locock says:—“ It is very apt to occur also during dentition, and not only when the first set of teeth are in progress, but at the time of the second set, and even when the dentes sapientice are irritating the system at a mature age.” (p. 39.) I do not recollect to have noticed it at these latter periods, but have no doubt of the correctness of Locock’s observation. A knowledge of this occurrence is highly necessary, and is very properly insisted on, as there is no doubt that many men have suffered capital punishment from the ignorance of practitioners on this point. And, even now, with our better knowledge, it is by no means unfrequent to hear of medical men giving a decided opinion, which is almost certainly erroneous, upon the gonorrhoeal character of pudendal discharges, and thus jeoparding the character, if not the life, of an innocent person. On all occasions of giving opinion or evidence in such cases the practitioner is bound to speak with extreme caution, and only upon the most incontestible proof, which, on the mere examination of the parts, it is almost impossible for him to attain, to make a positive statement as to the gonorrhoeal character of the discharge. It is also to be remembered that an epidemic vaginal catarrh has occasionally hap- pened, as mentioned by Dr. Percival (a), at Manchester, in 1791; by Dr. Ferriar (b), in 1789 and 1790; by Dr. Mackintosh (c), at Edinburgh; by Kinder Wood (d), at Oldham, in 1813; and by Capuron (e). 159. As to the nature of gonorrhoea (1) and its connexion with the venereal disease the following distinctions are laid down : — 1. Gonorrhoea arising without infection, from external injury, for in- stance, hard riding, blows upon the urethra, onanism, too frequent connexion, introduction of foreign bodies into the urethra and so on ; or from internal disturbance, as herpetic, or gouty humours, repelled eruptions, suppressed •: secretions and so on (2). 2. Gonorrhoea depending on peculiar contagious matter, the influence I of which, however, does not spread beyond the urethra (3). 3. Gonorrhoea which has a venereal origin, rather as consequence of > general venereal disease, or as a primary syphilitic affection with or witli- | out ulceration. This kind of gonorrhoea may pass into general venereal it disease (4). [(1) The only kinds of gonorrhoea which can be admitted are two, the gonorrhcca benigna and gonorrhoea virulenta, “ the terms benigna and virulenta,” as Lawrence (f) observes, “ not indicating the mildness or severity of the symptoms, but denoting the pauses which produce those symptoms. Virulenta generally means that which is pro- b iuced by the morbific or poisonous state of gonorrhoea ; the other term (benigna) indicates my other cause that may excite inflammation of the urethra.” (p. 776.) (2) Hunter (g) even observes, that “ sometimes discharges happen spontaneously, ,vhen no immediate cause can be assigned; such may be called simple gonorrhoeas, and lave nothing of the venereal infection in them, though those that have been formerly subject to virulent gonorrhoeas are most liable to them.” (p. 34.) He (h) mentions, also, Ul i remarkable case arising from sympathy with the cutting of a tooth. “ A boy, about ) j wo years of age, was taken with a pain and difficulty in making water, and voided matter Rj’rom the urethra. I suspected, by some means or other, this child might possibly be Bpffected by the venereal poison ; and the suspicion naturally fell on the nurse. These tl< oniplaints sometimes abated, and would go off altogether, and then return again. It was Observed, at last, that they returned only upon his cutting a new tooth. This happened , 9n ff'e Uncertainty in the External Signs of I ;tape; in Medical Ethics, Notes and Illustrations ■ o, p. 231. Manchester, f803. 8vo. [ («) Medical Histories and Reflections. Warring- ■ on> 1792. 8vo. 2nd Edit, (here quoted,) vol. i., I’ London, 1810. 4 vols. 8vo. ,(c) Elements of Pathology and Practice of Physic, ■ ’*• U- P- 303. Edinburgh, 1830 . 2 vols. 8vo. P (d) History of a very fatal affection of the Puden- VOL. I. dum of Female Children ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 84. (>t) Traite des Maladies des Femmes depuis la Fuberte, &c. Paris, 1817. Svo, p. 212. (_/') Lectures in Lancet, above quoted, 1830. vol. ii. (q) On the Venereal Disease. (/i) The Natural History of the Human Teeth, &c. London, 1803. 3rd Edition. 4to. M