386 BRUISES OF THE SKULL, be so immediately the cause of death, and must have recourse to some more powerful one. All those wounds are to be considered more or less dangerous in proportion to the degree of concussion the brain or its meninges are supposed to receive. The dura mater being a strong ligamentous membrane, and firmly attached to the skull seems not to be so easily affected, being a fitter medium to transmit any shock it receives to the brain, than oppose it. The subsequent reasons will convince us, the pia mater and brain are the parts that most frequently suffer in those cases.” (p. 46-53, pass.) The following excellent observations of Dease, in reference to those cases in which “ the cranium was laid bare, contused, or its tables simply divided,” will be fully assented to by such as have had many opportunities of witnessing these accidents. “ If the instru- ment with which the blow was given was not heavy, nor the force very great, the patient, after a few minutes, perceives no complaint more than ought to be expected from a simple wound. If he be attended, it is seldom the surgeon will be able to deter- mine, the first days, whether any farther injury has taken place or not. The wound digests as kindly, and the patient performs all the functions necessary to health as well as before he received it. Now in such as became afterwards affected, whether they underwent profuse evacuations, or were entirely left to nature, it made so very little difference, as to the time or manner, in which they were first invaded by the symptoms that usually attend an inflamed or suppurated state of the parts underneath the cranium, that I could never attribute the variation to the treatment. The first symptoms that generally alarmed those patients that came to the hospital, were slight shiverings, attended with an inclination to puke. In some this was preceded by a languor over them, accompanied with more or less degree of fever, and often with a dull pain in the head and melancholy look. The wound in some put on the appearance Mr. Pott describes; but this was by means constant, nor that infallible sign of the inflammation and putrefaction of the dura mater that he makes it. Nor did this appearance often take place until the fever and other symptoms were far advanced. In some those symptoms made a rapid progress, so as to carry off the patient in a few days. In others they seemed to advance more slowly, and were less severe, although not less fatal. I have seldom seen them appear earlier than the eighth day, or later than the sixteenth or seventeenth ; between the eighth and the sixteenth being in general the period most to be dreaded. If the trepan was applied at any time after those symptoms took place, the appearance of the dura mater was invariably this: either it was detached and in a state of suppuration and sloughy, or sound in every respect. If the injury was confined to it, the operation, as far as I have seen, proved successful; and if the patient died, I have j ever found the cause of his death in the suppuration of the pia mater or brain, but more generally in both.” (p. 59-62.) Guthrie justly observes:—■“ When the periosteum covering the bone is bruised, or , the bone is deprived of this membrane, it does not follow that the bone should die or ( exfoliate. In many instances the wound will gradually close up and heal, as if no such ; accident had happened ; and in most cases this termination will only be delayed by the separation of a scale of bone from its outer surface. If the bone should be bruised in addition, or slightly fractured, or depressed without a wound of the integuments, and > the general treatment has not been strictly attended to, the case may terminate in one of those secondary tumors of the scalp which Dease and Pott have so admirably described, and which maybe considered as a complaint fraught with the utmost danger.” (pp. 120, 21.) The expressions “primary” and “ secondary tumours,” are Guthrie’s a own, the former applied to the bumps mentioned, (par. 384,) and the latter to the swell- f iug especially treated of in the paragraph now considered. He also speaks of the dis- tinguishing characters of the two swellings, perhaps more positively than observation will fully justify, but still they are worthy of observation:—“ The essential difference • between the primary and the secondary swelling is to be found in this circumstance, that although the bone may be exposed, and even in some degree have changed its colour in r, the primary swelling, when matter has formed, the febrile symptoms will subside after its evacuation, healthy granulations will spring up, and little or no exfoliation will take place ; whilst in the secondary swelling none of these favourable symptoms or appear- | ances will take place, for the bone is incapable of maintaining its life, it must separate, t or be removed in part, if the outer table only be diseased, and by the operations of nature but this must be done by the trephine, if there be reason to believe that matter has I collected beneath, which must, I am of opinion, certainly take place, unless there shoulc i be a fissure or fracture through w-hich it may escape.” (p. 122.)] 387. A strict antiphlogistic treatment, blood-letting, leeches, cole 1 fomentations, and antiphlogistic purges, in most cases, prevent the evi