343 CASES REQUIRING AMPUTATION. frequently a disease of the advanced periods. It is most frequent in bones covered by their soft parts, while caries takes place more readily when they are exposed to the air, Where the periosteum is removed for any extent by a gun-shot or lacerated wound, or suffers disorganization afterwards from any cause, whether inflammation, ulceration or I erosion; or where the medulla is injured or destroyed, it becomes a never failing occa- sion of the death of that part of the bone in the immediate vicinity of the injury.” (pp. 124, 25.)] 345. In long-continued suppuration, bleeding often occurs from the whole surface of the wound, which commonly retards and very much weakens the patient. These bleedings depend on a weakness of the vessels, and upon a state of thinness of the blood. Local, and general strengthening remedies must be employed; decoction of bark with the mineral acids; care must be taken for pure air and good food ; and the wound filled with charpie soaked in a vinous decoction of elm bark with alum and so on. If these means be not beneficial, and sinking be feared, the application of the actual cautery, or tying the principal arterial trunk of the limb, is the only remedy which can be tried, previous to amputation. 346. The decision upon those circumstances in wounds, especially those from gun-shot, which render amputation necessary, belongs to the most difficult part of surgery. Not only must the importance of the injury itself be well considered; but also, as these cases for the most part occur in war, in so far as the transport of the wounded, the want of proper care and nursing, overfilled hospitals, and the danger connected with a long sojourn in the hospital, render possible or not the preservation of the wounded limb; and whether perhaps the limb can be preserved only in such a crippled state that it is more inconvenient than useful, and the life of the wounded person is put in the greatest danger by the attempt to preserve the limb. 347. When the condition of the wound is favourable for amputation, it should be performed as soon as possible, at least in the first twelve or twenty-four hours before the secondary symptoms have come on. Experience is against putting off amputation to a later period, as practised by the earlier surgeons. 348. The following are those cases which require amputation on the spot: 1. When a limb is entirely torn off by a ball; as in such an injury, especially when the ball has lost its power, the splitting of the bone com- monly extends into the neighbouring joint, the limb must be removed high above the place of injury, or above the next joint (1). 2. If both the soft and hard parts of a limb are so bruised and smashed that gangrene will certainly occur. 3. If, without injury of the bone, the soft parts of a limb, the largest vessels and nerves are mostly destroyed. 4. When the soft parts and bones of a limb, with the largest nerves, are smashed and torn although the principal arterial trunk is not injured. 5. Splitting of the large bones, with tearing of the vessels and bruising of the deep-lying parts, without injury of the external skin (2). Before pro- ceeding to amputation, we must cut down to ascertain the extent of the destruction of the parts. 6. Smashing of joints, especially of the knee and foot-joints, when the capsular ligament is very much torn and the bone split, or when the ball is lodged in the joint and cannot be removed. If the head of the bone be completely separated from its body in the shoulder-joint, the head of that bone may be removed.