on it in the same manner, with his hands crossed. Both cuts must unite t closely with each other above the angle of the cleft. If the cut be not perfected at once, it must be continued in the same direction, and without r stretching too much the already divided part. [(1) Tlie position of the child’s head is a matter of no slight importance; for if laid on the back, as often carelessly done, or if not so placed as to favour the streaming of : the blood from the mouth, it will run back into the throat, and produce violent coughing and even choking.—j. F. s. (2) Lawrence considers that “ the scissors are the most convenient mode (of per- forming the operation for hare-lip) and that you will do it best with that kind which / have knife edges; * * * they cut with great facility, without bruising the edges be i tween the blades, and such scissors are the most convenient for paring off the edges of i a hare-lip.” (p. 819.)] 726. In using the bistoury the lip should be fixed upon a piece of wood ! introduced beneath it, or, still better, by Beinl’s lip-holder (a), of which, . the one blade of cork or wood placed beneath the lip, is to be carried so ; high that both blades rise above the angle of the cleft, and when closed . leave about half a line of the naturally conditioned skin, together with i the red edge of the cleft, uncovered. The bistoury is then thrust in a line above the angle of the cleft, and its edge being applied, beneath, is ■ drawn down along the side of the upper blade, so that the whole edge of i the cleft is cut off. The second edge is to be treated in like manner, the knife being introduced at the point where the first cut was commenced (1). [(1) The bistoury is certainly preferable to scissors, which bruise the parts they I divide. But I think our common mode of using it, is better than that recommended by ; Chelius ; and a phimosis knife the most convenient and the only instrument required. The Surgeon should grasp either corner of the cleft lip, which he fancies mostconve- ; nient, with the finger and thumb of his opposite hand, and then passing the point of the c knife behind the lip, he thrusts it through about a line above the angle of the cleft, draws it down till it has cut through the red part of the lip, taking care to cut off the whole piece which, entering into the cleft, rises above the proper level of the lip, for unless this be attended to, an ugly notch remains after the union of the wound. The other edge is afterwards to be pared in like manner. There need be no fear of freely cutting away the lip, as the edges always readily come together, and if they seem to need any dragging I at the upper part, to effect this it is better to divide the neighbouring membrane of the mouth, to prevent such drag.—J. F. S.] 727. The bleeding is generally inconsiderable, and stanched by the close junction of the fresh-made edges, which is best effected by the twisted suture. For this purpose gold or silver needles are used, with steel points, which can be removed (1). The left edge of the lip is to be held with the thumb and finger of the left hand, and the needle thrust vertically through near the red edge of the lip, and from three to five lines distant from the edge of the wound, to the lining membrane; it is then to be brought horizontal, so that by pressing, its point appears near the edge of the lip in the surface of the wound. The other edge of the wound is now to be brought with the fingers of the left hand to that already pierced, and the needle introduced in the same direction and made to pass through externally. The point of the needle is now to be removed, a thread applied around it, and its ends drawn down by an assistant. At two or three lines’ distance from the former a second needle is to be introduced, whilst with the thumb and finger of the left hand its point is pressed against the right edge of the wound. If the cleft be large, the employ- ment of a third or fourth needle may be necessary. A stout thread is then to be twisted around each needle in form of GO, first upon the upper pin, (a) Beobachtungen der Chirurgischen Acadcmie zu Wien, 1801, vol. i. pi. ix.