SCROFULOUS AND 624 of iodide of potash; 2, two and a-half scruples of iodine, and five scruples of iodide of potash ; 3, three scruples of iodine, and six scruples of iodide of potash ; 4, four scruples of iodine, and eight scruples of iodide of potash. For adults, to a similar quantity of water, 1, two drains of iodine, and four drams of iodide of potash; 2, two and a-half drams of iodine, and five drams of iodide of potash ; 3, three drams of iodine, and six drams of iodide of potash ; 4, four drams of iodine, and eight drams of iodide of potash. The fourth degree Lugol does not employ, the third being the strongest he uses. This, according to Lugol (a), is the most efficient and certain mode of curing scrofula, and the conditions depending on it. My own observations, as well as those of other medical men, completely correspond with the advantage of this treatment (b). (2) The cod-liver oil is to be given twice a-day, beginning with one tablespoonful, and gradually increasing it up to six; to children it must be given in proportionate smaller doses. To get rid of the filthy taste, the mouth should be rinsed immediately before taking it, with cold water or with brandy, and directly after it is swallowed, a cup of herb tea, of lentain, cinnamon, or Seville orange flower should be drank. The external application of the oil in way of friction, is also very efficient for the dispersion of swel- lings. To be effectual, the oil must be given for a long time. Children always take it willingly, and invariably better than adults, who generally cannot overcome their antipathy to it. After the use of the oil, as well as after the use of iodine, more powerful digestion, better appetite, and even actual voracity, have been noticed. Although chemical observations have given different results as to whether iodine be contained in the oil or not, there appears to be no doubt that the various kinds of oil as met with in commerce, have given rise to the various results, as the true cod-liver oil does contain iodine, but the white oil usually does not, the latter not being cod-liver oil, but seal oil; the former only therefore should be ordered. Hence may be explained the various opinions of numerous physicians on the operation of the oil (c). Fresh walnut leaves and their decoction have of late been particularly recommended against scrofula; two or three cups of the infusion of the fresh leaves daily, with syrup or honey. Also night and morning pills of three and a-half grains of the extract of the leaves, or a table spoonful of the syrup prepared from the same extract. Negrier (d). The frequently remarkable effect of Pollings decoction is to be prin- cipally ascribed to the walnut shells it contains. [Russell observes, that “ in the treatment of scrofulous ulcers under the ordinary circumstances of the complaint, the simplest and mildest dressings answer best. When the patients are using a course of sea-bathing, it is usual to wash the sore with sea-water over and above the momentary application of the sea-water during the im- mersion of the whole body. Cold spring-water is likewise a favourite application with many practitioners; and from much observation, it appears that the operation of cold is well-suited to counteract the state of inflammation which accompanies scrofulous sores.” (p. 105.) Burns is also of the same opinion as to the use of cold water, but couples it with pressure by adhesive straps. If the sore require stimulating, black wash with or without mucilage of acacia, and with or without tincture of opium, is a very excellent application. But oftentimes these scrofulous sores are quite unmauage- ; able, and will not be soothed or healed with any application. Under these circum- j stances our entire reliance rests on the improvement of the constitution, simultaneously i with which the sores mend. I scarcely ever use iodine, except as iodide of potash, which is a most excellent | medicine, either employed internally or externally. I commonly give from three to I five grains of the iodide twice a dayr, either in an ounce and a half of compound in- ! fusion of gentian with a drachm of any warm aromatic tincture, or in four ounces i of compound decoction of sarsaparilla, and to either vehicle add a drachm of syrup of t poppies, which it is well to commence with, as it will generally prevent the nausea , which frequently occurs without it. Occasionally, after taking the iodide of potash i for some days, salivation is produced, which I have observed again and again. And / (а) Memoires sur l'emploi de Mode et des bains iodures. (б) MOller, Ueber die arzneiliche Wirkung und Amvendung der Jodine. Wurzburg, 1S32. Kunz, Ueber die Amvendung der .Iodine in Scro- phulosen Krankheiten nach eigenen Erfahrungen und mit vorziiglicher Beriiclisichtigung der Ver- suche und Beobactungen Dr. Lugol's ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxxvii. p. til. IIanke, Ueber die med. Wirkung des Jods; in Journal von Grae fe und von Walther, vol. xxvi. pt. iv. p. 445. Brera, Saggio clinico sul Iodio, &c. Padua, l 1822. 8vo. (c) Brefeld, DerStockfisch-Leberthran innatur • i historischer, chemischer, und pharmaceutischer i Hinsicht, besonders aber seine Heilwirkungen iu i rheumatiscben und scrophulosen Krankheitsfor- j men. Hamm, 1835. 8vo. (d) Memoires sur le Traitement des Affections , Scrofuleuses par les preparations de Feuilles de I Nover ; in Archives Generates de Medecine,Third I Series, vol. x p. 399. vol. xi. p. 41. (Fourth Series) ■ vol. iv. p. 133.