659 TREATMENT OF BUBOES. 833. If the ulcer heal with this local and general treatment, the internal use of the mercury must not at once be given up, but should be continued in smaller doses for some time. 834. The treatment of Buboes is to be guided according to the degree of their inflammation. If they be painful, the patient must be kept quiet, cold poultices of bread crumbs with lead wash, linen dipped in lead wash ap- plied, and leeches, or even bleeding employed if the patient be strong and inflammatory affection of the whole body be present. In the more cold swellings gray mercurial ointment is to be rubbed in, and mercurial and hemlock plaster applied over it. In hard swellings softening poultices are especially serviceable. Idiopathic buboes have a decided disposition to suppurate ; when, therefore, the dispersion of a bubo does not easily and soon follow, it must not be urged by violent remedies, but suppuration must be pro- moted by softening poultices, by mercurial and hemlock plasters ; and I this treatment must be continued till the bubo have opened itself (1). These - remedies serve also, after the opening of the bubo, to resolve the surround- ing hardness. The still remaining ulcer must be treated as a venereal sore. To prevent burrowing of the pus, enlargement of the opening is frequently necessary. The violent dispersion of an idiopathic bubo may accelerate the outbreak of the general venereal disease. If the bubo run on to hardening, then besides the proper mercurial cure must be employed friction of gray mercurial ointment with camphor, hemlock and mercurial plaster, or friction of iodine ointment. According to my experience, I assent to the opening of buboes in the same manner as abscesses, by a simple puncture, by a transverse cut, by the introduction of seton threads or by caustic, as advised by many persons, (a). The compression of buboes recommended by Ferguson is especially employed by Fricke in connexion with strict antiphlogistic treatment. Any hard properly-shaped body, for instance, according to Fricke, a piece of wood or a stone sown up in linen will answer the purpose (2). For the dispersion of buboes without distinction of their nature and duration, Reynaud, Bicord, and others have recommended the application of blisters of the size of a shilling or half-crown upon the middle of the swelling, and after the removal of the cuticle raised by the blister to touch the part with a feather moistened in a solution of sublimate, twenty grains to an ounce: if, after two hours, no slough has been produced, the touching is to be renewed and a bread poultice ap- plied (3). The suppurating parts heal in a few days, and by continued use of the poultice, the bubo either entirely subsides, or it diminishes and disappears at the second or third application. [(1) A bubo should always be punctured, as soon as fluctuation can be felt near the surface, with a moderately large opening; about half an inch in length is generally I think sufficient, but some Surgeons prefer slitting it up from end to end, and believe it heals more readily, 1 think, however, the less large aperture is sufficient. Occasionally it happens, whatever be the size of the opening, that the pus will burrow and sinuses will form. If not irritable these may often be cured by gentle and well-applied pres- sure from the extremities of the sinuses towards the wound, care being taken to leave the latter free for the discharge of the pus. This, however, will not always be effec- tual, and it then becomes necessary to lay the cavities freely open and keep them so by inserting lint between their edges; and this may be either dipped in black wash or nitric acid wash, or smeared with red precipitate ointment. Oftentimes the ulcera- tion continues eating beneath the skin of the edges of an indolent open bubo ; which thus undermined, has a bluish appearance, with a white irregular and insensible edge, and has not sufficient power to take on the adhesive action and unite with the parts beneath. It must then be removed, which is sometimes done by shaving off with the knife. I think, however, destroying it with strong nitric acid is best, as it produces a healthy excitement, and the skin usually soon shoots over the sore surface. The quantity of undermined skin will show the medical attendant how much should be (a) Fricke, chirurgische Annalen des Hamb. Krankenhauses, vol. i. 2 u 2