709 THE TOOTII-SOCKETS. hours the bleeding returned, continued through the night, and till the afternoon of the Mith March, when a small iron at black heat was introduced, and lint soaked in solution of alum applied to the part; after sixteen hours the bleeding returned, and on the morning of the 1 \th he had a little bleeding from the left nostril. The solution of alum was continued, and now was ordered pulv. gallarum, alum, sulph. aa gr.v. -ids., but without benefit, and at 3 a.m. March \ith, a small iron at black heat, was introduced ; but the bleeding did not cease till the socket was plugged with lint soaked in alum. At 9 a.m. the bleeding returned; a bladder of ice was then applied to the throat and cheek, and he was ordered plumb, acet. gr.j. op. gr.} secundd quaque hard per sex vices, tunc tertid vel quartd qudque hord per sex vices sequentes, et postea sextd quaque hord. There was not any recurrence of the bleeding till the evening of the 14/// March, when he again bled freely, and the lead and opium were again ordered every two hours, but on the following day, only every four hours. March 1 6th, he was directed to take a grain of muriate of morphia, which was continued for a few days. On the 18th the bleeding was again free, but finally stopped on the 21st; and he left the house well on the 29th. How long the lead was continued in the second part of this case, the notes I have quoted, which were not my own, do not distinctly state, and I think it doubtful whether the cure was to be ascribed to it or simply to the loss of blood, by which in a case related by Davenport (a), the bleeding had certainly been put a stop to after thirty hours’ con- tinuance, and depressing the patient very considerably. 1 cannot help, however, thinking that in the second part of this case the actual cautery was never effectually applied ; for as I have said before, Ihave never failed when using it, neither has my colleague Green, who also employs it. From the above cases it will be perceived how various have been the remedies made use of to stop these violent bleedings after drawing a tooth, but many other plans have been advised and strongly urged as most efficient. Some persons reinsert the extracted tooth in the socket as the best plug which can be used. Cortez (b) recommends the introduction of a wax model into the socket, which he has found effectual in three or four instances. Peter Cullen (c) prefers a very fine soft phial-cork gently squeezed into the socket, and upon the point of the cork, a bit of lint with some styptic may be put. Kendrick (d) advises a pledget of cotton dipped in the strongest alcohol as very efficacious. And among the cases of haemorrhage effectually treated with the internal use of ergot of rye, one of bleeding after drawing a molar tooth is given by Dr. Ryan (e). An interesting circumstance in reference to these cases is, that not unfrequently other individuals of the family to which the patient belongs, are subject to this bleeding dis- position. It was so in my own patient’s family, and with that of Kennedy’s patient, and I have known it in many other instances. It is scarcely needful to observe, that if the practitioner be aware of the patient or his family being subject to this disposition to bleed, he should be extremely cautious in un- dertaking the removal of a tooth, or indeed of any operation ; and if compelled to resort to it, should at once be prepared to attempt arresting its bleeding at the onset, and not permit its continuance for hours, much less for days, before employing any efficient remedy.—J. F. S.] 897. Tooth-fistulas (par. 883) require the speedy drawing of the de- cayed tooth, and the use of astringent gargles. If the fistula do not then close, it is probable that there is still another decayed tooth, which must be drawn ; or caries of the alveolar process may exist, which must be treated in the usual way. Carcinomatous excrescences on the gums {par. 884) are mostly conse- quences of a decayed tooth or of a carious part of the alveolar process. They must be removed from their base with the knife, and the great bleeding which generally ensues must be stopped with astringent remedies and pressure, or with the actual cautery, which last is also serviceable in preventing the recurrence of the excrescence. If after the removal of epulis a decayed tooth or caries of the alveolar edge be discovered, the former must be drawn, and the latter treated according to the general rule. Cancerous sores and schirrus will be considered with degeneration of the organic tissues. (o') Medical Gazette, vol. ii. 1842. New Series, p. 58. (6) Ibid., vol. iv. p. 490. 1829. (c) Medical Gazette, vol. v. p. 5G4. 1830. (d) Ibid., p. 788. (e) Ibid., vol.xiii. p. 368. 1831.