435 AND GULLET, TREATMENT. ! outer walls, the air readily escapes into the cellular tissue. If slight pressure upon the wound do not prevent the escape of the air, the outer wall must be enlarged with the bistoury, so that the air may more readily escape. 471. Bruised /Founds of the Larynx and Windpipe, Shot-wounds with loss of substance, require besides the general treatment already mentioned, a simple linen bandage spread over with a mild ointment. If the edges of the wound skin over, and fistulous passage form, which, especially occurs in bruises and in wounds connected with the loss of substance, the edges must be refreshed, (re-pared with the knife,) and, if possible, united vertically with the twisted suture. Attempts have been made to close the opening by healing over it a flap of skin (a). 472. Wounds of the Gullet occur with an entirely, or, for the most part, divided windpipe, (in stabs only is injury of the former possible without that of the latter,) and the gullet is either cut into or cut through. i Severe wounds of the gullet are usually accompanied with wounds of the larger vessels and nerves, and are then speedily mortal. Without this simultaneous injury, however, wounds of the gullet may be very i large ; it may even be entirely divided without the wound being absolutely fatal (h). Injuries of the gullet in large wounds can be ascertained by the eye, by examination with the finger, and also by the fluid swallowed by the wounded person, escaping through the wound, and exciting severe cough. 473. When in wounds of the gullet the blood has been stanched, the same treatment is to be pursued as in wounds of the windpipe : the ex- ternal coverings must be fixed, and the head bent towards the chest. If the wound be large, the patient must be supported with nourishing clysters, baths, or what is best by strong broths introduced by an elastic tube into the stomach. If the tube excite vomiting, coughing, or bleeding, it must be removed, and nourishing clysters and baths only used. The tormenting thirst of such patients is best relieved by putting into the i mouth slices of lemon or Seville orange sprinkled with sugar. As the wound advances towards healing pappy gelatinous food must be cautiously i given by the mouth. The elastic tube kept in the gullet should he about as thick as the little finger, and provided with a valve at its top. It is introduced through the nose or mouth; it gene- * rally slips the first time into the windpipe, which must be ascertained by the motion of ■i a taper flame held before the opening of the tube. In this case, the tube is to be drawn I back, and attempt made to pass it more backwards into the gullet. It may remain many days, its outer end being fastened. 1(1) Astley Cooper “ objects entirely to the introduction of tubes into the pharynx ' and (esophagus, as worse than unnecessary, for they are highly injurious by the cough which they occasion by their irritating the wound; and, if adhesion or granulation have taken place to close the wound, such tubes tear it open again and destroy the process of restoration.” (p. 249.) The correctness of this opinion is fully borne out by the fol- lowing case related by Stark (c) :— , Case.—A man cut his throat; “ the external jugular veins on both sides were per- fectly divided; the carotid arteries laid bare; the trachea arteria divided from the : larynx immediately above the pomum Adami; the epiglottis and glottis, along with the ' ! os hyoides, perfectly detached from the rima glottidis; the pharynx cut through, except about a finger’s breadth of the back part, which was very much stretched, for the trachea | thus divided had retracted equal to the clavicles, as had also the fore part of the cesopha- 1 9lls> which very much stretched the remaining fibres of the pharynx. As the os hyoides ' was perfectly detached from the rima, consequently every muscle that arises from the (a) LaUncette Francaise, 1831, 26 Nov.—Kao- in Bezug auf ihre Behandlung und ilir Lethali- RlTis.‘N'ot'zcC> 1831. No. 692. tatsverhaltness, in his Magazin, vol. vii. p. 262. (o) Bust, Einige Beobactungen iiber die Wun- (c) Medical and Philosophical t'ommentaries, by a <ien der Lufr und Spelse rohre, mit Bemerkungen Society in Edinburgh, vol. iv. part i. London, 1716. 2 f 2