122 REMOVAL OF remove the whole cicatrix, and to endeavour to approximate the integuments from the two sides of the arm, which was to be kept extended on a splint, not only during the healing of the wound, but for a considerable time after the cicatrix had formed, until, indeed, those changes which I have above described had been fully accomplished. By such practice I conceived that the contraction, which I knew must follow so extensive a i wound, would take place in a lateral direction, and not in the long axis of the limb.” ' (p. 100.) On this principle Earle operated on a boy of six years old, whose fore arm was contracted to a right angle by the contracting web-like scar of a burn which he had suffered twelve months before. He did not remove the scar entirely, but left it connected with the skin above, hoping it would adhere to the bared parts as far as it would cover, and so lessen the extent of skin required; but, in four days, it was found to have sloughed, not being sufficiently vascular to preserve its vitality. Directly after the scar had been detached at the operation, attempts were made to extend the arm; but “ consi- derable resistance was met with from the forcible contraction of the flexor muscles, which had been so long accustomed to a more limited sphere of action, that they with difficulty admitted of any extension. By degrees, however, they yielded considerably, and the arm was brought nearly to a right line. When the arm was so extended, the extreme point of the cicatrix, which still remained attached to the upper arm, was deficient nearly three i inches of reaching the part from whence it had been removed.” The operation was per- formed on the 12th November, 1813, and on 20th December following the wound was healed. The splint was continued for six weeks longer; after which, the arm continuing straight, it was worn only at night for three months, and motion permitted, and, at the time of reporting the case, five months after the healing of the wound, Earle says:—“ His arm continues perfectly straight, and he enjoys the free and perfect use of it as much as of the other.” (p. 102.) I have recently performed this operation with modification in a very severe contrac- tion. Up to the present time (March, 1845) it has succeeded equal to my most sanguine expectations ; but months must elapse before the actual result can be obtained. The de- scription of my proceeding will appear in the following account of the Case.—E. F., aged 21 years, a healthy country girl, had her clothes set on fire twelve years ago, in consequence of which her shoulders, chest, and arms were very severely burnt, and she was confined to her bed for nineteen weeks; but the wound did not fully heal for some time afterwards. At first there was no contraction; but, soon after, the scar be- gan to contract, the skin over the front of the chest being first drawn towards the right shoulder, so as to form a fold across and below the front of the arm-pit; a similar process followed on the left side, and both sides of the back also soon took on the same disposi- tion. An incision was made through the fold on the right arm-pit soon after the con- traction had taken place, but without benefit, and she has since remained in her present condition. A large scar now occupies the whole front of the chest, involving the breasts, which are not developed, and of which the very small nipples are scarcely perceptible among the coarse meshes which the intersecting transverse rays of the scar form, as they continue on either side, across and below the arm-pits to the middle of the upper arm, deepening the axillary fold by a thick skinny web, about an inch below the edge of each pectoral muscle, with a rounded thickened margin on which the cuticle is scaly, and the cutis cracky. The contracting scar draws the skin tightly on the upper and outer part of the limbs, in consequence of which the upper arms are almost closely tied to the sides of the chest. A large triangular web extends from the axillary web nearly to the radial side of the wrist of each fore arm, with a thick rounded edge confining the right aim at less than a right angle, and the left at about a right angle with the upper arm, beyond which neither can be extended. Dec. 7, 1844. The following operation was performed on the right arm, which I had purposed performing according to Earle’s method, but with complete removal of the scar, and with making a second long incision through the souud skin at a distance from the scar wound, so as to diminish the dragging of the skin in bringing and pinning the edges of the scar wound together, on the same principle, that of relieving tension, with which Dieffenbach makes incisions in his plastic operations. It will be seen, however, that I proceeded very differently, and much further. By an incision through the sound skin on each side^f the scar web, commencing through the scar on the front of the arm-pit, and terminating below the point of the scar on the front of the wrist, I removed the whole of the scar skin which bound the fore to the upper arm, producing a long gaping wound, the skin edges of which could scarcely be approximated. I then made a second cut from the outer edge of the wound, at the front of the elbow, carrying it downwards and outwards nearly to the outside of the wrist,