Ill BURNS. much larger extent than the slough, because in consequence of the severe inflammation its immediate belt is destroyed by gangrene. The granu- lations most usually are developed very quickly and luxuriantly, the edges quickly draw together, and shapeless, hard, contracted, tough scars are pro- duced, whereby the direction and motion of the part is often changed and impeded, and the latter even perfectly destroyed. After the throwing off of a part which has been entirely charred, a more or less uneven stump is produced. 98. More or less severe symptoms ensue according to the different degree and extent of the burn, according to the importance of the burnt part, : and the constitution of the patient, and not merely does the degree, but also the extent of the burn, determine its danger. In the first two degrees the inflammation is easily resolved, and only if it affects a large extent of the body, and still more in the higher degrees, does febrile reaction set in, when, on account of the disturbed functions of the skin and the changed relations between the external and internal skin, the mucous membrane of the intestines is quickly affected, and uneasiness, loss of sleep red dry tongue, nausea, vomiting, high nervous excitement, delirium, and the like come on. From the severity of the pain cramps and convulsions occur, especially in sensitive persons. In extensive burns death may ensue rather suddenly from the greatness of the pain, from the quick stopping of the functions of the skin, from the excessive flow of blood to the internal i parts where on dissection either no internal derangement is seen, or where a gorging of the brain and mucous membranes with blood and even effu- sion into their cavities is observed ; or from the severity of the fever, espe- cially if accompanied with inflammation of internal parts, of the stomach intestines, brain, more rarely of the lungs and of the pericardium ; or from Jthe very copious and continued suppuration, by which the powers are exhausted. The production of unsightly hard scars, or the growing to- gether of neighbouring parts, may cause disturbance or complete stoppage of their functions. [Burns, from whatever cause, are generally more dangerous than scalds, as they are rarely unattended with destruction of the skin and subjacent parts, whilst, on the contrary, : scalds more usually produce only vesication. If, however, a person be completely immersed in boiling water, even for two or three minutes, of which I once saw a fright- ful instance, of a dyer who fell into his copper, he will be destroyed in ten or fifteen minutes. But I have several times, on the contrary, seen persons, whose entire surface has been charred by fire, live for many hours. This remarkable difference may, per- haps, be accounted for by presuming that the hot water, passing through the mouth and nostrils into the pharynx, causes speedy effusion into the loose cellular tissue con- necting the skin with the laryngeal cartilages, and so, by narrowing and closing up the aperture of the windpipe, producing suffocation. 1 Both burns and scalds, however, are dangerous, more in reference to the part which they attack, than the extent of surface they injure; thus, scalds or burns on the chest and belly especially are far more dangerous than on the limbs, although the injured part be twice or thrice as extensive; and children who are burnt or scalded on the chest • most commonly die in two or three days after the accident; in a few instances they may i live a week, but they rarely ever recover. I recollect only a single instance of recovery, i after severe burn on the trunk, in a child about six years old. in whom the whole front K of the belly and flanks were burnt and a considerable part of the skin destroyed. I do • not recollect to have observed convulsions in these severe cases, as mentioned by our t author and other writers; but, if they be fatal in a few hours, the patient generally, almost at once, drops into a state of stupor from which he never after rouses; and h examination after death shows the brain loaded with blood, or, if life be prolonged, f1 Mansion of serum is observed on the membranes, and in the cavities of the brain, and, »• less commonly, also in the serous bags of the chest.—J. F. S.]