A FTER-TRE ATMENT. 423 (2) If the edge of the fracture be regular and without any corners, there is no choice, if it be determined to raise the depressed bone, but to apply the trephine on the unde- pressed edge. But if that edge present any angle at which the elevation may be con- veniently effected, then Hey’s saw is preferable for its removal, as being most manageable, and less likely to injure the dura mater, more especially, if the depressed bone have descended so low that the whole thickness of the skull is exposed, or if a spatula can be insinuated between the dura mater and the portion of bone to be removed.—J. F. S.] 446. After the performance of the trepan the further treatment depends upon the circumstances it indicates. The extravasation must be removed by a proper position of the head, by sopping it up with a moist sponge, or with charpie, when it lies beneath the skull. If the place of the extravasation be not hit, the circumstances already mentioned ( par. 415) must determine the surgeon whether the ope- raation is to be repeated at some other spot. If the extravasation be beneath the dura mater ; if this be thrust up into the hole in the bone, fluctuating and violet coloured, it must be divided with a cross cut. Bleeding from the middle meningeal artery must be stanched by pressure, with a bundle of charpie, with a ball of wax, or with a proper compressor, (Faul- quier’s (a) or Graefe’s) (b), or by cauterization with a red hot pin. The bleeding from a wounded sinus is to be stanched with dry lint and a proper degree of pressure. A piece of bone completely broken off must be removed with care. Impressed fractures must be raised with a simple elevator, the one end of which is to be introduced under the depressed piece of bone, the other held with the right hand, and depressed, whilst the fore finger of the left hand is placed on the edge of the trepan opening, and the elevator rested upon it. Splinters which are thrust into the membranes, or enter the brain itself, must be withdrawn with care, and without violence ; if they be firmly fixed, the opening of the dura mater must be enlarged. [The mode of treating extravasated blood has been already spoken of (pur. 419, note 2.) Bleeding from the meningeal artery, as far as I have had the opportunity of observ- ing, never requires pressure, beyond a minute or two with the finger, but commonly not even that, as in general the bleeding ceases when the clot has been completely removed, as I have mentioned above. I should certainly never think of applying the actual cau- tery. Slight pressure will generally stop bleeding from a sinus.—J. F. S.] 447. The dressing after trepanning is as simple as possible. A mass of charpie, smeared with mild ointment, is to be placed between the edges of the wound in the skin, so that, without pressing the membranes of the brain, it lies at the edge of the aperture in the bone ; this is to be covered with a thin compress, and the whole retained in its place by a triangular head-cloth or a bandage (1). . The healing of a trepan-wound by quick union, after the removal of all foreign bo- dies, proposed by many, is not advisable. The experiments upon the replacement of perforated pieces of bone and the cure of wounds by quick union, prove indeed the possibility of the union of pieces of bone again replaced; but the danger that the re- placed piece will not heal, but, as a foreign body, produce irritation, inflammation, and suppuration, is certainly as great if not greater than the probability that the healing will he rendered quicker and more sure thereby. This replacement of the piece of bone can specially only be attempted when an uninjured skull has been trepanned and nothing found beneath it. [(1) The practice here recommended by Chklius should on no account be followed ; («) Perhet, L’Art de Coutelier, plate cxxxv. part ii. p. 35, plates i. ii. Fero zur Lehrevonder > Trepanation; in von Graefe und Walther’s . i- *‘Yfeland s Journal der praktisclien Arz- Journal, vol. ii. p. 576, and the Supplement to this ieik, vol. xxvii. part ii., xxxi. p. 35.—Ibid, vol. paper by Sich, ibid, p. 592.