DISLOCATION OF 812 is best to remove the astragalus entirely, seizing it with the fingers, or with the forceps, and separating its connexions with a bistoury or curved scis- sors, in which we must keep on the outside specially for the division of the interosseous ligaments. The wound is to be brought together with sticking plaster, or lightly covered with lint, and the foot and leg kept in a proper position by Sauter’s or Eickheimer’s apparatus. The joint-surfaces of the shin-bone are to be brought in contact with the heel- bone. The cure follows, although with shortening, yet with proper use- fulness of the foot, so that the patient can gradually walk without diffi- culty, as I myself noticed in one case. If, after fruitless attempts at reduction, gangrenous inflammation, suppuration, and the like ensue, the removal of the astragalus is the only remedy, by which these dangerous unexpected symptoms may be easily got rid of, as thereby both the experi- ence of others, as well as my own, prove the seemingly necessary ampu- tation may be avoided. 1102. If the astragalus be twisted on its axis, and at the same time dislocated from its connexion with the shin-bone, the heel-bone, and navi- cular-bone, every attempt at reduction is actually useless, and the removal of the astragalus is the only way to preserve the foot. Although many observations have been published in which extirpation of the astra- galus has been performed with the most perfect success, when the skin had been de- stroyed by gangrene, or the dislocated hone had been loosened by suppuration, the early extirpation of the bone seems most proper, because thereby manifestly dangerous symp- toms can be prevented. It is scarcely necessary to remember that in this extirpation the injury of the tendons, nerves, and vessels should be most carefully avoided, and every bleeding vessel tied at once. , Upon dislocations of the astragalus compare— Desault, above cited, .vol. i. p. 435. Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 388. Astley Cooper, p. 376. Kognetta, in Archives generates de Medecine, 1833, Dec., p. 485. 1103. The heel-bone may, as a consequence of a fall on the heel, or other violence, be dislocated outwards from its connexion with the astra- galus and cuboid bone. The great deformity of the heel is the ground of this diagnosis. The bone must be pressed back into its place, and there retained by proper apparatus. As the consequence of an old dislocation of the heel-bone which had been produced in early life by violent dragging off' a boot, I have observed degeneration like elephan- tiasis and enlargement of the leg which rendered amputation necessary (a). [The two cases of dislocation outwards of this bone, mentioned by Astley Cooper, were from my notes. In the simple dislocation, (Martin Bentley,) the tuberosity of the heel-hone had nearly disappeared, but the outside of the hone projected on the outer side of the foot much beyond the outer malleolus, immediately beneath which however was a remarkable depression. On the inside there was a remarkable and unnatural projection, caused by the head and inside of the astragalus directly below the inner malleolus; the whole foot was displaced outwards and the toes turned out These appearances must have resulted from the astragalus having been dislocated inwards, from both heel and navicular bone, so that its under joint-surfaces rested on the inner edge of the heel-bone. The dislocation was easily reduced, having bent the thigh and knee on the body and fixed the leg, by laying hold of the metatarsus and of the tuberosity of the heel-bone, and drawing the foot gently and directly from the leg, during which extension Cline put his knee against the outside of the joint, and the foot being pressed against it, the heel and navicular bones readily slipped into their place and the deformity disappeared. In the compound dislocation, (Thomas Gillmore,) a (rc) Heidelb. klinische Annalen, vol. ii. p. 354.