MODE OF 692 cess ; it generally takes place when the separation is slow and the granulating process is quick. This absorption of the dead bone takes place in the fangs of the shedding teeth.” (p. 525-27.) This extract proves that John Hunter had taught the true nature of the exfoliating process at least six or seven years before the publication of Weidmann’s work on Necrosis. And it is very remarkable how nearly the expression of Weid- mann’s opinion on this subject corresponds with Hunter’s. “ The actual cause,” says he, “ of that separation consists in the removal of those adjacent and cohering particles between the living and dead part, in such way, however, that the greater portion is re- moved from the living and some from the dead part.” (p. 25.) “ The first appearance of separation,” says Hunter, “ is an alteration in the part round the exfoliating piece. This alteration is first a sponginess; next, its becoming fuller of little holes ; then a small grove is produced, a kind of worm-eaten canal about the thickness of a shilling, becoming gradually deeper and deeper, and the depth is irregular, according to the extent of the original cause. The small holes appear at first in the surrounding parts, and these appear more vascular the more so the nearer the diseased bone. Sometimes parts become dead without any change of colour, dying almost suddenly, perhaps by exposure or a blow, and the surrounding parts become spongy ; the dead portion then looks the soundest, but when killed by previous diseases it is black. After exfoliation the living surface still continues soft until bone is formed. If it be a cylindrical bone it has the appearance of a foetus’s bone deprived of its epiphysis; it is hollow, but fills like a growing bone, in every respect, by bony matter deposited.” (p. 527.) The subject of exfoliation has been well gone into by Miescher, and it is inter- esting to observe how completely his experiments and observations confirm Hunter’s statements. “ For the first few days,” says Miescher, “ it is not possible to determine how far the necrosis extends; although the colour appears changed on the external surface, yet it so gradually subsides into the healthy colour of the bone, that it is impossible certainly to define the boundary between them. Gradually, however, there appears a certain thinning of the bony tissue, the medullary canalicules seem here and there enlarged, so that a sort of diplo'e, as it were, is produced, the cells of which are filled with a kind of soft reddish substance. The walls of the cells become daily thinner and thinner, till at length they entirely disappear, so that the living and dead bone are no longer connected by bony substance; the necrotic part now alone adheres by a few very delicate fibres to the soft substance I have mentioned, and is movable, but at length these fibres either subside of their own accord, or are easily separated; which done, the exfoliation is com- pleted, and the bone appears covered with a layer of that soft substance, or with granu- lations. These changes do not take place at the same time in the necrotic piece, but first at its external edge forming the so-called groove, and thence by little and little pass on towards the centre. Hence it appears that in the part where the dead and living bone touch, absorption of the bony substance is taking place, proceeding as it would seem from the medullary canalicules and thence gradually breaking up the cohesion between the dead and living bone, till at last it is completely destroyed. The gaps, moreover, as they are gradually formed, we perceive to be filled with soft substance, which, when the separation is perfected, covers the bone sometimes writh a thicker, sometimes with a thinner layer, secretes pus, and rises into granulations. Many have considered this to be softened bone; but this doctrine agrees neither with the production nor structure of that substance, for following it out from its beginning, we find, as already noticed by that very able and diligent observer Troja, first, a reddish matter, little tenacious, almost gelati- nous ; subsequently when it has become somewhat firmer, we perceive, by the aid of the microscope, a structure similar to granulations, such as are on soft parts; not, indeed, like the cartilage of bones, which ought to be found, if this matter be taken for softened bony tissue, that is, deprived of its earthy parts. Therefore is it believed to be recently formed, precisely as every kind of granulation; which opinion, its very nature, after- wards, especially favours.’'' * * What has been here said in regard to superficial necrosis and the external powers, applies to every kind of necrosis; which from whatever cause arising, whether it attack the external or internal surface of the bone, or its whole mass or only part, always presents in its exfoliation the same phenomena, and always when separated, leaves the surface of the bone covered with granulations and secreting pus. (pp. 200, 201.) Upon the disputed question whether in the separation of a necrotic piece of bone there be any absorption of the dead portion, or whether the absorption be confined only to the