BOIL OR FURUNCLE. 132 IV.—OF BOIL OR FURUNCLE. Berlen, Dissert, de Furunculo. Gottingse, 1797. Heim, Erfahrungen liber die Furunkeln ; in Horn’s Neuen Arcliiv., vol. vii. p. 151. Jourdan,—Article, Furoncle ; in Dictionn. des Sciences Medicales, vol. xvii. Alibert, Nosograpliie des Dermatoses, vol. i. p. 221. Paris. 1832. folio. Dupuytren ; in Le^ns Orales, vol. iv. p. 109. Copeland, James, M.D.,—Article, Furuncular Diseases; in liis Dictionary of Prac- tical Medicine, vol. i. 114. The Boil or Furuncle (Furunculus, Lat.; der Blutschwar oder der Furunkel, Germ.; Furoncle, Fr.) is a hard, bounded, deep red, raised and very painful swelling-, situated in the sebaceous follicles of the skin, occur- ring on all parts of the body, and usually terminating in suppuration. A slight pain first attacks some one part of the skin, and a little swel- ling appears, which, as the pain increases, becomes elevated, hard, and of a deep red colour, and attains various degrees of size, rarely, however, exceeding that of a pigeon’s egg. In delicate persons, and in children, or, if the boil be seated in a sensible part, febrile symptoms often arise, loss of sleep, want of appetite, convulsions and so on. The swelling becomes white at the top, it breaks, some pus mixed with blood is discharged, and then the bag of the gland together with the destroyed cellular tissue is thrown off like a grayish-white core, or set-fast, as it is vulgarly called, (EiterpropJ, Germ.; Bourbillon, Fr.,) after which the surrounding hardness subsides. The sebaceous glands of tlie skin are not contingently attacked by the inflammation in boil, if the furuncular inflammation of the cellular tissue occur in its neighbourhood (Walther) ; but the sebaceous glands are originally the seat of the inflammation, and from them the inflammation spreads into the surrounding cellular tissue, as is proved by the little hard knot out of which the boil is always developed. The boil is only one link in the changes of the sebaceous glands, produced by inflammation, and only a gradual variation from the pimples and red spots so frequent on the face. These pimples, the mere inflammation of the excretory ducts of the sebaceous glands, may be always easily removed and their passage into a little pustule prevented, if they be squeezed early, which discharges a tallow-like substance from the duct. As the pimples are connected with the boil, as inflammatory affections of the sebaceous glands and their ducts, so also the maggots (commedones) are plugs in the excretory ducts, and the little pearl-like, almost transparent vesicles, which often occur in great numbers on the face of persons with tender skin, and which, if cut into or pulled out, present a tallowy substance enclosed in a bluish-white bag beneath the skin, to the sebaceous tumours—as chronic changes of the sebaceous glands. [Gendrin (a) denies that cores are sloughs, but says they are morbid secretions or pseudo-membranes, the product of the inflammation of the inter-areolar cellular processes; and that they consist of a viscid semi-transparent homogeneous yellowish-white sub- stance without any vessels and without the least trace of organization, (p. 19.) Boils are divided by Alibert (l>) into four kinds, each presenting special characters. 1. The Common Boil (Furoncle Vulgaireor Clou') described above. 2. The Wasp’s-Nest Boil (Furoncle Guepier) is also called by some the Malignant Boil, and by others the Mild Carbuncle, though they only described Malignant Carbuncle: the two diseases, however, appear to Alibert decidedly distinct, and justify their separation and the arrangement of the so-called mild carbuncle with boils, of which, indeed, it is merely an agglomera- tion, indicated by a hard tumour surrounded with a red and inflamed zone, and having its top covered with one or more vesicles which shew its serous character: the pain is severe, the heat pungent and burning; pulsation and fluctuation are soon felt; the skin thins, and, numerous perforations being formed, a kind of grayish sanious skin separates in flakes, or may be removed in pieces, and the tegument covering the tumour separates during its course. This form of boil generally attacks the nape and region of the neck, (a) Above cited, vol. i. (&) Quoted at the head of the article.