743 TREATMENT BY URETHROPLASTY. 961. According to Dieffenbach, if there be a hole close behind the prepuce, the external layer of the prepuce should be transplanted back- wards as an entire ring, the outer layer of the prepuce being raised up before the fistula and cut through, so that the wound may occupy more than two-thirds of the circumference of the penis. Behind the fistula a corresponding incision is formed by the oblique division of a longitudinal fold, so that the two cuts join at their extremities, and thus an oval island is formed, having in the middle the fistula which has been prepared by some strokes of the knife laid flat. The edge of the wound in the prepuce is now raised with a pair of hook forceps, the cellular tissue connecting the outer and inner folds of the prepuce, divided with eye-scissors, the framulum cut through, as well as the outer fold of the prepuce, where con- nected with the (/Ians, and thus an opening is formed of half an inch for the introduction of a small bougie, for the escape of the secretion of the wound and the prevention of urinary effusion. The hinder edge of the outer layer of the prepuce is to be drawn back and united to the cor- responding wounded edge of the skin of the penis by seven or eight stitches and the connexion supported by narrow strips of plaster crossing in the back of the penis. In very narrow prepuce both its layers must be divided to the corona. 962. In large openings immediately behind the ejlans, if the prepuce be deficient, Dieffenbach recommends the removal of the callous edges, so as to form a transverse cleft, and then by depressing the (/Ians the edges of the wound are brought together and united by two interrupted stitches, the one end of which is to be cut off and the other carried by a blunt needle through the fistula to the mouth of the urethra. The neighbourhood of the fistula and the whole under surface of the ejlans is then to be set free, to the extent of a line with a pair of hook forceps and a small scalpel. The extent of the cut must be bounded by penetrating perpendicular incisions, and the wound have the shape of a half oval, of which the rounded part is to be directed towards the orifice of the urethra, its straight part back- wards and its two angles reaching up to the back of the penis. The skin is now raised in a longitudinal fold, at the hinder and under part of the penis, and cut through obliquely, so that the ends of the cut are directed upwards and forwards. This bridge of skin, so entirely separated that it remains connected only on the back of the penis, is drawn forwards over the surface of the wound and over the fistula, and connected with the edges of the wound of the ejlans by fine interrupted stitches. The hinder surface of the wound is covered with soft lint and sticking plaster, and beneath the hind edge of the ring of skin, a piece of bougie is introduced in order to carry off the urine somewhat escaping by the side of the catheter. Inflammation is to be prevented by cold applications and subsequently lukewarm lead wash, and the threads projecting from the urethra, as well as the catheter, are to be drawn out when they have cut through the edges. In one case Dieffenbach had a favourable result; in another the cure was frustrated by erection and discharge of the semen. Upon Urethroplasty compare— Cooper, A., above cited. Delpech, Cliirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, vol. ii. p. 581. Beandin, Autoplastic, p. 180. Dieffenbach, Ueber die Heilung widernaturlichen Oeffnungen in den oordcren Theile der m'annlichen Harnrohre; in Hamburger Zeitsclirift, vol. ii. pt. i. Zeis, Handbuch der plastisclien Cliirurgie, p. 506.