[ 710 ] II.—OF FISTULAS. ( Fistula’, Lat.; Fisteln, Germ.; Fistules, Fr.) 898. Unnatural, old apertures, by which fluids are emptied from any cavity or duct externally, or into another cavity, are called Fistulas. By this definition fistulas are distinguished from fistulous sores. [“ The term ‘fistula’ gives a very inadequate notion of the disease,” observes John Hunter, “ the fistulous canal being ouly the sign of the disease,—the means of con- veying a fluid or extraneous matter to the surface. A fistula is the consequence of the powers of a part not being able to remove the original cause, so that the original cause and some of its effects remain.” (p. 577.)] 899. The causes of fistulas, are either injuries, by external violence, of the cavities in which the fluids are collected, or of the ducts by which they are discharged, if they be not cured by quick union, or stopping up of the ducts, by which the fluids collected in large quantities produce tearing, inflammation, suppuration, and mortification, causing extravasa- tion of the fluid, and the cellular tissue, and an unnatural opening for its escape; or inflammation and ulceration on or in the walls of the cavities and ducts, by which the latter are destroyed. Fistulas, if not consequent on injury, usually commence with abscess, which, on bursting, discharges pus of different kinds, by one or several apertures, communicating either directly with the cavities, or running in various turns and windings. If the fistulous passage be very short, it diminishes in size, as the inflam- mation lessens, the external opening contracts, and its edges scar, but without closing. If the fistulous canal be longer, the external opening contracts, is surrounded by a little fungous wall, which presents in its middle a narrow and often scarcely observable opening. By the conti- nuance of the inflammation, to a cei’tain degree, in the whole canal, and in the neighbouring parts, the whole internal lining of the canal is gra- dually converted into a mucous tissue, distinguished only from true mucous membrane, by the absence of mucous glands, and of the epider- moidal covering, and itself prevents the healing of the canal. But, for the most part, in long continued fistulas, the neighbouring parts become hardened, and form, more or less, grayish white, thick hard masses, (callosities,') between which the fistulas run. The same changes also occur in fistulous passages (par. 65.) [“ The causes of fistula,” says Hunter, “ are various, but may be divided into two classesfirst, the obstruction of the passage of some natural secretion, as fistula of the parotid gland; or of the canal for the passage of extraneous matter, as the intestines being strangulated, so as to mortify, or being wounded; but all obliterations of the ducts, where the fluids make a new passage, will not be termed fstulce; secondly, the formation of pus or extraneous matter in a part requiring a passage, as in Jistida in ano, fistula in the joints, and fistula from diseased hone.” [It will be observed that this second class of fistulas has not been enumerated by Chelius, although, however, he subsequently treats of them.—j. f. s.] “ We shall consider the causes of fistulas,-—ls*> The obliteration of ducts, or canals, is the first cause. This arises from obstruction of the natural passages, in consequence of which a new one is formed for the passage of the natural secretion. These obliterations often arise from a thickening of the sides of the ducts, as in the urethra, nasal duct, &c., from inflammation; sometimes from the venereal disease, or scrofula,; and sometimes from accident, as in the parotid duct. These obliterations are often very troublesome, obstructing the evacuation of the natural secretions, •which is very teasing to the part, and when complete is very serious in its consequences. In most there is a new passage when complete, which is made by inflammation and ul- ceration ; these new passages are called fistulous; the discharge is the natural secretion, mixed with the pus from the inflamed vessels of the sides of the passage. If this new passage answers all the purposes of the original one, it cannot well be called fistulous; when from a mortified or wounded intestine, it is called an artificial anus; when in the perinceum, it is for the passage of the urine. There are often accumulations of secreted