105 SYMPTOMATIC PSEUDO-ERYSIPELAS. constantly bedewed with perspiration, emitting a peculiarly offensive odour. The affec- tion sometimes occurs in both extremities, and frequently in one only. “ In the second description of cases, although the soldier assigns the same cause of disability as in the preceding, the anatomical character of the disease offers a marked difference. There appear simply to be induration and rigidity, without thickening of the subcutaneous cellular substance. I know of no specific term by which it could be appropriately designated. The lower part of the leg, and frequently the back of the foot, appears hide-bound, the limb feeling hard and smooth, from loss of extensibility in the filamentous web, which no longer possesses that yielding looseness necessary to the due performance of its functions, so that the smallest fold of the skin cannot be grasped between the thumb and finger. The affection is unattended by swelling, except inci- i dentally from unusual exertion. The examples which have come to my knowledge Ihave been invariably confined to one extremity. * * * Of the first, which, in its advanced stage, may be considered as a species of compact cedema, we find no account in the j accurate Treatise of Dr. Craigxe, and only a doubtful notice by Dr. Otto ; of the second, i I am unaware of any description.” (p. 309.) “ The chronic induration and thickening of the cellular substance may probably arise from a variety of causes, of which repeated ; attacks of erysipelas appear to be one ; but the first two cases described in this paper, as j well as others which I have seen, were not preceded by inflammatory symptoms. Nor i was there any swelling or pain in the tract of the absorbing vessels.” * * * It would appear merely conjectural to refer the affection to a change in the veins ; but)the follow- ing circumstances are worthy of remark in connexion with the subject,—viz., the examples of phlegmasia doleus, from inflamed veins; of cedema of the lower extremities, from the accumulation of clots in the veins of the limb, without their obvious inflamma- tion, and of chronic cedema from the irregular congestion of the capillaries, without any ; discoverable alteration of the venous trunks during life. “ But we have no reason to suppose that the induration without thickening of the cellular substance is dependent on any change in the veins; and, until the precise ana- tomical character of the disease has been shown by dissection, the descriptive appellation > should be admitted with reserve. From the unaltered size of the limb, it is difficult to i ascribe the hide-bound condition of the part either to hypertrophy or atrophy of the ' cellular substance; for which reason it appears most probable that the affection is simply an induration or rigidity of this texture,—an effect probably of very slow inflammatory * action, sometimes arising from local injury, and not unfrequently without any assignable ii cause.” (pp. .311, 12.) This latter form is very curious, and I believe entirely undescribed, nor does it readily admit of solution. The former kind seems to me very similar to the brawny condition above mentioned.—J. F. S.] 85. Symptomatic pseuclo-enjsipelas is distinguished from the idiopathic or common inflammation of the skin produced by irritation ; the inflamma- tory redness is not so distinctly spread ; at some little spots it is more intense, here and there inclining to violet; the affected part is less hot, ' more doughy, sometimes also hard and knotty, and often at the very be- ginning of the disease, distinctly fluctuating to the touch. The patient i does not complain of such burning, but of a gnawing or beating pain, not proportioned to the degree of inflammation, and situated deeply in the limb. The swelling also bears no proportion to the degree of inflamma- tion, but is in direct relation to the pain. Painful and knotty hardening of the skin frequently precedes its inflammation. When the inflammation has taken place, it always spreads farther, usually, however, more slow than quick, creeping, as it were, towards the affected parts. The ordinary means of resolution are of little use ; in most cases, the disease is chronic, and single spots are often observed, which suddenly become more sunken, more or less distinctly fluctuating, mortified or destroyed in some way or other. All the external causes which could have given rise to ordinary in- flammation of the skin are deficient also at the beginning of the disease. 86. The etiology of pseudo-erysipelas is clear from what has been already said of its several kinds. In reference to the necrotic hardening of the cellular tissue, which is the most usual cause of pseudo-erysipelas, it must