298 COMPRESSION OF ARTERIES circumscriptum seu consecutivum.) If the blood cannot escape by the ex- ternal opening' of the wound, it extravasates into the cellular tissue of the whole limb, which swells up considerably (Aneurysma spurium diffusum seu primitivum.) 279. In slight and, especially, in longitudinal wounds of arteries, obser- vation proves the possibility of the wounded edges uniting, by the process of adhesive inflammation, and the area of the artery being preserved, so that after a time no trace of a scar, either on the outer or inner surface of the artery, can be discovered. But, in every considerable wound of an artery, its canal is diminished by the outpouring of the coagulable lymph (a). The experiments, however, of Saviard (b), Petit (c), and Scarpa (d), show that, if the healing of an arterial wound take place with preservation of its tube, the wound of the artery is not ever cicatrized, but may he closed by a plug of plastic matter, which is firmly connected with the vessel. 280. The means by which bleeding may be stanched are, the compres- sion, ligature, and torsion of arteries, styptic astringent remedies and cauterization. 281. The compression of arteries is either mediate or immediate. The artery is mediately compressed by pressing it, between the wounded part and the heart, with the finger, with the tourniquet, with special compresses, . with graduated compresses, and with tightly drawn bandages. By mediate compression, the last two methods excepted, we guard, rather, against bleed- ing, (for instance, in surgical operations,) or merely employ it for the mo- ment, till more suitable assistance is obtained, as the strangulation of the limb, unavoidably attending this compression, cannot generally be long borne. 282. Pressure with the fingers is to be performed with one or both thumbs upon some part of the artery where it is superficial, and lies near a bone, for instance, on the horizontal branch of the pubic bone, in the course of the brachial artery, the subclavian artery above the clavicle on the first rib, &c. A proper compressor may also be used instead of the finger, which may be made to press on the given place; as the compressor of Ehrlich (e), the place of which, on an emergency, may be supplied with a key, ora boot-hook covered with linen. 283. The tourniquet (torcular, tornaculum) is divided into two kinds, that which, besides compressing the artery, also presses around the whole limb, and that which compresses only the principal trunk of the artery. To the former kind belongs the field or stick tourniquet, (invented byMoRELL at the siege of Besantjon, in 1674,) of which there are various modifications, as the ) screw tourniquet, the simple contrivances of the English field tourniquet, < and of Assalini’s buckle tourniquet. Morell’s tourniquet consists ofa pad stuffed with hair, of a strong bandage, an ell and a half, or two ells long, of a stick of tough wood, and of a piece of leather which has on both sides / a cut for the passage of the bandage. The screw tourniquet is similar to the I former, in that the bandage which passes over the pad is tightened by means of a screw which rests on the side of the limb opposite to the pad. The tourniquet which merely compresses the principal trunk of the artery, with- out circularly pressing on the whole limb, is that of Petit, who, as his 1 (a) Jones, above cited: von Winter; in Sie- boi.d’s Chiron, vol. i. p. 366; von Walther, ib., vol. iii. p. S3 : Textor ; in N. Chiron, vol. i. part iii. p. 423: von Winter, Beschreibung der Schlagader-Verletzungin rechten Ellenbogen Hirer Majestiit der Konigin von Baiern, u. s. w. (printed from the Neue Chiron., vol. iii.) Sulzbach, 1825 ; in the same paper are also found collected many old observations connected with this subject. (6) Journal des Scavans, a.d. 1691. (c) Mem. de 1 Acad, de Chirurg., vol. vi. p. 2ol- (d) Sull’ Aneurisma Rellessioni ed Osservaziom j Anatomico-Chirurgiche. Pavia, 1804. fol. (e) Chirurgische Bcobachtungen, vol. i. plate n. 4 fig. 5.