STRUCTURE OF 224 bony. They are more easily split transversely than in any other direction, their broken surface presents a fibrous appearance, but when placed under the microscope forthwith lose it, and exhibit none other than a regular pellucid substance with ovate corpuscles. These are ranged in the manner of clusters; their longitudinal diameter is situated transversely, as is very distinctly perceived in the thick cartilage covering the joint surface of the knee-cap. On the corpuscles being thus arranged depends the fibrous appearance.” (p. 25.) Todd and Bowman (a), however, consider there is a difference between temporary and articular cartilage. In the latter “ the cells are oval or roundish, often disposed in small sets of two, three, or four, irregularly disseminated through a nearly homogeneous matrix which is more abundant than in the former.” This, however, is in reality all the differ- ence which even they point out, as although they say “ in the inner part of the cartilages of incrustation (a term applied to articular cartilages by some anatomists) we usually find the cells assuming more or less of a linear direction and pointing towards the surface, which arrangement is probably connected with a corresponding peculiarity of texture of the intercellular substance, but which it is more difficult to distinguish; for these specimens have a disposition to fracture in a regular manner along planes vertical to the surface, and the broken surface is striated in the same direction.” Yet had they previously stated, in reference to temporary cartilage, “ When ossification begins, the cells which hitherto were scattered without definite arrangement become disposed in clusters or rows, (Miescher’s exact expression corpuscula raceniorum in modum con- sita,) the ends of which are directed towards the ossifying part.” (p. 90.) The fibrous structure of articular cartilage as described by William Hunter is explained in the following way by Henle (b):—“ I have sometimes observed,” says he, “ the contour of the cavities projecting from one longitudinal row of cavities (in the cartilage) to the next, and it appeared as if a part of the cavity together with the en- closed cells were separated by a cleft. It is, however, possible that these are the hollow parts of one system of long canals which twisted, or perhaps also in rare cases divided angularly, penetrate the cartilage from its lower towards its upper surface, and remain in the cleft partially in the one and partly in the other segment. By this formation is satisfactorily explained why the articular cartilage presents a fibrous fractured surface, and seemed to the old observers to consist of fibres which ran perpendicularly through its thickness. Next the free surface they are more lamellar and can be separated into delicate plates (Meckauer). The flattened cells of this layer have the closest re- semblance with the epithelial cells of the synovial membrane and often subside imper- ceptibly into it; but usually a layer of connecting tissue forms the boundary between them.” (p. 796.) “ Most cartilages,” says Henle, “ are devoid of vessels. The joint-cartilages at their adhering surface are in contact with the very vascular bones, at their free surface they are overspread with synovial membrane; in the connecting tissue of which, however, in the newly born child, and sometimes even in the adult, vessels pass from the edge, and are rendered apparent by injection. Perhaps they originally cover the entire surface and sub- sequently are obliterated towards the edge from which they are reflected out of the syno- vial membrane upon the capsular ligament. But in the adult no branches either from the bone or from the synovial membrane penetrate into the cartilage.” (pp. 802, 3.) “ The cartilaginous covering of joints is not at first separate from that part of the bone cartilage which will be ossified. During the period of ossification there is a con- siderable layer of vessels between the cartilage and the already perfectly ossified parts, and it is easy to separate the two parts” (as already stated by Hunter.) “ Both have irregular surfaces, elevations, and depressions, by which they hold together. In 'pro- portion as ossification extends towards the epiphysis, the vascular layer shrinks and the adhesion becomes more intimate. In newly-born children, however, pretty wide but only slightly branching canals with blood-vessels from without, and from the surface, covered with synovial membrane, penetrate the cartilage deep enough to reach the epiphysal cartilage. * * * When the formation of cartilage is completed, the vessels retract from it, and in the adult its nutrition seems derived only from the vessels of the adjacent bone and perichondrium, perhaps in the joint cartilages also mediately from the synovia which comes from the vessels of the synovial membrane, and the so-called Haverschian glands. The taking up of the plasma thus follows by saturation and thereto seems the special use of the cavities of cartilage. * * * Macerated cartilage is often distinctly (a) Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of (6) Allgemeine Anatomic. Lehre von den Mis- hkin, chap. iv. London, 1843. 8vo. chungs und Formbestandtheilen des menschlichen Kbrpers. Leipzig, 1841. 8vo.