TREATMENT. 7 26 tinued, and closing of the fistula only attempted, when the relief of the bowels has been effected for some time in the natural way, even r without injections. The closing of the fistula (often the most difficult part of the whole treatment) may be effected by quiet, by a moderate compressing apparatus with variously-formed pads and elastic belly-band, by touching with lunar caustic, by pressing the edges of the fistula together with a peculiar compresser (a) invented by Dupuytren, by sticking plaster, by suture, or by the removal of the whole circle of mucous membrane preventing adhesion at the mouth of the fistula, and even by detaching part of the external coverings above the opening, and laying it before it. In general a small fistulous opening remains for years, then only occasionally do a few drops of intestinal dirt escape, and afterwards it closes of itself. In those cases where artificial anus cannot be cured, various proposals have been made to catch the excrement. The most simple, and in most cases most suitable, is a belly-band, which, in- stead of a pad, is furnished with an ivory plate having an opening in its middle, and connected by means of a cylinder of elastic rosin, with a silver vessel, out of which the escape of the stools is prevented by a valve (b). iDiEFFENBACH (c) at last cured an artificial anus arising from a lance wound, which had withstood every plan of treatment, in the following manner :—He destroyed with the hot iron not only the edge of the intestine adhering to the opening, but also a con- siderable portion of the intestine within the belly, and in every cauterization the peri- toneum participated. This burning was free from pain. He first burned the edges of the intestine; some days after, he introduced a curved hot iron, of the thickness of a feather-stem, through the hole, into the cavity of the intestine and carried it round. The opening gradually became smaller ; granulations sprung from within, and by re- peated burnings with smaller hooks, which he introduced to the extent of an inch about the inner edge of the opening, it diminished to the size of a small fistula. This also closed by the repeated introduction of a heated fine silver probe. The patient was perfectly restored after nine months. 922. If an unnatural anus communicate with the ccecum, anti arises from ulceration, neither funnel-shaped lengthening of the peritoneum, nor projecting partition are produced, as after gangrene of a coil of intestine; and it is therefore more difficult to cure. Suture is useless. The skin has been detached about the opening, and brought together with some stitches, but equally without avail. Autoplasty has been attempted, but the laps have sloughed. The skin about the opening may be pared off', without the inner parts being touched, so that the escape of fasculent matter may be prevented, and that the dragging of the threads may be better borne ; otherwise, for the purpose of rendering the tearing and dragging less, semicircular cuts maybe made in the skin, of which the concavities should be directed towards the unnatural anal opening, upon which, when the operation is finished, slight pressure may be made by graduated compresses. Velpeau (<i) also proposes the introduction of a tube of gum elastic, pro- vided with several holes, through which waxed threads are to be carried, from within outwards, through the previously pared edges of the opening. When the aperture has scarred, the threads are to be cut through, and then the tube being set free, passes by stool ; a mode of treatment similar to that proposed by Reybard for the union of wounds of intestines ( par. 525.) Perhaps Dieffexbach’s above-mentioned burnings may be appli- cable to such cases of artificial anus. (a) Breschet, above cited, pi. iii. fig. 2. (6) Cot.lier, in Fotheroii.l.’s Medical and (d) Memoire sur 1‘Anus contre nature depourvu Physical Journal, 1820, June. d’eperon, et sur une nouvelle maniore de le traiter. (c) Casper’s Wochenschrift, fur die ges. Ileilk., Paris, 1836. 1S34, p. 263.