INTRODUCTION. I. DEFINITION OF SURGERY. ITS RELATION TO TIIE HEALING ART IN GENERAL. DIVISION OF SURGICAL DISEASES. All diseases to which the animal organism is exposed, are the object of the science of healing, the purpose of which is their prevention, cure, or alleviation. The means we employ to these ends are either dietetic or pharmaceutic, or they consist in the application of suitable mechanism, which we call surgical means, and the doctrine of their proper employ- ment, which is called surgery. Every mechanical influence employed with skill upon the diseased organism is called a surgical operation. This influence consists either in a direct interference with the form and natural connexion of the part (Bloody operations, Akiurgie (a), Germ.) ; or only in a momentary or continued application of mechanism fitted to the surface of our bodies ; to which belong bandages and machines, simple manipulations for restoring the natural position of parts, and the employment of suitable mechanism for repairing parts which have been destroyed (Kosmetik (Z>), Germ.) There are diseases which specially require the employment of one or other class of the means just mentioned : the purpose, however, of the healing art is in most cases but imperfectly attained, if the medical man be not possessed of the requisite knowledge for deciding upon the neces- sary connexion of these means, so as properly to conduct their operation by a sufficient acquaintance with the laws of our organism, whence it necessarily follows that there cannot be established any true separation between the so-called medical and surgical treatment. The employment of surgical means calls for peculiar dexterity and i aptness which natural talents and disposition and long practice can alone H confer. “Esse autem chirurgus debet,” says Cels us (e), “ adolcsccns, aut cert'e adolesccntice propior, manu strenua, stabili nec uncpuam intrcmis- cente, edque non minus sinistra quam dextrd promptus, acie oculorum acri dardque; animo intrepidus, immisericors, sic, ut sanari velit cum, qucm \ accej)it, non ut clamore ejus motus, vcl magis, quam res desidcrat, properet, k vel minus, quam necesse est, secet; sed perinde faciat omnia, ac si nullus f exvagitibus alterius affectus oriretur.” Only in reference therefore to the physical and psychical characters of the medical man, can there be any I. division in the practice of medicine and surgery: in their attainment they cannot be separated, and, by the union of medical and surgical study alone, I) can the foundation be destroyed upon w hich so much bungling, and so many practices unworthy of the spirit of high art, have hitherto been sup- I ported. J i ° r ^ ion? t*le edSe of a knife ; loyov, an opera- VOL. I. h) Kotr/u-iu, to set in order, c) De Medicina, praef. ad lib. vii. B