349 DISSECTION. the bite of the viper, and of rabid beasts. The poisoning of wounds re- ceived in dissection by putrid matter may be also here included. 352. Wounds in dissection do not always cause the same symptoms ; i much in this respect depends on the constitution of the wounded person, on the constitution of the atmosphere, and on the condition of the subject. , Cuts are not so dangerous as punctures, and the latter are less dangerous on the front than on the back of the hand. Often merely an active inflammation . takes place at the wounded part, with severe pain and swelling of the lympli- >i atic vessels. With these local symptoms (which mostly occur after from ten i to sixteen hours) symptoms of nervous fever are often connected. In d these injuries the wound must be carefully cleansed, allowed to bleed suffi- I ciently, washed with water, sucked, covered with sticking plaster, and pro- 1 tected, so that it cannot come anew into contact with putrid matter. I v have constantly found it very advantageous to wrap up the finger from its i tip onwards with a closely applied bandage. If severe inflammation take >i place, leeches must be applied, warm narcotic remedies used, and when I abscesses have formed they are to be opened early. When the symptoms of i nervous fever come on, the usual mode of treatment is to be employed. Many believe that the symptoms after injuries in dissection do not depend on the ab- lq sorption of putrid matter, but on the constitution of the injured person, wherefore they si reject all escharotics. Whether this opinion be well founded or not, I however agree with them in regard to the application of caustic; as thereby irritation and inflammation f of the wound, with its consequences, which otherwise would not have happened, would n i be only too easily produced (a). Shaw, J. (6), distinguishes those which occur in dissection, into such as arise from the examination, a short time after death, of subjects which have died from inflammation of the serous membranes, and those from bodies already putrid; the latter of which are least dangerous. He recommends, after sufficient bleeding from the wound, fomenta- tions of GouLARD-water and laudanum, then a smart dose of calomel and antimony, and two hours after a large dose of opium. If the pain still continue the whole arm is to be bathed with lukewarm GouLARD-water and opium ; some ammonia to be given and hot | drinks allowed. He considers leeches and venesection improper. Basedow (c) considers that the wounds produced by poisoning in dissection agree with Malignant Pustule. A careful collection of the various opinions on the nature and treatment of these in- ■* juries is given by M. Leo-Wolf (d). [The question of absorption of poisonous matter into wounds received in dissection, t' has been much'disputed. But I must confess, that, after nearly twenty years constant ■>i employment in the dissecting-room, I almost entirely agree with the opinions held by H Lawrence on this subject. “ It seems to be very doubtful,” says he, “ in those cases I whether anything actually venomous or virulent is introduced, or whether the results »; of these injuries must be said to arise from such wounds, considered merely as me- II chanical wounds. If these be poisonous wounds, the poison certainly follows other laws than those we observe in cases in which we are more intimately acquainted with • the poison * * * If they arise from a poison, then it is one of a very uncertain, and, almost you might say, capricious kind. In the first place, in the great majority of in- » stances of wounds received in dissection, no injurious effect is produced. There are 1 hundreds and hundreds of such wounds always occurring without any injurious conse- quences. It is really only in a very small proportion out of the whole number of wounds that are received, that any prejudicial effects are produced in the human frame. We can perhaps quite as well explain the occurrence of these effects when they do take p.ace, by a reference to the particular state of health of the individual in whom they occur, as by any particular virulent property that might be applied to the wound. Now it happened to myself, when I was employed in dissection, to cut myself hundreds of times in dissecting bodies that have died under every variety of disease, and I never . («) Cooper, Astley, Lectures on the Prin- ciples and Practice of Surgery; with additional vol0- _nd.^?s’ by F- Tyrrell. London, 1824, p. 19-21. (9 On the Treatment of Wounds received during Dissection; in London Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. liii. p. 369. 1825. (c) UeberdieSchwarze Blatter; in vonGraefk und Walther’s Journal, vol. xii. p. 185. (d) Diss. de morbo qui lesione; in cadaveribus dissecandis haud raro sequi solet. lleid., 1882.