110 BURNS. severe inflammation with rising of the cuticle into blisters ( Vesication;) 3. more deeply penetrating, higher inflammation, with the destruction of the cuticle and of the mucous net', 4. gangrenous destruction at different parts and to various depths. Degrees of burns are variously distinguished, as they are considered not merely as to their intensity, but also with reference to their spreading into deeper parts. Many point out but three degrees. Dupuytken has described six ; of which the latter, however, only differ in proportion as the gangrenous destruction is more or less deep, or involves the whole bulk of the limb. The four above-mentioned degrees are based on the cor- responding steps of inflammation, viz., the erythematous, exudative-inflammatory- vesicular, the phlegmono-suppurative and gangreno-sphacelous. According to the variety of causes producing burns are these degrees of burning frequently blended with each other; for instance, in burns with hot fluids. 94. The first degree of burn, arising’ from hot vapour, from the mo- mentary or lengthened touch of a more or less hot body, produces a bright uncircumscribed redness of the skin, as in erysipelas, which for the moment disapppears on pressure of the finger, without swelling, and is accompanied only with increased turgescences of the skin and a little pain. Febrile action only sets in if this degree of burn be much spread and in sensitive persons. The redness of the skin either disappears after some hours or days, when the cuticle scales off. 95. In the second degree, which is most commonly produced by hot fluids, the cuticle rises either at once or gradually into larger or smaller blisters, filled with clear or yellowish fluid, the redness and swelling of the skin is more distinct; the pain severe, burning; and, according to the degree of these appearances and the extent of the burn, do febrile symptoms set in. These blisters either shrivel together and dry, the fluid being absorbed and the skin thrown off, or, if they burst and are opened, the fluid is discharged, the blister falls together, dries, and after some days either a new cuticle is produced or the exposed part suppurates. The i healing leaves no scar. 96. The third degree of burn is usually produced by the flame of fire or by the lengthened touch of hot bodies, especially of hot fluids, and is characterized by gray, yellowish, or brown spots, which are thin and soft, insensible to light pressure, but are painful if the pressure be increased; at the same time generally appear blisters full of brownish or bloody fluid ; the surrounding parts are very red and much swollen. The general reaction corresponds to the degree of the inflammation. After six or eight days, and frequently later, the remains of the destroyed cuticle and mucous net are thrown off, and the cure is effected by granulations and the formation of a white glossy scar. 97. In the fourth, degree of burn the destruction penetrates either through the entire thickness of the skin and cellular tissue, or deeper into and through the muscles to the bone, or the whole part is destroyed and charred. This degree is produced by long contact with fire, red hot or molten metals, boiling fluids. The sloughs differ in thickness, are completely insensible ; soft, gray, or yellow if produced by hot fluids; I brown or black, dry, hard, and sounding when struck, if caused by fire or dry hot bodies. In the immediate neighbourhood of these sloughs the skin is drawn into radiating folds; the surrounding parts are extremely red and swollen, very painful, and frequently beset with blisters. The slough is thrown off' by the suppuration which takes place around it, and a more or less deep suppurating space is produced, which commonly has a j