GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 341 When it has been ascertained, by examining the wound, that no large vessel is rj injured, the most certain remedy to stanch the bleeding is' suitable compression. I When it is impossible, by enlarging the wound, to take up a large vessel in the wound 5 itself, the artery must be laid bare and tied above the wounded part. I [“ If the ball has passed through the fleshy part of the arm, thigh, or buttock, we do no more,” says Hennen, “ than sponge the part clean, place a small bit of folded lint on each orifice, which we retain by two cross slips of adhesive plaster, and lay over two or three turns of a roller. The ball will frequently have passed nearly through the i limb, and be retained only by the elasticity of the common integuments; these we cut upon and extract it at once; and we should lay it down as a rule not to be deviated u from, to extract on the spot every extraneous body that we possibly can, either by the t forceps alone or with a bistoury” (pp. 33, 4.) 341. The remaining treatment of gunshot wounds does not differ from i that of bruised wounds. The orifice is to be covered with a mass of soft ji charpie, which is to be slightly fastened with a bandage, resolving appli- 1 cations of cold water, solution of muriate of ammonia, and so on, are to be laid over the neighbourhood of the wound. The general treatment must be strictly antiphlogistic, according to the state of the constitution and the inflammatory symptoms present. But when the shock is severe, stimu- lating and reviving remedies must be employed in the first instance. 342. If active inflammation and swelling exist, instead of cold applica- tions, warm, softening poultices should be employed to further suppura- tion. When this takes place, the slough in the shot-passage separates, and the vessels, which had been closed in many instances begin to bleed. The n direction of the shot-passage must draw the attention of the surgeon to the possibility of this occurrence. The patient should at this time be ; surrounded with clever assistants, and, if bleeding take place, it must be r stopped by pressure, or by tying the vessel. If the bleeding be connected with inflammatory congestion, cold applications and blood-letting must be |i employed. [Guthrie says:—“ On the separation of the sloughs a little blood may occasionally be lost, but it is generally caused by the impatience of the surgeon, or the irregularity of the patient, and seldom requires attention. Sometimes at this period, that is, from the • eighth to the twentieth day, a large artery will give way from sloughing or ulceration ; but the proportion of cases requiring the ligature of arteries will not be greater than I three or four in a thousand taken indiscriminately, exclusive of haemorrhage caused by hospital gangrene, See., which, as they may almost always be avoided by proper care and management, cannot with propriety be considered as legitimate causes.” (p. 8.) Samuel Cooper’s statement, in regard to bleeding from arteries on the separation of l sloughs, differs materially from that of Guthrie. He says (a):—“ In the beginning there • may even be little haemorrhage, though a considerable artery be so hurt that it after- • wards sloughs, and a dangerous or fatal bleeding arises. Thus, in one of my own : patients, who had received a musket-ball through the ham, the popliteal artery gave ' way about ten days after the injury and compelled me to take up the femoral artery ; I and, in the Elizabeth Hospital at Brussels, amongst the patients under the care of my | friend Mr. Collier and myself, about a week after the battle of Waterloo, the cases of i hamiorrhage, on the loosening of the sloughs, were numerous.” (p. 632.) Dupuytren states, that consecutive haemorrhage “ occurs under two different circum- stances, either the artery has been completely or in part only divided. In the first case, the scar produced by the shot and the clot of blood which forms in its cavity, up to the • ®rst collateral branch, obliterates and suspends the circulation throughout its whole extent. But it often happens that, under the influence of certain causes, the circulation speedily resumes considerable activity, the clot is pushed off, the scar overcome and haemorrhage takes place. In the other case, the obstacles which prevent the bleeding resist till the very moment when the whole internal surface of the wound, and conse- quently the torn and disorganized parts of the artery are detached and thrown off by the suppuration. But at this time, if the end of the artery be obliterated only to a short (a) Surgical Dictionary. Seventh Edition.