BUBOES. 646 lent, that is, dependent on the direct absorption of the specific matter of the syphilis, and then it is the strict consequence of chancre, the pus of which can alone produce it. 3rd, It may be superficial or deep, or may appear in both forms. 4th, It may have its seat in the cellular tissue, in the lymphatic vessels or ganglions, separately or conjointly. 5th, It may be acute or chronic. 6th, It may be preceded by the other symptoms called primary, or it may appear at once. 7th, When other symptoms have appeared before it, it may either follow them immediately, and then be only a successive symptom, or it may present itself at the period of the general symptoms of the pox, and constitute secondary bubo. * * * * Whenever an inflammation of the cellular tissue or of the lymphatic system of the inguino-crural or other regions has been consequent on any other cause than chancre, and suppuration has been the consequence, no result has been obtained by inoculation, whatever have been the period and the conditions under which the pus has been taken. Thence, for instance, when a clap has preceded the bubo, and suppuration has occurred, no inoculable pus is obtained; it is only when preceded by a chancre that a specific pus capable of inoculation is furnished. But it is not sufficient that a chancre should have preceded the bubo, for the latter of necessity to furnish a specific pus; for that purpose the bubo must be neither the result of a simple sympa- thetic or successive inflammation, but there must have been absorption; but absorption, when it occurs after a chancre of the generative organs, affects only the superficial ganglions, and most commonly only one at a time, although more ganglions, either superficial or deep, may be inflamed or swollen at the same time, so that one ganglion actually presents all the characters of a virulent bubo, whilst the neighbouring ones, in which the inflammation has reached to suppuration, as well as the surrounding cellular tissue, present simple and not virulent characters. I was some time before I could well make out these conditions and explain why all the buboes would not inoculate, as those who had repeated my experiments without well knowing them, had asserted; and how it happened that a bubo of which the pus would not inoculate one day would do so on the following; or why in a bubo with separate centres, and which might be called multil ocular, one centre furnished inoculable pus and the other did not. I then set about being more exact in my experiments, and first inoculated all buboes, immediately on opening them, with the first pus that escaped, and the result was negative, which explained M. Cuixerier’s statement, who had perhaps only experimented under these circumstances, or with simple buboes. I then, at two, three, four, five days and more, after opening, took some pus from these same buboes, and then the pus exhibited in many instances positive results, and in others the inoculation continued to produce nothing. In the former case the centre, as well as the edges of the opening, delayed not to take on the characters of chancre, whilst in the latter the abscess followed the course of simple phlegmonous or lymphatic abscess to its cure. An important question then remained for decision, whether in the case where the pus of the bubo had not inoculated at the instant of the opening, it had not acquired its inoculable quality by contact with the air, or by the external mixture, after opening with the pus of a pre- existing chancre, or in some other manner. The solution appeared very difficult, when a patient came to me with a bubo following a chancre, and with large suppuration. I opened the abscess, but after having discharged the pus from the cellular tissue, I found in the middle of its centre a very large lymphatic gland fluctuating in its centre. This I opened, and with the pus it contained made an inoculation, and at the same time a similar one with pus from the neighbouring parts, that is, from the cellular tissue; and whilst the pus from the ganglion produced the characteristic pustule, that from the cellular tissue produced nothing. * * * The same results were obtained by pus from the course of the lymphatic vessels. * * * But as to the deep ganglionic swellings called deep buboes, when they suppurate, which is much more rarely than the super- ficial, the pus furnished from them never inoculates, unless in a purulent > they are found after the cut bathed in the pus of a neighbouring chancre or by an in- fected superficial ganglion ; but never in this case are the deep ganglions infected by absorption.” (p. 62-6; Fr. edit., p. 138-146.) Upon the question of the existence of syphilitic buboes, without primary sore, Hun- ter speaks with caution. He says, indeed, “ the first and most simple mode (of absorp- tion) is where the matter either of a gonorrhoea or chancre has only been applied to some sound surface without having produced any local effect on the part, but has been absorbed immediately upon its application.” But almost immediately after he observes:— “ It must be allowed that this mode of absorption is very rare; and if we were to examine the parts very carefully, or inquire of the patient very strictly, probably a small chancre might be discovered to have been the cause, which I have more than once seen.” Another concludes, “ there is, however, no great reason why it should not