601 FOR CLEFT IN THE HARD PALATE. mode of operating for cleft palate, as if executed upon the lips of the fissure their whole length, it is not to be inferred that we advise the measure in every case. On the contrary, this will seldom be safe, especially when the fissure is very extensive. The sections c may be formed as we have described them, the whole length of the lips of the cleft, but it will not be safe to attempt to insert ligatures, at the first operation, to more than a third or half of the margins thus incised. * * * After the margins of the denuded and incised lips have been approximated and firmly united at the median line of their contact, and sufficient time has been allowed for the subsidence of the several traumatic, irritative and inflammatory movements, as well as for the consolidation of the union of the parts involved in the operation, the remainder of the cleft may be closed in the same manner, only extending the diagonal section now quite through the uvulal margins, which, after they are approximated in the line of the fissure by the suture, but not confined in close contact, may themselves have sutures applied on their posterior margins, merely to pre- vent the displacement of the cut edges, and to keep the surfaces in contact as far as they are opposed to or overlap each other. * * * This operation will be equally applicable when the fissure extends entirely through the palatine and alveolar processes of the superior maxillary bone, with or without a division of the lip, and when the margins of the cleft, as is usual in such cases, are permanently separated. But when the lip is in- volved and the case complicated with hare-lip, staphyloraphy as well as the operation for this last infirmity, will be demanded. In such a complication the long cleft must be first connected, as the parts then will be more easy of access to the operator, and the operation more easily executed while the division of the lip remains open; after the long cleft is closed, the operation for hare lip may be performed at once, or after the cure of the fissure is perfected. * * * As soon as the union between the lips has become firm the sutures may be cut away; generally on the sixth or seventh day, the first nearest the angle may be removed; and on alternate days, as shall be found safe, the remainder may be removed.” (p. 325-31.) In a case of chronic mercurial disease in which there was an oval opening three- fourths of an inch in length by nearly half an inch in breadth, on the right side of the roof of the mouth, through which the finger might be readily passed into the nostril of the same side, but in which the velum palati was barely involved, Mutter successfully practised Warren’s “ operation of sliding the flap modified so as to embrace the opera- tion by granulation of Mettauer.” * * * With a small thin convex-edged bistoury he made a crescentic incision through the mucous membrane, and down, in fact, to the bone, commencing the incision nearly opposite the superior extremity of the opening, and continuing it until it reached a point nearly opposite its inferior. A strip of mu- cous membrane, about three lines and a half in breadth, was thus separated, except at its extremities, from the adjacent parts. A similar incision was then made on the op- posite side. The lips of the little wround were then detached from the subjacent bone to the extent of one line on each side, and then folded, as it were, upon themselves, thus leaving a gutter, into which he inserted a small cylinder of soft buckskin. * * * In- flammation followed by suppuration speedily supervened, and on the removal of the cylinder, seventy-two hours after its introduction, a fine crop of healthy granulations was discovered at the bottom of the wound; these rapidly increased in size, and soon filled up the space between the lips of the incisions, rendering the introduction of any foreign body for the accomplishment of this object needless. In six days after the first operation, and when the granulations were in full vigour, I performed the second series of incisions, which were carried between the extremities of the other two, and treated in precisely the same manner. In six days from the execution of this second operation I found the opening in the palate surrounded by a strip of granulations, and in a proper condition for the last and by far the most difficult step in the whole attempt, the detach- ment and approximation of the flaps. * * * I commenced by detaching the mucous membrane all around, dissecting from the margins out to the granulations, which being very yielding, allowed me without difficulty to bring the flaps together at or near the centre of the opening. To accomplish this a pair of small forceps was employed, and while the flap was held tense by an assistant, I passed the ligature first through the flap on the left side, at its centre and about a line from its edge, and then allowing that to escape from the forceps, the opposite one was made tense and the ligature passed through it at a point directly opposite the little wound in the other; the ligature was then tied, and the flap above, or that next the anterior portion of the mouth brought into the concavity formed by the approximation of the two lateral flaps, and attached by a ligature on each side. The lower was next brought to its proper position, and there held by similar stitches. The opening in the palate was thus completely covered in. The usual after-treatment was pursued, and in three weeks from the date of the last