230 ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE BY a low degree of organization; in their healthy condition they present very few of the characters of animal vitality: they exhibit scarcely any trace of red blood vessels, and, for obvious reasons, their supply of nervous influence is not more than sufficient to connect them with the surrounding structures, as part of a whole. Under disease they exhibit that want of action which might be anticipated from the limited extent of their organization. In acute inflammation of a joint, while the synovial membrane and liga- ments are much altered, the cartilage appears unchanged in colour or in texture, and apparently uninfluenced by the increased action going on in the surrounding parts. The cartilage becomes, under disease, softer somewhat in texture ; but this change may be as well attributed to the absence of pressure as to the effect of inflammatory action; for healthy joints when kept long at rest are found to undergo a similar change, on their cartilaginous surface, from the want of that pressure to which they have been accustomed, and which may be necessary to the preservation of their due consistence. There are, however, some forms of inflammation under which the cartilage, very early iu the disease, undergoes a change of structure: these instances are much less frequent, and may be looked on as exceptions to the ordinary_rule.” (pp. 216, 17.) “ The progress of ulceration in cartilage covering the ends of bone,” continues Key, “ is not uniform in its course. The means by which it is effected vary according to the cause that gives rise to it. It is sometimes the result of acute synovial inflammation, or of a chronic affection of that membrane: it is occasionally found as a primary affection, independent of the other textures of the joint. * * * I am inclined to believe that in- flammation of this membrane is the most frequent cause of ulceration of the cartilage. This opinion I have been led to adopt from the examination of a considerable number of diseased joints, in which ulceration of cartilage has been found to exist in different degrees of progress from its most advanced stage, in which the bone has been entirely denuded, to the very incipient abrasion of its surface or margin. The history of some of these cases, together with the morbid appearances, has also satisfactorily proved the existence of a long-continued synovial affection, before any alteration of the cartilaginous surface could have taken place, as the cartilage in some has been quite sound, with the exception of a slight loss of substance at the edge of the bone, where the synovial mem- brane is reflected from it: while the symptoms of diseased joint have existed for many months, with pain over a large part of the synovial surface, and general swelling of the joint. * * * The inflammation of the synovial membrane that leads to ulceration of cartilage in the ordinary strumous affection of joints in the adult, is not, as far as my observation goes, of the most acute kind. * * * The less acute forms of the disease, as- suming various shades of activity between the chronic and the acute forms, rarely occur for any great length of time without the cartilage participating in the mischief. This may in some measure depend on the peculiarity of those constitutions in which sub-acute inflammation seems to have a spontaneous origin. The knee-joint is most frequently ob- served to suffer disorganization from this form of inflammation. * * * When the more acute symptoms are subdued (by treatment) the membrane sometimes fails to regain its normal condition, passing into a chronic form of action so slight as to attract but little attention, and often regarded as stiffness that will yield to exercise and passive motion. This slight degree of inflammation that remains often lays the foundation of future mischief, especially if the condition of the patient’s health is not adverted to after the acute stage of the inflammation has subsided. The nature of the remedies employed always leaves the patient in a state of weakness and irritability, under which the low degree of action that remains in the joint will be disposed to assume the ulcerative form. * * * This state of joint as the disease advances is usually attended with more pain, than when the disease assumes from the commencement the chronic form; the intervals of ease become short and few; and the action goes on with but little inter- ruption to the formation of abscess. In the chronic form of synovial inflammation that occurs in indolent habits of a strumous tendency, especially in persons below the age of puberty, years often elapse before the ulcerative process is completed. The symptoms are proportionally mild in their course. The joint is not much swelled, the general and uniform fulness of the joint, so characteristic, as Brodie has observed of the most acute forms of inflammation of the synovial membrane, is absent; the joint appears as if the bones themselves were enlarged, an appearance as much produced by the shrinking of the limb above and below the joint as by the swelling of the joint itself. The swell- ing of the soft parts about the joint depends on the degree of inflammation present in the synovial membrane, and the consequent effusion in the soft parts. In the most chronic forms the bones can almost be felt through their ligamentous investments ; in the less chronic forms, when the disease runs its course in a shorter period, there is effusion of albumen in the soft structures surrounding the joint, which increases its volume, pre-