221.] FISH. 79 of cloves, some peppercorns and salt. Spread some butter over the sole, and pour in enough French white wine to cover it. Let it boil for ten to twenty minutes, according to size of fish. Keep it covered while it is boiling. When it is done, remove the fish ; keep it hot while making the sauce. Strain the liquor, return it to the pan, and add the yolks of one or two eggs, according to the quantity of liquor; only do not put too much egg; just enough to thicken the sauce is required. Put in a little chopped parsley, pour the sauce over the fish when thoroughly hot, and serve at once.* Filleted Soles (Italian). 220. Skin and carefully wash the soles, separate the meat from the bone, and divide each fillet in two pieces. Brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle thinly with breadcrumbs and seasoning, and put them in a baking-dish. Place small pieces of butter over the whole, and bake for half an hour. When they are nearly done, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve on a dish with Italian sauce poured over. Boiled Sole. 221. Cleanse and wash the fish carefully, cut off the fins, but do not skin it. Lay it in a fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, salted with a little salt. Let it gradually come to a boil, and keep it simmering for a few minutes, according to the size of the fish. Dish it on a hot napkin after well draining it, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send lobster sauce to table with it. * Dr. Davy says : ' If we give our attention to classed people—classed as to the kind of food they principally subsist on—we shall find that the fish-eating class are especially strong, healthy, and prolific. In no other cla^s than in that of fishers do we see larger families, handsomer women, or more robust and active men. As an article of nourishment, fish does not possess the satisfying and stimulating properties that belong to the flesh of animals and birds. On account of its being less satisfying than meat, the appetite returns at shorter intervals, and a larger quantity is required to be consumed.'