6o.] USES OF FAT IN THE BODY. 25 experiment that life cannot be sustained on fat alone. A duck fed on fat only died of starvation at the end of three weeks. Butter, it is said, exuded from all parts of its body, and the feathers seemed as if they had been soaked in melted butter. Similarly animals fed on fat and arrowroot mixed will die of starvation, or on meat alone j but if bone be given with the meat, it is sufficient to support life for any length of time. This is the reason why wild animals in confinement have bone given them with their meat. 57. The following experiments made will show what part the different constituents of food play in the economy. A couple of rats, which had been nearly brought to the verge of death by restriction to starchy matter and fat, were fed with bread and meat for four days, and then with meat alone. A week after commencing the meat their united weight was 9 oz. 11 dr., and three weeks later 10 oz. 1 dr. Being now placed on a diet of meat with non-nitrogenous food (starch and fat), a notable improvement occurred ; for in three days' time they weighed 11 oz.; four days later, 14 oz. 2 dr. ; and a week later still, 14 oz. 4 dr. 58. In another experiment, two rats, weighing 12 oz., were placed on an exclusive diet of lean meat and water. They remained healthy in appearance, but steadily lost weight, and in a month's time weighed only 8f oz. They were now placed on a miscellaneous diet, and in a week's time weighed 12i oz. 59. In a third experiment two rats, weighing together 12 oz. 7 dr., were kept upon meat diet exclusively. On the thirteenth day one of the rats died, the weight of its body being 2 oz. 8 dr., and that of the other 6 oz. 3 dr. The living one was still kept on the same food, and this died ten days later, the weight of its body being then 5 oz. It will thus be seen that meat alone will not sustain animal life for an indefinite period. 60. What the uses of fat are in the food will be found else- where, but we may remark here that it sustains the heat of the