IO FOODS FOR THE FAT. [y eight; her heart, after death, weighed thirty-six ounces (ordi- nary weight, eight).' Thus in extreme cases one half, or even four-fifths, of the body may be a mass of fat. 3. Some races of men are more subject to excess of fat than others, but whether this depends upon heredity or mode of life is an open question. After the age of forty, particularly in women, from reasons that may be surmised, excess of fatbecomes almost the rule. This is more common in single females than in those who have had the care of rearing families. Again, the Hottentot is almost always protuberant, the German is proverbially fat, and the Frenchman generally so about the belly ; the Scotch are thin as a rule ; so are the Irish. What the Englishman is may be judged by the satire of the age, and the jolly John Bull sort of man depicted in the pages of Punch may be supposed to represent the national tendency. 4. Among the determining causes of corpulency, the first is, of course, excess of food, more especially certain kinds of food, and too little work, though some people, curiously enough, may be very fat and still have poor appetites; some seem to get fat, eat what they will,* while others remain thin on the most luxurious diet. Drink has also its influence. Fat people usually take a large quantity of liquid, and in some of its forms, as in sweet wines and malt liquors, it is very fattening. 5. Deficient muscular exercise, by diminishing the amount of wear of tissue (oxidation of tissue, as physiologists call it), favours obesity ; and since, as a rule, the stouter the person, the less capable he is of taking exercise, these two conditions react one upon the other to the advantage of fat-production. Nervous influence has much to do with fat; the high-strung, nervous individual is seldom obese. On the other hand, the stupid, heavy, non-intellectual person, or the idiot, is generally flabby and fat. 6. All those states of the system that prevent the proper circulation of the blood favour obesity, by limiting its oxy- * Very plain diet may mean very fattening diet indeed, as will be seen further on.