s6] EXERCISE. 3i no strong desire to sleep after a meal.' If there be such, it may be concluded that some fault exists. Sleeping after meals may arise from a sluggish state of the liver or kidneys. In this case medical treatment is called for. 84. When any living part is called into frequent and regular exercise, especially if the system is not yet arrived at full maturity, it is observed to become gradually more and more susceptible of action—to increase in size within certain limits, determined by the constitution, and thereby to gain strength, as indicated by an increased power of enduring fatigue and a greater capacity of withstanding the influences of the com- mon causes of disease, to which previously it would have almost immediately succumbed. 85. The explanation of this, as proved by experiment, is that exercise causes an increased action in the nerves and bloodvessels of the part, by which its vitality is augmented and a greater supply of blood and nervous stimulus is sent to it to sustain and repair the greater waste that is taking place, and also to supply additional substance to fit it for the unusual demands made on it. The results of this process are visibly exemplified in men whose habits or profession lead them to constant muscular exertion—in sportsmen, in blacksmiths, dancers, porters, etc., for instance; and if it is less manifest in other parts of the body beyond the muscles in view, it is only from other tissues admitting of less expansion and showing their increased power in a different way. 86. Unless exercise in its ordinary sense be taken, neither respiration nor circulation can fully accomplish the purposes they are intended to serve. Life subsists through a series of motions, and all these should be maintained in regular and adequate exercise ; by so doing the food necessary to sustain the system is taken up, and all that is not required is excreted by the different organs that act independently of the will, so that the balance is evenly kept, and none is unnecessarily stored as fat.