24 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [53- USES OF FAT IN THE BODY. 53. Though excess of fat is an evil and an encumbrance it must not be forgotten that a twentieth part of the male body should be of this substance, and a sixteenth part of that of the female. This may be slightly increased without interfering with the breathing capacity or the comfort of the individual. 54. A moderate amount of fat is one of the signs of health and is certainly an adjunct to beauty of face and form, and its uses m the animal economy are many and various. In the first place, it serves the merely mechanical purpose of a light, soft, and elastic packing material, which, being deposited between and around the different organs, affords them support and protection from the injurious effects of pressure. Further, being a bad conductor of heat, the fat beneath the skin serves to some extent as a means of retaining the warmth of the body. 55. But the most important use of fat is seen in what occurs during the process of nutrition ; for when more fat-forming material is taken into the system than is absolutely required for the maintenance of the body, it is stored up and laid by to become available for use when the expenditure exceeds the immediate supply. 56. When the direct supply of nourishment is cut off, by withholding it, or by the interruption of the process of digestion, nature has recourse to that which has been laid up in reserve in the form of fat. As everyone knows, in the wasting of the body which ensues as the result of starvation, fat is the first part consumed.* But it has been found by * On the 14th of December, 1810, a pig was buried in its sty by the fall of part of the chalk cliff under Dover Castle. On the 23rd of May, 160 days afterwards, Mr. Mantell, the contractor, was told by some workmen employed in removing the fallen chalk that they heard the whining of the pig, and although he had great doubt of the fact, he urged them to proceed with clearing away the chalk from the sty, and was soon afterwards surprised to see the pig extricated from its confinement alive. At the time of the accident the pig was in a fat condition, and supposed to have weighed about 160 lb. When extricated it presented an extremely emaciated appearance, and weighed no more than 40 lb.