BY THE SAME AUTHOR. AIDS TO LONG LIFE: A MEDICAL, DIETETIC, AND GENERAL GUIDE. Crown Svo., 294 pages, 2s. ; Cloth, 2s. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. ' By all who wish at once to prolong and enjoy their lives, Dr. Davies may be accepted as a safe and trustworthy guide.'— Knowledge. 'A most useful book.'—The World. ..... , ™, 'Supplies many hints for the arresting of disease in its incipient stages, —lite Christian World. . , 'Few people, we believe, will take up Dr. Davies' book without being struck v.ith the exceedingly useful nature of its contents, or be disappointed when they come to a deeper or more exhaustive perusal of the volume.'—Health. 'A very useful little work; and while concise, it is so comprehensive. -Glasgow H" The general idea is to indicate the gradual decay of life, and to suggest the best means of preventing the insidious dangers which await the human family m the progress from middle to old age.'—The Chemist and Druggist. ' Particularlv worthy of attention.'— The London Figaro. ' Contains useful information about food, physio, etc., addressed to those who have reached or passed the meridian of life : it deals with all matters m which such per- sons are deeply interested.'— The Queen. NURSERY HINTS: A MOTHER'S GUIDE IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Crown 8vo., 148 pages, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. ' Seldom do we come across a book of such thorough practical utility as this. This valuable little manual should be in the possession of every mother, no matter if she be rich or poor.'— Public Opinion. ' Dr. Davies writes with the authority derived from extensive experience and great professional knowledge, and the young mother or nurse cannot do better than follow the advice he gives.'—Scotsman. 'Useful in all cases where children forma part of the household.'—News of the World. ' The work before us is likely to become popular from the fact that the information is given in plain, untechnical language.'— Health. ONE THOUSAND MEDICAL MAXIMS. Crown 8vo., 128 pages, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. ' The advice given is characterized by sound moderation, and the more it is actod upon by people in health the less likelihood will there be of the necessity of calling in the doctor.'—Daily Chronicle. 'The idea is excellent.'—Pall Mall Gazette. ' Calculated to be very popular and of much service to those who use them.'— Derby Mercury. ' A capital book.'— The Scotsman. LONDON : CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY, W.