52.] FOOD: ITS USES AND ULTIMATE ELIMINATION. 23 the other hand, muscular work demands a larger supply of nitrogenous food, i.e., meat.* 50. It will thus be seen that as in the human body certain foods produce muscle, energy, force, and power, others, by their chemical decomposition, furnish material for the pro- duction of heat. It is plain that if more is used than is con- sumed in these ordinary operations of life, or is excreted by the bowels, kidneys, and lungs, it must remain in the system contaminating the blood—as with gout-poison—or equally out of place, and equally destructive to comfort, as fat. 51. On the equable assimilation and excretion of these different classes of food depends the health and comfort of the individual; but from faulty diet, heredity or mode of life in many persons, the balance is not equally held, and the waste that should be excreted, or consumed by exercise or work, becomes stored as fat.t 52. 1 The rich may go and have their flues swept out at such places as Carlsbad, Marienbad, Kissengen, and Ems, where the meagre diet and quantity of water drunk (because it is the correct thing to do and the fashion, and because example has such influence for good or evil in this world) will soon reduce their superabundance of unhealthy tissue to limits compatible with health and enjoyment. But the middle-class victim of obesity and gout must be content, if he would enjoy life and live to an advanced age, to take the advice of Socrates, where he says, " Beware of those foods that tempt you to eat when you are not hungry, and of those liquors that tempt you to drink when you are not thirsty," and make dietetics his study to the extent of learning what foods he should indulge in, and what quantity he can take without ultimate discomfort.' * The trappers of the American prairies can live, and do live, for weeks on meat and tea only. t Lord Byron undervalued David Hume, denying his claim to genius on account of his bulk, and calling him from the Heroic Epistle ' the fattest hog in Epicure's sty.' Another of this extraordinary man's allegations was that ' fat is an oily dropsy.' To stave off its visitations he frequently chewed tobacco in lieu of dinner, alleging that it absorbed the gastric juices and prevented hunger.—' Rejected Addresses,' by James and Horace Smith.