3g.] FOOD REQUIRED, AMOUNT OF. 19 that it does this may he shown by the fact that exercise absolutely increases the size of muscles, while it is at the same time reducing weight. 35. There is really no difficulty in reducing corpulence. The difficulty is to get the sufferer—generally easy-going and in- dolent—to carry out the necessary system, which is more or less irksome by the restraint it puts upon appetite, especially in those who perhaps may almost be said to ' live to eat' in- stead of ' eating to live.' It is also needless to say that any system, however good, for reducing redundancy of fat would be of no avail if the patient persists in eating and drinking between meals.* 36. Oertel draws two distinctions of obesity, namely, the slight form in which the organs of circulation are unaffected and where exercise is possible, and the more serious form, in which fat is deposited in the muscle of the heart, which is thereby dangerously weakened, and, as a corollary, the healthy action of all the other organs in the body is interfered with. 37. All who have made the treatment of obesity a study reduce considerably the amount of farinaceous food and sugar, the great offenders in contributing to the accumulation of fat; but all do not allow the same amount of aliment, and some of the dietaries—Banting's, for instance—would be simply slow starvation to a man who had to do an ordinary amount of hard mental or bodily work. 38. ' From 22 to 26 oz. of solids and about 35 oz. of liquids per day constituted Mr. Banting's allowance. If we allow for water chemically combined with the food, the daily amount of solids may be set down at from 11 to 13 oz.' Now, this is far from a generous allowance, even if it were of the most fattening materials, and no wonder he got thin on it. The diet tables of prisons, of London needlewomen, and that of the cotton operative during the Lancashire cotton famine, * See 'Aids to Long Life,' by.the same author. Chatto and Windus, London, pp. 283. 2—2