22 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [46- 46. Non-nitrogenous* food consists of fats, starch—the basis of bread and all farinaceous foods—sugar, alcohol, and certain vegetable matters. These principles are found either naturally or are produced by chemical action. These constituents are used in the animal economy to keep up the heat of the body, generate power, and when not consumed or eliminated from the system, to be stored up as fat. 47. Again, taking a railway-engine as an illustration, it is plain that if rapid speed is required, and a great weight has to be drawn, a greater amount of fuel must be consumed. So, in like manner, if hard work has to be done for many hours a day, a greater amount of food must be taken, and this is consumed in the human body in renovating the tissues and generating the force and heat according to the nature of the food used and its amount. 48. That this is the case may be instanced by this fact amongst many. In making the railway from Paris to Rouen, it was found that two English were equal to three French navvies. An examination of the cause disclosed the fact that the former were fed on large quantities of meat,i while the latter ate chiefly soup and lentils. The diet of the Frenchmen was altered to the English standard, with the result that the inequality soon disappeared. 49. Occupation, season and climate greatly influence the amount and kind of food necessary. The inhabitants of cold climates require a large amount of fat, J and in the spring, as vital processes are more active, more food is required. On * Chemists further divide this into hydro-carbons, or fats, and carbo- hydrates, such as starch, sugar, etc., fats being principally heat-producers, and sugar and starch power-producers. This of course is a rough analysis. + 'Nitrogenous food in this way forming the instrument of living action is incessantly being disintegrated. Becoming thereby effete and useless, a fresh supply is needed to replace that which has fulfilled its office. The primary object of nitrogenous alimentation may therefore he said to be the development and renovation of the living tissues.'—Dr. Pavy. t A.n Esquimaux will eat 10 lb. or 12 lb. of blubber daily ; and their children will make wry faces at sugar, but eat blubber with delight.