12 FOODS FOR THE FAT. r„. become embarrassed by the waste in the system that is not eliminated, and a feeling of weakness ensues, which quickly passes away if exercise is taken and a little abstinence prac- tised. Diet influences the ch racter of men and nations, meat-eating people being more energetic and stronger than those that live mostly on vegetables, t Growth and tempera- ment are also influenced by food, and in the case of bees even the sex.J 11. With age corpulency increases permanently, unless some exhausting disease such as chronic bronchitis or diabetes come on, so that excessive fat should always be regarded as a grave matter, in every way likely to shorten life, to say nothing of making it a burden by its encumbrance. Death by faintness from an overloaded heart or an overloaded stomach, by apoplexy from congestion and weakness of the blood- vessels, by bronchitis or dropsy from poorness of the blood and the languid state of the circulation, often terminates life about the beginning of the sixth decade. 12. ' Recognising that accumulation of fat is a perversion of nutrition, which, if once established, and with a strong heredi- tary predisposition, cannot be cured, it follows that we should endeavour to prevent as far as possible its increase by avoid- ance of those factors which science tells us are favourable to its development. The cardinal rule in any procedure that may be adopted is to avoid heroic treatment; for though thereby the fat may be diminished, the result may be attained by establishing a worse state of the body.' * ' Dr. Dalt<m states that the entire quantity of food required every twenty-four hours by a man in full health and taking free exercise is of meat 16 oz., bread 19 oz., fat oz., and water 52 oz.' Jackson, the prize-fighter, in training lived on meat and stale bread only, with of course water.' + This applies with equal force to animals. The lion and tiger are stronger, fiercer, and more active than the ox or the sheep. X ' If by accident the queen bee dies or is lost, the working bees (which are sexually undeveloped) select two or three eggs, which they hatch in large cells, and then feed the maggots on a stimulating jelly different to that supplied to the other maggots, thus producing a queen bee.'— Newsholme.