MANCHESTEE AND 8ALF0ED SANITARY ASSOCIATION. TRACT SERIES, No. 1.—Introductory. . m /P/ iEtiition. Vrice iis. dd. i>er Hundred, or 2s. to Subscribers. Sold at the Offices of the Association, 33, Pall Mall, King-street, Manchester; And by Knight & Co., 90, Fleet-street, London. Listen, 0 MAN, and I will tell thee what thou art. I speak not of thy Soul, but of thy Body oulv. j I i The Skeleton is a complete framework of bones (A); the Skidl is nicely balanced, and rests upon the Sinne, which is a bony column, forming the back, and giving to the figure strength and upright posture. The Bibs are rooted in the spine, and act as bars to keep the wonderful machinery within from injury. In the thighs, legs, arms, and hands, bones, for purposes of strength, are well jointed into one another; oi’, where easy movement is required, they are fitted into .sockets.2 r Bauds of ilesh, called Muscles (B), over-wrap the skeleton. These are cither laid together, or pass between each other, and (being covered by the 8km) make up the fleshy form of man. The muscles give him power to use his limbs and move from place to place, and do his daily toil. From the Brain (a), which lies wilhin the Skull, and from the Marrow of the S]nne{b), fine, fibre-like co’nmunications, called the Xerm(C), pass to every portion ol the^ody, They act upon the Muscles and the Limbs, to move them as the will direcl.s; or upon the brain, to tell it what is passing in the world around; or they give the body pain or pleasure, as its doings may occasion. The Heart and Limt/s (D) are placed within the chest; and a little underneath them (III), are the TJver and its kindred organs; then the Stomach, with the Bowels, a lengthy, folded tube. Food, when eaten, is changed within the Stomach, and, in its altered state, is passed into the Bowels, Here it is mixed with Bile or Gall, (which is extracted in the Liver from the Blood,) and then the refuse portion of the food is cast away. The remainder, which becomes the element of new-made Blood, is carried by the Veins (those bluish, branching vessels seen beneath the skin) directly to the Heart, and thence into the Lungs, and then through out the body. The Heart (D), which is a kind of double hag, beats with clock-like regularity; and, into one of its divisions or compartments; the Veins empty the new-formed element (C) Brain and Spinal Cord. (B) Muscles of the Thigh.