VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. 221 the unusual situation of the pulsation, and in the cases where the process is well formed, it is easily felt from the surface. But the artery may deviate in this manner independent of the existence of a supra-condyloid process; as in four cases described and figured by Mr Quaiii. In these, the median nerve continued in the course of the intermuscular septimi,—accompanied, in two of the cases by the undivided brachial artery,^ and in the other two by one of two trunks into which the brachial had divided,^ and crossed or perforated the intermuscular septum, two or three inches above the internal condyle, and tlien inclined outwards to the usual position, under cover of a high origin to the pronator teres muscle. I have met this winter with a well marked case of this con- dyloid deviation, without the co-existence of a developed supra- condyloid process. The median nerve and undivided brachial artery deviate and pass down in front of the intermuscular sep- tum to within If inch of the condyle, and now pass beneath a fibrous arch and a high pronator teres, and are directed down- wai'ds and outwards to the bend of the elbow. As the nerve passes down with the arteiy and its venae comites, the nerve lying internal, they are sunk in a depression between the septum and the brachialis anticus. On dissecting aside the fibres of the brachialis anticus which lie behind and support the nerve and artery, a groove is distinctly felt in the humerus. The outer edge of the groove is a ridge, giving origin to fibres of the brachialis, and presenting a more elevated portion, like a rudimentary supra- condyloid process, exactly two inches above the condyle, and situated nearer the anterior than the internal border of the humerus. From this more prominent point arises the fibrous arch, which then stretches down to join the intermuscular septum. The high pronator has an origin an inch broad, begin- ning two inches above the condyle. It arises highest from the fibrous arch and farther down from the intermuscular septum, the vessels and nerve lying beneath the lower part of this high pronator, after they have entered the arch. But the high pro- > Op. Cit. p. 259. ' Plate \xxvi. fig. 4, and Plate xxxvii. fig, 1.