VARIETIES or THE MUSCLES. 201 (4.) Right arm. Left unascertained. Arises separate from the fibres of the brachialis anticus, for two indhes in depth, im- mediately external to insertion of coraco-brachialis, but reaching an inch above this, and also higher up than the brachialis anticus. Is one inch in breadth and six inches in length. Insertion ex- actly as in preceding cases. As the third head in all of these cases passed, as usual, behind the brachial artery, this occurrence does not affect the surgical anatomy of that vessel. 6. Brachial Artery overlapped or covered hy a portion of the Brachialis Anticus Muscle. Mr Quain relates two cases in which he saw the principal of two arterial trunks covered by a thin layer of the brachialis anticus muscle (Plate 37, figs. 3 and 4), and mentions in con- nection, with this that the fibres of the brachialis not unfrequently project at the outer side of the artery, in some cases even ovei-- lapping it. This condition I have repeatedly noticed, so often indeed that I gave up noting the individual cases. It occurs more frequently perhaps in the case of two arteries, when the deeper one has this position, but often enough it is seen with the single and otherwise normal artery. Tt is seen in various degrees. The brachialis presents a raised portion on the outside of the artery, and an aponeurosis, deeper than the common aponeurosis of the arm, is sent inwards from it, over the artery, which is thus closely bound down upon the brachialis, and is as if sunk in a groove in the substance of the muscle. In a farther 6tage*the fleshy fibres overlap the artery from the outside, although not so far but that, on division of the aponeurosis, these overlapping fibres slip outwards off the artery. In one of the cases noted this winter, the artery in both arms of an adult female subject was thus covered for three inches. But what is most commonly seen is a raised portion of the brachialis muscle, projecting on the out- side of the artery, sending a deep aponeurosis inwards over it, and binding the artery down in a kind of groove in the muscle. 7. IIi.gh Origin to Pronator Ter^s Muscle. We not unfrequently meet with the pronator teres muscle