ON DOUBLE STOMACH. 21 Knox, who writes to me that it was simply a dissecting-room preparation, without, so far as he is aware, any previous history. Here, but for the constricted portion, there is less departure from the usual form of the stomach than in the former case, and in capacity the two sacs do not exceed a good sized simple stomach. The pyloric division is in this case proportionally smaller than tha^ of the one first described, and terminates more abruptly at the pylorus, which is seen as a well-formed nearly cu'cvdar projection in the interior. On cutting into the sacs on either side of this constriction, there is no appearance of thicken- ing or valvular projection. The orifices are smooth, and now scarcely of sufficient size to receive the little finger. On the posterior surface of the cardiac division, between two and three inches to the left of the constricted part, there is an irregular patch of thickening larger than a shilling, as if the wall had been thickened and adherent at this part. Although this thickening appears to be of pathological origin, it has no connection with the constricted part, which appears to be quite natural or healthy, as in the case just recorded. The occurrence of a contraction about the middle of the stomach has been noticed by various anatomists. Morgagni,^ in relatmg the post-mortem examination of a lady who had for many years been troubled with frequent vomiting, states that " the stomach was contracted, and near the antrum pylori the contraction was so much greater than in other parts, that the viscus appeared as if it had been divided into two cavities." After ascribing the symptoms in this case to other conditions, he goes on to say, "1 might have supposed that the contracted state of the stomach had some influence in producing this affec- tion had I not observed the same structure in other women, who had not been subject to vomiting. Similar contractions, too, have been discovered by other anatomists in persons of both sexes; and sometimes the aperture of communication between the two portions of the stomach was exceedingly small. Doubt- less in the preceding case the contraction was congenital." w' n''^^^^*T^°^ Diseases investigated by Anatomy, 1779. Edition bv W. Cooke. London, 1822. '