158 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. bowels, I made out the arrangement already described in the notes, No. 21, and seen in fig. 21 A, and also the following par- ticulars regarding the strangulation, as represented in fig. 21 B. The diverticulum was, as I have described, bent over and fixed down to the mesentery by a short terminal ligament. Whether this ligament existed originally, or is of the nature of an elon- gated adhesion, I cannot positively say, only there is no appear- ance of adhesion or old inflammation elsewhere, and it has all the appearance of a natural serous ligament, or double fold of peri- toneum connecting a viscus. A loop or ring was thus formed. When the bowel and diverticulum are inflated, it has the appear- ance I have drawn, fig. 21 A. The ring is oval, and, when rounded, an inch or little more in diameter. It is chiefly formed by the diverticulum, the rest being completed by the ligament, and a small extent of the mesentery and side of the bowel. Through this fatal ring, lying loose and open among the convo- lutions of the intestine, a convolution had passed. It is now easily drawn out of the ring, and the part embraced is marked off by two constrictions ; the first is immediately above the origin of the diverticulum, and is but slightly marked; the second is fifteen to eigliteen inches (according as it is measixred along the concavity or the convexity), farther up the canal, and is well marked, the bowel being, for an inch in length, contracted to one-half its diameter. The narrower constriction appears to be higher up the canal, i.e., on the gastric side of the other. These constrictions continue, notwithstanding the distension of the in- testine with air. When the strangulated portion of bowel is replaced, and the intestine distended, forcible strangulation is then apparent. This will be readily understood when it is recol- lected that the size of the ring is not greater than the ordinary diameter of a moderately distended single piece of small intestine, whereas, besides two portions, there was, of course, also through it, the mesentery passing to the strangulated portion. Case II.—This is No. 22 in the notes and figures. It is a wet preparation in the Monro collection, and in the printed cata- logue is designated, " Process from the ilium which formed a