128 ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS mits, not the artery, but the vertebral vein, is certainly erroneous. The vein normally comes out where the arteiy goes in, at the foramen of the sixth vertebra, and gains the subclavian vein, rarely by passing behind the subclavian artery, a position which I have seen it occupy only twice, but in front of the artery, constituting one of its anterior relations internal to the scalenus muscle. I have obsei-ved particularly the interesting fact mentioned by several authors,^ that in many of the mammalia, it appears to me the majority, the foramen is wanting in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, although present in those above it. This cannot be owing to a separate anterior arch being lost dur- ing maceration, as it is in the adult skeleton, where the bone is finished without any trace of an anterior transverse pi'ocess. This absence of the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra in most of the mammalia is an interesting fact when contrasted with its constant presence in man although no use is made of it, but rather harmonises with the fact of the for- mation in him of the anterior arch from a separate centre.^ The case of supernumerary cervical rib in man has been ad- vanced^ to prove the inaccui'acy of the common statement that the mammalian cervix consists always of seven vertebrae; and the author alluded to has given an ideal drawing of two pairs of su- pernumeraiy cervical ribs in a human figure, a condition of which I doubt only the occuiTence, not the theoretical possibihty. The occurrence, however, in man or any mammal of a supernumerary rib on the seventh cei;vical vertebra, as a rare anomaly, is not a reasonable objection to the rule in question. Although a sixth or supernumerary finger or toe has been met with, we are not the less entitled to hold that, as a general rule, the number of the human digits is five. Whether there is any regular and true exception to this otherwise general rule, will depend on the name » Martin's Introduction to the Natural History of Maramiferous Animals. London, 1841. Professor Owen on the Marsupialia. Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. iii. » Dr Knox states, in his recent Manual of Anatomy, that the anterior arch of the seventh cervical vertebra is formed from two distinct parts, the anterior of which is the true analogue of the rib, but he does not refer to any facts or observations in sup- port of this view. » Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. iv.—Skeleton, by Mr Joseph Macbse.