40 ON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. case of complete paralysis of the muscles supplied by the third nerve, he observes,—" On directing her to look down, the eye is distinctly twisted from the nose toward the temple without any visible direction of the pupil downwards, tt is a mere rotatory motion." Longet^ refers to several writers as having held this view regai'd- ing the action of the oblique muscles:—MM. J. Guerin, 1840; Huech, 1841; Helie, 1841; and more especially to M. Szokalski, who has written a memoir on the subject.^ The nature of the motion seems to be very clearly apprehended by them, and they appear to see the necessity for this motion when the head is in- clined from one shoulder to the other, the eyes being kept fixed • on some object. Longet also refers to M. Berard's view that, in this case, the superior obhque of one side will act at the same time as the inferior of the other side; and adds that "it does not seem to me to be possible to perform voluntarily the rotatory motion of the eye, of which we spoke aboA'e, when the head is fixed." In connection with the point now under consideration, I shall next refer to the subject of paralysis of the fourth nerve, or superior oblique muscle. For doing so here I need offer no apology, as the subject is one regarding which very little is known. Those who look for the symptoms of paralysis of this nerve to accord with Sir Charles Bell's now abandoned theory that the muscle is concerned in an involuntary upward motion of the eye, must necessarily be mistaken; but more generally paralysis of the fourth nerve is passed over as a subject of which nothing is known, whilst the symptoms of paralysis of the third and sixth nerves are simple and well understood. The only writings bearing directly on the subject of paralysis of the fourth nerve, with which I have met, are those of Dr Jacob and M. Szokalski. Dr Jacob's remarks scarcely admit of condensation. He observes^:— " Paralysis of the superior oblique muscle has not been noticed, because it is not easily detected. I have already said that I believe the action of this 1 Op. cit., p. 396. 2 De rinfluence des Muscles Obliques de I'oeil sur la Vision, et de leur Paralysie. Paris, 1840. 3 Loc. cit., p. 19.