ON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, 10 angles, or more usually somewhat forwards. In birds, the superior oblique is much the largest muscle of the eye, being two or three times the size of the inferior, which is not much larger than one of the recti. It is broadest at the insertion, which is partly beneath the tendon of the superior rectus, reaching near, and sometimes up to, the outer border of that tendon; but the greater part is attached, on its inner side, at the upper part of the space between it and the internal rectus. The inferior oblique is inserted partly in front of the tendon of the lower rectus, and partly to its inner side, and is nearer to the cornea, or osseous zone, than the superior. The space between the eye and the two oblique muscles is occupied by a large branch of the fifth nerve and part of the Plarderian gland, which supports the eye on its lower and inner aspects. In the frog they seem not to pass so far outvYards. The superior is attached to the in- side of the tendon of the upper rectus, and is not larger than the inferior; and the two muscles meet the axis of the eye at right angles. But in fishes they pass further outwards—the superior in front of and over the tendon of the upper rectus, to be in- serted partly in front of it, and partly to its outer side ; and the inferior has a corresponding position and attachment below. They are directed somewhat forwards to the axis of the eye. In inferring the action of these muscles from their anatomy, it is essential to notice their direction with reference to the axis, and also whether they are attached before, behind, or at the middle of the eye. In man they are attached behind the middle, especially the inferior, and then- direction is backwards to the axis. In most mammals the superior oblique is not nearer to the front than the posterior part of the eye, but the inferior is rather nearer to the former, and both the muscles are of great breadth. In man the axes of the eyes are directed almost straightforward, but as we descend the scale of vertebrate animals, they become more and more turned outwards. Among mammals the direc- tion of the axes varies considerably. When they look much forwards-as, for instance, in the cat-the line of action of the oblique muscles is directed backwards, as in man. When the axes are turned quite outwards-as in the rabbit and hare, m