IN MAN AND VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 11 which the axes of both eyes cannot possibly be directed to the same object—the oblique muscles are then directed forwards to the axis; but in most quadrupeds,—in which the eyes look for- wards and outwards (so that, if both eyes are used on one ob- ject, the visual axis cannot correspond to the axis of the eye),— they may be said to meet the axis at a right angle, as well as to embrace the middle of the eye. In birds, most reptiles, and in fishes, the eyes are placed so that the rays from one object can- not enter both pupils, and from this outward du'ection of the eyes the oblique muscles are cUrected. somewhat forwards to the axis, although often nearly at right angles. Also they are usually, in these classes, attached rather in front of the middle of the eye, although from their great breadth they embrace a consider- able part of it. Whilst I have described their direction in these classes, and in some mammals, as being rather forwards to the axes of the eyes, their actual direction in the orbits is backwards when the opposite sides are considered together; but in most mammals their course is nearly horizontal, and in some even a httle forwards in the orbits, at the same time that they are nearly at right angles to the axes of the eyes; so that one of their uses cannot be to advance the eyes, as has been supposed. As to their relative size. In the two lower classes of the ver- tebrata, the two oblique muscles are of nearly equal size, the in- ferior is, at least, not smaller than the superior, and they are larger than the straight muscles. In birds, while the inferior continues somewhat larger than one of the recti, the superior has undergone a great increase, being, as already stated, two or three times larger or broader than the inferior. Lastly, in mammals, the superior oblique undergoes a further development, at least in length, by its reflection over a pulley, after arising backwards from near the apex of the orbit. Notwithstanding this, it does not seem to be the more powerful of the two oblique muscles, as the inferior appears to contain more muscular substance, from its being broader and fleshy nearer to its insertion, and is besides situated so as to be capable of effecting a more extensive motion, at least of a lateral rotatoiy kind, than the superior. This is more the case in man than most quadrupeds, as in most of the