182 ON VAEIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY the olivary body, as if tliis were an admitted point in anatomy, —in which the third nerve is the same size as the sixth, instead of being four times larger,—and in which the long root of the ciliary ganglion is an eighth of an inch, instead of half an inch, in length, and the little ganglion itself is actually as large as the first division of the fifth pair. The structure of the cornea is more fully described than in the first edition, but we find no mention of the anterior elastic lamina, discovered and described by Mr Bowman several years ago. We are informed that " the opacity of the cornea, produced by pres- sure on the globe, results from infiltration of fluid into the cellular tissue connecting its layers. This appearance cannot be pi-oduced in a sound living eye, although a small quantity of serous fluid (liquor cornese) is said to occupy the areolse of the cellular tissue." Can our author furnish any proof of the correctness of either of these three statements ? In connection with the choroid, we have a diagram (fig. 52) of the venas vorticosse, unlike any vense vorticosas we have ever seen; and we read—"in animals, the pigmentum nigrum, on the posterior wall of the eye-ball, is replaced by a layer of con- siderable extent, and of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum." On the contrary, it will be seen, if the choroid be seized with the forceps near the tapetum, and pulled inwards, that the pigment is not here replaced, or wanting, but exists plentifully behind the tapetum, which is merely a brilliant arrangement of fibres on its anterior or internal surface. The ciliary ligament is figured like a belt drawn round the eye, with an abrupt posterior edge; and nothing is said about the deeper and posterior part of it being muscular, as several observers have of late years pointed out; although we may observe, in passing, that they are wrong in attributing the view of its mus- cularity to Porterfield, who scarcely mentions the ciliary liga- ment, but describes the ciliary processes or body under this name, and strongly advocates the view that this part is muscular in its nature. Of Jacob's membrane we read, " Dr Jacob considers it to be a serous membrane." Now, this implies the idea of a double re-