138 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. side of the intestine, and probably also by the addition of new matter." His view seems to be that, by an adhesion forming, a portion of bowel is tied down and pulled upon, and thus becomes " gradually elongated into a cul-de-sac of some length." And, although this remark is apphed only to their production in a hernial sac, the view may be extended to the intestine generally. Monro farther remarks—" There is also a species of appendix different from any of the preceding; it has a much thinner covering, is of a globular form, and is shorter and wider. It seems to be formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane, through the other coats of the intestines." This view is strengthened by the comparison to the sacculi, or hernioB, which are known occasionally to occur from other parts, as the gullet, urinary bladder, and gall-bladder, and by the con- sideration that more than one may be found on the intestine of the same subject. The other view is, admitting the occasional occurrence of acquired protrusions on the small intestine, as on other hollow viscera, that the diverticulum is a congenital or original forma- tion, to which is farther to be added Meckel's explanation, that it results from the early connection between the umbilical vesicle and the intestine of the embryo, remaining partially unclosed and growing as the intestine grows. Some, admitting the original or congenital nature of the true diverticulum, objected to Meckel's view on the ground that he could not demonstrate an actual communication from the umbi- lical vesicle into the intestine in the human embryo; and there was the hypothesis of Oken, admitting the communication, but that it took place not with the ileum but the ca3cum, and that the appendix vermiformis was the remains of this early commu- nication. The latter view, however, was a hypothesis, not an inference, and is set aside by the demonstrable fact that the ctecum is seen forming or formed at some distance from the point where the vitelline duct, or pedicle, is seen to be connected with the small intestine. For an able discussion of the whole question, with a state-