150 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. liar pendulous body, soft, solid, and dark coloured. It is covered by serous membrane, and, on division, is seen to be composed apparently of fat and cellular tissue, very like a soft substance lying in considerable quantity between the two layers of the me- senteiy of the preparation, and is therefore apparently analogous to one of the appendices epiploic^ on the great intestine of fat subjects. Passing from the point where this pendulous body joins the diverticulum, is a ligamentous cord. It is round, strong, and fibrous-looking; is two inches in length, and then joins the me- sentery by a triangular expansion f inch in length, the serous surface of the mesentery running up each of its sides. The point where it becomes continuous with the mesentery is two inches up from the mesenteric border of the bowel. There is a narrow mesentery, inch in breadth, running along the concavity of the diverticulum, as far as the constricted point, within an inch of the extremity, and arising below from the bowel, not from the mesentery of the bowel. The diverticulum is placed on the bowel, one-half nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. The bowel at this part presents no valvulse conniventes, but there is a distinct trace of them about eighteen inches higher up the canal. In this case, then, it will be observed, there is formed a large ring, bounded for six inches by the diverticulum, for two inches by its terminal ligament, and for other two inches by the surface of the mesenteiy. Its diameter is about three inches, and it ad- mits the whole hand. Remarhs on the preceding Cases. Eeviewing these notes of cases of diverticulum from the intes- tine, it is evident that they must be considered as original or con- genital formations, and not of the nature of hernise or yieldings of one or all of the intestinal coats. Figure 2, representing two false diverticula from the jejunum, presents a striking contrast in respect to the form of the projection, beginning by a constric- tion, and then bulging outwards, aneurism-like, in the mode iii which a pouch formed by a dilating force from within usually