ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. enlarges. Here we find two pouches, and notice that they occur on the jejunum ; but no instance has been recorded of the occur- rence of two processes having the form or structure of the true diverticulum ilei. As long as the pouch was short or small, I would not regard a constriction at the commencement as a neces- sary character, as illustrated by the pouch on the oesophagus, represented in fig. 1; which, though almost as natural look- ing as the true diverticulum ilei represented in fig. 3, must still be regarded as a pouch formed by partial rupture or sudden yielding of the oesophageal walls into the recess between the bronchi, as we do not know of any other explanation, from de- velopment or otherwise, which could be given for the existence of such pouches. Dilatations or pouches formed by rupture or yielding of one or all of the oesophageal coats occur, according to Meckel, only at the commencement of the oesophagus, as the pharynx contracts somewhat rapidly at this point, behind the cricoid cartilage, to the proper commencement of the oesojjhagus. A well-marked case in point, taken from William Hunter's collection, is related by Baillie,' in which a large pendulous pouch projected down- wai'ds and backwards from the commencement of the gullet. A cherry stone had rested there for a few days and formed a recess, which, during five years, became gradually dilated by the entrance of the food, and at last occasioned death by preventing the food passing to the stomach. According to Rokitanski these cylindrical or conical dilatations or pouches on the oesophagus may form at all parts, but are most common near the bifurcation of the trachea. In fig. 1 it will be seen that the pouch exists precisely in this situation. Above this point the oesophagus is supported by the contact of the soft but still resisting membranous back of the trachea ; but at the bifur- cation of the latter it suddenly loses this support, and, although in all its course the oesophagus is as little supported on each side as it suddenly here becomes in front, it is still interesting to notice this occasional position of the pouch in the recess between the 1 Morbid Anat. of the Human Body, London, 1799-; Part 3, Plate I., fig. 2.