ON THE NEKVES OF THE OKBIT. 41 muscle to be very delicate, and confined to communicating a slight rotatory motion to the eye. The grounds upon which I have arrived at this conclu- sion are, repeated observations of cases of paralysis of the other muscles, from diseases of the third. It must, I think, be admitted that when the levator, depressor, adductor, and inferior oblique muscles are paralysed, the eye must remain fixed, unless moved by the abductor, or superior obhque. That this is the case, an attentive examination of an eye afifected with what is commonly called ptosis proves. The eye is turned out by the action of the abductor, supplied by the sixth nerve, as perfectly as ever, and when the patient is directed to look downward, or toward his shoulder, the cornea is seen distinctly to revolve, with little if any depression of the pupil. In other words, the eye-ball is turned round its antero-posterior, or longitudinal axis. In tliis I think I cannot be mistaken, as I have repeatedly called those about me to observe the fact, in order to bear testimony to it. I have alluded above to a case in the city of Dublin Hospital, in which the four straight muscles of the eye, with the elevator of the upper lid, and probably the in- ferior oblique, were paralysed from disease of the third and sixth nerves within the skull, and in which this delicate rotatory motion was obvious. If the action of the superior oblique be to turn the eye downward and outward in a considerable degree, there could be no difficulty in demonstrating that action, in the case of the other muscles to which I allude; y^t this cannot be done, but on the contrary the delicate rotatory action to which I allude is the result of the effort. The next question, however, is, whether paralysis, either sudden or slow, of the superior oblique, takes place or not; and this question is not, I admit, so easily resolved by demonstration. One thing must, however, be admitted, and that is, that it is most improbable that this superior oblique muscle, and the fourth nerve which supplies it, should be exempted from disease or its consequences, while the other nerves and muscles so frequently suffer. On the contrary, looking at the remote origin of the nerve, the length of its course, and its small dimensions, we should rather expect to find it more frequently engaged than any of the rest. If the action of the muscle be what I say it is, it is no wonder that paralysis of it should be difficult of detection, while all the other muscles are in a state of activity. Its loss is not perceived in the multiplicity of other motions. There is, however, I think, good grounds for supposing that the consequences of such paralyses are occasionally evident. There are certain cases of ano- malous and unintelligible defects of vision, which can scarcely be accounted for in any other way than by attributing them to this cause. I allude par- ticularly to double vision with great confusion of sight, and with little or no squint." Dr Jacob tlien refers to several such cases. One patient had double vision. When he looked downwards, he lost sight of ob-