164 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. been drawn to this point. He observes/ " The symptoms oc- casioned by such diverticula included within the hernial sac are in some instances somewhat different from those occasioned by stricture made upon a protruded turn of intestine. My grand- father has observed—' that, instead of an entire piece of intestine being thrust out, one side of a gut has been stretched out into an appendix CEeca. When this happens, the ingesta will not be stopped in their passage towards the anus, and the patient will go to stool, even though a strangulation of the hernia should come on.' But when the diverticulum only is contained within a hernial sac, it sometimes happens that a very violent inflamma- tion spreads from the diverticulum to the contiguous intestine, and proves fatal. The unnatural pi'ocess does not constitute an essential part of the intestinal canal, and has been cut off when in the sac of a strangulated hernia. Dr Wardrop did so in a case of this description, and after the operation the patient went to stool, and had a complete recovery." No reference is made to cases as a foundation for the above general remarks. 3. When we consider the position of these diverticula, we would expect them to be very liable to receive foreign bodies, and be the seat of the accumulation of intestinal matters. A glance at the sketches in the woodcut will show that the intes- tinal contents must pass into them, almost as readily as past them into the canal below. When intestinal fluids are making their way actively down the canal, they must fill these diverticula, and they will remain full until, the intestine above having ceased to fill them, they are enabled by their own muscular power to empty themselves again. We would expect, then, that any foreign matters descending in the fluids would be very liable to pass "into a diverticulum. On the other hand, it may be ob- served that they in this respect only resemble the normal caecum, which is, in this sense, a diverticulum from the onward direction of the alimentaiy canal; and into it most foreign bodies and matters must go for a time, as soon as they pass the ileo-colic aperture, yet the lodgment and accumulation of such matters I Op. cit., p. 94.