51 ON THE NEEVES OF THE ORBIT. down we no doubt use branches of the third nerve in opposition to each other; but this opposition is on the same side. But whenever we look out sideways, there is a double antagonistic action; for the external rectus is not merely the antagonist of the internal of the same side, but of the external rectus of the other side, in so far that they never act together. It was neces- sary, then, that one of the lateral recti should receive a special nerve; and he thinks the reason why it is given to the external rather than to the internal rectus is, that a more extended motion is required outwardly than inwardly. Also of the obhque muscles, in accordance with our view of their action, which he holds, as each acts not with the corresponding but with the non-corres- ponding oblique of the opposite side, therefore one of them—the superior as it happens—has received a separate nerve; and, therefore, he adds, as " the same pair of nerves could not pro- duce so complicated a movement, it was necessary that the supe- rior or inferior oblique should receive a special nerve." Now these theories, when examined, whilst they have an ap- pearance of plausibility, in reality, so far as they are correct as to fact, amount to nothing beyond a mere statement of the fact. Passing over the part of Miiller's theory which relates to the action of the oblique muscles, the fallacy of it in other respects is evident, as has been well pointed out by Dr Gr. Johnson,^ in the first place by showing, that there really is no such tendency in all the corresponding branches of the third pair; and, secondly, by the observation, that " we must not suppose we are explaining the necessity for this arrangement by asserting, to use the words of Midler, that if, in place of the sixth nerve, the external recti muscles had received each a branch of the third nerve, it would have been impossible to make one of these muscles act without the other." M. Berard's remarks are likewise objectionable, from his assuming the necessity of there being separate nerves for opposite movements on the two sides; but they evidently, embracing as they do the correct view of the use of the oblique muscles, point to the only explanation of which the matter ad- mits,—viz., that separate nerves are employed when, and only 1 Cyc. of Anatomy and Physiology. Article, Orbit. 1844. Pp. 791, 792.