199 VARIETIES OF THE MUSCLES. tendon ^\ iiicli in breadth, as they lie in front of the artery. They cross the artery very obliquely so as to lie in front of it for three inches, one inch of the fleshy and two inches of the ten- dinous portion. The artery lies in a groove in the brachialis anticus muscle, from the raised portion on the outer side of which is sent off, over the artery, an aponeurosis to join the tendon of this abnormal muscle, which is quite distinct from the intermus- cular septun. (3.) Tendinous Slip from Pectoralis Major to Internal Condyle, crossing over Brachial Artery.—This variety occurred on the right arm only, in an adult female subject. The pectoralis major gave off its usual expansion to the aponeurosis of the arm. The tendinous slip comes from below this, from the deeper part of the tendon of the pectoral, as a cord or tendon about the size of a common probe. It crosses over the brachial artery obliquely, at and below the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. It now lies behind the basihc vein and internal cutaneous nerve, passes to join the true intei'muscular septum, and is continued with it to the condyle, an inch above which it also joins with the ligament- ous cord behind the septum, from which, above, it is quite dis- tinct. As this long ligamentous arch passes down the arm, its outer or anterior arch is free and rounded, and the posterior edge is continued backwards into the deep fascia of the arm. It lies obliquely over the artery for about an inch just at and a Kttle below the tendon of the coraco-brachialis. In an operation, this shp might mislead from its resemblance to the intermuscular septum. Reftmrhs.—ThQ two cases first related exceed any that I have read of in the extent to which the artery was concealed by a muscular covering. Mr Quain' has met with a case in which the arteiy was covered, for an inch and a half, by a thick mus- cular slip from the biceps to the intermuscular septum (Plate xxxvii. fig. 5). He also mentions another in which a third head to the biceps crossed over, instead of under, the artery; and refers to a preparation in Mr Allan Bums' museum, in which 1 The Anatomy of the Arteriea of the Human Body. London, 1844.