140 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE, tumours, of unequal volume, all situated along the mesenteric border of the intestine, and formed by the hernia of the mucous membrane, through the muscular fibres." Having now drawn attention to the points of interest in con- nection with these diverticula, I shall next give an account of the various cases I have met with and examined, considering them first anatomically and then pathologically. These are twenty in number, of the true diverticulum ilei, and two of the false diverticulum, one on the jejunum, the other on the oeso- phagus, which will serve to contrast with the former or true diverticula. In the woodcut is given an outline of each. These sketches I made with care from the preparations, showing in each a sufficient portion of intestine, and representing accurately the proportion and the various points in the anatomy of each diver- ticulum. They are arranged in a gradual series; and as the numbers of the figures correspond to the same numbers in the descriptive notes, each may be referred to from the notes. I have deemed it best, at the risk of being thought tedious, to give all the facts in connection with each case, and, for brevity's sake, in the form of notes, which were made with the preparations before me. Of the twenty two preparations, eight (Nos. 1, 3, 6, 9, 16, 17, 19, 21) are in my own collection; for the others I am indebted to the Edinburgh Museums; eight (Nos. 2, 4, 7, 10, 12, 13, 20, 22) are in the University Museum ; and the remaining six (Nos. 5, 8, 11, 14, 15, 18) in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. Descriptive Notes of Cases of Diverticula, etc. 1. Pouch on oesophagus. Dried preparation, without history. Projects forwards from oesophagus at bifurcation of trachea, and occupies the recess between and behind the bronchi. It is a blunt laiob-like projection, measuring in depth, length, and thickness f inch. It begins gradually and without any con striction, occupying the entire breadth of the (Esophagus, the