THE SDPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS. 209 more or less marked groove, tlie artery or nerve not lying actually in this groove, but in front of it. The inner boundary of the groove is the internal condyloid ridge, the outer gives origin to the most internal fibres of the brachialis anticus muscle. The nerve and artery begin to deviate at the tendon of the coraco- brachialis muscle, and pass down in this grooved space in front of the intermuscular septum, the nerve internal to the artery, and bound down by an aponeurosis from it to the brachialis an- ticus. They now lie between the intermuscular septum and the process, and passing underneath the concavity of the latter, are covered by it and protected from pressure. Their direction is now changed, and they pass obliquely outwards to gain their normal position at the elbow. From the point where they enter underneath the arch they may be covered by a high pronator teres, or by a strong aponeurosis passing inwards from a raised portion of the brachialis anticus. A high origin to the pronator teres, which may at first form a separate muscle, appears to be frequently if not generally present in cases of supra-condyloid process. Relation of Supra-Condyloid Process to Humerus.—It has been already mentioned that the supra-condyloid process is situated, with very little variation, at the distance of two inches above the upper edge of the internal condyle. Its relaition to the surface and borders of the humerus is also constant. It is always placed on the internal surface, either midway between the internal and anterior boi'ders of the bone, or a little nearer to the latter; and the liga- ment which completes the arch has to pass downwards and in- wards to join the intermuscular septum above the condyle. This constancy of the position of the process, both as regards the dis- tance above the elbow and the surface of the bone, is remarkable and interesting; and, both in position and direction, the process will be found to correspond closely to the arch of bone by which the foramen is completed in the lower animals. I must here remark upon a method of describing the shaft of the humerus to be found in several of our best text-books of ana- tomy, by which this bone is represented as presenting two sur- faces only, an anterior and posterior. But the humerus, like the o