ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 31 is the commissure, a line in breadth and two or three lines across, into which the fourth nerve runs on each side ; and behind this the valve is again only clear serous membrane. Notwithstanding, the fourth nerve appears to arise also in part as if from the testis, and part of this commissure seems to be merely a crossing from one peduncle to the other, the whole seeming too large to pass entirely into the fourth nerve, although this may be due to its being flattened out upon the valve. On examining these parts recently in the cat, the commissure was seen to be very distinct. The fourth nerves adhere intimately to the lower and back part of the testes, and then run across into the commissure, which may be compared to the optic commissure in form, only the nerves here are more divergent in front. Two bands run into the centre of it behind, one from each peduncle ; there then appears to be a union and crossing, and from this, at least the greater part of the foiu'th nerves passes oflF on each side. I have just examined these parts in the human brain in two recent specimens, hardened and prepared on pui-pose. In one, the fourth nerve comes by one filament from the tipper part of the superior cerebellar pe- duncle; another comes out of the base of the testis, running backwai'ds and outwards to join the others; and a third, the smallest of the three, evidently comes out of the well-marked commissure. The commissure is a line in breadth, the same distance behind the testes, and three lines across. It connects the upper end of the peduncles, the internal fibres of which seem to run into it, and it seems to contain more fibres than run out fi-om it into the fom*th nerves. The longitudinal arrangement of the medullary fibres of the valve is very distinct. They ap- pear not to run into the fourth nerves, or into the commissm-e, but pass underneath the latter, and, collected together, mount up along the groove between the testes, and spread out on these and on the nates. On turning round the preparation, the com- missure is scarcely visible, owing to the fibres of the valve passing underneath it as above noticed. In the other preparation, the longitudinal fibres of the valve partly pass beneath the commissure, but chiefly turn to each side behind the commissm-e, cross over the peduncle, just behind the fourth nerve, as a distinct band,