175 CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. USU ._ally between the two trunks of the plexus, to reach the upper angle of the scapula under cover of its levator muscle, and is there- fore, not the supra-scapular, but the posterior-scapular artery. Brain.—The corpus callosum is stated to be four inches in length. It may be so in a brain soft and flattened out on a table; but^the brain it will be granted is not longer than the cavity in which it lies, and at most the seven inches thus given are thus distributed;—corpus callosum, three inches; from corpus callosum to front of brain, an inch and a half; and from corpus callosum to posterior end of brain, two inches and a half The position of the corpus callosum bears an interesting relation to its relative thickness at the middle, and at the anterior and posterior extre- mities. Such points are easily and naturally settled by the ap- plication of a foot-rule, which, in a small form, the anatomist will find a very useful instrument. The foramen of Monro is described as " transmitting" the plexus choroides, and the veins of the corpus striatum, pp. 317 and 321. Now, the foramen of Monro does not transmit any vessels, or anything at all but serum, being merely an open pas- sage between the lateral and third ventricles, and formed simply by perforation or continuity of the lining serous membrane. It is not sufficiently expi'essed in descriptions of the brain, that the foramen of Monro, is not, as the communication between the third and fourth ventricles is, a hole or passage in the nervous substance, but in the lining serous membrane only. Were it not for the reflection or continuation of the internal arachnoid, from the upper surface of the fornix outwards across the rest of the floor of the lateral ventricle, there would be a foramen or fissure of Monro all the way back beneath the edge of the fornix, and the lateral and third ventricles would form one cavity, by continuity both above and below the choroid plexus and velum interpositum ; but the lining serous membrane prevents this, and only where the cms of the fornix bends round the shoulder of the thalamus is it perforated, so as to be continuous with the lining membrane of the third ventricle below. It was, we presume, the want of appreciation of these points regarding the nature of this hole, formerly so interesting to the