ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 37 ness of the inference from such methods of description, it may be observed that, in the lower animals, these nerves are always distinct, and have the same peculiar and distant connections with the brain. In the mammalia, in which the pons Varolii is much smaller than in man, the sixth and third nerves still keep their distance from each other, not by any means coming nearer and nearer as the pons is less and less developed; and in birds, in which there is no pons, these nerves are still quite distinct, and do not arise proportionally at less distances from each other than they do in the human brain. We therefore retain the observation that it is very remarkable that the motor nerves of the eye should be connected with so widely different parts of the brain; and further, that while the common motor oculi nerve arises as near as possible to its distri- bution, the other two nerves, which supply each a separate muscle, come from very different and distant parts. DISTRIBUTION OF THE MOTOR NERVES, AND MOVEMENTS OF THE EYEBALLS. That there is a meaning in the peculiar distribution of these nerves among the muscles of the orbit, cannot be doubted. It is singular and constant, and is found to be the same in all verte- brate animals. This is stated by writers on comparative anatomy, and I have always found it so. The foui'th nerve is never dis- tributed to any muscle but the superior oblique, and to this muscle it always goes, although the muscle has a very different position in the three lower classes of vertebrate animals. But the sixth nerve in most mammals, and in birds, supplies addi- tional muscles; in the latter, the muscles which move the third eyelid, and in the former, the retractor or suspensory muscle of the eye. When this muscle is single, a single division of the sixth nerve enters it; when it consists of four separate slips, inter- mediate to the recti, two or three delicate filaments leave the sixth to supply them. It is worthy of remark, that the part of the nerve which goes to the retractor muscle is less than a third