ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 53 plied by the portio dura of the seventh pair. But no amount of effort or practice Avill enable us to use one superior rectus with- out the other. Of the lower division of the third nerve, the branch to the inferior rectus is exactly in the same position as that to the superior. The lower and upper recti are the direct opponents of each other, but they cannot act without their fellows of the opposite side. The branch to the internal rectus again differs from these. It acts in the direct or diagonal inversion of both eyes with its fellow, like those to the upper and lower recti, but, unlike them, not necessarily exactly in the same degree, as when the eyes converge unequally ; and again, without its fellow and with the sixth nerve, as when we look sideways, in this case resembling the sixth nerve itself. And, lastly, the branch to the inferior oblique, according to our view of the use of the oblique muscles, will never act with its fellow, but, at the same time, as the fourth nerve of the op'posite side, in this, respect exactly resemblin<T the fourth. Farther, the muscles supplied by the thii'd'nerve do not seem to have, on the same side, any greater tendency to act with each other than with the muscle supplied by the sixth nerve. Al- though we use the upper and lower recti more frequently along with the internal than with the external rectus, still we do not feel any more difBculty one side than on the other when one eye is directed upwards and outwards, and the other upwards and inwards. Thus the upper division of the third acts as readily with the separate sixth nerve as with the nerve to the internal rectus, which comes from the same trunk as the former. There is another branch of the third nerve—that to the iris, through the ciliary ganglion—the action of which is always, like that of the nerves to the upper and lower recti, attended by the action of its fellow of the opposite side. It is maintained by Miiller,^ that there is a necessary association in action between the iris and the internal rectus, and still more so with the in- ferior oblique, This falls more naturally to be noticed in con- sidering the functions of the ciliary nerves ; but I may observe here that this association between the iris and the internal rectus ' Op, cit., p. 773.