DISSECTION OF THE ORBITS IN A CASE OF 98 Brain.—About four ounces of serous fluid escaped when the brain wasbeiiig removed. Convolutions slightly flattened. Lateral ventricles distended by clear serum, the right to three times, the left to twice the natural size. The foramen of Monro nearly ad- mitted the point of the little finger. Pacchionian bodies large, and pia mater generally slightly congested. The whole of the cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum were carefully sliced, but no trace of former or recent disease could be seen. After the removal of the arteries at the base, and the escape of all the fluid, the brain weighed 51| ounces. We next examined the nerves at Hie base. Pia mater between crura cerebri a little thickened and opaque, as if from infiltration of serum, but there was no lymph. Trunks of internal carotid arteries slightly atheromatous. At its origin, it is known that the third nerve lies close between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries, so close that one of the old anatomists supposed the heaviness of the eyes in sleep to be due to the distended arteries pressing on the nerve. Now, the third nerve on the right side seemed so closely embraced by these two arteries, that had this been the paralysed side, it might have been supposed to have been the cause of the paralysis; but on the paralysed side the arteries lay at some distance from the nerve. All the nerves, including the other two motor oculi nerves, were healthy and equal on the two sides, except the third or common motor oculi nerve. On the left side it was fully one-third smaller than on the right, and was of a brownish-yellow colour, all the others being of a pure white. The origin of the third nerves was carefully examined at and below the surface, but no differ- ence could be detected, nor was any trace of disease apparent in the crura cerebri, pons, or quadrigeminal bodies. Under the microscope, the nerve tubes from the left third nerve were about half the size of those from the right, also less distinct, and pro- portionally more mixed up with filamentous tissue. Dissection of the Orbits.—The straight muscles supplied by the paralysed nerve were evidently somewhat wasted, and on weigh- ing their fleshy portions, were found to be lighter than those on the right side; the levator palpebrae one grain; rectus superior.