ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY 174 external jiigular vein. That there are valves in these veins there is no doubt, but they do not appear usually to resist injections, and would, therefore, probably allow of a return of the blood, especially in the then distended state of all these veins. The question is one deserving of further investigation on the liuman subject, and it would be interesting to institute a series of expe- riments to ascertain whether water thrown up, for instance, by the abdominal veins, would freely escape by a wound in the ex- ternal jugular. Neck.—Here we find a passage indicating a startling boldness in practice, upon the fascia of the neck, p. 231. " When, how- ever, tumours form beneath it, as bronchocele, enlargements of the lymphatic glands, aneurism, etc., the pressure which it then exerts may be fatal to the patient, from compression of the trachea, larynx, and nerves, unless (the italics are our own) the tension be relieved by incision." The list of primary branches of the external carotid artery is made up to ten, by the addition of sterno-mastoid and parotidean branches. Eight we hold to be quite enough for the learner to master, besides being the correct number of regular primary branches. The sterno-mastoid occasionally no doubt receives a separate branch from the external carotid, but is usually supplied chiefly by two twigs, one from the superior thyroid, which crosses the carotid sheath to reach it, and a larger one from the occipital artery. The parotid gland, again, is supplied by several twigs, coming both from the external carotid and its temporal branch. We observe the omission of all reference to varieties of tlie subclavian artery, or its branches, except in the statement that " when a fifth artery exists, it arises from the third portion, and is the supra-scapular." Now, all anatomists who have observed these arteries in the dissecting-room, or those who have studied Mr R. Quain's work on the arteries {London, 1844) know that it is very common to find a large branch coming from the third portion of the subclavian artery, as often probably as once in every three subjects, very near where a ligature would have been placed on the artery; and that this branch is seldom the supra- scapular, but is an artery which thereafter dijDS backwards,