144 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. smooth and rounded, without appearance of Hgament or mesen- tery. Intestine without valvulse conniventes. 12. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length. Origin gradual, or without constriction, from convexity of bowel, nearly equi-distant on both sides from mesentery. Direc- tion nearly horizontal, but is, as it were, continued from one end of the bowel, and this is a little larger than the other. Termi- nation smooth and rounded, without ligament or mesentery. Both sets of muscular fibres are plainly visible on the diverti- culum, though less so than on the bowel, and they are scarcely distinguishable towards the termination of the diverticulum. Intestine has no valvulse conniventes. 13. Dried preparation. Diverticulum 2^ inches in length. Origin, from whole breadth of bowel, funnel-shaped on one side, and somewhat constricted on the other; and a little nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. It is more in the direc- tion of the bowel on one side than the other, and the end fi'om which it seems more continued is here the smaller of the two, being that next the obtuse angle. Termination smooth and rounded, without appearance of ligament or mesentery. Intes- tine has no valvulas conniventes. 14. Dried preparation. Diverticulum 3^ inches in length. Origin gradual, from whole breadth of convexity of bowel, but nearer mesentery on one side. It is shaped somewhat like the forefinger, but twice as large, and is slightly bent to one side; and that end of the bowel which opens more directly into it is considerably larger than the other end. Termination smooth and rounded; the blood-vessels are injected, and are seen to cross over the bowel on both sides, and run along both the con- vexity and concavity of the diverticulum. On the concavity, an inch from the blind extremity, is a depression and puckering, and convergence of blood-vessels, as if a cord had passed off here. Small valvulaj conniventes are seen in the interior of the bowel, and a more distinct crescentic fold at the angle in the centre of the concavity of the portion of bowel. 15. Dried preparation. Diverticulum four inches in length. Origin somewhat abruptly from nearly whole breadth of bowel,