173 CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. coronaiy vein into a muscular sinus, as was particularly described more than twelve years ago by John Keid. At the beginning of this sinus, some distance down the vein, we have found one or two valves, as described by Eeid, as well as by several of the older authors ; notwithstanding which, the remark has crept mto several text-books, that the veins of the heart are destitute of valves. Valves in the Internal Jugular and Subclavian Veins.— We may here also remark that we have always found a pair of valves, apparently unknown to most anatomists, at or near the lower orifice of the internal jugular vein, and also in the subcla- vian vein. This does not accord with the common statement that there are no valves in the veins of the head and neck, except in the external jugular vein; or again, that " the subclavian vein is the continuation of the axillary, but unlike it, has no valves." —(Quain's Anatomy, new edition). But our author does not mention that they exist even in the external jugular. The valves of the internal jugular vein, we have always found to occur close above its termination in the innominate, or from half an inch to an inch above its lower orifice. They are two in number, either transverse or oblique, and one of them is apt to be divided in slitting open the vein to search for them. We have found valves also in the trunk of the subclavian vein, near to its termination in the innominate, and are not sure but that, in the instances in which we met with one only, the other had been destroyed in slitting the vein. We have long been in the habit of pointing out these valves at the root of the neck, and find that they were known to former anatomists, as to Sir Charles Bell, who has indicated their existence by the swellings he has figured on the veins in this situation. The point comes to be one of practical interest. Can the distension of the right side of the heart and neighbouring great veins in asphyxia be relieved backwards by an opening in the external jugular vein ? This point had attracted the notice of Dr John Reid, who has shown in his paper, " On the effects of venesection in renewing and increasing the heart's action under certain circumstances," that the heart's action may be renewed in asphyxiated animals, by an opening made in the