CONSIDERED IN A EEVIEW. 179 round the arch to the left side of the remains of the ductus arteriosus, an important point in connection with the early de- velopment of the ai'teries and nerves. Nor is the valve of the foramen ovale sufficiently described, as lying to the left side of the apertm-e, serving to prevent the blood from passing from left to right during foetal life, as well as to close up the aperture after birth, by becoming glued to the edges of the hole on its left or posterior aspect. Of the foetal liver we read, "the left lobe is as large as the right." This is a common remark, but an erroneous one, at least as applied to the foetus near or at the full time. The left lobe is considerably, apparently neariy a half, smaller than the right; though of course proportionally to the right it is larger than in the adult, which we presume is the truth intended to be con- veyed by the erroneous statements such as the above. Nor is the distribution of the umbilical vein correctly given by our author. It is said to give branches—" 1, two or three which are distributed to the left lobe; 2, a single branch, which communicates with the portal vein in the tranverse fissure, and supplies the right lobe; and, 3, a large branch, the ductus venosus, which passes directly backwards, and joins the inferior cava"—p. 557. Now we have always found the arrangement to be this. It gives three or four branches on each side, those to the left lobe being larger than those to the right; some of these, or others, may be con- cealed, coming off between the vein and the fissure; and, having reached tlie transverse fissure, it breaks up into three branches, one to the left lobe first; one twice as large to the right lobe, which, after a coiu'se of half an inch, is joined by the vena portas; and a third. In the middle, the ductus venosus, not larger than the branch to the left lobe, which, after a course of three-fourths of an inch, enters, not the vena cava, but the left hepatic vein, about a quarter of an inch before the latter ends in the vena cava. The ductus venosus is not a " large branch," but a small one ; it cannot carry above a sixth or an eighth part of the blood of the umbilical vein straight on. Far too much importance is usually given to it in descriptions of the foetal circulation, as if it were of equal importance with the ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale.