PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 103 unless a complete and careful dissection is made of the nerves in the whole of their course. A motor filament may appear to come from the fifth pair, or a sensory filament from one of the motor nerves, but on tracing them back through the sinus, it will be found that the filament had left the parent trunk to accom- pany and tlien leave the other. This I have often found. Hence the explanation of the common description of the lachrymal nerve ai'ising in whole or in part from the fourth nerve, hence also the supposed cases of union between the third and sixth nerves, and the anomalous origins of ciliary nerves and roots for the ciliary ganglion. It would be a greater physiological deviation to find the sixth nerve really supplying the ciliary ganglion and moving the iris, or the third nerve supplying the external rectus and abducting the eye, than to find the portio dura of the seventh pair supplying the inasseter muscle, or the motor portion of the fifth pair the orbicularis palpebrarum. These varieties may be illustrated by one we occasionally meet with in the neck, in the origin of the descendens noni nerve from the vagus, or in the descendens noni furnishing a branch to the heart. Physiolo- gically these appear strange deviations, until we recollect that the vagus and hypoglossal nerves lie close together after they leave the cranium, and fi-equently there present an intimate union with each other. These remarks are not intended to question the occasional existence of irregular twigs crossing between the nerves of the orbit in the anatomical sense, but to throw doubt on the natural inference that they establish physiological varieties also. Were it so, nature would merely have succeeded in defeating her own scheme in the pecuHar distribution of these nerves, and I am not satisfied that any case has yet been recorded in which there was proof that such physiological variety existed, especially that it has not yet been shown that the sixth nerve had anything to do with the motions of the iris.^ I The statement of some, that, "in several animals the sixth nerve sends filaments to the ins,"_grounded apparently on the supposition of the existence of such fila- ments in the rabbit,-appears to me to be erroneous. I have never seen such filaments, and do not believe in their existence.