ON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEAKT. 110 into it. It has a thickening like a corpus Arantii in its centre. The corpus Arantii of the right valve is situated so much behind the middle, that, were this valve and the small one joined into one, it would be exactly in the centre; and a thick band of fibres passed from this corpus Arantii on each side. The left valve is imiformly thick and opaque. The coronary arteries arise, one from above the middle of the left valve, the other above the right, half way between its middle and the anterior horn. The aorta near the valves is very irregular, covered with soft tubercular elevations and a few calcareous deposits. The mitral, tricuspid, and pulmon- ary semilunar valves, are healthy. The left ventricle is much dilated and thickened, the right ventricle normal. The whole heart weighed about a pound and a half. The patient was an emaciated man, set. 33, broken down by dissipation. The history, known only for a few days before death, states, that the symptoms were—dyspnoea, cough, hemoptysis, sputa tinged with blood—pulse full, strong, and about 90—considerable cardiac dulness. First sound obscured by a moderate bruit; second sound very indistinct. Remarhs on Varieties of the Semilunar Valves.—However fre- quent it may be to meet with cases of variety in the number of the semilunar valves, in which only two, or again more than three, were found, there is want of evidence to show that such a condi- tion has been known to occur as an original anatomical variety. It is interesting to observe that the variety of diminution of the number usually occurs at the aortic orifice, whilst the cases in which the usual number was exceeded have chiefly occurred at the pulmonary orifice.^ This corresponds to the probable view, that the condition of two valves arises from disease in the adult, by which two of the valves become joined together, and then thrown down as one large one; and that the condition of more than three valves arises from disease in utero, one or more of the original valves being divided into two, by an adhesion to the wall of the artery, the condition being found almost always at the pulmonary ori- fice, and in young subjects. The greater frequency of disease at the pulmonary orifice in young subjects, whilst m the adult it is so much more frequent at the aortic orifice, cannot, however, . See an interesting collection of facts on this subject by P^--^^^^ '^^^ TT VI -M-oriirnl Times and Gazette, November 15, 18ol; and iseptemoei ii, loo-. S^bttS^^^^^^^ on this subject by Dr W. T. Gaivdner. lecturer on practice of medicine in this city.