AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRAE. 127 meaning. Tlie fact is, that they are not the result of any law, but the exceptions to a law, the specific law, by which the human skeleton received and transmits unaltered its peculiarities; ex- ceptions the rarity of which only tends to render the law the more striking, and of which exceptions we know nothing beyond observing the fact and noticing the analogy. The constant existence of a hole in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, whilst at the same time the artery does not pass through it, might be looked upon as indicating some other principle in regard to the fonnation of the aperture in the cervical transverse processes, irrespective of their occupation by the artery. However, although the mere circumstance of one of the seven holes not being used by no means leads to such a conclusion, the fact regarding the seventh vertebra appears to be easily explained by looking to the special anatomy of the parts. First, it is part of the design in the construction of the cervical transverse processes to provide a hole for the vertebral artery; and secondly, from the place where the vertebral artery usually arises, it would require to deviate fi'om its direct course to enter the forameii in the lowest vertebra, and accordingly, so to express it, the ai'tery finds it more convenient to pass over and enter usually the sixth. In accordance with this view I may mention that I have once seen the left vertebral artery pass through the foramen of the seventh vertebra, but it arose about an inch far- ther down than usual from the subclavian trunk, whilst the nor- mal artery of the other side entered the sixth. This, however, may not be the whole explanation. It is common enough, for instance, for the vertebral artery of the left side to arise separately from the arch of the aorta, but then it does not enter the foramen in the seventh vertebra. Indeed, Mr Quain, with his large ob- servation of varieties of the arteries, appears to have seen it enter only once, and, as in my case just referred to, it was the artery of the left side. It is possible that the explanation may lie in the development or growth of the transverse processes, as we occa- sionally find the artery pass over even three or four of the lower vertebriE before it enters the foramina. The common statement that the foramen in the seventh cervical transverse process trans-