115 ON THE SEMILUNAR VALVES OF THE HEART. some distance, } inch more or less, below it, in a triangular thickening (corpus Arantii inferius), from the apex of which a narrow median elevation or thickening passes up to join the true or superior corpus Arantii. This is sometimes very distinct, and especially when they are thickened by disease, the inferior body will often be felt to be the thickest and hardest of the two. When the valves are closed, the thin part above the median band is a perfectly flat surface, each half supported against the corresponding half of the other two valves. Seen from above, there is a triple line, or three straight lines meeting in the centre; and although each valve is large enough to pass beyond the centre, their upper margins seem to be stretched, by passing not horizontally inwards, but inwards and downwards. When viewed from below they are also seen to meet in a triple line, and this appears to correspond to the median fibrous band, and the inferior corpus Arantii meets its fellows in the centre, where the three straight lines meet. Below this the valves are seen to be convex, and look to the cavity of the ventricle. When, therefore, the valves are closed, the upper thin portions are flattened against and mutually supported by each other, and the corpora Arantii, are some distance up in the interior of the artery. Part of the force of the elastic reaction of the arteries is thus sustained; and were this part of the valve to be perforated, as we sometimes see in the upper thin portion of the pulmonary valves, the blood would not regui-gitate into the ventricle, but merely pass from the cavity of one valve into that of the other. The lower and thicker portion of the valves begins where they are about to loose this mutual support, and is thus fitted for resisting the strain backwards towards the ventricle, into the cavity of which the blood would regurgitate in the event of a perforation occurring in this part of the valve. The sinuses of Valsalva, as is well understood, are no doubt essential to the perfect action of the semilunar valves. The falling back of the valves is ensured in three ways^first, by their own weight, as soon as the blood which pushed them aside has passed by; secondly, by tlie weight of a certain amount of blood which has not been expelled from the sinus ; and, thirdly,