AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRiE. 161 remarkable circumstance than that of variation of the ribs; but when there is a vertebra more or less, the accompanying addition or deficiency of a rib is perhaps what might be expected. This is to be distinguished from the case of variation of the ribs only, in which the number of free cervical or lumbar vertebrae is affected. In reckoning the number of the lumbar vertebra3, we will be careful not to reckon only four, when the fifth is partially ossified to the sacrum, or again six, when the highest portion of the sacrum remains separate, as it normally does till between the twenty-fifth and thirtieth year. I may fm'ther observe, that we cailnot judge of the individua- lity of a rib by noticing its exact relation to the vertebrae. Usu- ally the first dorsal vertebra receives the entire head of the first rib and part of the second, but sometimes the first rib reaches in part upon the body of the seventh cervical vertebra. Nor can we absolutely recognise any particular dorsal vertebra below by attending to the usual description of their specific characters. The twelfth dorsal vertebra is not always the first to have its lower articulating processes turned outwards. In the second of my cases above recorded, the eleventh vertebra possessed this character. I have seen another instance in which the lower processes of the eleventh looked more outwards than forwards, and another eleventh in which the lower processes looked in dif- ferent directions, the right outwards and the left forwards. I have a preparation of several vertebras, where apparently the eleventh dorsal has a facet on its transverse process, and only part of a facet on its body, or if this is a tenth then the lower articulating processes of the eleventh are directed outwards. And it appears to me that most of our text books on anatomy are wrong in describing the tenth dorsal vertebra as possessing a considerable number of Chinese are there as servants, all being males, and Mr Cox is quite certain that both his skeleton and that broujiht to Mr Coote by his fellow- student, were from true Chinese. The skeleton I have examined presents no peculiarity similar to that described by Mr Coote; the spine of the axis has an average bifurca- tion, and that of the sixth cervical vertebra is not bifid; the seventh cervical verte- bra is in all respects normal. The first dorsal vertebra has an entire facet for the head of the first rib, and a half one below for its part of the second rib. The three lowest dorsal vertebrie have the usual facets, and the lower articulating processes of the twelfth, as usual, look outwards.