208 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. to be the same whether the nerve is accompanied by the artery or not. Proceeding from the tip of the process is a ligament or fibrous band, which arches downwards and inwards, and, blend- ing with the intermuscular septum, is inserted into the ridge a short distance above the condyle.^ The true intermuscular sep- tum dips down to be attached to the internal condyloid ridge of the humerus, and between this on the inside and the brachialis anticus and supra-condyloid process externally, is a grooved space, in which the deviating nerve and artery are placed. This hollow is bounded behind by the humerus, on which there is a 1 Internal Intermuscular Septum.—It appears to me that the normal anatomy of the part so named is not usually fully described. Reaching down on the inside of the arm, and connected with the aponeurosis, is a white cord like band, but this is not the intermuscular septum. The true intermuscular septum lies some distance in front of this, and is not so evident on the surface of the museies. The true septum dips down as a strong fibrous membrane to be attached to the internal condyloid ridge, and is fully half an inch in depth, forming a fibrous partition, between the brachialis anticus in front, and the inner head of the triceps behind, to both of which it gives origin. Below it passes to the internal condyle, having before been joined by the pos- terior ligamentous band; and above it is continued along the internal border of the humerus, as far as the insertion of the teres major,^ having again been joined by the posterior ligamentous cord. The latter separates from the true septum at or above the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and passes down on the surface of the in- ternal head of the triceps, lying posterior to the true septum, at a distance varying from three-fourths to a fourth of an inch, and again it joins the true septum, about an inch, more or less, above the condyle. It is connected in front to the true sep- tum by an aponeurosis, through wliich the muscular fibres are visible, and behind it is continued into the aponeurosis of the posterior brachial region. Close be- hind it is the ulnar nerve and inferior profunda artery. I have seen the nerve lie some distance ibehind it and uncovered by it, but usually the nerve will be exposed by an incision along the posterior edge of this fibrous cord. It appears to have reference to the position of the nerve, and, forming a tolerably resisting band over or along the hollow on the inside of the humerus in the lower half of the arm, may serve to protect the ulnar nerve from any pressure made against the inside of the arm. It is united above to the true intermuscular septum, the two together forming a fibrous cord running up along, and attached to, the internal border of the humerus and passing behind the tendon of the coraco-brachialis. The latter is usually said to be intimately connected at its insertion with the intermuscular septum. It appears so, and on one or two occasions I have found some fibres of the tendon continued into the septum; but usually they may be easily separated down to the hone, and it is evident that the septum passes up behind the tendon, as far up as the teres major, or as high as the highest point of origin of the internal head of the triceps, of which it appears almost like a tendon of origin in its whole length. I have repeatedly examined these points with care, dissecting down to the bone, and the above will be found almost in- ■variably to be the precise arrangement. I shall again refer to the deceptive feeling as if the true intermuscular septum was attached not to, but in front of, the internal condyloid line. We must therefore distinguish the true intermuscular septum, dip- ping down to the bone, the edge of which is not very apparent at first on the surface, from the very evident ligamentous cord behind it, which usually bears a close relation to the ulnar nerve, and might be called the internal brachial ligament, as a means of distinguishing- it from the true septum.