195 VARIETIES OF THE MUSCLES. it might mislead the sui'geon in the operation of tying this vessel. It crossed always in front of the axillary vessels and nerves, and usually opposite the upper part of the conjoined tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. It occupied this situation in all of the eight instances, except the one in which it was present on one side only, and, in this instance, it crossed as high up as op- posite the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, and an inch higher than the edge of the conjoined tendon. It is usually fleshy where it crosses the vessels, but in one instance was tendinous on its posterior surface at this point. As the ai'tery in the upper part of the third stage of its course, opposite to, or at the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, gives off large branches, the circumflex and subscapular,—the part to be chosen for operation is where it lies upon the conjoined tendon,^ and therefore a little below where this muscular slip crosses over the vessels. It will, however, be exposed in the operation. In one of the cases, the operation was being practised by one of the pu.pils, and the ligature had been applied below the muscle on one side and above it on the other. In another of the cases I was showing the operation, and the muscle was exposed in the wound and recognised at a short distance above the point where the artery was tied. The fibres of tlais unusual muscle are trans- verse, whilst those of the coraco-brachialis, the only normal muscle which should be seen in the operation, are vertical. 2. Muscle cmcealing the Brachial Artery in the Upper Third of the Arm. This variety occurred in the right arm of a male subject in 1851. The coraco-brachialis muscle is twice the usual size, and sends a muscular layer over the vessels and median nerve. This muscular covering begins at the lower edge of the conjoined, tendon, and reaches down for three inches, near to the insertion 1 I use the term "conjoined" tendon as it is a convenient one in clescribiBg> tlie relative anatomy of the parts. Strictly speaking, there is but a very partial insertion of the Hbres of the teres major into the tendon of the latissimus ; and a little farther on they are altogether separated by a bursa, the tores ending in the internal bicipital ridge, while the latissimus glides over the ridge and bursa and is inserted in the floor of the bicipital groove.