76 DR GREIG'S case OF Imigs, these arising from its back part and almost by a common trunk. A quarter of an inch further on, the j^ulmonary artery (or ductus arteriosus) gives off from its anterior and left side the left subclavian. The pulmonary artery, hitherto undimmished in size, now contracts rapidly to half its former size, and is con- tinued on as the descending aorta. There is thus no communi- cation between the ascending and descending aort^. The right and left subclavian arteries appear of equal diameter. The vente cavEe and pulmonary veins are normal. Heart.—On opening the ventricles, they are seen to communi- cate by a large aperture, arising from a deficiency of the septum ventriculorum at its upper part. The right ventricle is twice the size of the left, though its walls are at least not thicker than those of the latter. The pulmonary artery arises normally from the upper and anterior part of the right ventricle. The aorta arises exactly above the communication between the two ventricles, its mouth being equally visible from either cavity. The aperture of communication is of a rounded form, measuring one-thhd of an inch in diameter, bounded below and on each side by a smooth thick edge, and above by the opening of the aorta. The semilu- nar valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery are well developed and normal. The tricuspid orifice is three times the size of the mitral orifice. The right auricle appears to be dilated, whilst the left is about one-third the size of the right, and a little larger than its corresponding ventricle. The foramen ovale is normal, and its valve is fully formed ; but the passage remaining between the upper end of the foramen and the free border of the valve, ap- pears to be considerably smaller than that which is usually seen in the full grown fcBtus. Remarks.—As far as I am aware, no case has yet been re- corded in which the above remarkable abnormalities were com- bined. In the third volume of the " Library of Medicine," article " Malformations of the Heart," reference is made to two cases somewhat analogous. In the one, related by Sir A. Cooper, the pulmonary artery arose from both ventricles and furnished the descending aorta, the ascending aorta originating naturally In the second, related by M. Breschet, the left subclavian arose