ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 43 right, holding it by the temples, and we remarked then that the left eye re- mained attached to the wall of the orbit, which followed the movements of the head, whilst the right eye underwent a rotatory movement in the orbit. The patient was astonished to see single when he inclined the head to the right." « It appears impossible," says M. Szokalsld, «to explain these phenomena otherwise than by paralysis of the left superior oblique muscle." And M. Longet concludes—" According to these observations of M. Szokalski, the symptoms of paralysis of the fourth nerve are the following:—1. The impos- sibility of the rotation of the eye in the orbit. We recognise that impossi- bility when the patient is directed to bend his head alternately from side to side, while he keeps his eyes fixed on some object; we see then that the affected eye remains fixed, and that it does not follow the rotations of its fellow. 2. There is constantly double vision, and the two images are placed one above the other; the affected eye furnishes the lower image. 3. The double vision disappears when the head is inclined to the side away from the affected eye." Now, if the report of these cases is faithful, and they seem very circumstantially related, they form a very interesting con- tribution to the subject of paralysis of the fourth nerve. Since my attention was drawn to this subject, I have not had an opportunity of verifying or testing these observations; but, looking theoretically to the matter, I should think that the pas- sive state of the eye, whilst the head was being bent to the side, would require to be carefully looked for, to be noticed. Accord- ing to our view of the action of the oblique muscles, when the head is bent over to the right, the right superior oblique and the left inferior are in action, so that the upper part of the right eye is turned round towards the inner canthus, and the upper part of the left is turned round towards the outer canthus, so as to counter- act the chiefly circular displacement which the picture would other- wise undergo on the retina. Now, were the movement a purely rotatory one, without the least depression or elevation of the axis, we should expect to find, not double vision with one object above the other, but confused vision, one image of the object being across the other; that, for instance, a pencil, held up, should appear more or less like a cross. But as a purely rotatory motion, without any change in the direction of the axis, would be required only if the head was being bent round on an axis exactly coi-responding to the axis of the eye, which can never be