220 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. tion afforded by the general hollow between the upper angle of the scapula and the coracoid process. We can only infer, from the fact of the median nerve, with or without the artery, being sent through a foramen under an arch of bone, that it required >this protection, and that, therefore, it has it. III.—ON THE VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES OF THE ARM. The varieties affecting the arteries in the aim may be arranged in three classes:—!. Varieties in the muscular relations: 2. Deviation of the artery from its usual course : And, 3, An early division of the artery by which two or more arteries exist, instead of one. 1. The first of these classes of varieties I have above considered and furnished examples of, in the cases of the artery being covered by a slip fi' om the latissimus dorsi, by an expansion from the coi-aco-brachialis, by a broad third head to the biceps, by an aponeurosis from the brachialis anticus, or by a thin portion of the muscle itself, and by a high origin of the pronator teres. 2. The second class is made up nearly altogether by the variety in connection with a supra-condyloid process. In this, the condyloid deviation, the position of the artery is changed in the lower two-thirds of the arm. Accompanied, as usual, by its venae comites and the median nerve, it is covered only by the aponeurosis and a sheath of fascia, derived from the outer edge of the intermuscular septum, along which it runs. But below the process, the artery, besides being directed obliquely outwards, is generally more deeply covered than usual, either by an aponeu- rosis from the brachialis anticus, or a high origin of the pronator teres. As the artery, at the process, lies three-fourths of an inch from the inner edge of the biceps, the ordinary incision along the edge of that muscle could scarcely enable the surgeon to reach the artery, but an examination of the arm before the operation was begun, would probably indicate the deviation of the artery by