ON VARIOUS POINTS IN ANATOMY 180 In the foetal horse it is even altogether absent.'' In man it forms an escape or direct passage to near the heart for but a small part of the umbilical blood; the great part must first traverse the liver where some important change, probably of the nature of purifi- cation, is no doubt efi'ected on it by this organ, so large in the foetus although it is not yet engaged in the secretion of bile. Of the membrana pupillaris of the foetal eye, our author says "sometimes it remains permanently, and produces blindness." In the next edition this passage may stand thus—" It has been supposed that the membrana pupillaris sometimes remains per- manent, and produces blindness; but this is an error, as no authentic cases are on record, to prove that it has occurred as yet." Orbit and Eye.—On pp. 219 and 370 we have the old and erroneous description of the tendons of the recti muscles forming an expansion at their insertion; thus—" The insertion of the four recti muscles into the globe of the eye forms a tendinous expan- ion, which is continued as far as the margin of the cornea, and is called the tunica albuginea." How this mode of description has come to be so generally adopted in text books on anatomy we are at a loss to understand, as it is so easily seen to be erroneous and entirely without founda- tion. This siTpposed coat was the tunica tendinea, or timica albuginea of the old anatomists, the discoveiy claimed by Colum- bus, but before "known" to Galen. As long ago shown by Albinus and Zinn, not only is there no such membrane, but absolutely no arrangement in the least approaching to the forma- tion of such a membrane. The error may have arisen from the use of the term " tmiica albuginea," by which some may mean simply the white appearance of the sclerotica, while others fancied the supposed tendinous expansion of the ancients to be referred to in the use of that term. The term "tunica albuginea" ought therefore, to be altogether abandoned. But this source of con- fusion is scarcely an apology for the error of some modern anato- mists in describing a tendinous expansion to be formed by the 11 make this statement on the authority of Mr Barlow, the accomplished anatomist of the Edinburgh Veterinary School.