121 AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRAE. and the second rib below is rather more than half an inch in breadth, and is occupied in the usual way by the intercostal muscles and membrane. The scalenus anticus muscle is attached on each side chiefly to the point of the rudimentary rib and to the ligament close to it, and a large tendinous slip passes down inside the internal in- tercostal muscle, to be fixed to the upper margin of the second rib. The subclavian vessels were normal in their relative ana/- tomy. The artery lay immediately behind the scalenus anticus, and was supported by the groove in the tip of each rib. The position of the artery in the neck must, however, have been far- ther back than usual, as the tip of each rib is only on a level witli the front of the body of the vertebra, and an inch behind the transverse axis of the inlet of the thorax. Looking merely to the ribs themselves, and to the circumstance that the cartilage fixed to the sternum where the handle and body join was that of the third rib, it might be supposed that these were instances of supernumerary cervical ribs connected with the vertebra prominens; but though I had not the opportunity of examining the vertebra above, I carefully ascertained that there were only eleven ribs below them on each side, and had there been a small lib below, as in the next case, it would have been found in the after dissection of the abdomen. Besides the ver- tebra on which they are supported being in all respects like an ordinary first dorsal, the neighbouring anatomy is normal, ex- cept that the rib stops short and is represented by a ligament. II.—Eudimentaiy condition of Twelfth Ribs. This variety occurred dui'ing last winter session, 1852-3, in a female aet. 19. From external examination the subject was at first supposed to present an example of the occurrence of eleven ribs only, but on subsequent examination on the inside, I de- tected a pair of very small twelfth ribs, lying hidden among the muscles, but so small that they still were imperceptible from the outside. There is very little difference between them. The