169 CONSIDERED IN A BEVIEW. triandes and their contents, one following the other. ^ But we find our author, after describing the pktysma and fascia, gmng first a separate description of the muscles down even to those ot the tongue, without regard to the nerves and arteries, winch follow, also systematically, in separate sections, whilst the relative anatomy in each triangle is given, if at all, in such a way that the parts are rather mentioned as if to be committed to memory than described so as to add to the student's knowledge. This we need hardly say is not relative anatomy. We admit that, in describing a region, there must or should be more or less systematic notice of the muscles, vessels, and nerves m it; but this is very different from giving an altogether separate and systematic description of each, and is compatible with a full ac- count of the relative anatomy of each region, and a particular account of the relations of each muscle, vessel, and nerve, to other muscles, vessels, and nerves,—such as may be found in the works of Ellis and Holden, already referred to. We have said that the greater part of the work before us ap- pears to be a reprint of the author's Vade Mecum. The same paragraphs are used, sometimes in the same, and sometimes m a different order. The description of the muscles especially is the same, only, singularly enough, omitting here the paragraphs on the relations. The arteries and nerves are occasionally altered, and more fuHy described. In the description of the viscera of the thorax and abdomen, the brain and spinal cord, the organs of the senses, and the ligaments, there is very little alteration. It is right, however, to mention, that it is the first edition of this treatise, which appears to contain the original descriptions, which have been subsequently transferred to the author's systematic treatise, and this may explain why the three books so closely re- semble each other. Perhaps our author may reckon it an advantage that the same descriptions should be given in both of his text-books, as the same muscles, vessels, and nerves form the theme of both; but, being so, one of two conclusions are evident,—either that the descriptions which are appropriate in a short systematic manual, cannot be so in a manual professing relative anatomy, or, if they