VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. 223 481 arms, he has shown that the proportion of cases in which two arteries exist in the arm, is one in 5^. The previous estimate of Harrison, given in his valuable treatise on the arteries,^ from the observation of 82 cases, gave a proportion ot about one in four. Adding together the observations of Har- rison and Quain, the proportion will stand about, though rather less than, one in five. The early vessel is well known generally to be the radial, sometimes the ulnar, and occasionally a high interosseous; or, by a short union or cross branch below, a condi- tion equivalent to a double brachial artery, with the two divisions either equal or with one of the vessels much smaller than the other. But, although these details are of much interest to the anatomist, they in reality are of Httle importance to the surgeon, who is concerned with this fact only, that frequently there are two arteries instead of one, and that it may be so in the case in which he is about to operate. The important practical question then comes to be, supposing a second artery to be present, how is its existence to be ascertained, and how can it be reached. Har- rison and Quain have remarked, that the two arteries generally lie close together. The latter farther remarks^ that the radial artery " often arises on the inner side, and, after lying close to the larger vessel, crosses over it at the bend of the elbow ;" and that the ulnar at the lower part of the arm has a tendency to in- cline inwards from the usual position of the brachial trunk. My attention has been directed to observing the exact relative 'position of the two trunks more than to ascertaining the relative frequency of the different varieties ; and, although this opportu- nity is very apt to be lost in the ordinary dissections in the anatomical rooms, I have been able to note the exact position of the two vessels in twenty arms, eighteen of these presenting instances of the high radial, and the remaining two, of the high ulnar artery; and ten of these occurred in sixty subjects dis- sected during the earlier part of the present session. It would be tedious to give the details in each case from the notes now before me, and will suffice if I state the conclusions to which I have come. In nearly all of the cases the division occurred in ^ The Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries. Dublin, 1839. " Loc. cit. p. 263.