38 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. of tlie -wLole trunk, whilst the bulk of the muscle is usually much greater than that of the external rectus.^ In inquiring into the function of these nerves in connection with the motions of the eyeballs, it is necessary in the first place that we determine upon the action of the muscles which they supply. About the actions of the recti muscles there can be no doubt or obscurity, providing it be granted, first, that each turns the eye in its own direction, and, secondly, what is equally evident, that two neighbouring recti turn the eye diagonally between them; and that thus all the diagonal as well as the direct move- ments are performed; a view which would never have been doubted but for the apparent necessity of discovering some use for the oblique muscles. And as to the oblique muscles, I think, from what is stated in my paper on this subject, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion,—in accordance with a view which is older even than the time of John Hunter, who specially sup- ported it, notvnthstanding \A'hich it had again fallen into disre- pute,—that the use of these two muscles is to perform lateral rotation, i. <?., to roll the eye on its antero-posterior axis. This becomes still more evident wheii we descend below the mammalia, when the superior oblique is seen to be no longer reflected over a pulley, but lies at the fore part of the orbit, simply as the counterpart of the inferior; and it is at once evident, not only that these two transverse muscles pull the eye round about on its axis, but also that they cannot act so as to change the direc- tion of the axis, so as to assist or partly supplant the recti in the manner in which they are commonly supposed to do so in man. It is likewise, I think, made evident that such a motion of the eye, as Hunter supposed, is necessary, during the side incUnation of the head, to prevent the impression of the object changing its place circularly on the retina. It is possible that, from the slight variations they present, in their point of attachment and in their direction to the axis of the eye, in different animals, they may associate their rotatory movement with a slight change in the direction of the axis. As to this I cannot speak positively, but I 1 See note, p. GO.