THE SUPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS. 207 ■ cess on both sides, we have sixteen instances in which to notice the relation of the arteries to the process. Where the artery is afFected by the existence of the process, it leaves the biceps near the insertion of the coraeo-brachialis, and passes down, with the median nerve, along the internal inter- muscular septum to reach the concavity of the process, under- neath which it then passes. Out of the sixteen instances, in nine the undivided brachial artery deviated and passed round the process ; in four, there was a high division, one of the arteries keeping normally along the edge of the biceps, the other deviating to pass round the process. The vessel which deviated in three of these four was the prin- cipal trunk, the high radial not deviating; in the remaining in- stance—that by Tiedemann—the deviating vessel was a high interosseous. In the remaining three, there was no deviation of the artery, although the process was present. In two of these the other arm was in all respects normal, in the third there was a long process and the artery deviated. Relation to Median Nerve.—In all the instances in which the artery de\'iated, and in which the position of the nerve was known, it also deviated and passed around the process, lying in- ternal to the artery as they entered the arch. In three of my cases the nerve deviated without the artery. In at least two of these it was accompanied by a small artery derived from the in- ferior profunda, which ran down with it, in the same way as the inferior profunda itself runs down with the ulnar nerve. This, however, was not a leading vessel, but only a muscular branch, not extending beyond the elbow, nor again joining with the brachial or either of its divisions. In every case where there was a process, whether short or long, and the nerve examined, it de- viated to pass under the process, whilst in three of these instances the artery did not deviate with it. This points to the inference that the supra-condyloid foramen is provided not so much for the artery, as is commonly supposed, but principally for the nerve. Relation to Muscles and Region.—The anatomy of the soft parts in the neighbourhood of a supra-condyloid process appeal's