224 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM- the axilla or high in the arm, thus presenting two arteries throughout the whole or greater part of the brachial region. It is necessary to consider the upper and lower parts separately, taking the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or where the artery normally crosses the lower end of that muscle, as the termination and commencement of the two portions. In the first portion of their com-se, the two arteries lay, in all the cases, very near to each other, separated only by the median nerve and a layer of deep fascia or sheath. One of the trunks lies superficial to the other. It is the high radial or ulnar as the case may be, and is usually, more or less, the smaller of the two; the other and deeper trunk represents more the position of the brachial, the median nerve being related to it as it is normally to the single brachial arteiy. The high radial, I have said, is somewhat superficial in position to the other, but it may, at the same time, lie to either side, or directly over the deeper trunk. In most of the cases it lay external and superficial, but in some it arose on the inner or anterior aspects, and then crossed over the deeper trunk to get to its outside. This will be found to be the exact position of the two arteries in the upper part of the arm, one lies immediately below the aponeurosis, and superficial, or (m a'plane anterior to the other. Close either on its inner or, it may be, its outer side, and behind, or on a plane posterior to it, is the other trunk, the median nerve crossing very obliquely between the two, and a layer of sheath also intervening. The deeper trunk, if the division is as high as the subscapularis muscle, furnishes the circumflex and subscapular, and then the profundse branches, while the more superficial trunk, keeping down by the edge of the biceps furnishes the external muscular branches. In the lower half of the arm there is considerable variety in the relative position of the tvro trunks, and they seldom lie so close together as above described in the upper half. It is neces- sary here to distinguish between high radial and high ulnar. As Mr Quain has remarked, the high ulnar has a tendency to pass to the inner or ulnar side away from the edge of the biceps. In both of my' cases, the high ulnar was, below, removed half an inch