14J ON DIVERTICULA FEOM THE SMALL INTESTINE. side next the acute angle. The body is straight and very little tapering, and terminates in a smooth and rounded extremity, without any appearance of a ligament or mesentery. It is situated on the bowel much nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. The intestine presents no valvulze conniventes, but there is a small crescentic fold at the acute angle. Both the longitudinal and cu'cular muscular fibres are distinctly visible on the diverticulum, and continuous with those of the intestine. 5. Wet preparation; "small intestine having a cul-de-sac, from the body of a person in which no other morbid appearance was observed." Diverticulum 1| inch in length. Begins gradually from entire breadth of convexity of bowel. Directed obliquely, and bowel considerably smaller on the side next the acute angle. Terminates in a rounded, slightly conical ex- tremity, without appearance of a ligament. It is somewhat bent on the side of the acute angle, and along this edge of it lies a narrow mesentery, 6. Dried preparation, without history. Diverticulum two inches long. Arises gradually from whole breadth of bowel. Is directed obliquely from bowel, which is larger on the side of the obtuse angle than on the other. It is conical, and terminates in a smooth rounded apex, without any appearance of a ligament. It proceeds from one side of the bowel close to the mesentery, and, continued from the latter, rising up at right angles from it, is a small mesenteric fold, which reaches J of the length of the diverticulum. On the concavity of this curved piece of intestine, crescentic folds, like small valvulaa conniventes, are seen, and one more distinct at the acute angle where the diverticulum begins, but there are no folds on the convexity of the intestine. 7. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length. Begins by funnel-shaped origin on both sides, from whole breadth of bowel, and from that part of it which is directly opposite from the apparent former attachment of the mesentery. Is directed with very little obliquity, and the intestine is consider- ably larger on the side of the more obtuse angle, being in dia- meter li inch on one side, and one inch on the other. In form it is conical, the depth considerably exceeding the thickness or