CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. 171 Scarpa's tnangle is placed on the inside of the thigh nearly half way down to the patella, instead of at four inches below Pou- part's ligament, and just over the femoral artery. It is the upper, not the lower, border of the adductor longus that we have always been accustomed to consider as forming the internal boundary of the femoral triangle proper, just as we take the upper and not the lower border of the sartorius for the outer boundary. Fascia of Scarpa.—The true or deep layer of the superficial fascia of the groin is not correctly described. It is described as a deep portion of the superficial fascia, separated fi'om the other at the groin by the glands and superficial vessels, adhering to Poupart's ligament, passing down and becoming lost on the fascia lata, and also covering in the saphenous opening. Now, this fascia (which we shall call Scarpa's) is an important one, simple in its arrangement, and easily displayed if intelligently dissected.^ * * * * Important muscles and tendons are described without any re- ference to their surgical anatomy. Thus, there is no mention of the mode of effecting complete relaxation of the rectus femoris, as in the treatment of fractured patella,—that the hip must be somewhat flexed, in addition to extending the knee;—the ana- tomy of the tendo Achillis is meagerly described, and there is no mention of the operation of division of the tendon, or of the necessity of flexing the knee as well as extending the ankle, in order to relax the gastrocnemius completely, as in the treatment of the accident of rupture of the tendon; nor is any allusion made to operations on any of the tendons at the ankle; all points of importance according to our understanding of "surgical ana- tomy." Superior Extremity.—In connection with the axillary and brachial arteries, we find no allusion to their varieties, or even to the fact that there is often a high origin of one of the ai'teries of the forearm, although this occurs as often as in one in every five subjects. Nor can we appreciate the author's objections to the 1 To save repetition, I here omit the farther remarks on this subject, and refer to my paper on the fascia of Scarpa, No. XVI.