IN MAN AND VERTEBIMTE ANIMALS. 9 COMPAEATIVE ANATOMY. In Mammalia, tlie superior oblique has the same general ar- rangement as m man. The cliflFerences may be stated thus :— 1. That it is usually fleshy for some distance beyond the pulley, and therefore longer, at the same time that it is relatively larger. 2. It is usually not, as in man, directed backwards to the axis of the eye, but meets it nearly at right angles; and its course from the pulley to the eye is more horizontal than in man: and 3, That its point of insertion is not so far towards the outer and back part of the eye as in man, but is usually only a little ex- ternal to the vertical axis, and not more behind than in front of it. The insertion varies slightly in different animals, but in the greater number the insertion of the tendon is chiefly concealed by the upper rectus, the posterior border only appearing beyond it; whereas, in man, the tendon passes some way beyond, and also behind the vertical axis of the eye. The inferior oblique, also arising as in man, is not, as in him, directed backwards to the axis, but either forwards or at right angles to it. But the most striking difference is in the insertion. This in man is to- wards the posterior part of the eye, but in quadrupeds it is much farther fomards, as well as lower down. Usually it is attached between the lower and outer recti—its posterior border often reaching a little beneath the latter—and to the anterior third of the sclerotica, in some coming quite close to the margin of the cornea. In Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes, the superior oblique arises from the fore part of the orbit, and is precisely the counterpart of the inferior, which is disposed much as in the mammalia; and there is so little difference in their arrangement in these different classes of vertebrate animals that they scarcely require separate description in each. The two muscles arise together fi'om the fore part of the inner, or anterior, wall of the orbit. Passing outwards, they soon separate, the superior to be inserted near to the tendon of the upper rectus, the inferior to a corresponding point below; their direction to the axis of the eye being at right