ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 30 terms already quoted, by M. Cruveilliier and Mi- Solly. It Is like wise, mentioned in Quain's Anatomy^ that "the roots of the nerves of opposite sides are connected together across the middle line, in the form of a white band or commissure in the substance of tlie velum." This is a point in the anatomy of the fourth nerve which, I believe, deserves more notice than it has hitherto received. My attention was drawn to it first in 1844 from the distinctness with which I found it in some animals. It is seen usually as a distinct white band between the fourth nerves, cross- ing the valve of Vieussens close behind the testes, but still distinct from them. This connection seems to have given rise to the common method of assigning the valve as the origin of the fourth nerve, which seems to me, strictly speaking, not to be correct. But it is necessary first to understand the nature of this so-called valve of Vieussens. This thin velum is formed primarily and below of the lining membrane of the fom'th ventricle, the fore part of the roof of which it forms. In some animals it is seen to consist of nothing else until we come to the commissure of the fourth nerves, but in the human brain there is, as it were, spread on the serous membrane, a thin layer of white nervous matter, overlapped behind by the grey matter of some of the small median laminte of the cerebellum. The fibres are seen to be arranged longitudinally, and it tears in this direction when it has been hai'dened in alcohol. These fibres, then, have the same direction as those of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, the space between which they fill up. Now, over and in front of these are added transverse fibres, gathered into a white flattened bundle, from which the fourth nerves appear more or less to arise, and forming what we shall call the commissure of the fourth pair of nerves. I have notes of the appearance of this commissure, from examinations made at the time above referred to, in the sheep, calf, and horse, and have seen it, I think I am correct in saying, in every brain I have since examined, whether human or among the larger of the lower animals. In the sheep, the testes, wliich are apart about a quarter of an inch, are joined by a white com- missure, and behind this, and separated from it by a clear space, 1 Fifth Edition. 1846. P. 747.