206 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. gradually rising to the commencement of the process proper. The process projects away from the bone, forwards, downwards and inwards, is flattened from before backwards, tapers to a blunt point; and, if prolonged for an inch, would form an arch of bone joining the ridge half an inch above the condyle. This is repre- sented by the ligament, and the process and ligament together, enclose between them and the bone an elliptical space, an inch in length and one-third of an inch in breadth, through which the median nerve and the brachial artery, with its venas comites, passed. The origin of the process with regard to the borders of the humerus is also constant. It arises from the internal surface of the bone, midway between the internal and anterior borders or a little nearer to the latter, and behind it there is usually a well marked groove, to which I shall again allude as existing on many arm bqnes on which there is no process. As regards symmetry.—In seven of the cases nothing was known of the other arm. Of these seven, six were on the left arm and one on the right. In fom- of the cases it was present on both sides—In three of these it was of equal length on the two sides, in one pair long, in one pair short, and in the third of medium length; and in the fourth they were unequal, the left very long, the right very short. In four cases in which both bones were examined, but in which the process was present on one side only, this side was the right in all; but in the case where it was present on both sides, and unequal, the left was much the longest. As regards sex and age.—The sex was known in ten of the cases; three of these were in males, and seven in females. In two of the tliree males it was present on both sides, and was so in only one of the females. Tlie specimens are from subjects of all ages. Three of them were young children, and in all of the three the process is well formed. As regards the arteries.—The state of the arteries was known in twelve of the subjects, and four of these presenting the pro-