MODE or ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. 89 It appeal's, then, that local blood-letting cannot affect the viscera in the abdomen or chest, except through the general cir- culation; and that, therefore, these blood-lettings afe general and not local, according to the ordinaiy sense in which the term local blood-letting is employed. Modes in ivhich Local Blood-letting may act.—Bx\t, although it be granted that leeching the wall cannot draw blood directly from tlie affected discus, some may be cUsposed to hold that it may still afford to it special relief by what is called revulsion or derivation, this being the principle, or supposed principle, which guides those continental practitioners who apply the leeches not over or close to any affected part, but at a distance from it. By these terms they mean to express the view, that the result of local abstraction is to draw more blood to the bleeding part, and thus diminish the supply elsewhere. Without meaning to dispute the correctness of this view within certain limits, it may be remarked, on the modus operandi of all local blood-lettings, that they may act in two ways. 1. By the direct abstraction of blood through the anastomosing vessels between the affected and the bleeding part, and it matters not whether this be by the veins or the communicating arteries: this we may call draining. And, 2. By lessening the quantity going to the affected part, by creating an increased flow or determina- tion elsewhere. This is the revulsion or derivation of authors, and we may call it counter-draining. Now it is evident that to be of local and special benefit, this practice must not be applied too far from the affected part; the farther it is, the more it will lose its effect, and degenerate, so to speak, into a general blood-letting. It is probable that in most true local blood-lettings there is relief in both of these ways; but can it be so in the case of the abdominal and thoracic viscera? That there can be no draining I have already shown; and it appears to me, that neither can there be any derivation or counter-draining from these viscera. The blood taken from the abdominal and thoracic walls comes from the iliac and femoral, or subclavian and axillary arteries, or from the back part of the aorta. Now this cannot lessen the circulation into the visceral