THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE AEM. 222 nator arises here also behind the vessels and nei-ve, which there- fore appear for half an inch to be embraced by the muscle. The high pronator ultimately joins the normal pronator teres, but there is at the bend of the elbow a cellular space of half an inch between them, in which the brachial arteiy fs seen dividing op- posite the level of the condyle into the ulnar and radial arteries, the latter then passing through between the two pronator muscles to occupy its usual position over the true or normal pronator teres. In this case, then, there is a true condyloid deviation, exactly as in the cases of a developed process, but here the pro- cess could scarcely be said to exist. As above related, in thirteen of the cases in which an artery deviated, in connection with a supra-condyloid process, it was the entire brachial artery in nine, and one of two large vessels in the remaining four. In the latter case the surgeon would be very apt to overlook one of the arteries. I suspect it must have been the occurrence of some such variety, which has led to the common observation, that the inferior profunda branch is liable to be mistaken for the brachial artery in an operation. A case in which such 'a mistake was made by a late eminent surgeon, has been placed on record;^ "the inferior profunda, which was unusually large, was exposed and tied on the supposi- tion of its being the brachial artery." As the pulsation in the aneurismal tumour was not arrested, an after operation was per- formed and the brachial trunk successfully tied. As the normal inferior profunda branch is not larger than a crow-quill, I infer that in this case, and in similar ones, there was a high division of the brachial artery, and that the vessel first secured was one of the two, either lying near to, or deviating from, the coiu-se of the other, Avhich occupied the vsiial position along the inner edge of the biceps muscle. 3. Eegarding the high division of the brachial arteiy, the rela- tive frequency of it, and the various nature of the early branches, little remains to be done after the careful and extended observa- tions of Mr Quain, as recorded in his beautiful and valuable work on the anatomy of the arteries. From the observation of 1 Cycloped. Anat. and Phys. vol. i. 1836. Brachial Artery.