ON DIVEETICULA FEOM THE SMALL INTESTmE. 14D and nearer to mesentery on one side. Bowel much larger at one end tlian tlie other. Body of diverticulum wider than the com- mencement, increasing to within 1^ inch from the extremity, towards which it now tapers to a distinct apex, without appear- ance of ligament. Vessels are seen to run along that surface which lies nearest the mesentery of the intestine. Intestine destitute of valvulaa conniventes. 16. Dried preparation. Diverticulum three inches in length. Origin gradual, from about half the breadth of the intestine, and nearer the mesentery on one side. Is directed obliquely from the bowel, which is largest on the side next the obtuse angle, and somewhat bulged or uniformly dilated opposite the commence- ment of the diverticulum. Body of diverticulum is curved, with convexity on side nearest the mesentery, and has uniform diameter of | inch, dilating in its last half-inch to a termination abruptly bulged on one side, giving it a transverse diameter of 1^ inch. No appearance of mesentery or ligament. Intestine presents no appearance of valvulas conniventes. 17. This specimen I examined in the recent state. Diverti- culum three inches in length. Origin, gradual or somewhat funnel-shaped, from about | of the breadth of the intestine, the diameter of the latter being 1^ inch, and that of the diverticulum one inch. Direction oblique from the intestine, which is some- what larger on the side of the obtuse angle. Body of diverti- culum is round, and increases somewhat in diameter towards the end, where it is bulged or enlarged to one side. The termina- tion is smooth and rounded, except to the side where it is bulged. Here there is a pointed extremity giving oflF a ligamentous cord, which was two inches in length, and blended with the mesentery. I regret that this was not more exactly noted at the time, but from my notes made then, and the appearance of the dried pre- paration now, I believe I am correct in stating that there was a narrow mesentery posteriorly in which this terminal ligament was contained. The diverticulum is attached to the bowel nearer the mesentery on one side, that on which the mesentery of the diverticulum has been situated. The diverticulum was at once seen hanging free down in the abdomen, not tied up upon K