197 VARIETIES OF THE MUSCLES. receives the belly of its muscle, and the other half ends in the semilunar process from the biceps to the fascia of the fore arm. It forms an uninterrupted muscular layer of a thickness between an ordinary sartorius or gracilis muscle, concealing the brachial vessels and median nerve in more than the lower half of their com'se. As it approaches the biceps it becomes narrower, from its obliquity, so that where it joins the biceps it is only two inches in breadth. When the upper part of it is held inwards from the biceps, the upper part of the artery is exposed, but behind its lower half the artery could not be exposed without division of the muscle. The radial artery appears as usual between the ten- don and semilunar process of the biceps. On raising the biceps and looking under it from the outside, this large unusual thii'd head is seen to be double, or split by tlie artery, a portion lying underneath the vessel, besides that already described. This deeper portion corresponds to the upper half of the superficial portion. At its origin from the intermuscular septum and internal margin of the humerus, it is two inches in breadth, but contracts below to three-fourths of an inch, and joins partly the tendon and partly the semilunar process of the biceps. The lower edge of this deep portion seemed to twist round or cross over the artery on its outside, to reach the semi- lunar process in front of it. This deep portion was thicker, though narrower, than the superficial. The fibrous arch protected the vessels and nerve from pressure as they entered on the deep part of their course, but it is not easy to see how below this the artery could escape compression, as it lay close between the two layers of the muscle. We have here then an instance of a large third head to the biceps muscle, consisting of a superficial portion, forming a broad continuous muscle concealing the lower half of the brachial artery, and of a deeper portion, lying at first beneath the artery, and about half the breadth of the other. On the left side of this subject, the biceps had a thu'd head, corresponding to the deep portion of the third head on the right side, and like it, lying behind the artery. There was no other variety on the left side.