AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VERTEBRA. 129 we give to the eighth and ninth vertebrae of the three-toed sloth; the little ribs appended to their transverse processes indicating them as dorsal vcrtebrEe/ while the foramina,^ said to exist in addition, in their transverse processes would assimilate them to the cervical vertebra3. We know of no reason why the mamma- lian cervix should be limited to seven vertebrae beyond observing the fact, and even if the above be reckoned an exception, it is a remarkable fact that, in so vast a field, only one exception, and that a doubtful one, can be found to the general rule, that in all mammalia, however much the actual and relative number of the vertebrfe in the other regions of the spine may vary, in the neck, be it short or long, the number is uniformly seven.^ In conclusion, it is to be observed that no certain opinion can be formed as to the nature of any specimen of irregular rib, unless a carefiil examination has been made of the other ribs and vertebrae. If it is at the upper end of the thorax, the cervical vertebrae must be counted, as it cannot be determined by an examination of the vertebra supporting the rib or of that above it. If it is a true cervical rib we do not then expect to find the foramen in the transverse process behind it, and the vertebra above may be passed over by the artery, and want its anterior tubercle under such circumstances, that is, the seventh cervical vertebra may resemble the first dorsal, and the sixth vertebra may then resemble the seventh. Carefully counting the ribs may also determine the question but not absolutely, as the conditions of additional or imperfect rib above might be accompanied by those of the absence or addition of a rib below, a rule which if rigor- ously applied would render it a matter of opinion only, not of absolute certainty, that the rib in my first case was not a super- numerary cervical rib. The question whether a small lowest rib is an imperfect twelfth dorsal, or a true lumbar rib, will be 1 Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. ii. Edentata. By Professor Bell. » Martin, Op. Cit. 3 As already mentioned, the foramen is wanting in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra in many of the mammalia, and in many also, the first rib may be seen to rest partly on the body of the seventh cervical vertebra. These two cir- cumstances may be seen frequently to be combined, as in the horse, in which all the ribs rest on the bodies of two vertebra; but this does not render the lowest vertebra in the neck the less a " cervical" one. I