64 ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE dition to hypertrophy of the walls, there is likewise contraction of the cavity, which is apparently about one-half the size of the left. Tricuspid orifice admits the little finger (4-8ths inch), whilst the mitral orifice admits the forefinger (5-8ths). Vena cava superior admits little finger with difficulty. Vena cava inferior admits forefinger easily. Foramen ovale admits little finger moderately, as already noticed. Tricxispid valve much thickened. Cord^ tendinege shorter and' thicker than on left side, and musculi papillares large. Mitral valve appears healthy, except that tliere are a few vegetations on both its flaps, where the cords chiefly join them. Aortic valves and orifice natural. The orifice measures 3-8tlis of an inch in diameter. Pulmonary orifice and valves much conti'acted and altered. The semilunar valves are united too;ether into one solid mass, with a small aperture in the centre. Seen from above, there is the appearance of a nipple, smooth and rounded, and perforated in the centre by an aperture not larger than a ci'ow-quill, the whole somewhat resembling a cervix and os uteri. Surround- ing the base of this nipple-like projection, and separated by par- titions which join the central papilla, are/oitr semilunar recesses, corresponding to the sinuses of Valsalva, and to the cavities of formerly existing semilunar valves. One of these is nearly as large as the other three together; it is left and posterior; one of the smaller is anterior; the other two are on the right side. Seen from below, the orifice appears blocked up by four irregular tubercular projections, two anterior, and two posterior; one of the posterior is large, the others are of equal size. They are firm and irregular', but covered by a serous membrane; and in be- tween them is the small aperture which leads up through the central papilla. On pushing the probe down into the sinuses of Valsalva, it pushes out the membrane at a considerable distance below the tubercles. The ductus arteriosus admits a small wire with difficulty, and was therefore practically closed. Both lungs are studded with tubercles of the size of small peas or grains of corn, on their sur- faces as well as thi'oughout their substance.