214 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. of an inch in breadth. It is formed on the internal aspect, hy an arch of bone leaving and again joining the shaft. This arch, however, does not project abruptly outwards, like the process in man, but only slightly bulges outwards the natural sweep from the condyle to the inner border of the humerus, and, in the adult bone, forms a lesser projection than that of the condyloid ridge on the outside. The foramen, therefore, is not, as some have sup- posed, merely a space left to hold and protect the artery in con- sequence of the great development of this part of the bone,^ and by which the artery would otherwise have been thrown out of its course; and the development of the foramen farther shows that it is originally formed as a specific provision. Development of the Foramen.—I find that the arch, by which the foramen is at length completed, grows, as a process, from above downwards. It is developed from the shaft, and again unites with the shaft below, and is completed altogether indepen- dent of the epiphyses of the lower end of the bone. This v?ill be better understood by reference to the illustrations, figs. 4, 5, and 6, in which the bone is reduced one-third from the natm'al size. Figs. 4 and 5 are from the new-born kitten, the cartilaginous ends being preserved in the second. Besides a number of pre- vious observations, I recently examined both limbs in three new- born kittens of the same birth. In some the lower end of the process is not yet united to the shaft; in others it is just about to unite with it, so as to complete the bony foramen. Fig. 6 is from the kitten, five weeks after birth. The fora- men is seen to be completed as part of the shaft, and independent of the epiphyses, which are now ossifying. The arch by which the foramen is completed, thus resembles, during the early stage of its development, the supra-condyloid process on the human arm ; and were the latter prolonged in the direction of the ligament, it would correspond exactly to the arrangement in the cat, with this difference, however, that in man it starts more abruptly away from the humerus, although, on the other hand, its direction is not greater in this respect than 1 Introduction to the Natural History of Maramiferous Animals. By "W. C. Linnceus Martin, p. 89.