THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. 198 4. Muscular or Tendinous Slip passing inwards across Brachial Artery to Lower Third of Arm. The three following instances h'ave occurred during the pre- sent winter session:— (1.) Slip from Biceps across Brachial Artery.—This fleshy- slip is three inches in length, \ inch in breadth, and \ inch in thickness, and ends in a broad aponeurotic tendon two inches in length. The muscle separates from the inner edge of the biceps two inches below the lower margin of the teres major. It crosses obliquely over the brachial artery and conceals it for an inch and a half The belly having just crossed to the inside of the artery, the tendon is placed to the inside, as it passes down to end in an aponeurosis over the pronator teres, close above and to the outer side of the internal condyle. The inner edge of the tendon is joined to the intermuscular septum. Between its outer margin and the tendon and semilunar process of the biceps, there is now a triangular space f inch in breadth below, but they appear to have been joined across in front of the artery by a thin portion, although this cannot be determined now. This variety occurred on the left arm of an adult subject, and appears, from the remains of the tendon, to have been present on the other side also. (2.) Muscular and Tendinous Slip crossing over Brachial Artery. '—This variety occurred in the left arm of an adult female sub- ject. The muscle arises fixjm the external bicipital ridge by a long tendon, and again ends in a tendon, which is inserted into the aponeurosis over the pronator teres. The upper tendon arises from the upper part of the bicipital ridge of the humerus close to the great tuberosity, and crosses obliquely behind the long tendon of the biceps in the groove. After a course of 2^ inches it ends in a fleshy belly, which appears on the inside of the arm between the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles; passes down along the inner edge of the former and parallel to the outer side of the artery, which it now crosses obliquely, and, after a course of three inches, ends in a narrow flattened tendon, which is three inches in length before it spreads out over the pronator, | inch below the condyle. The fleshy portion is ^ inch, and the lower