226 VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. on opposite arms of the same subject, and in one of the subjects the non-deviating artery was the high ulnar. In the two occur- ring in the same subject, the anatomy was the same on both sides. The deviating trunk was three times as large as the non-deviating high radial. The deviation commenced at the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. The larger arterjr, with the median nerve lying in this case still to its outer side, passed down in front of the septum, sunk into a depression between it and a portion of the brachialis anticus muscle, to within 2| inches of the condyle, when they inclined outwards to pass below a fibrous arch and a high pronator teres. This fibrous arch begins at the septum, 2^ inches above the condyle, and reaches downwards to the aponeu- rosis of the forearm opposite and below the condyle, and the artery and nerve are nearly opposite the level of the condyle before they become concealed below the arch and the high pro- nator. The high pronator teres, as large as the little finger, arises from the outer edge of the fibrous arch, but also, tendi- nous from 1^ inch of the intermuscular septum, behind the artery and nerve, which thus appear to split the high pronator at its origin. Higher up the arm than the high pronator and fibrous arch, the deviating artery is bound down by some over- lapping fibres of the brachialis anticus, and an aponeurosis is prolonged from these to join the intermuscular septum. Here the artery lies half an inch inwards from the high radial. At the bend of the elbow tliey are separated by the high pronator, over which, but underneath the semilunar tendon of the biceps, the high radial artery lies. In the other three subjects, the anatomy of the deviating vessel was so exactly the same that one description will suffice. There was no high pronator teres, or fibrous arch pi-oper. The artery left the high radial, or ulnar, at the insertion of the coraco- brachialis, and passed down in front of the intermuscular sep- tum, sunk into a deep depression between it and part of the bra- chialis anticus, supported behind by the fibres of the brachialis which arise from the septum. The median nei-ve has crossed over tlie deeper artery at the middle of the arm, and now passes down parallel to its inner side. Arrived at within 1^ inch from