212 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. inch in front of it, but this, however plainly felt by the finger in the dissection, is deceptive. The bone is at this time partially rotated outwards, so as to turn its posterior surface a little for- wards. On careful examination of the macerated bones, the condyloid ridge is seen to be the true internal border when the humerus is fairly looked at in front, but if turned a little outwards the part of the bone behind the condyloid line now projects. The true intermuscular septum, then, is really attached to the internal condyloid ridge or true internal border. On now dissecting on the outer or anterior aspect of the septum, it is seen to give origin to fleshy fibres of the brachialis anticus, down to the bone. The brachialis is now seen to arise directly from the surface or floor of the groove, also by fleshy fibres, and on separating these the outer edge of the gi'oove is usually very distinctly felt by the finger, and is often especially rough at about two inches above the condyle. From this ridge, and especially at this rough part, the brachialis anticus arises usually by distinct tendinous bundles or fibres, whilst its origin is again fleshy to the outside of the ridge. The groove is usually very distinct to the touch when we have dissected down to it in this way, the distinct and shai-p inner boundary giving attachment to the intermuscular septum, while the sometimes still more distinct outer boundary, at the part mentioned, is seen to give origin to the tendinous bundles for the brachialis anticus. This groove, then, generally existmg on the humerus, has no relation to the position of a nerve or arteiy. It appears not to be constructed to serve any purpose, as a groove, but to result from the development of the two ridges, the internal giving attachment to the intermuscular septum, whilst the meaning of the outer and shorter one remains to be noticed. Considering its position on the internal surface of the humerus, considering that its roughest part is just two inches above the condyle, that a small point or ridge-like tubercle may exist on it here, and that this is precisely the point from which the supra-condyloid process in its various stages grows, it appears legitimate to draw the conclusion that this short rough ridge is a rudimentary condition of the supra-condyloid process, the base of which grows out from such a ridge running vertically on the bone