100 DISSECTION OF THE ORBITS IN A CASE OF another case of paralysis of the eye, wliich I saw lately. The attack in this case also came on suddenly after exposure to cold. The whole of the common motor oculi nerve is paralysed, espe- cially the upper division, there being only slight power in the parts supplied by the lower division of the nerve. The sixth nerve also is completely paralysed, and probably also the fourth, as the eye remains straight and motionless. Vision is good, at least when the patient is made to look through a small hole in a card, to make up for the enlarged and paralysed condition of the pupil. This patient, however, has no other complaint, and is likely to do well, as may be expected of most of those cases in which the paralysis is local, and has come on suddenly after ex- posure to cold. Remarks on an occasional Connection between the Tliird and Sixth Nerves, and supposed Influence of the latter on the Iris. •—In the course of the dissection, I met with an interesting variety in the anatomy of the motor nerves on the paralysed side. The third and sixth nerves were joined to each other in the cavernous sinus by a large communicating branch, and the third nerve close behind and at the ciliary ganglion supplied a distinct white nervous filament to the external rectus muscle. As this case might be added to the hst of cases in which it has been said ^ that the sixth nerve gave a branch to the third, and thus was enabled to move the iris after the third nerve was para- lysed, I may take the opportunity of examining into this view. A connection, more or less direct, between the sixth nerve and the ciliary ganglion has been noticed by various anatomists. Otto 2 found the nasal nerve, which furnishes the long root of the ganglion, coming from the sixth. Petit ^ says that the sixth nerve may join the third or the nasal of the fifth, and thus send filaments to the ciliary ganglion. Longet has once seen a veiy distinct branch fi:om the sixth nerve to the ciliary ganglion ; and states that Mr Grant of New York has informed him he has seen 1 Longet. Anat. and Phys. du Systeme Norveux, ii. p. 388. Also Kirkes' Hand- Book of Physiology. 1851. P. 439. 2 Valentin de Functionibus Nervorum, p. lU. ^ Longet Op. Cit., p. 380.