ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE TO orifices, as compared witli the aortic or mitral; and 2, Whether, with or witliout this, there is deficiency of the obturator valve, •which, lying on the left aspect of the foramen ovale, should be found in its fully developetl state more than sufficient, when lifted up, to shut up the aperture. These, then, may be laid down as the two causes of the condi- tion of open foramen ovale. In the one case, its obturator~mem- brane may have been fully formed, but it is kept open by tlie blood which cannot find a free passage through the right side of the heart; in the other case, the membrane, which should be ready to close it up, is too small, and it i-emains open for want of any provision to close it; and again, these two conditions may be found to co-exist, as in the case I have related to-day. Use of the Foramen Ovale in the Foetus, and result of its imperfect closure after Birth.—Another question in connection with open foramen ovale after birth is—Whether any mixture of the blood occurs, and if so, to what extent, and under what circumstances ? It is well known tliat this foramen has often been found open to a considerable extent in those in whom such a condition was Jiot suspected during life—I mean a much larger opening than the small oblique slit which is very often found at the upper part of the fossa ovalis. To understand this, let us first see how it is in the foetus. I believe it is the common idea that the foramen ovale is merely a hole from one auricle to the other, and that the riffht auricle drives the blood through it to the left. But it can- not be so. There is no reason to believe that the auricles do not fill and contract together as in the adult, and so also the ventricles. Now the right auricle would require to contract first, were the left filled by it through the foramen ovale, and thus at the same time the right ventricle would be filled before the left auricle had time to contract and distend the left ventricle. We must con- clude that the auricles and ventricles act synchronously as in the adult. The fact is, that the lower cava fills the left auricle just as the upper cava fills the right, both auricles being filled during their conjoint diastole and repose; and it may be that, after all, this is the purpose designed by the mode of entrance of the lower cava