ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 163 by means of an obsolete vascular cord, attached to a certain por- tion of the peritoneum ;" but he does not refer to any case. A more dangerous condition than such a ring lying loose and open among the coils of the small intestine could scarcely occur ; yet, unless we adopt the improbable view that the ligamentous cords passing from the extremity of the diverticula were of the nature of elongated morbid adhesions, and therefore compara- tively recent, we see the patients had attained nearly the adult state before the accident of the fatal passage of the intestine though the opening had actually occurred. The only natural ring or opening in the abdominal cavity is the foramen or canal of Winslow, and it has happened that a coil of intestine has passed through this opening, and become strangulated. Mr Lawrence refers to M. Jobert as an authority for this occurrence, and Rokitanski mentions that he " once found a large portion of small intestine strangulated in the fissure of Winslow." We may say it is well that the foramen of Winslow exists above and not below the transverse meso-colon. Before the small intestines can reach the entrance of this passage between the greater and lesser sacs, they would require to be displaced over the transverse colon. It is interesting to observe how the movable or loose intestines are kept together in the lower region of the abdomen. They are encircled by the great bowel, and kept down by the transverse meso-colon and colon, from the latter of which the great omentum hangs down in front of them; the transverse meso-colon lies horizontally above them, and forms M'hat I am in the habit of calling the great floatmg partition of the abdomen, which separates the stomach spleen and liver above, from the coils of small intestine below, and moves up or down according as the hollow viscera below or above are distended or empty. It is evident the foramen of Winslow would be a dan- gerous aperture indeed if the floating coils of small intestine were permitted to ascend to its situation. 2. A diverticulum may pass down and form part or the whole of the contents of a hernia. The only writer who refers to this, so far as I am aware, is Monro, whose attention appears to have