146 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. the mesentery of the bowels. The line indicating the attachment of its foi-mei- mesenteric fold, is on one surface near that border of the diverticulum which is continued from the obtuse angle, a little posterior to where the ligament is seen in the illustration, fig. 17. The intestine is entirely destitute of valvulae conniventes, and the diverticulum was situated on it about three feet from the ceecum. The longitudinal and circular fibres are obscurely visible on it, but as much so as on the bowel, the coats being evidently continued from one to the other. The ligament at the extremity appears to arise or be continued gradually from the walls or tissue of the pointed portion of the diverticulum which runs towards it. 18. Dried preparation of the small intestine of a child, with diverticulum 1^ inch in length. Arises somewhat abruptly from nearly entire breadth of intestine, and near mesentery on one side. Body of diverticulum is oblique and curved, and enlarges as it passes outwards, at middle having a diameter very little less than that of bowel, which is half an inch. Towards the extre- mity it again contracts, and from the apex is continued a narrow pointed portion, doubled upon the rest, in the preparation. There is no appearance of a mesentery or ligament. Intestine destitute of valvulas conniventes. 19. I removed this specimen at a post-mortem examination of a male aged 71, who died much emaciated, but without any apparent disease. Diverticulum 1^ inch in length. Origin gradual from whole breadth of bowel, which is somewhat en- larged from before backwards opposite the diverticulum. It arose from the concavity of the intestine close to the mesentery, and passed up resting on and attached to the mesentery. It is somewhat conical, passing up to a rounded extremity, the diameter of the body being IJ inch, and that of the extremity 1 inch. Proceeding from its posterior aspect near the extremity, is a secondary diverticulum^ forming a curved conical process, f inch in length. This secondary diverticulum arises abruptly from the parent diverticulum at its back part near the extremity, a circular constriction passing round, across which some liga- mentous fibres pass. It now curves downwards and backwards