49 ON THE NERVES OE TEE ORBIT. automatic.'" That is, in the non-corresponding movements the volimtaiy muscles lead off on the side to whicli we look, and the automatic, or self-acting, muscles make the other eye follow. He finds no difficulty in bringing two of the so-called voluntary nerves to act together in raising both eyes, or two of the involun- tary ones in depressing both eyes; but here the nerves are cor- responding. Valentin, it may be observed, believes that the inferior oblique muscle turns the eye upward and inward, and we must infer, from the ])receding remarks, which give the sub- stance of his theory, that be believes tlie superior oblique to be concerned in some outward movement. I have stated this as his view in my paper on the muscles of the eye, following the account given of Valentin's views in another work, but in the original he nowhere makes this statement, so far as I can find. In enume- rating the muscles concerned in tlie various movements, the only mention made in any of them of the superior oblique is in the following passage (p. 30) :—" 4. Uterque oculus primo initio ad interna et inferiora movetur. Qu£b contractio aut m. m. rectis interno et inferiori ant m. m. recto interno et obliquo superior! simul agentibus evenit." His view as to the actions of the recti muscles is the same as that which 1 haA^e given above, but the oblique muscles he brings in to assist in the inward diagonal movements of both eyes. When both eyes turn upwards and inwards—a movement which' he gives as involuntary—he em- ploys the internal recti and the inferior obliques; when both look downwards and inwai'ds, the superior obliques are brought in, according to the passage above quoted, to assist also the internal recti. Still it must be inferred, from his remarks on the nerves,' that he believes the chief action of the superior oblique to be, to assist in an outward movement. But the superior oblique seems rather to stand in the way of this theory, as indeed of all others ni which the oblique muscles are supposed to assist some of the recti. But, although we put aside that part of Valentin's theory which relates to the oblique muscles, it may be said that the same explanation may be shaped to our view of the action of these muscles. With due deference, however, to the high » Valentin, op. cit., p. 31, s. 69. D