232 ON THE FASCIA QP SCARPA. Dissection to demonstrate the Fascia of Scarpa.—Having re fleeted the skin of the groin for some inches botli above and below Poupart's ligament, divide the superficial fascia of the thigh two or three inches below Poupart's ligament, and, using the point and handle of the scalpel, turn it up, oflF the surface of the glands and superficial vessels, to about an inch above Pou- part's ligament. Next, by an incision curving down from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to near the sym- physis pubis, divide the fascia through its whole depth, down to the tendon of the external oblique; and now dissect the whole fascia down, close off the external oblique. The lax cellular tissue here, yields almost to the handle of the scalpel, but at, or immediately below Poupart's ligament, the handle of the scalpel is suddenly and firmly arrested. The dissection is now done. Now take the femoral end of the dissected superficial fascia in one hand, and the abdominal end in the other hand, lifting them up a little and stretching them up and down, and, on looking in below, a thin semi-transparent fibrous membrane is seen, passing between the superficial fascia and the fascia lata. This is the fascia of Scai'pa, fiiUy displayed; but if the glands and surround- ing cellular tissue be now carefully picked away from its lower or femoral aspect, the fascia will be more clearly seen. Description of the Fascia of Scarpa and its Relations.—The fascia of Scarpa is a thin semi-transparent membrane, of con- siderable strength, and not merely cellular, but fibrous in its nature. It arises from the fascia lata, across the groin, imme- diately below Poupart's ligament; passes up over the latter, and, after a course of an inch, as a separate membrane, joins and blends with the common superficial fascia of the abdomen. It is separated from the common superficial fascia opposite Poupart's ligament, and for an inch, or half an inch, above it, by the trans- verse set of lymphatic glands and the superficial vessels. Imme- diately above the position of these glands, it unites or blends with the common superficial fascia, and is not naturally separable from it farther, that is, not without artificial dissection, although the fibres of it are no doubt continued up and across the abdomen, as the deeper aspect of the common superficial fascia.