47 ON THE NERVES OF THE OKBIT. oblique on the other. When the head is inclined over to^ the right side, the action of the right superior and left inferior oblique is required. Consequently each oblique muscle acts with the opposite oblique muscle of the other eye; the action of either of them with its fellow of the other eye w^ould rotate one of the eyes altoo-ether in the wrong direction. This, however, holds good only of man and those animals in which the eyes look well forwards, and can be directed at the same time to the same object. As I have remarked in considering the anatomy and physiology of these muscles, it must be different in those animals in which the eyes are directed so much outwards that they cannot make the axes of both eyeballs converge, nor in any way use both eyes on the same object at the same time. Such are, among mammals, the hare and rabbit, and the three inferior classes of vertebrate animals generally. Now as both eyes here—in a bird, for in- stance, where the eyes are set quite in the side of the head, and look quite outwards— cannot possibly be used on the same object, it becomes a matter of less interest to inquire into the relation between corresponding muscles of opposite sides, as we do not know whether the animal is ever moving or attending to the sen- sations of both eyes at the same time. But supposing both eyes to be so employed, then, under the cu'cumstances requiring the action of the oblique muscles, the corresponding oblique muscles will act together, the inferior with the inferior, and the superior with the superior. This action of the oblique muscles would appear to be still more required when the eyes are set in the side of the head, as in the simple movement of raising or depressing the head while an object is being viewed; as then the head moves as if on an axis approaching in direction to that of the eyes them- selves. The superior oblique will be required to act when the head is raised, and the inferior when it is depressed. Whilst, then, we can see the necessity of the oblique muscles to each eye in these animals, we can say nothing as to any relative action of the oblique muscles on opposite sides, except that if both eyes are being used at the same time, though not on the same object, then each oblique muscle must act with its fellow of the opposite side; but if not, there can then be no relative action between the