ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. measurement of winch, and of the base of the pouch is | inch. The oesopliagus at this point is slightly enlarged laterally, and is if anything larger below the pouch than above it. Pouch terminates in a smooth rounded extremity. The muscular fibres which run longitudinally on the gullet, are seen distinctly to be continued half-way along the pouch, splitting above and below to encase it. Circular fibres are visible on the gullet, but not on the pouch. The pouch is slightly more transparent than the gullet. 2. Dried preparation marked " portion of jejunum, with two small diverticula." The smaller pouch projects directly out- wards like a nut. It measures one inch across and three-fourths of an inch vertically. The commencement is abrupt, and marked by a sharp constriction on all sides. The larger pouch is situated three-fourths of an inch from the other, measures 1^ inch from above down, and 1^ across. It also begins by a sharp circular con- striction, and on one side it is considerably bulged or prolonged. The poi'tion of intestine is plainly marked with A'alvulse con- niventes ; but as it is stuffed, it is impossible to say whether the walls of these pouches differ in thickness from those of the bowel. 3. Dried preparation ; portion of small intestine, with diver- ticulum. Diverticulum one inch in length. Has funnel-shaped origin from whole breadth of bowel. Passes somewhat obliquely from bowel, which is considerably larger on the side of the obtuse angle. Forms a blunt cone, terminating in a smooth rounded extremity, without any appearance of ligament or mesentery. It proceeds from the bowel nearer to the mesentery on one side than the other. STo valviilse conniventes, but a small crescentic fold at commencement of diverticulum on side of acute angle. There is an evident continuity of tissue between the walls of the bowel and diverticulum. 4. Dried preparation, without history. Diverticulum two inches in length and 1;^ in diameter. Arises from whole breadth of bowel abruptly, and marked by a slight constriction, except on one side where they are gradually continuous. Direction, oblique fi'om the bowel, which is considerably smaller on the