202 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OJT THE ARM. arising a little higher than usual above the internal condyle, but without much altering the relative anatomy of the bend of the arm. In the two following instances, however, the muscle arose unusually high, and changed the relative position of the arteries at the bend. 1. On left side pronator teres arises 1\ inch above the con- dyle. An aponeurosis reaches from it to join brachiahs anticus, external to position of artery. There is thus formed a kind of arch or tunnel, under which the principal artery and the median nerve pass, so as to become concealed half an inch above the transverse level of the condyle. Eadial artery rises above middle of arm, and passes over this aponeurosis, but lies imder the apo- neurosis of the arm and semi-lunar process of the biceps. Right side. No high origin to pronator, but a high division of artery, and the two arteries are separated by a deep layer of aponeurosis at the bend of the arm. 2. Right side. All the anatomy on left side normal. Pronator teres arises two inches above condyle, from intermuscular sep- tum. The high portion is almost a separate muscle, being at first separated from the usual pronator by a narrow cellular space. High pronator is soon joined, by aponeurotic fibres, to a raised portion of the brachialis anticus external to the position of the artery. Eadial artery arises in axilla, and is covered by the usual aponeurosis of the arm and the semi-lunar process of the biceps, but the principal artery passes, along with the median nerve, underneath the above mentioned deep aponeurosis and high pronator, by which they are concealed for an inch and a half above the transverse level of the condyle. II.—ON THE OCCURRENCE OF A SUPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS IN MAN. The part so named is a more or less hook-shaped process, which is occasionally developed on the inner surface of the humerus, two inches above the internal condyle. A ligament is continued from it to near the condyle, completing an arch, througli which the median nerve and brachial artery pass, after