ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 161 description and my two sketches of it were in the hands of the printer and engraver. Monro's figure (Plate III., p. 179, op. cit.) shows the portion of bowel strangulated by the diverticu- lum encircling it, and the latter itself through the loop. No farther information is furnished, either as to the anatomy of the diverticulum, or the history of tlie case, than that above given in the extract from the printed catalogue. A case remarkably similar to the two preceding, in its princi- pal features, has been recorded by Professor Pirrie of Aberdeen.^ A lad seventeen years of age, and in good health, was suddenly seized with symptoms of strangulation, and died in sixty hours from the commencement of the attack. On dissection, Dr Pirrie found a portion of intestine, about twelve inches in length, strangulated through a loop formed by a diverticulum adhering to the mesentery by a ligament, the included twelve inches of bowel being greatly distended and in a state approaching gan- grene. There was no adhesion between the loop and the in- cluded bowel, as the latter could be drawn out of the loop. Two constrictions are seen on the drawing given by Dr Pirrie, one close above the origin of the diverticulum, and moderately marked, the other twelve inches farther up, deeper and more abrupt, contracting the bowel to about half its diameter. The diverticulum was 11 inch in length, and the terminal ligament being figured as of the same length, and as attached to the mesen- tery two or three inches from the edge of the bowel, the ring must have had a diameter of about two inches. " The diverticulum," says Dr Pirrie, " at its entrance into the intestine, was furnished with a semilunar valve, formed by a doubling of the mucous membrane ; but the diverticvdum com- municated with the intestine, and contained intestinal matters. It was 11 inch in length, and terminated in a slightly dilated cid-de-sac; from the extremity of which a membranous band was sent oflF, one extremity of which was evidently continuous with the serous coat of the diverticulum, and the other as evi- dently not merely attached to, but becoming continuous with, 1 Monthly Journal of Medical Science. July 1849. « A remarkable case of stran- gulation caused by a diverticulum."