148 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. to the extremitj, passes off a secondary diverticulum, resembling, but larger than that in the last preparation. This secondary pouch IS a curved cone, bent backwards upon the parent diverti- culum. It begins by a constriction, is one inch in length, and at the middle | inch in diameter. From its apex passes a lio-a- ment or band, forming the thick free edge of a naiTow mesentery, li in length, which lies along the corresponding surface of the parent diverticulum, and is continued from the mesentery of the bowel. The circular fibres are plainly visible on the diverticulum, becoming gradually thinner towards the extremity, but they are more distinct on the intestine, the longitudinal fibres of which are likewise visible. The intestine is destitute of valvulte conniventes. 21. This specimen I examined in the recent condition, and it is now preserved as a wet preparation. The diverticulum is 3^ inches in length, intestiniform, curved, and bound down at the extremity, by the attachment of a termi- nal ligament. Origin funnel-shaped, from the convexity of the intestine, but nearer the mesentery on one side. The diameter of the intestine here is li inch. The diverticulum, at its com- mencement, has a diameter of one inch. The body of the diver- ticulum may be divided into three stages. The first inch is funnel-shaped, contracting at the end to a diameter of half an inch. The second inch continues to have this diameter, and the last 1;^ or 1^ inch is contracted to a diameter of ^ inch, the entire length of the tube being from 3| to 3^ inches. From the nar- row but rounded apex proceeds a ligament | inch in length, which is inserted into or continuous with the mesentery, half an inch from the mesenteric margin of the bowel, at the part where the diverticulum arises. This ligament is formed, as it were, by the serous coat of the diverticulum continued from its extremity. It is at first a narrow flattened band, but expands tiuangularly as it joins the mesentery, with the serous surface of which it is continuous upwards and downwards, and it consists of two layers of serous membrane, containing some fat and cellular tissue. There is no mesentery along the diverticulum. Thei*e is no ap- pearance of effused lymph or morbid adhesion.