10 b DESCBIPTION or AN ESQUIMAUX FEMALE PELVIS. Circumference Of brim, . . 16^ inches. Depth of pelvis, . . ; 4 Depth of symphysis pubis, . . i| Between iliac crests, . . n Between antr. supr. spinous processes, 10 Sacrum, with medium and gradual curvature. Pubic arch very wide. The bones are h'ght and dehcate throughout, hl^e other well developed female pelves. There is a peculiar rough, deep groove 11 inch, long and | broad, on both ilia at the lower and outer edge of the sacro iliac synchondrosis, for which I am at a loss to assign a probable use ; and on the horizontal ramus of the pubis there is a strongly marked spine on either side, where the psoas parvus tendon usually is fixed. The upper pelvis does not, it will be observed, exceed the usual size, but the true pelvis, in all its measurements, much ex- ceeds the average size usually stated by writei-s, and is consider- ably larger than any pelvis I have seen. The character of the female true pelvis, its development in the transverse dii-ection, is here carried unusually far, the transverse diameter of the brim and outlet being from an inch to half an inch more than the average corresponding measurements of the pelves met with in this country. Whether this be a typical specimen of the true Esquimaux pelvis, either of the usual dimensions, or of these somewhat larger than usual, or only an Esquimaux pelvis accidentally large, as we occasionally see in this coimtry, though to a less degree, must remain for future observers to determine. The pelvis is now in the possession of Professor Retzius of Stockholm, to whom I pre- sented it during his visit to Edinburgh last summer. If this be a typical specimen of the Esquimaux pelvis, it will correspond to the statements made by writers regarding the rapidity of the process of partm-ition in that race, although one reason at least for this occurrence in uncivihsed, compared with civilised countries, is, as Professor Simpson has shown, the smaller size of the head in the former, from the lesser development of the brain. Dr Pirie writes me, of his inquiries regarding the Esquimaux :