ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE 86 axis, instead of separately from the aorta; or to attribute the benefit derived from leeching the epigastrium, in a supposed affection of the stomach, to any minute anastomosis that might obtain between the blood-vessels of the diaphragm and oesopha- gus, as the latter is passing through its aperture in the former, an inch previous to its termination in the stomach. In the chest the pleurse are reflected from the wall to the viscera in the formation of the mediastina. On the lung the pleura is supplied as part of the lung, and on the wall as part of the wall; and it might be supposed that relief might be con- ducted from one to the other along these reflections. But I am not aware that any part of the pleuras is occupied by conducting vessels, or supplied with more than it requires for its own nourish- ment, these being derived from the vessels of the part on which the membrane is lying. The reflection forming the posterior mediastinum is the shorter of the two. It is supplied with nutrient arteries from the thoracic aorta. The pleura fonning the anterior mediastinum is supplied from the mammary arteries. It then passes on to the pericardium, and behind this it joins the pulmonic pleura by a narrow imion only, as it envelops the root of the lung. But there are here no conducting vessels that I know of; none beyond those which enter the membrane to nourish it; and even if taking blood from the front of the chest did, by derivation, cause a determination along the pleura of the anterior mediastinum, the relief would be to the pericardium. The same view applies to the reflection of the serous pericar- dium on to the great vessels near the heart; and again to the reflections of the arachnoid membrane, near the free margins of the falx cerebri and tentorium cerebelli, around the cerebral veins as they pass across to the longitudinal sinus, and around the nerves at the base. The reflections, therefore, of the serous membranes cannot be regarded as establishing a medium through which the blood- vessels of the viscera can be relieved. 3. The Head.—The question here is, can the vessels of the brain be specially relieved by local blood-letting on the head?