81 MODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. their blood from behind direct from the aorta, and return it, directly or indirectly, to the vena cava,—an abdominal circula- tion by itself from the aorta to the vena cava, and that without any communication with the wall of the cavity, except indirectly through the parent trunks, the aorta and vena cava. To this one exception must be noticed,—viz., the anastomosis along the rectum and down to the anus, by which the vessels of the perineum communicate freely with branches of the superior hemorrhoidal artery and vein; the artery communicating freely with the arteries along the intestine in the abdomen, whilst the vein communicates with the other pelvic veins, and, passing up, joins the splenic vein, whence its blood is conveyed to the liver. Tliis arrangement has led to the French practice of applying leeches to the perineum to relieve the abdominal viscera, and, so far as anatomy is concerned, there are good grounds for its adop- tion, as indeed the only means by which a local blood-letting for the alimentary part of the abdominal viscera can be practised; but the further discussion of this point does not form part of the present inquiry. The wall of the abdomen is supplied from altogether different sources, from above, from below, and from behind. Behind, from the aorta, come the lumbar, and lower intercostal, and diaphrag- matic arteries. Below, fi-om the internal iliac comes the ilio- lumbar branch, from the external iliac close to the groin, the circumflex iliac, and deep epigastric; and from the common femoral the superficial epigastric, from which the skin of the front of the abdomen is chiefly supplied. Lastly, fi-om above, there is the end of the internal mammary branch of the subclavian. All of these arteries are accompanied by veins which return the blood to the venous tnuiks, corresponding to the arteiial trunks, from which the branches are supplied. Thus the abdo- minal wall is supplied with blood fi-om the subclavian and iliac arteries, and fi-om the aortic trunk itself; but these branches from the aortic trunk do not communicate with the visceral branches from the same trunk. It is evident, therefore, that any increased flow of blood along these parietal arteries cannot act on one visceral artery more than on another, nor indeed on any F