52 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. when, non-corresponding muscles are in action on opposite sides, whilst corresponding nerves, as is natural, are employed when the muscles are corresponding. Or, as Dr Johnson expresses it, " assuming that the use of the oblique muscles is such as we have mentioned, it is certainly curious to observe that when corres- ponding muscles of the two eyes ai^e intended to act together, as the superior rectus of one eye with the superior rectus of the other, and the same with the inferior recti, both muscles are supplied by the third nerve; but the external rectus, which acts consentaneously Avith the internal rectus of the opposite eye, has a separate nerve, the sixth; and the superior oblique, which acts Avith the inferior of the opposite eye, has the fourth nerve en- tirely devoted to it." Let us now, therefore, see what we really know as to the mo- tor functions of these nerves. Of the third nerve, we have observed that it supplies muscles which act in the corresponding movements on the two sides; but the various branches act under different circumstances. The upper division supplies the levator muscle of the upper lid as well as the supei'ior rectus. Now, the action of these two is frequently conjoined on the same side, the action of the superior rectus being usually accompanied by that of the levator palpebrse for an evident purpose; but not neces- sarily so, as we can, with very little effort, keep the eyelids closed, and at the same time move the eyes upwards; and again, the levator palpebrte acts often enough without the superior rectus, as when we are looking in any direction except upwards, the upper eyelids being raised sufficiently to expose the eye. There is, therefore, no necessary association in action on the same side of the two muscles supplied by the upper division of the third nerve. On opposite sides, the physiological relation of these two muscles is quite different. The levator palpebr£e usually acts with its fellow, but not necessarily, so that, after a very little practice, one eyelid may be raised without the other, although at first this is effected, until the tendency be overcome, by the orbi- cular muscle keeping the lid down. Indeed the tendency to simultaneous action in the levator palpebrte muscles is not greater than that between the orbicular muscles of the two sides, sup-