Descriptive Anatomy, 1841, vol. i. p. 467. / ON DOUBLE STOMACH. 25 this contraction is the result of the natural action of the organ in digestion, and disappears soon after death; so that unless the body be examined within twenty-four hours the contraction will not be seen. In connection with this he gives a representation (Plate XI.) of the figure of the stomach in this condition, in which the contraction is moderate and gradual, leaving between it and the pylorus about a fifth part of the length of the o)'gan. In a subsequent paper^ the same author relates a case in which, by a morbid contraction near its middle, the stomach was as completely divided as in the two cases I have related. In the drawing illustrating this case, the constricted portion has not a diseased appearance, but the contraction is described as morbid, and it is supposed that the morbid action had ensued in the part at which the physiological contractions had formerly taken place. In describing the form and curvatui'es of the stomach, E. Huschke observes: ^ " Home admits, as in the stomach of the rodentia, a contraction towards the pylorus; this constriction does not always exist, and when it is present, distension with air sometimes removes and sometimes leaves it. In the first case, it arises from spasm of the muscular coat which existed during life; in the second, it is due to a contraction of all the coats of the viscus." M, Cruveilhier remarks on this subject :^—" The examples of double or triple stomachs in the human subject are merely cases of single stomachs having one or more circular constrictions. The essential character of a double stomach is not an accidental or even a congenital contraction, but a difference in structure. Bilocular stomachs, indeed, are very common; but this form (re- sembling that of some kind of calabash-gourds), though some- times extremely well-marked when the stomach is empty, disap- pears almost when it is much distended by inflation." From the consideration of these various statements and opinions regarding constricted or double stomach, it appeai-s that the con- dition chiefly referred to is that of a moderate constriction, which > Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, 1817, pp. 350 361 ^ Encyclopddle Anatomique, 1845, tome v., Splanchnologie, p. 46.