68 ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE wliich comes, -whatever its quantity may be, by the well-developed pulmonary veins; the thu-d, where the arch of the aorta and ductus arteriosus join, where it does not appear how some of the blood of the former can avoid passing down to the thoracic aorta; still, however, this is not till the vessels of the head have been filled by the purer current; and the fourth, or rather the first and chief point of mixture, is where the blood of the hepatic veins and ductus venosus is mixed with that of the vena cava inferior. A great part, therefore, of the blood of the lower cava passes through the foramen ovale. But to prevent this after birth its valve is provided. This valve is rather a provision for closing the aperture at birth, than for any part it has to perform before this time. Although, many years ago, it was the subject of much attention in France, it has perhaps been a little overlooked by some, partly, perhaps, for want of a distinctive name. It is the " valvula foraminis ovalis," and I may ventvire to suggest for it the term obturator valve, as its office is to shut up the foramen at and after birth. According to most authorities, this valve begins to be developed towards the end of the third month. It is not until the end of the second month that the septa of the ventricles and bulbus arteriosus are completed, and then an imperfect auri- cular septum is formed, leaving the foramen ovale at its lower part. The true or defined foramen ovale is itself, therefore, not formed or marked out untU, at least, after the end of the second month. Some have found the valve, at the end of the second month (Senac and Portal, according to John Reid), and in the foetus now before the Society, which I have ascertained to be near the end of the third month, this valve is developed so far that it rises up above the middle of the foramen, and is as high as the free edge of the large Eustachian valve, which lies in fi-ont of it. At the end of the fifth month, according to Cruveilhier, this valve is large enough to cover over completely the orifice of the foramen ovale; and this will be seen to be the case in the foetus between the fourth and fifth month now before the Society. The valve in its lower two-third's grows from the sides of the foramen ovale, but, above, its horns pass upwards and outwards from the opening