ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE 82 of tliese visceral branches, except simply by a diminution of the general current within the aorta. The kidney is perhaps the best example with which to illus- trate this argument. Lying in its bed of fat and cellular tissue, it has no vascular connections but by its arteiy from the aorta and its vein to the vena cava. It can, therefore, be reached and acted on through the renal artery and vein only, and these only through the aorta or vena cava circulating the general ciuTent, and any diminution of this general current could not tell on the current to or from the kidney more than on that to the stomach or the lower extremity. There cannot, therefore, be a local blood-letting for the kidney; it can be influenced only through the aorta or vena cava—that is, through the general cii'culation. The same remark applies to the other abdominal viscera already named, and we are, therefore, shut up to the conclusion, that, to these, blood-letting on the abdominal wall acts as a general, and not as a local blood-letting, as it must not only fail to act on any particular oi'gan, but it does not appear how it can even relieve the circulation within the abdomen more than that of the hand or foot. 2. The Chest.—The same line of argument is applicable to the chest. The wall and viscera are supplied from different sovirces, and the blood-vessels of the two do not communicate in their distribution. The heart is supplied solely by the two coronary arteries, wrhich arise from the aorta immediately above its valves. We can, therefore, have no special command over the supply of blood to the substance of the heart. The lungs are entirely separated from the wall by the pleui-al cavities, being attached only by their root, through which the blood-vessels pass. The lung has two sets of blood-vessels, the large pulmonary and the small bronchial arteries and veins. The former we assume to be concerned chiefly in the conditions refer- red to as congestion of the lung and pneumonia, whilst the dis- tribution of the bronchial arteries renders the inference a fair