PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 99 and rectus interims, each half a grain ; rectus inferior two and a half grains, less than on the right side. Each oblique muscle seemed to be of equal weight with its fellow on the other side ; and the left external rectus weighed one grain more than the right. I made a careful dissection of all the nerves of both orbits, but will confine myself here to a general notice of these. The troch- leator and abducens nerves were healthy and of equal size on the two sides. The common motor ocuH nei-ve generally was smaller on the left than on the right side, both on the cavernous sinus and orbit. The upper was about one-half, and the lower division about a fourth or fifth smaller than on the right side. The ophthalmic ganglion and ciliary nerves were examined. The ciliary nerves appeared equally large on the paralysed side. On the left side seventeen, and on the right fifteen separate ciliary nerves were dissected entering the eye, eleven of these on each side being short ciliary, or derived from the ganglion. The ganglion on the left side was of the usual size and form, but on the right side it appeared to be smaller. This was perhaps due to its irregular shape. It was elongated more upwards than forwards, and the lower anterior angle was prolonged some dis- tance before it divided into nerves. Whilst the long root re- sembled that of the other side, the motor root on the right side was shorter than usual. On the whole, it had at least the ap- pearance of being smaller than the other, and smaller than the ganglion usually is, and had this been on tlie left side, we might have concluded that the ganglion had, as we should expect, wasted under the paralysis of the third nerve. The result of the dissection may be summed up briefly, that death was occasioned by what is usually termed serous apoplexy. That the third nerve generally, and the muscles supplied by it, were somewhat wasted, and that no special cause could be found, the serum effused at the base not lying more in the way of the left nerve than the right. The motions having returned to a considerable extent, we could hardly expect to find anything more, and the case may be regarded as one of those usually designated rheumatic, and probably arising from exposure to cold, like the more common cases of paralysis of the fiice, and as in