AND THE l''(ETAL HEART. 67 men ovi vale is occasionally again opened, or burst open, by severe falls, prolonged fits of coughing, or severe straining,-tlie next cause of open foramen ovale is the imperfect development of its valve. -In connection ^^ith this, it is necessary to understand clearly the natural means by w hich the closure of this aperture is effected after birth. Formation of the Foramen Ovale and Development of the Valve by which it in closed.—In the well-developed foetal heart, the inferior vena cava terminates so that it may be said to open into both auricles, and each opening is provided with a valve. The Eusta- chian valve pai-tly guards, or lies over, and diminishes, its opening into the right auricle; and its opening into the left auricle, which is the foramen ovale, is guarded behind by the valve of that foramen—the valvula foraminis ovaHs. It is still a disputed question, whether the blood of the lower cava mixes with that of the upper. Now there is nothing to prevent the blood of the lower cava from coming forwards into the general cavity of the right auricle, only it must turn forwards at right angles to its previous course, around the free margin of the Eustachian valves and that part of it does so, appears evident from the consideration that the inferior cava is larger than the foramen ovale, whilst the tricuspid orifice is as large as those of both cavas together. This is seen in the foetus, between the fourth and fifth month, now on the table. And the foramen ovale becoines smaller as foetal life advances, for, although it attains, as usually described, its maxi- mum size about the sixth month, still, relatively speaking, the communication between the two auricles gradually decreases from the first appearance of the auricular septum, about the ninth week. Whilst, then, that blood which does go by the foramen ovale is still entirely of the purer current, from the lower cava, it follows, as the foramen is of less size than the vein, that some of the blood of the latter, that which the foramen ovale cannot take in, will enter the right auricle and mix with the other cuiTent. This appears to be one of four points where there must occur some mixture of the pure and the less pure currents of the foetal blood—the second is in the left auricle, where the blood which has passed through the foramen ovale is mixed with that blood