ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 48 oblique muscles of opposite sides; nor, indeed, could any advan- tage, so far as we can see, accrue to animals in which the eyes are so placed, were even the straight muscles associated in their action, as they are in man and all animals iu which both eyes can be used forwards on the same object at the same time. In regard to the relation between the oblique muscles of opposite sides, we may therefore conclude that, in man and in animals, which use both eyes on one object, and in which the eyes are known to move consensually, the superior oblique of one side acts constantly with the inferior, not with its fellow, of the opposite side, and vice versa. We are now then, in a position to inquire into the meaning of the relative distribution of the motor nerves. The question of interest is, why the external rectus and the superior oblique receive each a separate nerve, and whether this, together with the distribution of the third nerve to all the other muscles, can be connected in any way with the regulation of the ocular move- ments? I shall first notice a few of the observations which physiologists have oflFered on this subject, although I do so more on account of the authority with which they come than for any value which they appear to me to possess. Valentin,^ more especially, has written on this subject, and has, with much argument and illustration, presented a theory. It is, that some of the muscles and nerves are voluntary, and the rest involuntary or automatic; and that the action of the voluntary nerves of the one side is attended by that of the automatic nerves on the other, for the non-corresponding movements. His volun- tary nerves are the fourth and sixth, and the upper division of the third; the lower division of the third, supplying one-half of the muscles, being automatic or self-acting. Thus, he observes, the upward and outward movements are voluntary, the down- ward and inward involuntary or automatic. "All regular motions which are harmonious and a-symmetrical are so per- formed that on one side a voluntary muscle acts,—either the superior or external rectus or superior oblique; whilst, on the other, there is the harmonious action of a muscle more or less > De Funotionibus Jfervorum. 1839.