THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. 200 slip of muscle passed across the brachial artery, and is said to have impaired the activity of the limb during life. The surgeon should be prepared to meet with these varieties of the muscles. Certainly, the operation of tying the brachial artery in the two cases first related would have been a puzzling one, from the re- semblance of the unusual muscle to the natui-al coraco-brachialis and brachialis anticus. But, seeing that the incisions were well placed, the nature of the difficulty might be recognised, and the pulsation of the covered artery, and the effect of pressure on it, would probably indicate the position in which it would be found on division of the muscle. If there happened to be a high divi- sion, and one of the arteries placed under such a muscle, it could scarcely but be overlooked in the operation. 5. Brachial or Third Head to Biceps Muscle. The occasional occurrence of a third head to the biceps has long been well known to anatomists. Theile^ states that it occurs as often as once in eight or nine subjects. In one case there were two additional heads from the humerus. I have noted this variety in four instances during the present session. (1.) Third head arises as upper and inner part of bracliialis anticus, with the fibres of which it is here quite continuous. It is half an inch broad and six inches long, and ends in the upper and inner part of a broader than usual semilunar process, and in the contiguous part of the tendon of the biceps. Left arm: no third head on right. (2.) Right arm, none on left side. Arises as highest and most internal part of the brachialis anticus, immediately outside inser- tion of coraco-brachialis. Is half an inch in breadth and five inches in length. Inserted, fleshy, into deep surface and inner edge of tendon of biceps at its commencement, and a few fibres run into the semilunar process. (3.) Both arms. Is small and narrow like a flattened lumbri- calis muscle. Arises by a short tendon, as in the preceding cases, and inserted also as in them. 1 Traits de Myologie et d'AngdioIogie. F. G. TheUe. Encyclopedie Anatomique. Paris, 1843.