39 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. hold tliat, whatever minor actions they may or may not. have, the action of these muscles is to rotate the eye on its axis; that, in short, this is the purpose for which they are provided. I arrived at this conclusion chiefly from the consideration of their comparative anatomy, and since then, I find additional evidence of the correctness of this view from the writings of Jacob and Longet, without reference to comparative anatomy, which are deserving of notice here also from their beariiag on the subject of pai-alysis of the motor nerves of the eye. Dr J acob, in a very instractive paper on the muscles and nerves of the eye,i observes, " The two oblique muscles, not running from the inside of the orbit directly oiTtward, but inclining backward, until they become attached to the posterior part of the eye, not only cause the sphere to revolve on its longitudinal axis, but probably change the direction of that axis; the inferior directing the cornea per- haps a little upward and inward, and the superior a little down- ward and outward. I have, however, great doubts as to the actual production of this effect. That the inferior oblique causes the eye-ball to revolve round its longitudinal axis, may fairly be inferred from its attachments, but that it alters the direction of that axis in any considerable degree, cannot be so easily admitted. We cannot observe the action of this muscle distinct from that of the others, but we can that of the superior oblique. In cases of paralysis of the three straight muscles, the inferior oblique, and the elevator of the upper lid, from disease affecting the third pair of nerves, the action of the abductor supplied by the sixth, nerve, and of the superior oblique supplied by the fourth, remains unimpaired. The patient, unable to raise, depress, or turn in the eye, or elevate the upper lid, turns it out as effectually as ever, when directed to do so; and when directed to look down- ward, the action of the superior oblique is clearly distinguished. It is a delicate rotatoi'y motion, with perhaps a vei'y slight in- clination downward and outward. Of this I have now no doubt, having repeatedly within the last two years observed it, and pointed it out to the students." And, again, in connection with a 1 On Paralytic, Neuralgic, and other Nervous Diseases of the Eye. By Arthur Jacob, M.D. From the Dublin Medical Press. January 6, 1841. P. 8.