PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 101 1 Longet, Op. Git., p. 380. ' Descriptive Anat., p. 1106. it several times, having been led to the research by observing a case of paralysis of the third nerve in which the motions of the pupil remained, and, on dissection, a branch was found proceed- ing from the sixth nerve to the ophthalmic ganglion. Again, a du-ect communication between the sixth and third nei-ves has been noticed by Munnicks,^ and Cruveilhier^ states that it appears to him there is a communication between these two nerves in the cavernous sinus. The case now under consideration furnishes the third instance in which I have met with this variety. The first two occurred in 1844. In both it existed on one side only. The preparation of one of these is still preserved, and shows a distinct filament fi'om the sixth nerve entering the commencement of the lower division of the thu-d nerve. In the present case the communica- tion was very distinct on the left or paralysed side. As seen in the woodcut, p. 94, it was by a short flattened band about a line in length, and about half the size of a healthy upper division of the third nerve. It passed nearly at right angles between the nerves, joining the trunk of the third nerve one- tenth of an inch before its division. It had much the appear- ance of a sympathetic nerve. Rather more than half an inch behind this, the sixth nerve was joined to the sympathetic by one large and two smaller twigs. The third nerve on this side was not joined to the sympathetic by any separate branch; but on the right side it was joined by three good sized sympa- thetic filaments, just at the place where, on the left side, it was joined by the band from the sixth. On the right side, farther, there were six smaller twigs and one large one between the sixth and sympathetic; and this double union of the latter to the right sixth and third nerves, gave the false appearance of a communi- cation between these two motor nerves themselves. I am disposed to look upon this occasional apparent connection between the third and sixth nerves, as chiefly, if not entirely, composed of sympathetic, taking this mode of reaching the third nerve, along or through the sixth, which constantly forms a large