26 ON DOUBLE STOMACH. cases. In one, the stomach was examined the day after death. The contraction was considerable, and resisted moderate disten. sion -with air, although tried several times for several days after death, when on being forcibly distended with a large blow-pipe it yielded, and there is now no mark of constriction on this stomach. ^ In other two, the abdomen was not opened till nearly a fort- night after death, and the constrictions were well marked; in one, so much, that it at first resembled the pylorus, the portion of stomach beyond being intestiniform, and moderate distension did not remove the contraction. In another instance, which oc- curred during the present session, there was a considerable con- traction in the same situation, which still remained strongly marked although forcible distension was made, and this appeared to be the true form of the orsan. But, in most of the cases I have seen, the contraction entirely disappeared when the stomach was distended with the blow-pipe. The contraction is seen on the empty stomach, still better when it is moderately and gently filled with air, and then yields when forcible distension is made. In all the cases it was not a sharp constriction, but a gradual contraction. Although, at the same time, especially in some of the instances, deeply marked. Although it may be coiTect to say, that this temporary and partial division of the stomach is frequently met with, I have no hesitation in saying that, whether in bodies examined early or late after death, it is the exception and not the rule. It appears reasonable to suppose that, the contraction being originally mus- culai", its existence will be influenced by the length of time be- tween the last digestion and death. The occurrence of death during or soon after digestion, would account for the occasional presence of the contraction, death having overtaken the stomach in this condition; whilst the more frequent opposite circumstances of death would coi'respond to its usual absence. It is possible that this may be the natural condition of the stomach during digestion, but facts are yet wanting to entitle us to ch'aw the in- ference that it is very probably so, and we also recur to the fact, that there is no special development of the circulai- fibres at this or any part, until we come to the pylorus.]