THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. 210 other long bones of the limbs, has distinctly three surfaces and three borders. The error as regards the humerus, has no doubt arisen from the circumstance that two of the surfaces may be seen on the anterior aspect, but these two are no less distinct from each other than they are from the posterior. It is only in the lower fourth of the shaft that it becomes flattened from before back- wards, and from this part up to the surgical neck, the shaft is at least as thick on a side view as when seen in fi-ont; and trans- verse sections of the bone are at all parts of the shaft more or less triangular. The lateral borders are continued up from the condyloid lines, the outer ending at the back part of the greater tuberosity, whilst the inner is lost at the surgical neck, after pass- ing up, faintly, a short distance behind the inner edge of the bicipital groove. The anterior border is the most distinct of the three, except in the lower fourth, where, however, it is still quite distinct, though not sharp or rough. It is formed in the upper third by the external bicipital ridge, and is continued down from it to within half an inch of the coronoid fossa, which it bifurcates to enclose, and separates the external from the internal surface, the former in the low^er half being the broader of the two, owing to the prominence of the external condyloid ridge. The internal surface is that which I desire more particularly to notice. It support3fcthe supra-condyloid process in the situa- tion already defined; and behind the process, or in this situation, there is a gi'oove. This groove has been mentioned by Dr Knox in his papers already referred to, as existing in many arm bones. This part of the internal surface of the humerus is generally somewhat concave, though sometimes it is flat or even a little convex, and I certainly have found this groove present in the majority of a large number of arm bones that I have examined on purpose. In some this groove is altogether wanting, in a considerable proportion it is well marked, and in the majority it is present. It is seen in some young and adolescent bones, and appears to be at least equally distinct in those bones, the smooth- ness and straightness of which indicate them in all probability to have belonged to female skeletons.^ This supra-condyloid groove 1 There is no separate bone in which the diflference between the male and female