THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. 215 is necessaiy to' leave a sufficient space for the nerve and blood- vessels. Seeing this to be the mode of its development m ani- mals, we are not sui-prised to find it, when it is present in man, to occur in the very young subject and female, as well as m the adult and muscular. It is not unlikely that the arch may be liable to variety in the extent of its development, leaving the foramen unfinished, in animals which normally have it completed. In one arm of an adult cat, I found the arch represented by a ligament only, which, both above and below, joined a short spicu- lura of bone. On the other side, the arch was bony and well formed, as seen in fig. 3, which is sketched from the preparation made from it, and now in my collection. In the adult bone, the arch is directed downwards and backwards towards the internal condyle, is flattened, measuring one-tenth to one-twelfth of an inch in breadth, is somewhat concave towards the foramen, and convex and smooth superficially. There is a distinct groove on the hu- mei-us behind the foramen, both above, where the nerve and artery he, and below, where no nerve or vessel is near, but almost no groove, or a very short one, in front of the opening, which corresponds to the abnipt departure of the artery and nerve after they have traversed the foramen. Nerve and Blood-vessels.—The brachial artery does not lie as in man, along the course of the humerus, but as it crosses the subscapidaris muscle, is removed considerably to the inside of that bone. It now reaches obliquely downwards and outwards, supported behind by the internal head of the triceps, approaches and touches the humerus just before entering the foramen, through which it now passes along with the median nerve. It then leaves the humerus, lies at a considerable distance in ft'ont of the elbow, and, after a course of an inch and a quarter after leaving the foramen, it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. The median nerve accompanies the brachial artery in the arm, through the foramen, and below it, always lying to its outside, so that the nerve lies highest as they traverse the opening. I have not noticed any veins passing through the opening with the artery, and in one dissection in which the veins were injected, they did not pass through, but those accompanying the arteries