ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 35 buting any of the fibres which compose the various nerves, cere- bral or spinal. And again, the various nerves which seem to arise from these tracts in their course may be regarded as merely coming out through these tracts from certain points of grey mat- ter. We cannot be fully satisfied with tracing a nerve to, or into, a tract—the tract itself must have an origin ; but, although the association carries a certain weight with it, we must be able to follow the nerve down or into its grey matter, until we can say, physiologically speaking, that we have done with it and got it to its real origin. Thus, we are not contented with tracing the vagus nerve to the tract which occupies the side of the me- dulla, between the olivary and restiform bodies, but we follow it down through this to the grey matter on the back of the me- dulla, with which it is known to be connected. Now, even granting that the anterior pyramidal and olivary columns together form the great motor tract of the medulla, and that the motor nerves of the eye can be traced towards the up- wai'd continuations of tliis column, it does not therefore follow that we have ascertained the true origins of these nerves. Nor, even supposing the view just questioned to be correct, does it foUow that the tracing of the three motor oculi nerves towards these tracts thereby establishes a special relation between them, or entitles us to conclude that, however distant their apparent origin, their true origins are the same; for the same line of argument would apply also to the other motor cerebral nerves. If the third is connected with the same column as the sixth, so also is the ninth or motor linguEe; and if the fourth comes out from the olivary tract, so also do the portio-dura of the seventh pair, and the motor portion of the fifth,—the motor nerves of expression and mastication. Of the origins of the'fourth and sixth nerves, then, we know nothing except the places of their apparent origin; and of the fourth also, that part of its fibres are derived from the opposite side. Beyond this, we can only suggest the probability that their fibres are connected with the grey matter in the neigh- bourhood of their apparent origin. The third nerve can be traced a little deeper than its apparent origin; but anatomists