236 ON THE FASCIA OF SCARPA. cord, now widens out and opens laterally and upwards on the abdominal wall, between the continuation of the fascia of Scarpa and the surface of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, in which space there is a plentiful and lax cellular tissue. Relation of the Fascice to Infiltration of C/nne.—When the urine escapes from the urethra into the perineum, it passes forwards. It cannot pass backwards to the ischio-rectal fossa or anal region, on account of the reflection of the fascia of Colles to join the base of the triangular ligament; it cannot gravitate downwards along the inside of the thighs, owing to the lateral closure of the pouch; and it must therefore pass forwards, in the direction where no obstruction is presented by the lax cellular tissue. This may be readily illustrated by introducing a blow-pipe, or bellows, through an opening in the fascia of Colles, in front of the anus, when the air will readily force its way for- wards and inflate the scrotum, but does not reach backwards or side ways. The infiltrated urine, if not evacuated by incisions, made deep enough to reach it, continues to ascend over the cord, passing up to the hypo-gastric or even to the umbilical region, but it does not gravitate downwards to tlie front of the thigh. This is pre- vented by the fascia of Scarpa, which, forming a fibrous barrier across the whole groin, fixed to the fascia lata, efifectually pre- vents the fiuid from passing downwards. It therefore passes upwards, and infiltrates the plentiful and very lax cellular tissue which lies close on the outer surface of the tendon of the external oblique; the continuation upwards of the fascia of Scarpa, as the deeper aspect of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, still pre- venting the fluid from becoming subcutaneous and descending to the thigh. Relations of the Fascia of Scarpa to Hernia.—The fascia of Scarpa forms one of the coverings of the cord, as it passes to be continuous with the fascia of Colles, turning round in below the cord, and forming a kind of tube or canal within which the cord descends to the testis in the scrotum. The fascia of Scarpa, then, assists in directing a complete inguinal hernia down into the scrotum, and forms one of its coverings. It does