■iOU ON DIVERTICULA TROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. ring, there would have been no strangulation with this amount of intestine and mesenteiy, as the ring is wide and loose, but, by the end of the diverticulum passing through, its first porti n be- came tightened and the ring narrowed. There is first that side of the bowel where the diverticulum arises, strangulated by the diverticulum drawn across its front, the mesentery compressing It behmd; then the other side of the strangulated bowel is crossed in front by the diverticulum, which then turns round behind it, and then forwards through the ring, thus going completely round this end of the bowel. The faither the diverticulum made its way through the ring, the tighter it would draw the ring and constrict especially that end of the bowel which it embraced on all sides. On the latter, accordingly, the stricture is now best marked. The narrow constriction on the diverticulum itself within an inch of its end, is now seen to be the part where it is com- pressed by the ring, and the dilated last inch is the strangulated part beyond the ring. The ligament is not concerned in pro- ducing the strangulation, although primarily it formed part of the large ring. It has, as seen in the sketch, where it is rejsre- sented by a dotted line, also passed through the ring, but it not tight, and would act rather in preventing the diverticulum from going further through, if that were possible. The great resemblance between these two cases will be ren- dered more apparent by reference to the figures 21 and 22. These, it will be understood, are merely outline sketches. They were made with the preparations before me, and convey a more accurate idea of the anatomy and arrangement, tban could have otherwise been done. Fig. 21 A represents the diverticulum and the fatal ring formed by it, and its terminal ligament, and the surface of the mesenteiy between the ligament and the bowel; the moderate constriction on the bowel close above the diverti- culum, and the second constriction which was eighteen inches higher up. Fig. 21 B shows the manner in which the ring em- braced the portion of intestine and mesentery. Figs. 22 A and B are corresponding views of the preparation in the second case, showing the parts as already described. This preparation is figured by Monro. Of this I was not aware until after the above