155 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. mesentery is not necessary for such a process as it is for the intestine, where it is necessary both for the retention of the bowel and the conveyance of the vessels and nerves. In one of the cases, No 15, the vessels were seen to run along one side, that nearest to the mesentery of the bowel; and in another No. 14, they are seen to cross directly over the bowel on both aspects, and run along the diverticuKim both on its concavity and con- vexity. That the diverticulum does not necessarily require a mesentery, as far as a conveyance for the blood-vessels is con- cerned, is also seen in a case figured by Cloquet.^ " The ap- pendix was three inclies long. Its serous membrane was perfectly smooth. The mesenteric artery furnished a principal branch, which descended upon one surface of the appendix, giving off branches to the right and left; the other side was only supplied by some fine, irregular, vascular ramifications.^ With regard to their relation to the intestine and mesentery, it will be noticed that one or two came off at the mesenteric attachment, and ascended, adhering to the mesentery,—that one or two came off from the middle or nearly the middle of the bowel,—that is, equidistant from the mesenteric border; but that the great majority were placed upon the bowel nearer the mesen- tery on one side than on the other, having usually about two- thirds of the circumference of the bowel on one side, and one- third on the other. Whether this situation was anterior or posterior could not at any rate be determined from the exaruina- tion merely of a portion of intestine; and in reality, when we consider how the convolutions of the intestines naturally lie, the terras anterior and posterior become inapplicable. We com- 1 Surgical Pathology; by Jules Cloquet. "With Plates. London edition, 1832 Plate XVI., fig. 1. » Since the above appeared in the Journal, I have met with another specimen of true diverticulum ilei, in the dissecting room. As mentioned on page 152, it is situ- ated 30 inches from the caecum, and there are no valvulaj conniventes near it. It is 3J inches in length, begins funnel-shaped, is cylindrical in form, of the same dia- meter as the bowel, and terminates by a smooth blunt extremity, without any terminal ligament. There is no mesentery to the diverticulum, but the blood-vessels are seen to run along both sides, especially that next the ciccum. The lining mucous mem- brane is natural, and is covered with villi. Here, then, there is neither mesentery nor ligament, but the diverticulum is free on all sides, with its smooth serous invest- ment.