ON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 4G which the lower part of the eye is turned towards the inner can- thus. This is the action of each class on each eye; let us now see what relation the muscles have to those of the opposite eye in the various movements. Here we observe that the eyes are bound to each other in their motions, in order tliat the conver- gence of the axis to a greater or less degree shall never be de- stroyed ; so that when the eyes are moved sideways a non-corres- ponding muscle must be employed. The superior rectus always acts with its fellow of the opposite side; so likewise the inferior. But were the external rectus to act with its fellow farther than is sufHcient to bring the axes from convergence near to parallelism, divergence of the axes would result. Therefore, beyond this at least, the external rectus does not act with its fellow; but as, in looking sideways, one eye moves in when the other moves out, the action of the external rectus is attended by that of the inter- nal of the opposite eye. The internal rectus, lastly, is or is not attended by the action of its fellow, according as we direct both eyes inwards, or look sideways: so that this muscle acts some- times with its fellow and sometimes without it. It will thus be observed that the upper and lower recti always act with their fellows, that the external rectus never does so, and that the in- ternal does or does not according as the movement is a correspond- ing or non-corresponding one. The various movements and muscles concerned in each, therefore, are:—Corresponding, or symmetrical. 1. Both eyes upwards; both upper recti. 2. Both downwards; both lower recti. 3. Both inwards; both internal recti. 4. Both downward and inward; both iimer and both lower recti. 5. Both upward and inward; both inner and upper recti. Non-corresponding, or a-symmetrical. 6. Right eye out, the left in ; right external and left internal rectus. 7. Eight eye downwards and outwards, the left downwards and inwards; right external and left internal, and both inferior recti. 8. Right eye upwards and outwards, left upwards and inwai-ds; right external and left internal, and both superior recti. Now as to tlie relation between the oblique muscles of opposite sides. As is stated by those who have written on the subject, the superior oblique of one side will be in action with the inferior