229 VARIETIES or THE ARTERIES. the radial artery once/ and the ulnar on two occasions, in dissec- tion, occupy this position, and several cases in which the latter artery was sub-cutaneous at the elbow, but became covered by the aponeurosis, after passing a short distance down the forearm ; and states that he has also seen an instance of each of these in living persons, the condition being, according to him, easily re- cognised. The two arteries are usually very differently covered at the bend of the arm. The deeper, as I have already described, is usually bound down by fleshy or aponeurotic fibres upon the bra- chialis anticus, or it may be overlapped or covered below by a higher origin tlian usual to the pronator teres muscle. The more superficial artery usually lies close against the posterior surface of the semilunar tendon of the biceps, in front of the deeper vessel, which may now be more directly behind it than higher up. The high radial artery I have seen lately, on two occasions, split- ting the semilunar tendon, the thicker portion being still above it. Besides the two cases of high ulnar, already mentioned, in which the artery passed over the muscles but under the aponeurosis of the forearm, I lately examined carefully a case in which the ulnar arteries in both arms, arose half an inch below the level of the condyle, and passed, as the high uhiar usually does, to this super- ficial position. They lay over the semilunar process, and over the aponeurosis of the arm for three inches, when they perforated the aponeurosis and lay below it. But still they were not sub- cutaneous, in the sense in which we speak of the veins being so. A layer of aponem'osis passed over it, forming a kind of arch over it, and binding it down in a kind of tunnel, so that it did not lie in the superficial fascia, but really under a fibrous aponeurosis, though over the thicker and proper aponeurosis of the arm. The artery in this position had no venee comites, these, from three inches above the wrist, left the artery and joined the superficial veins. The aponeurosis over the ulnar arteries in this case, was very readily removed, giving the arteiy afterwards the appearance of having been truly sub-cutaneous. The artery was seen and felt through the sldn before the dissection was begun, as the subject 1 Op. Cit., p. 318.