ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 149 The extremity of the diverticulum being tlius bound down to the mesentery, a ring or oval space is formed, bounded chiefly by the diverticulum, partly by the ligament, by half an inch of the surface of the mesentery, and by the side of the bowel from this to the origin of the diverticulum. This ring has a diameter of about an inch, and admits the points of three fingers. Through this, as I shall afterwards relate, a loop of intestine had passed, and, becoming strangulated, was the occasion of death. As I had only a mass of intestines sent me for examination, I am un- able to say how far from the caacum the diverticulum was situated, but, as there are valvulsE conniventes moderately marked near the place, I suppose it to be about the beginning of the last third of the small intestine. 22. Wet preparation. Diverticulum six inches in length, ver- miform, and at the extremity tied down to the mesentery by a ligament. The ring thus formed was likewise the cause of death, and the constriction near the extremity, and the dilatation beyond, seem to have been acquired or caused by the peculiar position of the diverticulum in the strangulated mass, as I shall subsequently describe. It arises by a funnel-shaped commencement from the bowel, which has here a diameter of one inch, whilst that of the diverti- culum is about half an inch. Its diameter is pretty uniform until near the extremity, 1^ inch after its origin there is a slight twist upon it, and at this part it is rather narrower than before and after. The last portion forms an abrupt oval expansion, one inch in length, and f inch in diameter at the middle. This is sepa- rated from the rest by a narrow constriction, i inch in length and diameter, and feels thick as if from the gathering together of the coats. On rubbing the coats between the finger, those of the di- verticulum feel thicker than those of the bowel, and the dilated extremitv of the diverticulum feels thicker still, thoutrh not so much so as the constricted portion. This constriction corresponds to where the diverticulum itself was embraced in the strano-ulat- mg ring. Attached to the extremity of the diverticulum, there is a pecu-