219 THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. in tlie cat, and when it acts, it appears as if the vessels would be pushed aside, whilst the nerve is protected by the arch of bone. ■ It may be infeiTed from this, that the foramen is primarily in- tended for the nerve, and this agrees with what we have seen from the cases of the variety in man, that, when the process exists, the nerve always deviates, whilst the artery may or may not. It may be compared in this respect to the supra-scapular notch in man, which always transmits the nerve, as the structure of greatest importance and least tolerant of pressure, while the artery passes over the- ligament and only occasionally under it, with the nerve. It is not unlikely that the nerve only may pass through in many of the animals, the skeletons of which present the supra-condyloid foramen, and also it is not unlikely that a process may occasion- ally be found as a variety on the humerus of animals which, like man, do not possess it as a regular character. With regard to the necessity for protection, we observe that the nerve and artery approach the bone obliquely, and have to cross in front of it above the elbow. Here any compressing force would have pressed them against the bone, and here accord- ingly an arch of bone is thrown over the nerve and generally over the artery also. They here approach the humerus much in the same way as the femoral vessels approach the shaft of the thigh bone in man, as they are about to become popliteal, and an ana- logy may be drawn between this provision in the humerus and the oblique tendinous canal by which the femoral artery is pro- tected from muscular pressure against the bone. But even although the above explanation were to account sa- tisfactorily for the existence and use of the foramen in those ani- mals which possess it, it does not seem to explain why these animals have or require it more than some others in the same orders, but in which it is wanting. After examining carefully the arm and elbow of the dog, for instance, I cannot see why the median nerve should not require protection in this animal as well as in the ichneumon above noticed. In the same way, however, it might be said, that we can see no precise reason, from the ana- tomy of the smTounding parts, why, in man, the supra-scapular nerve should be so specially protected in addition to the protec-