ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 61 third nerve as supplying in part the retractor muscle in the horse, and on his authority the statement has been made by others that this is the ai'rano-ement " in some animals." Valentin states/that "in some mammaha, the horse for ex- ample, it (the third nerve) supplies also tlie retractor muscle of the eye; and in his work " De Functionibus Nervorum"^ he states that, in the horse, the retractor muscle is supplied by the third as well as by the sixth nerve, the external part by the sixth, and the internal part by the third; and this suits his theory, according to which the muscles which invert and depress the eye are involuntary, and regulated by the lower division of the third nerve. My own observation of the nerves in the horse does not agree with that of Valentin. I find the internal part of the retractor to be supplied by the sixth nerve equally with the external part. The two filaments for the retractor come off, one close after the other, from the inner side of the trunk of the sixth nerve, imme- diately after it has entered the orbit—one going to the outer and the other to the inner half of the muscle. I could find no fila- ments from the third nerve to the retractor muscle. There is, however, the appearance as if the lower fasciculus from the oph- thalmic ganglion supplied the muscle, but I could not determine whether this filament supplied the muscle or only pierced it to reach the eye. It is, however, very delicate compared with the large supply equally to the inner half of the muscle from the " sixth nerve. The retractor muscle in the horse is pierced by several fila- ments from the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, both on its inter- nal and superior aspects. The latter arise in the apex of the orbit, and may, in part at least, be easily traced on to the eye as long ciliary nerves. This is the common arrangement in animals with a complete retractor: the long ciliary nerves pierce it to reach the eye. But they may branch in the muscle and unite with the sixth nerve in it, and have at least the appearance of supplying it. These, however, are derived from the sen- sory or ganglionic portion of the sixth nerve, which, in some 1 Op. cit., p. 289. 2 1839, p. 21.