154 ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. be advanced against the conclusion, that Meckel's explanation is a very probable one, and a sound deduction from the considera- tion of all the facts of the case. The occurrence of a cord or ligament passing from the ex- tremity of the diverticulum is a point of considerable interest. This cord, which may be called the terminal ligament, may be looked upon as the remains either of the early vitelline canal, or of the more persistent pedicle of the vitelline sac, and of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels which passed along it. Its presence was distinctly noted in only five out of the twenty cases of true diverticulum above recorded. But I may observe that it may have been present in the cases of the dried ]n'eparations, and removed in the dissection without leaving any trace. This has been done in one of the cases in which I dissected it myself when recent, and now the dried preparation presents no trace of a terminal ligament, but a smooth apex. In all the cases in which the specimens were examined in the wet condition—Nos. 17, 19, 21, 22,—thei'e was a cord or terminal ligament. In case 21, as already observed, this ligament was short and might pass for a serous adhesion, but this view of its nature was improbable, and in case No. 22, this ligament is a true cord, fibrous, rounded and smoothly covered by serous membrane. On several of the specimens there are what I have called secondary diverticula. In Nos. 19 and 20 these are very distinct. Also in No. 18 there is a narrower portion from the end; and in Nos. 16 and 17 there is a projecting corner or portion to one side, from which in No. 17 the terminal ligament passed off. These appear to be portions of the original diverticulum which had not undergone the same growth or enlargement as the rest. The form, as seen in figs. 19 and 20, seems to render it likely that the original diverticulum had been curved down, and that the part at the turn had become dUated, or that beyond it had ceased to grow. The existence of a mesentery to the diverticulum does not ap- pear to be constant. In the above dried preparations it may have existed, although no traces are now visible. In several there was a narrow mesentery running along one side. A