ON DOUBLE STOMACH. 22 Morgagni again refers in tlie same work to this condition, as having been noticed in several of his dissections, and observes tliat " the aperture of communication between the two portions of the stomach was scarcely larger than the natural extent of the pylorus." On tliis the editor remarks, in a note, " central con- traction of the stomach is often met with; but, in general, it appears to be a temporary affection. In all the instances which have occuiTed to me, it was instantly removed by inflation. Sometimes, however, it is permanent; and the aperture between the two portions has been found by others as small as Morgagni has represented it above. Sir E. Home and Dr Monro have described this morbid appearance. In the Medico-Chirurgical Journal for January 1816, Dr Palmer has related a case in which the contraction was as perfect as if a tight ligature had been applied, and great difficulty was found in passing the little finger through the narrow ring which separated the car- diac and pyloric portions. The inner coat seemed healthy, ex- cept at the strictttred part where the coats were thickened; and adjacent to it there were some spots resembling minute granula- tions." Dr Monro^ states that a contraction in the middle of the stomach has been described by Blasius, Lorry, "Walter, Hufeland, and Van der Kolk, and he also notices the cases described by Morffacrni. The constrictions here referred to by Dr Monro appear to have been chiefly spasmodic, and to have cUsappeared soon after death or on distension, since he refers, as a con- trast, to one case of permanent contraction in a preparation before him, but the constriction was not greater than to give the ap- pearance as if a cord had been " tied very slightly around the stomach." Sir E. Home has paid particular attention to this subject, having written several papers on the structure and form of the stomach in various animals and in man. In one of these^ he expresses the opinion that the human stomach is divided by a muscular contraction into a cardiac and pyloric portion; that 1 Morbid Anatomy of the Humaa Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines. 1811. 2 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, 1807, pp. 170,171.