AND THE FCETAL HEAKT. 65 History during life.—A month before death there was diffi- cuUj of breathing, the lungs appeared healthy, and the case much resembled one of disease of the mitral valve. Ten days before death, occasional blueness of the sui'face made its appear- ance, lasting only a short time, without any paroxysm of difficult breathing, and tiien passing off. Death occurred suddenly. The case belonged to the late Dr Campbell, for whom I conducted the post-mortem examination, and to whose kindness I was in- debted for this use of the preparation. EEMAKKS. On the Causes of Open Foramen Ovale.—A more or less open foramen ovale is well known to be the most common imperfection of the heart, but the causes of this condition are perhaps not generally understood or agreed upon. We may refer it to two causes—1. An impediment to the free passage of the blood throuffh the ria;ht ventricle, from contraction of one of its orifices; and 2. To an imperfect development of the valve by which the foramen is usually completely closed at, or soon after, birth, 1. The connection between contracted pulmonary orifice and open foramen ovale has been remarked by various observers. M. Louis regards it as the most common cause of the open foramen, and farther looks upon this pulmonary contraction as almost always a congenital condition. Out of 53 cases of imperfect heart quoted by Dr Joy in the " Library of Medicine," the fora- men was open in 33, the pulmonary artery contracted in 22 ; and it is not unlikely that in many cases the open state of the foramen ovale has been recorded, whilst the condition of the pul- monaiy artery and its orifice had not been carefully examined. The case I have related illustrates this connection between open foramen ovale and contracted orifices of the right ventricle. Still the question occurs, why should there so frequently be valvular disease and contracted orifice on the rigid side in the foetus and child, and not in the left, as in the adult. I do not think that this can be explained by the supposition that the right ventricle E