ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS 120 are broadest at the tubercle, where each measures nearly half an inch, and before and after this they are about half this breadth. The right tapers to a point, the left is rather expanded at its anterior end, and distinctly grooved here where the sub- clavian artery lay. This groove is much less marked on the right side. A ligament, narrow but strong, passes foi-ward from the tip of each rib, and joins in front a short and pointed first cartilage, which thus connects it to the sternum. The ligament is two inches in length. The cartilage is an inch in length and a fourth of an inch in breadth, and pointed at its outer end where it receives the ligament. Where it joins the sternum, it is close up to the clavicular notch, and by the inner half of its lower border is quite continuous with the broader cartilage of the se- cond rib, with which at the sternum it therefore fonns one piece. The manubrium sterni is proportionally long, measuring three inches, while the body measures only a quarter of an inch more; and at the cartilaginous union between the manubrium and body the cartilage of the third rib is fixed, this being the place where the cai'tilage of the second rib is normally attached. The handle of the sternum is thus joined by the cartilages of the first two ribs and half of the third, although it is to be observed that the first two cartilages are fused into one before they join the ster- num. The cartilage of the eighth rib comes within a quarter of an inch of the lower end of the sternum, joining the appendix ensiformis, which is ossifying above, and presents a well bifur- cated cartilage below. The superior aperture or inlet of the thorax is thus bounded; behind, by the first dorsal vertebra, and on each side of this by the rudimentary rib, the tips of which do not project farther forwards than on a line with the front of the body of the vertebra; on each side by the ligamentous cord, and in front by the short cartilages and the sternum. The transverse diameter of the inlet measui-es four and a half inches, the antero-posterior two and a half, and the plane of the opening slopes a very little downwards and for- wards. The second ribs are well formed, folly six inches in length, and the transverse diameter of the space between them is sTx inches. The space between the first rib and ligament above