34 ON THE KERVES OP THE ORBIT. niger, and splits in five or six white threads, which, separated by the grey neurine, present a beautiful appearance in a fresh brain." He then traces these filaments through the grey matter to be connected (so far as I can understand, after comparing pages 234, 264, and 294) with some fibres, which pass downwards and forwards to the crus cerebri, fi-om the deeper pai-t of the supe- rior peduncle of the cerebellum. Mr Solly seems to regard the tliird nerve as intimately related to the grey matter of the crus, as, although he also here speaks of the distant radiation of its fibres through and beyond it, he remarks (p. 234), in speaking of this grey matter,—" This has been called the locus niger; I would rather designate it the ganglion of the third pair of nerves." The origin of the sixth nerve is, as usually given, from the upper end of the antei'ior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, or from the groove or the pons immediately in front of this, or firom both; usually by a couple of roots. The more modern anato- mists have failed to trace this nerve to a deeper origin. It is usually regarded as satisfactoiy that it is seen to emerge from a connection with what is regarded as a motor tract. The preceding references and observations wdll, I think, make it evident that we really know very little about the deep connections or true origins of the three motor nerves of the eye; and it may likewise be doubted whether there is really anything either of truth or value in the view that these nerves are con- nected or related to each other by their deeper attachments. It has perhaps been too customary to regard tracts or columns, from which certain nerves issue, as necessarily having the same function as these nerves, and as in reality sending out the fibres which compose them ; but now that the important physiological distinction between the grey and the white nervous matters is better understood, it may appear less bold to question the cor- rectness of these inferences. The various tracts of white mat- ter which compose the bulk of the medulla oblongata may be regarded as in great part simply passing through it, from the grey matter of various parts of the cerebrum and cerebellum above, to various parts of the grey matter of the cord below, or vice versa—commissural in their nature, and not necessarily contri-