122 ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS right measures an inch in length and an eighth of an inch in breadth; the left seven-eighths in length and one-sixth in breadth. They are flattened from before backwards, a little expanded at the tip, and by an inner rounded end, or head, joined, by a freely mov- able articulation, to the pedicle of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, at a point corresponding to where the eleventh rib joins its vertebra, at the upper part of the root of the pedicle. It is the twelfth rib from above downwards, and there are five lumbar vertebrte between its vertebra and the sacrum. The eleventh rib is six inches in length. The eleventh dorsal vertebra has here the character by which the twelfth is usually distinguished, its in- ferior articulating processes looking outwards instead of forwards. This, together with the small size of the rib, would without doubt suggest to one merely seeing the specimen, that the case was one of supernumerary lumbar rib, but I ascertained carefully that it was only the twelfth rib fi'om above downwards, and there were five lumbar vertebrae below. In this subject there was also a peculiarity of the cartilage of the left fourth rib. The rib is very broad where it joins the car- tilage, and the latter is bifurcated at its costal end, leaving an aperture which received the point of the little finger. The drawings illustrate the descriptions. In Fig. A the parts are reduced two-thirds from the natural size, retaining the pro- portions, but in the other two the full size is represented. 111.—Remarks on Variation of the number of the Ribs in Man, and on some points in the Anatomy of the Vertebras. It is well known that the ribs may vary in number, from the addition of a thirteenth rib on the seventh cervical or first lum- bar vertebra, or from the absence of one at the upper or lower end of the range, although on this point writers are less precise. But, although the occurrence is noticed by almost every anato- mical author, comparatively few appear to have actually met with instances of it. A case of supernimierary cervical rib has been recorded by Dr A. Dymock, in an interesting paper,^ which con- > Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, rol. xl. 1833.