PARALYSIS OF THE COMMON MOTOR OCULI NERVE. 97 original size of the right. The eyelid could be raised so as to show half of the cornea. The inferior rectus had regained nearly all its power, the internal rectus acted moderately, and the superior rectus least. The rotatory motion was not now per- ceptible. The improvement on the motions followed the mild action of the mercury on the gums. An indolent ulcer formed on the cornea of the other eye, and there was considerable chronic oph- thalmia, especially of the right eye, with flaky discharge, and also some ophthalmia tarsi; all of which improved under the use of the nitrate of silver and the red oxide of mercury ointment. It will be observed, that the ulceration and chief inflammation aff'ected the right eye. Had these occurred on the left or para^ lysed side, the erroneous inference might have been drawn, that the paralysis had injured the nutrition of the eye, as is known to occur when the fifth pair of nerves is paralysed. The eye symptoms continued to improve up to December 5th, when my brother was suddenly summoned to see the patient on account of an apoplectic seizure. He was not completely para- lytic or comatose, but gradually became so, and died next day, about thirty hours after the seizure. The post-mortem examination had an additional interest from the previous history of the patient. About ten years before, lie had an attack of hemiplegia of the right side, from which he re- covered in a few weeks, so as to be able to walk, but it was longer before he regained the use of the hand for writing. For several years back, although he has had no actual paralytic seizure, there were several threatenings of them; indeed, on one occasion he was found insensible, but recovered in a few hours after free venesection. FoiTuerly, he was a man, well known in his day, of strong and active intellect, though wanting in the higher qualities of mind. For several years back he has, however, been an invalid, and latterly partially imbecile. Long under the care of my brother in Leith, he was also much indebted to the kind attentions of Dr Alison. Post-mortem examination 48 hours after death. Present—Dr James Struthers, Mr Doig, and myself. G