ON DIVERTICULA TKOM THE SMALL INTESTINE. gestion. There is usually no valve or other means to prevent a free entrance to tlie cavity of the diverticulum. When the acute angle is \v ell marked, there is a small crescentic fold at this part, and again, in Figs. 11, 13, 14, 15, and 20, there is a small cre- scentic fold at the angle where the two sides of the douhled-in piece of intestine meet over against the mouth of the diverticu- lum, like the septum of the bronchi facing the trachea; but such a crescentic fold will always be produced by bending up any portion of intestine at the sharp point of the bend, even although the interior was previously quite smooth; and any such small crescentic fold seen on one side or near the mouth of the diverti- culum, is not to be regarded as a valvular obstruction, or in any way involving this principle. The mouth of the diverticulum is usually funnel-shaped and smoothly open, so that the intestinal fluids must freely enter the recess, and again leave it by its own contraction. Diverticula from the small intestine patliologically considered. These diverticula may be considered pathologically under four heads. 1. As a cause of strangulation of the bowels. 2. As part, or the whole, of the contents of a hernial sac. 3. As pre- disposing to the lodgement and accumulation of foreign matters; and 4. As a part liable to disease. 1. Under the first of these heads are included two of the pre- ceding list of cases, being the two at the end, Nos. 21 and 22, and one or two others have been recorded by authors. Case I.—This is No. 21 in the notes and figures. The case occurred in the practice of Dr Archibald of St Andrews, aiid the intestines were put into my hands for examination by my friend, Dr Keillor. The patient, a young woman, was seized with symp- toms of strangulation, and died after a short illness. The mass of intestines which I received was much gorged with blood, and there was a peculiar loop, embracing and strangulating a portion of the intestine, which was in a gangrenous condition, and easily gave way in the centre during the examination. On careful examination, in the empty state, and also by inflation of the