AND THEIR RELATION TO THE YERTEBRiE, 123 tains references to the history of this point, and also some able remarks on its nature. In the case recorded by him, the rib of the right side is an inch and a half in length, and that of the left three inches. Both are articulated to the upper part of the side of the body of the seventh cervical vertebra. They ended abruptly without any cartilaginous prolongation. That of the left side was joined by a strong fasciculus of tendinous fibres to the next rib, but no farther account of the relation to the other soft parts could be given, as putrefaction was far advanced before the peculiarity was noticed. Mr R. Quain has recorded two instances of cervical rib.' Re- garding one of these no details could be given, as the preparation was destroyed, and he has represented the other in Plate 25, fig. 9, being from a preparation in the University of Cambridge. They are placed on the seventh cervical vertebra. That of the right side reaches forwards, and joins a tubercle near the middle of the first ordinary rib. That of the left side is less than an inch in length, and both are movable on the vertebra. The first ordinary rib is drawn as articulated entirely on the body of the first dorsal vertebra. The examination into this point, in connection with the two cases which occurred to me, has led me to put the question, whether some of the cases recorded as instances of cervical and lumbar ribs were not of the same nature,—instances rather of the ordinary first and twelfth ribs in an imperfectly formed con- dition. This latter condition has attracted much less notice, and may be rare. It is alluded to, however, by several anato- mists. Bourgery^ states, that the absence of the first rib is often only apparent, the rib being well developed behind. Mr Ward, in his excellent work on the bones,^ says, " more rarely the first rib on each side is deficient in front, losing itself, hke the floating ribs, in the substance of the muscles." Soemmerring* alludes to 1 Anatomy of the Arteries, 1844. Pp. 149-187. * Traits Complet de I'Anatomie de I'Homme. Bourgery et Jacob. Paris, 1831 Vol. i., p. 59. » Outlines of Human Osteology. By F. O. Ward. London. 1837. « TraitiS d'Osteologie et de Syndesmologie. S. T. Scemmerring. Paris, 1843.