54 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. does not appear to be a necessary one, or due, as Miiller supposes, to any contiguity or connection of their nerves. We observe, it is no doubt true, the consensual contraction of the pupil to occur always when the eyes converge on a near object; but this is not due merely to tlie internal recti being in action, but occurs sim- ply because it is required wlien a near object is being viewed. The two occur together, because both are necessary to the view- ing of a near object. But the consentaneous contraction of one pupil may occur independent of the action of tbe internal rectus, as when we look out sideways at a near object. Here both pupils contract, whilst on one side the external, not the internal, rectus is in action. And again, in looldng sideways at a distant object, one of the in- ternal recti is in action, but both pupils' are enlarged. There- fore the consensual contraction or dilatation of the pupils occurs simply according as we view a near or distant object, whatever may be the muscles employed. These remarks relate only to the consensual movements of the irides, the influence causing which must originate in the brain; otherwise the pupils are moved by reflex action, through the impressions on the retina, conveyed backwards along the optic nerve, and reflected outwards along the third nerve. Here the tendency to association is so remark- able, that an impression on one retina only, causes an equal con- traction of both pupils. When the pupils act consensually,— i. e., along with one or other of the muscles of the eye, the fact of their keeping exactly of the same size is only what we would expect to meet the pui-pose to be served; but when the action of the pupils is reflex,—i.e., from the quantity of light, indepen- dent of any motion of the eyes, the fact of impression on one eye causing an action of both pupils may seem to favovir the view taken by Miiller, that there is a peculiarity or identity at the roots of that part of the third pair of nerves which goes to the irides,—that is to say, that it is impossible for the nervous centre to act on the nervous fibrils which go to one iris without also acting on those which go to the other iris. But this hypo- thesis seems to be unnecessary. Symmetrical reflex action, when the irritation is appUed to One side only, is at any rate not con-