THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. to form the foramen. This, however, is not strikingly evi- dent, as the nerve and artery are so situated that it might be maintained that they would be pushed inwards by it, and not directly backwards against the bone; but it is at the same time plain enough that, during its action, this large muscle will press backwards upon the protective arch. The arch, as seen on the macerated bone, corresponds remarkably to the supra-coiidyloid process of man. The arch springs from the internal surface, nearer the anterior than the internal border, and passes down- wards and inwards to join the latter close above the internal con- dyle. The arch does not project much outwards. Lengthways, it is slightly convex externally, and concave towards the foramen. Across, it measures i inch, is convex externally, and flat or a little concave towards the foramen. The foramen is oval, J inch Ions, and ^ across at the middle. The upper end of it is li inch above the higher and most prominent division of the internal condyle, the entii-e bone being 111 inches in length; and there is a groove for an inch above and behind, and for half an inch below and before the foramen. In the Ichneumon (a carnivorous animal larger than the cat— the mangusta of Cuvier) the supra-condyloid foramen transmits the median nerve only, the arteiy and veins passing over the arch on both sides. In other respects the anatomy resembled that of the cat, only, the thin muscular expansion over the brachial region seemed to have become aponeurotic before it reached the supra- condyloid region. The median nerve crossed behind the brachial arteiy, and at the jimction of the upper and middle thirds of the arm, deviated from the arteiy and passed down along the front of the small intermuscular septum, and entered the foramen. A small muscular artery accompanied the nerve down the arm but not through the foramen. The artery and veins keep close along or underneath the inner edge of the flexor radii muscle, and again meet the nerve below the foramen. The course of the blood- vessels appears direct, whilst the nerve appears to bend down- wards and inwards, out of the direct course, in order to pass through the foramen. The flexor radii is not, at least in this domesticated specimen of the ichneumon, so bulky by one half as