ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE arteries more tlian into those of the leg or arm. Nor can the effect which it has on the general current within the aorta bear more upon one viscus than another. - It must therefore be held, that the abstraction of blood from the wall of the abdomen or chest cannot in any way, or according to any principle, be regarded, as far as specially influencing the contained viscera or any one of them is concerned, in any other light than as a general blood-letting. Conclusions.—I next proceed to inquire whether these con- siderations should lead us to alter the common practice of blood- letting in affections of the internal viscera ? Now, notwithstanding what has been said, it is nevertheless not difficult to show, that the prudent and proper practice still is to apply the treatment over the affected part. This is because we cannot bp sm'e of the exact situation and limits of the disease. There is pain as if in the liver. Is the affection one of the liver itself, or of one of the serous layers of the diaphragm, or of the pai'ietal peritoneum ? There is pain as if in the kidney. Is it in the kidney, or in some part of the wall, or in both ? We cannot be sure, and thei'efore we must treat the affection as a regional one—as an affection of, or in, the right hypochondriac region in the one case, and of the lumbar region in the other. If the viscus alone be affected, the blood drawn from over it will at least relieve it as much as a similar quantity taken from some other part would do; and, if the wall also should be affected, or be the entire seat of the disease, the patient, without running the risk of missing a better practice, has had the benefit of the doubt. The same remarks apply to the chest. Local blood-letting must have the same direct effect in pleuritis that it has in peri- tonitis, the membrane in either case forming part of the wall; and can the practitioner be sure that the parietal pleura is not involved as well as the lung? The pericardium, again, receives part of its vascular supply from the internal mammary arteries, and it is therefore in our power to derivate from this part by leeching the front of the chest. We must therefore come to the conclusion, that, in treat-