58 ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. the cornea. The motion he attributed, on very theoretical grounds, to the action or influence of the superior obUque muscle and fourth nerve; but later writers attribute it to the involuntary action of the inferior oblique muscles. But it does not appear to have been very carefully inquired into, whether such movements actually occur under these circumstances. If the eye be forcibly exposed by holding up the eyelid, as in searching for a foreign body in the fossa of the conjunctiva, .the eye may be seen to roll up; but this is a voluntary action, performed in order that the front of the eye may be placed out of danger deeply under the upper eyelid. But is it the case that the eye rolls up every time the eyelids meet, either in the ordinary winking motions, or that which may occur during the acts of sneezing and coughing? Is there any satisfactory proof that such a motion actually and regularly occui's? The statement that the eyeballs are turned upwards during sleep, is certainly incorrect. I do not say that they may not occasionally be so found, but they are not generally so; on the contrary, as Mr Mayo' remarks, in raising the lid of a person in sound sleep, " the eye is found directed straight forwards; but in some instances the eye is dkected upwai'ds and outwards." That the eyes are sometimes rolled upwards in fainting and on the approach of death must have been observed by every one, both when the eyelids are wide apart and when tliey are nearly closed. But it does not always occur under these circumstances, and the direction is not constantly the same. The more common opinion seems to be, that they turn upwards and inwards, owing perhaps to the striking appearance which this motion gives; but it has seemed to me that the motion is more frequently directly upwards, and occasionally both eyes are turned a little upwards and outwards. Looking to their anatomy in man only, it was perhaps natural enough to ascribe this up- ward rolling motion^ to the inferior oblique, especially when no other use could be found for that muscle; but it is not necessaiy for me to go back on this matter now to show that the inferior oblique muscle has quite a different purpose to sei-ve, and is not, in all, so placed as to be capable of turning the cornea up- 1 Anat. and Phys. Commentaries. 1822. Part ii., p. 6.