iyb THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. of the coraco-brachialis. It is of considerable thickness, passes quite round to the inner side of the vessels, and joins the internal head of the triceps, or a tendinous septum between them. There is thus formed a kind of tunnel, which admits the little finger, and ends below by a distinct tendinous arch, the outer side of which is the ordinary tendon of insertion of the coraco-brachialis. This tunnel incloses the imdivided brachial artery, its venge comites, and the median nerve, in their usual relative position. There is no other variety, except that the posterior circumflex artery arises with the superior profunda, and, as usual, when it so arises, courses up behind the conjoined tendon, to gain its usual position at the neck of the humerus. During the present winter I met with an example of an ap- proach to this variety. The coraco-brachiahs sent a thin mus- cular prolongation inwards over the vessels and nerve, as far as to conceal them partially, but on division of the aponeurosis con- tinued from it, it passed outwards and left the sheath exposed. 3. Brachial Artery concealed in the lower half of the Arm by a Broad Tliird Head to the Biceps Muscle. This variety occurred in 1848 in the right arm of a male sub- ject. The brachial artery is concealed in the lower half of its course by a broad thick muscular layer, extending from the inter- muscular septum to the biceps muscle. The artery, its venae comites, and the median nerve, disappear through a tendinous arch, situated a little above midway between the internal condyle and the lower edge of the tendon of the teres major. This fibrous arch is about an inch in length, extending obliquely downwards and inwards, and is continuous above with the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and below with the intermuscular septum. The unusual muscle arises from this arch, and from the inter- muscular septum, as far down as to within an inch of the inter- nal condyle, being a length of four inches and a half, leaving only a narrow cellular space between it and the pronator teres. The fibres pass downwards and outwards, approaching and accom- panying the inner part of the biceps. About one half of the ;3iuscle ends in the tendon of the biceps, just where that tendon