CONSIDERED IN A EE VIEW. 177 besides, is unnatural, or at least not very apparent. We wish anatomists would agree to abandon tbe use of these terms, as sei-ving only to dishearten the student in his efforts to master tbe already overburdened nomenclature in connection with the brain. The decussation of the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblon- gata is mentioned merely as a free communication of the pyra- mids across the fissure by a decussation of their fibres. No mention is made of the interesting fact, as fully described by John Reid twelve years ago, that each pyramid, in chiefly decussating, passes, not merely across, but also backwards, so as to be con- tinued into the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord. There is a diagram, fig. 48, of a transverse section of the spinal marrow, in which the grey matter is very erroneously figured like two new moons joined across by a very broad grey commis- sure. The commissure should be narrow, and the anterior end of the crescent large and rounded, compared with the posterior. However correct the text may be, the student will still rather take his impression from the diagram. Perineum.—The fascia covering the levator ani is not noticed in the description of the ischio-rectal fossa. Now this fascia is of much importance in connection with the fossa. By its union with the obturator fascia it closes the fossa above, and, by lining the levator ani, it effectually prevents, in abscess in the fossa, the passage of matter into the rectum, at least earlier than close above the sphincter, an inch or little more above the anus, where the internal opening in complete fistula may be constantly found. When in the neighbourhood of the obturator internus, we are reminded to remark, that if our author, in the next dissection he sees of the deep gluteal region, will divide the tendon of that muscle and lift it inwards, he will see behind it not only the grooved cartilage and synovial membrane covering the lesser notch, but an appearance so striking that we are sure he will give it a prominent notice in future editions. Of lithotomy we read, that " the proportional distance between the tuberosity of the ischium and anus is the Scylla and Charyb- dis of the operation; for approaching nearer the former would endanger the internal pudic artery; and the latter the rectum," M