10^ ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. bronchi. Tins recess is naturally filled up by a mass of bronchial glands, usually of a dark colour; and in connection with this cir- cumstance may be mentioned the case referred to by Roldtanski, " in which the mucous membrane of the oesophagus was dragged out in consequence of the shrivelling of an adherent tracheal gland." The diverticula represented from fig. 3 to fig. 22, inclusive, are, however, evidently original pouches or processes, continuous with the tissue of the intestine. They appear all to have been situated near, or towards, the lower or colic extremity of the ileum. Of the two of which I had the opportunity of ascertain- ing the exact situation on the length of the canal of the small intestine, one, fig. 19, was eighteen inches, and the other, fig. 17, twice that distance upwards fi-om the CEecum.' As to the situa- tion of the diverticulum in the other cases, I can judge only by the valvulse conniventes, as I had only separate portions of the intestine. We can, however, form a very accurate opinion usually as to the situation of a portion of bowel whether it was from the upper or lower end, or middle, of the small intestine, by the size or absence of these valvulas. Very large and close together from about the entrance of the bile duct, downwards through the upper third, they gradually diminish in size and number in the middle third, and in the lower third are at first few and slight, and then altogether wanting. A portion of jejunum has thick coats, and when held uj) to the light, presents dark rings, and when everted or laid open the valvulse ai*e seen. A portion of ileum at the lower end again, has thin coats, is more transparent, and no dark rings or valvulas are visible. The same distinction is easily made although the preparation is dried. When held up to the light the jejunum presents numerous dark characteristic rings, and the lower portion of the ileum is thin, transparent, and destitute of rings. If, then, a portion of small intestine is pi'esented to us, either wet or dried, in which there are no valvulae or dark rings, we can with certainty pronounce it to be from the lower end of the ileum. The statements of anatomists differ as to how much 1 In another case since met with, the diverticulum was thirty inches from the csecum.