80 ANATOMICAL INQUIRY INTO THE careful consideration of the arrangement of the blood-vessels of these parts. In following out these principles in the endeavour to discover the modus operandi of local blood-letting, we notice that there is a wide difference between the local blood-lettings practised by the surgeon in affections of the limbs and external parts, and those by the physician in affections of the internal viscera. In the former parts, the blood-vessels communicate more or less directly fi'om the surface inwards to the affected part, and we can therefore easily understand how leeches, applied, for instance, over the knee or ankle, can afford direct relief to the distended vessels in or about these jomts. But in the latter parts there are no such communications. The interaal viscera of the chest and abdomen on the one hand, and the walls which enclose them on the other, are supplied with blood from enth'ely different sources, and the two sets of blood-vessels do not communicate with each other except through the general circulation, or, what is the same thing, through the parent trunk; and it would there- fore appear that we cannot specially relieve these internal viscera, or any one of them, by local blood-letting. I shall now demonstrate this by referring briefly to the sources of vascular supply to the viscera and walls of the abdominal and thoracic and cranial cavities. 1. The Abdomen.—Here the viscera are supplied from be- hind, and solely by large arterial trunks, which spring from the front and sides of the aorta. The spleen, liver, pancreas, stomach, and duodenum, are supplied by the coeliac axis, the rest of the small intestines, and first half of the great, by the superior mesenteric ai-tery, and the remainder of the great bowel by the inferior mesenteric, down near to the anus. The kidneys receive their blood entirely by the corresponding renal artery, direct from the aorta, and return it direct to the vena cava by the renal vein, whilst the blood returned from the other organs above named is again distributed to the liver by the vena port£e before it is returned to the vena cava. Thus, to generalise, all the viscera of the abdomen receive