217 THE SUPRA-CONDTLOTD PTIOCESS. Lion (the animal dissected was from Mr Wombell's collection, an adult lioness, which died after parturition) there was no muscu- lar expansion over the region of the brachial artery. The muscle, or muscular expansion, from the latissimus dorsi, lay along the posterior part of the internal bracliial region, and, coming as far forwards only as the position of the ulnar nerve, it ended in a strong aponeurosis, which passed downwards over the olecranon and internal condyle, and forwards over the-bracliial vessels and nerves, where it united with a similar aponeurotic expansion from the pectoralis major. The foramen, therefore, is not for the purpose of affording protection from a superficial muscular expansion, as the examination in the cat alone might lead us to suppose. In other respects the anatomy is the same as in the cat, on a much larger scale. At the lower edge of the tendon of the teres major the brachial artery lies an inch inwards from the humerus, and, for three inches downwards from this, is related behind to the spiral nerve and inner head of the triceps muscle. It is now within two inches of the foramen and lies upon the humerus. It now passes through the foramen, and for an inch below it, is still related behind to the bone, some fat and cellular tissue lying between ; and 2| inches below the foramen it divides in the forearm into radial and ulnar. When the elbow is ex- tended the course of the artery appears direct, but when the elbow is flexed the axterj appears to dip backwards to pass through the foramen. The median nerve accompanies the artery, lying parallel to its outside both in the arm and through the fora- men, on leaving which the nerve has begun to divide. It is about one-third of the size of the injected artery, is smaller than the ulnar, and half the size of the spiral nerve. The veins do not pass through the foramen, but cross over the arch, as two large veins, which again meet the artery above the foramen. There is only one muscle which could press upon the nerve or artery, being the one corresponding to the human biceps. This flexor radii muscle overlaps the nerve and artery from the teres major downwards, and as they come to cross obliquely in front of the humerus this large muscle is so placed that it might press them against the bone, at the part where the arch is thrown over them