ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS. 132 facet for tlie entire head of the corresponding rib. Were it-so' the ninth vertebra would be equally entitled to be described as a peculiar one, in the absence of the half facet below, as indeed several anatomists describe. In twelve sets of articulated verte- brae in my collection, the tenth rib has articulated also with the ninth vertebra, freely in four, doubtfully in one, in three on the right side, but apparently not on the left, whilst in the remaining four it appears to have been wholly received by the tenth. In one of the latter there was no facet on the transverse process of the tenth vertebra ; and in the specimens where there is no part facet on the lower edge of the ninth, there is a small bony pro- jection, which before the bones were macerated, may have been tipped with cartilage, besides giving attachment to the upper band of the stellate ligament. It seems therefore, that it is at least as frequent to find the tenth rib articulating also with the ninth vertebra. The tenth vertebra can be distinguished from the two below it by the facet on its transverse process, but not clearly from the ninth, unless it has an entire and well finished facet on its body. If the ninth vertebra has been touched by the tenth rib, it cannot be known from the eighth, if it has not, then it cannot be distinguished from a tenth. It is evident, therefore, although we can generally identify any of the lower dorsal vertebr£e, that still no anatomist could be ab- solutely certain about these vertebrae if separated from the rest of the set; nor could we determine the nature of a lumbar rib, by observing its relation to its vertebra, or the relation of those above it to the bodies and transverse processes of their vertebrae. These various considerations will suffice to show how careful we should be, before forming an opinion as to the nature of any case of rudimentary rib, and the evidence we expect before any case can be received as one of true supernumerary rib.