-il) THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. in the forearm, joined the superficial veins below the foramen, and, passing with them over the arch, reached up the arm super- ficial to the artery. Muscles.—There is no deep muscle by which the nerve and artery would apparently be directly or unavoidably compressed against the bone. They lie along, and are somewhat overlap- ped by, the inner edge of a very broad one-headed muscle cor- responding to the biceps of man. A few fibres of the triceps arise from the posterior edge of the bony arcK forming a thin separate lamina partially covering the nerve and artery as they enter the arch, but this could not directly compress them, nor can this be the object of the provision of the foramen. The pronator teres arises very slightly above the condyle, and does not cover the nerve or arteiy. But, superficial to all these parts is a muscvilar layer derived as an expansion from the latissimus dorsi and pectoral muscles, and this covers the whole internal brachial region, down to the level of the elbow, and over the situation of the foramen. This expansion is derived posteriorly from the anterior edge of a muscle, which extends from the latissimus dorsi to the olecranon process. This muscle arises by a short tendon, or tendinous intersection, at right angles from the lower margins of the latis- simus dorsi and teres major; passes vertically down the posterior part of the internal brachial region, with a length and breadth much like one of the recti muscles of the human eye, and is in- serted by a flat tendon into the inside of the olecranon and the fascia of the forearm. From its anterior border the thin mus- cular expansion passes forwards and joins with a similar one from the lower and superficial part of the pectoral muscle. Tliis expansion covers the whole of the region of the brachial artery, and reaches down even below the level of the condyle, ending now as an aponeurosis in front of the forearm. Considering the size of the animal this muscular expansion is of considerable strength, being about of an inch in thickness. I have lately, by the kindness of Professor Traill, had the op- portunity of dissecting these parts in the lion and ichneumon, in both of which the supra-condyloid foramen is present. In the