ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 29 source of the fourth nerve. Tracing this tract upwards, he finds it to be connected with the anterior or motor roots of the upper cervical nerves, with the ninth, the sixth, the portio dura of the seventh, and the motor portion of the fifth, and, lastly, " the trochleator nerve is attached to the internal margin of the same band of fibres when it has ascended the processus a cerebello ad testes, and is about to enter the optic lobes." The same view as to the som'ce of the fourth nerve is taken by Longet.^ He traces part of the antero-lateral column of the cord up as a motor tract, to beneath the corpora quadi^igemina, and assigns this as the source of the fourth nerve just before the tract enters beneath the.testes; and he adds, "this nerve then, like the other motor oculi nerves, has an origin corresponding to its uses." Mr Solly, in his last edition,^ admits the correctness of Dr Eeid's description of the olivary tract, and the apparent connection of the foiu'th nerve with it. He adds (p. 294), "The fourth pair of nerves at their origin are connected together by a distinct commissure, more evident in some brains than in others." As to this supposed source of the fourth nerve, I shall only observe at present, that however clearly the olivary tract may have been traced up to the neighbourhood of its origin, yet no direct con- tinuity has, apparently, been observed between the tract and the roots of the nerve. Owing to the difficulty of clearing away all the pia mater without tearing off the nerve, the examination of the origin of the fourth nerve is a matter of some delicacy. It presents various appearances. Sometimes it seems in part to come out as if deeply from the testis or posterior quadrigeminal body. Sometimes it appears more to plunge down through either the middle or inter- nal part of the processus a cerebello, a little way behind the testis; and generally, if not always more or less, it appears to pass across the upper part of the valve of Vieussens, and, joining with its fellow of the opposite side, gives rise to the appeai'ance of a commissure. This apparent commissm-e has not been gene- rally described in anatomical works, but has been noticed, in the ' Anatomie et Physiologie du Systfeme Nerveux. 18i2. Tome ii. p. 392 ' The Human Brain. 1847. '