5 ON THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. is the longest. The latter is represented in the drawing of the lower third of the bone. Tlie process and ligament are seen on their external and inferior aspect, so as to show the size of the opening as it now appears in the preparation. In observing the development of the arch in the cat, I find that, at different stages of its growth, it forms a process resemb- ling very much the conditions which it has presented in man. It is developed as part of the shaft of the bone, the ossification proceeding from above downwards; and very soon after birth it becomes united below to the lower end of the shaft, not to the epiphysis, of the bone. This account of the formation of the opening in animals, is opposed to the view of those who believe " that the passage of the artery through a foramen of the humerus, results simply from the extensive development of the inferfor extremity of that bone,"-' by which the vessel becomes at length encircled, in order, merely, that it may not be thro^vn out of its original and direct course; and tends to confirm the more common view, that the arrangement is one specially for the pui-pose of affording protection to the parts which the opening transmits; although, on the other hand, a consideration of the habits of the animals in which the arrangement occurs, and the dissection of the parts, do not render it evident that they, more than some others, require such a special means of protection for the nerve and artery. The above instances of the occurrence of this singular variety in man, having led me to think that it might have been present more frequently than had been noticed or recorded by anato- mists, I lately examined the preparations of these parts in the museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons of this city; and amongst those which had belonged to Dr Barclay, I found four instances of it, although he has not alluded to the variety in his work on the arteries. Two of these occur in separate arms, both of the left side. One that of a very young child, where the process is long; the other that of an adult, where the ligament also is preserved. The other two are seen in the preparation of 1 Introduction to the Natural History of Mammifcrous Animals, etc. P. 89 By W. C. Linnasus Martin. * • xjy