ON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 50 authority by wliom it is proposed, it must be observed that the theory or explanation really does not explain what we wish to under- stand, or in any way render the matter more simple. It assumes that some of the muscles and nerves are involuntary, for which there does not appear to be any good ground; for if we take the ordinary ocular movements as we find them, without being in- fluenced by any preconceived theory, no one appears to be more voluntary than another; and to say that one nerve is automatic, and necessarily acts with a voluntary one of the other side, is merely another way of expressing the fact that the one eye moves with the otherj whilst what we are seeking for is some explanation of the fact itself. There is next Miiller's explanation.^ The substance of his remarks, in endeavouring to explain the arrangement of the nerves and the harmony of the movements, may be given thus: —1. That the correspondmg branches of the third nerve have an innate tendency to act together on opposite sides, evinced from the time of birth, and therefore due to some peculiarity of structure at the origins of the two nerves. The corresponding muscles supplied by them, therefore, always act together on opposite sides; and to explain why such is not the case with the internal rectus when we look sideways, he supposes that the in- ternal rectus of the everted eye really acted, but was overcome by the stronger action of the external. 2. That the sixth nerve wants this tendency to act with its fellow, and that the strong action of the one is incompatible with that of the other. Also, that this enables us to understand why in all vertebrata the ex- ternal rectus receives a separate nerve. 3. That the reason why the fourth also is a separate nerve is, that its muscle moves the" eye downwards and outwards, and that therefore the oppo- site muscle is not to be employed. Before commenting on this hypothesis, I may notice, lastly, the remarks of M. Ph. Berard, as quoted by Longet,= with the view of explaining why the external rectus and superior oblique receive separate nerves. He observes, that when we look up and 1 Elements of Physiology. Trans, by Baly. 1835. Pp. 928-931. . . a Op. cit., torn, ii., pp. 396, 397, 405.