130 ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS settled by counting tlie number of the free lumbar vertebrse, whilst the number of the ribs is carefully ascertained. There is another source of fallacy in determining the nature of a rudimentary rib—there may be eleven or thirteen ribs, and still the cervical vertebras be seven, and the lumbar five in num- ber. Mr Quain has seen an instance of the former with defi- ciency of a dorsal vertebrte, and there is an instance of the latter in the Barclay Collection in the Edinburgh College of Surgeons' Museum. The skeleton is marked " Skeleton of a European male used by Dr Barclay in his lecture room, as having thirteen dorsal vertebrae, and thirteen ribs on the left side." There are seven well formed cervical, five well formed lumbar, and thirteen dorsal vertebrae. The first dorsal vertebra receives the first and part of the next rib as usual. The seven iipper ribs are true, joining the sternum in the usual manner. The lowest three ribs are floating. The twelfth is six inches in length. ' The thirteenth is two inches in length, and one^third of an inch in breadth, and is movably articulated on a projection on the upper part of the side of the body of the thirteenth dorsal vertebra. There appears to have been a corresponding one on the right side. The lower articulating processes of the twelfth dorsal vei-tebra are not turned outwards, those of the thirteenth are the first to be so. The thirteenth dorsal vertebra has a thick short transverse process, intermediate in position between the transverse process of the twelfth above it, and the tubercle of the first lumbar ver- tebra below it.^ Variation in the number of the vertebrae is perhaps a more 1 Since this paper appeared in the Journal, Mr Holmes Coote of St Bartholomew's Hospital, has published (Medical Times and Gazette, January 21,1854), an interesting account of the skeleton of a Chinese, in which there is the peculiarity, that the thorax is placed upon the spine, a vertebra higher up than usual. The twelve ribs have been attached to the twelve middle vertebra, leaving six cervical vertebraj above and six lumbar below. So far as I am aware, no similar case has been recorded. Mr Coote mentions that the Chinese had died in the Sidney Hospital, from which a pupil had brought the skeleton; and suggests the inquiry whether this be the normal con- dition of the Chinese skeleton. It so happens that one of my pupils, Mr Cox, who has recently come from the Sid- ney Hospital, has also brought a Chinese skeleton, which he has aiforded me an op- portunity of examining carefully. I am also indebted to Mr Cox for much interest- ing information, regarding the various races to be met with there, for procuring spe- cimen skeletons of which, it appears the Sidney Hospital is favourably situated. A