VARIETIES OF THE ARTERIES. 227 the condyle, the nerve and arteiy now turn gradually and incline outwards and downwards to the elbow. Before the artery thus begins to incline outwards, it is placed ^ to f inch to the inside of the high radial, which lay along the edge of the biceps, but, in one of the three, the other artery, being the high ulnar, was nearer to it, having itself inclined inwards half an inch from the inner edge of the biceps. From the middle of the arm downward, in these, as in all cases of condyloid deviation, the artery and nerve, lying in the deep groove in front of the intermuscular septum, were bound down by a strong aponeurosis passing between the septum and raised fibres of the brachialis anticus, and, especially below, for two or three inches, also partially concealed by some of the fleshy fibres of that muscle. . The practical conclusions from these observations regarding the relative position of the two arteries, may be easily drawn. In a preliminary examination of the arm, the existence of two arte- ries may be ascertained by the pulsation, or it may be visible, as I have seen in an emaciated person. If no such preliminary information can be obtained, and if the artery first met with is not unusually small, and the ligature of it arrests the pulsation or bleeding below, there is no necessity or warrant for making a farther search. If it is otherwise, another vessel must be sought for. The artery first met with will, in all probability, be the more superficial. If it is in the upper half of the arm, the other arteiy will, if indeed the pulsation has not already indicated its position, be readily found a little deeper, separated only by the median nei*ve and a layer of fascia or sheath, either directly behind, or close to one side of, the one first found. The mere appeai'ance of the artery being small, does not necessarily indicate that it is only one of two vessels, as, in some female subjects especially, the arteries look veiy small, and are, in all persons, considerably smaller than the distended arteries seen in the dissectino- room and in museums; and, besides, it is not easy to judge of the true size of an artery in an operation, owing to the veiy limited extent to which it is exposed. It has been recommended, in the case of two arteries being met with, to secure that one only which is con- nected with the aneurism or bleeding vessel, but it is evident