VAEIETIES or THE ARTERIES. 228 that there can be no greater danger to the vitahty of the fingers from tying two ai-teries in a high division, than in tying the one artery when it ia single, and various good reasons might be as- signed for the rule to secure both. This rule may be departed from in the cases of false aneurism, and wound, when it is enough to place two ligatures on the artery concerned, one on each side of the aneurism or wound. These being the chief conditions requiring an operation in the lower part of the arm, it may not be necessary to search for the other arteiy, although the one first secured should evidently be only one of two. But if it is desired, the above anatomical details show that it will not usually be so easily found as in the upper half of the arm. It is often concealed by fleshy fibres from the brachialis anticus, and generally, either with or without this, bound down upon that muscle by a deeper aponeurosis. The median nerve is not now over it, but to its inner side, and the artery and nerve are often more or less re- moved towards the intermuscular septum, sometimes for three quarters of an inch; so that the artery will be found, not only deeper, beneath muscular or aponeurotic fibres, but in some part of the space between the inner edge of the biceps and the inter- muscular septum. The existence of two arteries at the bend of the arm is com- monly referred to as increasing the danger in the operation of venesection. There are two chances instead of one, of puncturing an artery by a rash plunge of the lancet; and besides, and more especially, one of the arteries lies more superficial than the other, pressing forwards, as it were, against the back of the semilunar process of the biceps, and may therefore be more readily punc- tured by the lancet. But the belief as to the greater danger of wounding an artery, in the case of a high division, seems to have arisen from the error of describing the high artery as actually superficial or sub-cutaneous. Thus—" in general the anomalous artery is the radial, and is sub-cutaneous in its course"—some- times both radial and ulnar are sub-cutaneous.^ I have never seen an artery of large size lie over the aponeurosis of the limbs or occupy a truly sub-cutaneous position, but Mr Quain has seen 1 Cycloped. Anat. and Phys., vol. i. p. 466.