MODE OF ACTION OF LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. «5 stich thing, in the proper sense of the term, as local blood-letting for these organs. Reflections of the Serous Membranes from the Walls to the Viscera. —To render complete the demonstration of the absence of com- munication between the blood-vessels of the walls and those of the viscera of the chest and abdomen, it is necessary that I should notice the connection between the viscera and the wall by means of the reflections of the serous membranes, as it might be supposed that by these a means of affording local vascular relief is established. In tbe abdomen the peritoneum is reflected from the wall on to the viscera at various places. On each side it is reflected on to the ascending and descending colon, so as to leave their poste- rior third or fourth uncovered and in contact with the posterior wall. But it is not the conductor of vessels between the wall and the colon. It possesses its own nutrient vessels only, and the vessels of the colon are derived from the colic branches of the mesenteric arteries which do not anastomose with the vessels of the wall, as they run outwards behind the peritoneum to reach the intestine. The liver is connected to the diaphragm by means of its suspen- sory and posterior ligaments, each consisting of a double reflection of peritoneum ; and these, as described by Harrison, contain minute blood-vessels, derived from the internal mammary and diaphrag- matic arteries. But these blood-vessels are minute, and their distribution is very limited, supplying at most but a small region of the coats of the liver where it is joined by its serous ligaments; and I am not aware that any connection has ever been demonstrated by injection between these minute vessels and the proper internal blood-vessels of the viscus. Besides, these vessels come from the diaphragm only, the vessels of which again are but very remotely connected with those of the skin of the trunk; and, even sup- posing that these minute vessels did join with those of the liver, physicians will probably not be disposed to look to them as affording an explanation of the relief from local blood-letting, any more than to the additional fact, that often one, or occasionally both, of the diaphragmatic arteries may arise from the coeliac