ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 59 wards. We must attribute these actions chiefly to the superior recti, acting sometimes with the internal and sometimes with the external recti, although we cannot explain why they should occur. That the upward direction is not always the same, shows that it is not an action of one muscle provided for this pui-pose; and that its occurrence is not invariable, shows that the motion is not an essential one. , But, according: to the view maintained as to the use of the oblique muscles, their action cannot be held to be voluntary, in the full sense a.t least, as that of the recti muscles is so; for, as Longet has remarked, we do not seem to have the power of vo- luntarily turning the eye round its axis when the head remains fixed. Still this is not equivalent to regarding the oblique muscles as involuntary. They are subjected to the central in- fluence, which prevents any motion from which double or con- fused vision would result; and we should have no power of using these muscles voluntarily, for the same reason that we cannot tm'n one eye up and the other down, or both eyes out. Still it may be said, as the regulating influence does not restrain the actual motion, but only regulates the motions of the two eyes, that if we use the superior of one side with the inferior oblique of the other, we should be able to twist the eyes round about. But this power would be of no use to us under any circumstances ; and indeed such a movement of the eyes would be injurious to correct .vision at all times, except when the motion is actually required. If we keep the eyes fixed on an object straight before us, and move the head round to the right side, by a motion at the joint between the two first vertebra, we use, to keep the eyes fixed, the left external and the right internal recti; but if we bend the head down towards the right shoulder, we use the right superior and the left inferior oblique ; we are alike unconscious of the effort in either case, both the motions are equally volun- tary or involuntary, being performed under the dii'ection of the guiding sensation. There is just one other question concerning the oblique muscles which has not been considered. We have seen their relation to each other on the same side,—that they act altei:-