ON OPEN FORAMEN OVALE 66 has, relatively to tlie left, more labour to perform in the foetus than in the adult. In the foetus, it is usually remarked as inter- esting to observe that the walls of the riglit ventricle are as strong as those of tlie left, or nearly so ; but this I think has been over- stated by some. In tlie foetus between the fourth and fifth month, now before the Societ_y, it will be observed that the left is twice the thickness of the right; and in the other foetus I now show— at the third month—the difference is already well marked. We can see rio reason, then, why, during the latter two-thirds of foetal life, and in early childhood, the right ventricle should be the seat of hypertrophy and valvular contraction, and not the left. The fact of the foramen ovale being open, seems to be sufficient proof of the correctness of the view of M. Louis, that the pulmonary contraction is congenital, otherwise in the meanwhile the foramen would have become closed. Still it is not apparent why in the foetus the pulmonary orifice should be the seat of malformation or disease more than the corresponding aperture of the left and stronger heart. The view may occur, that this contracted state of the orifices of the right ventricle and pulmonary arteiy, is not the cause but rather the result of the condition of open foramen ovale. This view might accord with the state of simple contrac- tion of the pulmonary artery or its orifice, as part of the blood which should pass through them has found another channel; but it certainly will not account for diseased or malformed conditions of the right ventricle and its oi'ifices. I may observe that in the case I have related, it was the orifice merely which was contracted, not the artery, as, a short distance above their orifices, the measurements of the pulmonary arteiy and aorta were the same. Some cases have been recorded of contracted or obliterated pulmonary artery, in which the ductus arteriosus remained open so as to allow of a recurrent circulation to the lungs, but in this case the ductus arteriosus was practically closed. From this it may be inferred that the severe contraction of the pulmonary orifice had not been of very long standing, possibly not before the symptoms became aggravated, and occa- sional cyanosis made its appearance, about ten days before death. 2. Passing over the possibly correct view of some that the fora-