134 ON BRANCHES l'"EOM THE FIFTH NERVE. the fourtli nerve and partly enter directly into the muscle. The inferior oblique is not entered directly by a branch from the fifth nerve, but the latter constantly sends a twig to join the branch from the third nerve to the inferior oblique, as it passes forwards along the inferior rectus to reach the inferior oblique. This twig comes from below arising in the apex of the orbit from the second division of the fifth nerve, just after the latter has entered the orbit in connection with and close below, the first division. This twig runs obliquely upwards and forwards and terminates by three portions; one or two twigs enter the inferior rectus about or behind its middle; another passes obliquely forwards to join the motor nerve of the inferior oblique, or this one may come up as a long separate filament; and the third passes to the ciliary ganglion as its long root. I was often disappointed in my search for the long or sensory root of the ciliary ganglion in the sheep, looking for it to come from the nasal branch of the fifth, but finding it either wanting, or pre- sent as a very delicate filament, lying with the long ciliary nerves,— until I found that the true long or sensory root came from below, from the second division of the fifth nerve, at the back part of the floor of the orbit. This inferior long root crosses the nerve of the inferior oblique muscle, partly joining it, and passes to the ganglion, which lies close above the nerve of the inferior obhque. I am not mistaken in the nature of these filaments to the muscles of the eye. They are easily seen in a careful dissection, and easily recognised as nerves, traceable backwards to the ganglionic or sensory portion of the fifth nerve. Although an anatomist can readily recognise the nature of even a small nervous filament when it is quite fresh, I have, to prevent doubt on the part of others, often placed each of the filaments in question under the microscope, after its connections were made out, and always found what I had before concluded, that they were white nerves. I have numerous preparations of these filaments from the sheep and calf, which I made ten years ago, and have since repeatedly dissected them and shown them to my pupils and others; but I have not yet been able to find a corresponding arrangement in my dissections of the human orbit.