162 ON DIVERTICULA. FROM TtfE SMALL INTESTINE. the anterior lamella of the mesentery." In the drawing, it is seen to leave the intestine near the mesentery on one side by a funnel-shaped origin. It is directed with very little obliquity, and has an average diameter of ^ to ^ inch, enlarges somewhat towards the extremity, and presents two slight constrictions, which, however, appear to be accounted for in the drawings by their position as they present themselves at different parts of the strangulating loop. It is not said how far from the ctecum the diverticulum was placed on the intestine; but from the state- ment, in the description of the pathological appearances, that " the lower third of the ileum" was collapsed, I may infer that it was about four feet above the caecum. I am also indebted to Dr Pirrie's paper for a reference to the catalogues of the Museums of St Bartholomew's Hospital and the College of Surgeons of Ireland. The catalogue of the collection at Bartholomew's contains the following reference to a preparation which appears very closely to resemble the three preceding ones. " Portion of small intes- tine, from which a diverticulum is continued. The extremity of the diverticulum is adherent to the contiguous j^art of the mesentery, so as to form a circular aj^erture or ring. Through this aperture a portion of hitestine, twelve inches long, passed and became strangulated. The patient, a lad subject to consti- pation, died four days after signs of strangulation of the intestine. Eeferring probably to this case among others, Mr Lawrence^ observes regarding internal strangulation, " Membranous cords forming adhesions frequently cause strangulation. They may be attached to any part of the cavity, or of its contents. The appendix vermiformis, the Fallopian tube, the omentum, and diverticula of the small intestine, when fixed at their loose ex- tremities to some neighbouring part by such adhesions, may soon cause death in this way. I have seen several examples of such occurrences." Also Rokitanski mentions in his ]\Ianual of Patho- logical Anatomy, among the causes of internal strangulation, " an intestinal deverticulura {verum), which is directly or indirectly, 1 Treatise on Ruptures. London, 1838.