ON DOUBLE STOMACH. 25 Sil- E. Home is of opinion that tliis is the natiiral condition of the organ during digestion, the constriction serving the purpose of retaining the food in the cardiac division iintil it be prepared for farther change in the pyloric. He admits, however, that the circuLar musculai- fibres are in no way more developed at any- particular part, which we would rather expect to find were this a regularly recurring condition. In support of this view he states that he has seen a similar temporary constriction on the stomachs of some animals in which the organ is naturally simple, when the examination was made soon after death. In connec- tion with this may be mentioned the observation made in regard to contraction of the stomach in the weU-known case of St Mar- tin. It is described as contracted about four inches from the pylorus, so that a tube introduced by the fistulous aperture was first resisted at this part, and, having passed the contraction, was tben grasped and drawn on by the action of the parietes beyond. From the description given, however, it does not appear whether there was really an hour-glass contraction, as supposed, at this pai't, or whether the whole of the pyloric portion M'as not also in a contracted condition. The question as to whether the stomach is naturally and peri- odically constricted so as partially to divide it into two cavities during digestion, is worthy of being inquired into. In doing so, it must not be forgotten that the constriction will not be appa- rent imder all circumstances;—that it will be noticed especially when death has taken place during or soon after digestion; that too rapid or forcible distension may at once destroy it; and that it cannot be noticed unless the body be examined soon after death. [Note.—iWarc/t 1854.—Since the above paper was written, I have met with a considerable number of instances of temporary constriction, and I add this note chiefly to correct the natural supposition that it will disappear soon after death. In all the cases I have seen, the contraction was to the right or pyloric side of the middle of the stomach, usually about four or five mches from the pylorus. I have made notes of a few of the