ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 139 ment of the facts and arguments on either side, I may refer to Meckel's excellent work on anatomy/ and shall here only state briefly the chief arguments advanced by Meckel as the founda- tion of his view, although he laboured at that time under the disadvantage of being vmable actually to demonstrate a continuity of canal between the intestine and the umbilical vesicle in the human embryo. His chief arguments are—That their charac- ters indicate them to be primitive formations, having the same structure as, and continuity with, the intestinal coats ; that they occur almost always at the same part of the intestine, and that the connection between the umbilical vesicle and the bowel occurs at this same part—viz., on the ileum near the caecum; that "we sometimes perceive in very young foetuses a canal which goes across the umbilical sheath, from the vesicle to the abdomen, and by which we can at pleasure empty the vesicle of this fluid, and fill it again;" that " it is not unfrequent, propor- tionally speaking, to find in the full-grown foetus a canal which extends from the intestine to the umbilicus, which opens in this latter place, and is alw^ays attended by the omphalo-mesenteric vessels." And lastly, he alludes to "the analogy with birds, reptiles, and cartilaginous fishes, in which it is proved that the communication in dispute exists at all periods of foetal existence." He admits of course that protrusions or hernise may occur here as elsewhere, and thus accomit for the occasional existence of a diverticulum or pouch on the jejunum, and for the existence occasionally of more than one. It is necessary therefore to distinguish diverticula into two kinds, true and false. On this M. Cruveilhier^ remarks: "These divei-ticula, into the composition of which all the tunics of the intestine enter, are very different from the hernia of the mucous membrane through the muscular coat, a hernia of which I have seen an example in the duodenum, and several in the rest of the small intestine. In a subject recently submitted to my observation, the small intestine presented fifty spheroidal 1 Manual of Descriptive and Pathological Anatomy. By J. F. Meckel, Professor of Anatomy at Halle. London edition, 1838, pp. 375-386. ' ' Traits d'Anatomic Descriptive. Paris, 1852, p. 361.