ON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 36 1 Op. cit., p. 296. are not agreed as to the extent or exact direction of the deeper radiating fibres, and we cannot say where these radiating fibres really begin. It may be doubted that they can be traced farther backwards than the crus cerebri; and when they are spoken of as going nearly as far as the quadrigeminal bodies, it must be recollected that these bodies lie on the upper and back part of the crus itself, the nates being directly above the origin of the third nerve, and at a distance only of from half to three quarters of an inch. Of the third nerve, then, we can only say, that it arises from the crus cerebri, the fibi'es being probably de- rived partly from the grey matter collected in the locus niger, and partly from some more deeply-seated grey matter in the crus. The endeavour to trace the motor nerves of the eye to the same cerebral connection, must be therefore held to have failed; and I cannot therefore agree on this point with Mr Solly, who seems to hold that especially the third and sixth nerves have some intimate relation to each other. Of the latter,^ he observes, •—" This nerve, let it be remembered, in a physiological point of view, is merely a portion of the third, its separation fi.'om which by the pons Varolii is perfectly analogous to the separation of the roots of the spinal nerves by a blood-vessel running between them, and of no greater physiological importance." And again (p. 285), he suggests that, physiologically, it would be more cor- rect " to consider the third pair and the sixth as merely separate roots of the same nerve, and to describe the two together by the name of the common oculo-muscular: for the circumstance of the commissure of the cerebellum separating their roots is merely accidental to their arrangement, in a physiological point of view; but the fact of their being described as if they were distinct nerves, has frequently led the student to believe that they must be endowed with distinct offices, and wonder why the abductor muscle of the eye should be supphed by a peculiar nerve, while the other muscles, with the exception of the superior oblique, receive their supply from the same source." Should it be deemed necessary farther to show the incorrect-