20 ON DOUBLE STOMACH. naturally concealed by the prominence there appearing to lie to its left side; and this rounded prominence seems naturally to have been received into the concavity of the lesser curvature of the pyloric sac. The right or pyloric division corresponds very much to the narrow elongated form of stomach which we some- times see, and is not much less than some adult entire stomachs of that form. The two sacs are together much more capacious than any large single stomach that I have seen. In the sketch, a small part of the duodenum is represented beyond the pylorus, the valve of which is fully formed. About three inches to the cardiac side of the pylorus will be observed a slight constriction, especially marked on the greater curvature. This corresponds to the slight constriction which usually, or at least frequently, exists at this part of the stomach. Instead of agreeing with me in regarding this case as one of true or congenital bilocular stomach, some may suppose that this state of parts may possibly have resulted from morbid action. On the one hand, that the second sac was merely a dilated por- tion of the duodenum, due to a partial constriction beyond, whilst the constricted part between the two sacs corresponded to or was the original pylorus. Or again, that the constriction was of the nature of a morbid contraction or stricture on an originally single sac. These suppositions, however, are incompatible with the facts of the existence at the right extremity of the second sac of neither more nor less than the natural pyloric thickening and projection, and the entu-e absence of thickening or puckering at or near the narrow part between the two sacs, as well as the absence of the least trace of old or recent disease on any part or surface of the preparation. Death in this case had resulted from typhus fever, and I was tmable to obtain any previous history. In my museum there is a dried preparation showing a similar peculiarity in the form of the human stomach, of which Fig. 2 is a sketch:— This preparation originally belonged to Dr Knox. For the only information I can furnish regarding it I am indebted to Dr Lonsdale of Carlisle, formerly assistant and successor to Dr