ON THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. 42 jects, while he saw well enough on looking ujAvards, He saw quite well with either eye singly. In three cases the patients saw near objects correctly, but those at some distance appeared double. Another where vision was good with one eye closed, but imperfect when both were open; and it is not stated that there was any squint. Dr Jacob farther states that he has met with many similar cases; but not talcing this view of them at the time, did not pay that attention to them he now would. Al- though I have thought it right to quote the points of interests in these cases, which the author merely suggests might possibly have been of this nature, yet they do not strike me as exactly the symptoms which we would expect to arise from want of action of the superior oblique muscle. According to M. Szokalsld,^ paralysis of the fourth nerve is rare as a separate condition; but he has seen it several times along with paralysis either of the third or sixth pair. He relates two interesting cases, which I shall translate entire:— Case I.—" The eyes of tlie patient have no trace of lesion, their mobility is in no way constrained, and they can be directed easily to all sides, which proves that there is no anomaly in the straight muscles of the two eyes. The two pupils are of equal size, and equally dilatable. Nevertheless, the centre of the Zc/"i cornea manifests a tendency to be placed a little lower down than the right; there is double vision, and constantly one image of the object is placed above the other. If the right eye is shut, the upper image disappears; if the left eye, the lower image ceases to be visible. The two images re- semble each other always so exactly, that the patient learns only by judgment and habit, that the inferior is false. When the head is inclined to the left, the images separate more and more; but if it is inclined to the right only one image is seen. Since I have pointed this out to him, adds M. Szokal-. ski, he goes with the head inclined to the right; formerly he managed by, keeping one eye shut." Case II.—" An attentive examination showed to M. Sichel and myself, that the two eyes are perfectly moveable in every sense. The patient states that every object seems double to him, in such a manner that he perceives two images, the one above the other; these two images separate in proportion as he retires from the object; the lower image appears less distinct. Some vessels were found injected in the external corner of each eye; we looked carefully whilst we moved the patient's head alternately to the left and to the 1 See Longet's work already quoted. Vul. ii. p. 399.