114 ON THE SEMILUNAB VALVES OF THE HEART. of the sinuses of Valsalva in relation to the semilunar valves, only it seems to me that such a prehminary action on the flaps of the valve is not required. Except, however, in so far as just expressed, the action of the auriculo-ventricular valves is mechanical also, the blood getting in behind the flaps of the valve, and pushing them together, whilst the cords prevent them being pushed through the orifice into the auricle; but that their action is not mechanically perfect, but depends for its perfection on the vital act of the shortening of the musculi papillares, is shown in the dead body by the result of injection, which, if it gets into the ventricle is not arrested by the mitral valve, but is certain to pass through and fill the left auricle, and from it the pulmonary veins. It is perhaps commonly supposed that the use of the coi*pus Arantii in the centre of the free margin of the semilunar valves was to ensure the filling up of a possible or imaginary chink left in the centre by the meeting of three convex surfaces; but a close consideration will show that the relation of the valves to each other is difi^erent from this. Whatever the number of valves, it was necessary that, being equal, each should be at least large enough to reach to the centre. But each is large enough to reach farther than this. Allowing an inch as the diameter of the aortic orifice, each valve will be found to measure from each of its horns to the corpus Arantii from f to f of an inch, i.e., from an eighth to a sixth, or even a fourth, of an inch more than is sufficient to reach the centre or axis of the aorta. The upper part of the valve is therefore doubled up, and rests against a corresponding part of the other two, pressing back to back against each other, whilst the lower part of the valve forms a convex bulging towards the ventricle. This corresponds to the natural difference of the semilunar valves at then- upper and lower parts, the former being thin and the latter thick and strong. The middle fibrous bands of the valve seem to corres- pond to the points where the valves ceased to support each other. These median fibrous bands passing from each horn into the valve and then curving upwards towards the corpus Arantii, appear to me not properly to pass up to the corpus, but to meet