ON THE NERVES OP THE ORBIT. 45 that such a relative position of two images does not necessarily, of itself at least, point to the superior oblique as the muscle affected, but might be due to a slight inequality in the action of the upper or lower recti muscles. Before leaving the subject of our view of the action of the oblique muscles, I may illustrate it by reference to the affection called " oscillation of the eyeball." This oscillatory movement is rotatory round the antero-posterior axis, and is not to be con- fused with the oscillatory movement from side to side by the lateral recti, which is not uncommon, and has received a different name. In his practical treatise on diseases of the eye, Dr Mac- kenzie observes, "in oscillation the eyeball is affected with an almost perpetual rotatory motion round its antero-posterior axis. The patient is not conscious of this motion, from any particular feeling he has in the eyes, nor can he restrain it. It goes on even when the lids are closed, but it ceases during sleep. The motion varies in extent, from a scarcely perceptible degree, to perhaps nearly a quadrant. In some cases the motion seems to be rather from side to side, but often so small in degree and so rapid, that it is difficult to say what is exactly its direction. In general, it is pretty distinctly rotatory, and seems to be produced by the antagonising action of the obliqui, the recti having lost, in a great measm'e, their control over the eye." Before proceeding to inquire into the relation between the nerves and muscles, let us now understand clearly the actions of the different muscles of the eye in its various motions. Here we first separate the straight muscles from the oblique. The former perform all those movements by which we look in various direc- tions, and in which the direction of the axis is changed. The four direct movements are performed each by the corresponding rectus acting alone. The four diagonal movements are effected each by the conjoint action of the two neighbouring recti. The oblique muscles are not necessarily in action during the perform- ance of any of the above movements, nor are they concerned in their accomplishment. They turn the eye round on its axis. The superior turns the top of the eye round towards the inner canthus; the inferior rolls it back by an opposite movement, by