194 THE ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE ARM. noted. Of these eiglit, at ages between 3 and 70, three were males and five females. In seven, it was present on both sides, of equal size in five of these seven, and in two of them broader on the left than on the right side. In one it existed on the right side only, and a few scattered fibres were prolonged from the pectoralis major to join it. These fibres were present on the left side also, but not the slip. This abnormal muscular band usually arises from the upper edge of the latissimus dorsi, about the middle of the posterior fold of the axilla. It is usually, I find, not a direct prolongation from the fibres of the latissimus, but, while the higher fibres may be so, the greater part or whole arises by a tendinous intersection between it and the fleshy fibres of the latissimus, or by a short intervening tendon, which in one instance was an inch in length. The muscular band varied from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in breadth, in one case it was as thick as the pectoralis minor where this muscle crosses the axillary vessels; and its length varied from three to four inches. It disappears under the ten- don of the pectoi'alis major, and in four of the cases where it was afterwards traced, it formed a tendinous expansion, and became blended with the tendon of the pectoralis major.^ The point of greatest interest in connexion with this variety is the position of the muscle in relation to the axillary artexy, as ^ This corresponds to the normal arrangement in some animals. It is well seen in the cat. As the latissimus dorsi approaches the axillary vessels it divides, the an- terior part, being about a fourth of the entire muscle, passes across or in front of the axillary vessels and nerves, and ends in an expanded tendon, which above joins with the deep part of the pectoral muscle, and below expands as an aponeurosis binding down the flexor radii muscle, which corresponds to tlie biceps of man. The great part of the latissimus crosses behind the vessels and nerves, with the teres major, and ratlier higher up than the anterior portion. Both are fleshy where the vessels and nerves lie between them. The whole mouth of the axilla is closed over by a thin muscular layer, continued upwards to the edge of the pectoral muscle from the edge of the anterior part of the latissimus, and also partly from behind from the pannieulus muscle. The fleshy fibres forming tlie anterior part of the latissimus are continued onwards without any inter- vening tendinous intersection. In the cat this anterior part of the muscle as it crosses over the vessels and nerves is } inch broad. In the lion, it forms a tendon broader than the conjoined tendon of man, though not so thick, the lower edge con- tinued into the aponeurotic expansion over the brachial region, the upper edge rounded and free; and the tendon, having crossed over the vessels and nerves, runs in underneath the pectoral muscle to be inserted into the same ridge on the humerus, having formed at the sums time a large expansion over the flexor radii muscle, which it thus binds down.