32 ON THE NEliVES OF THE ORBIT. and disappear beneath the great crus cerebelli, so as to enter deeply the back part of the pons. In this preparation the largest root of the fourth nerve comes out of the commissure. Now, in neither of these do the fibres of the valve appear to run into the fourth nerves or their commissure, but the latter seems to be de- rived entirely from the upper part of the peduncle. These observations appear sufficient to show that the fourth nerve is in part derived from the opposite side, and this nerve may, therefore, be regarded as composed of a decussated and a non-decussated portion. I have no theory to connect with this commissure, but dwell upon it merely as a point in anatomy which does not seem previously to have attracted much notice, or to have been. understood in the light of a distinct decussa- tion ; and this, it may be observed, still leaves open the question as to the real origin or source of the fibres of the fourth pair of nerves. The THIED nerve appears at the inner and back part of the crus cerebri, at about a quarter of an inch in front of the deeper part of the pons. Very various accoixnts are given of its deeper connections. Longet^ describes the fibres as diverging in the crus, to enter the locus niger, and be continuous with its lower fibres continued on fr'om the antero-lateral column of the cord. He disputes the view of Zinn, that some of fibres may be traced to the anterior commissure, and also the older view of Varolius, Vicq-d'Azyr, and Vieussens, that the third pair of nerves become united together, a supposed union to which they attributed the simultaneous action of corresponding branches of this nerve. Cruveilhier^ traces the fibres through the inner part of the crus, diverging as far as to the pons, not farther; but he has not found any of it to come from the locus niger of the eras. Valentin^ give a very minute account of the origin of this nerve. He traces the fibres deeply, radiating to the nates, the superior pe- duncles of the cerebellum a little below the valve of Vieussens, the deep and superficial longitudinal fibres of the pons, the cms cerebri, and especially the locus niger of the latter. In one . Op. cit. Tonne ii. p. 378. ' Op. cit. P. 1098. » Op. cit. P. 257.