CONSIDERED IN A REVIEW. 185 Of the chambers of the aqueous humour we read—" the two chambers are Kneel by a thin layer, the secreting membrane of the aqueous humour," p. 378. How long will this error be continued in descriptions of the eye? No one ever saw or traced such a membrane, and we submit that, in a question of anatomy such as this, what has never been seen, either with the naked eye or microscope, does not exist, or must be held not to exist. The membrane of Descemet or Demom's, so well described by Dr Jacob as the elastic cornea, is not, as some suppose, what is meant by the membrane of the aqueous humoxir, as it is a layer of the cornea, not reaching farther than into the ciliai'y ligament and origin of the iris. The single, layer of cells on the surface of the cornea, in contact with the aqueous humour, extends no farther; if it did, the cells would be seen elsewhere as well as on the cornea, but there are no cells on the front of the iris, or on the capsule of the lens, nor on the back of the iris distinct from those hold- ing the pigment of the uvea. The foundation for the view that thei*e is a lining membrane to these chambei's, is the supposition or idea that there must be one to secrete and contain the fluid, a serous membrane being, on the ground of analog}', supposed to be required. Analogy, we may remark, is at best not a proof or ground for inference, but merely suggestive of research to deter- mine the fact. But we may ask, in what does the supposed analogy consist? Are there any serous membranes in the body, with the cavities distended with or containing a fluid? The lialitus or steam of the older anatomists is now met with in a condensed condition only, as a moisture on the opposing sur- faces of the serous membranes, and more tlian this would render them less fitted for their purpose. The only serous cavity natu- rally holding any serous fluid, and that but in small quantity in health, is the ventricular space, divided into the several com- municating ventricles of the brain. On the other hand, there is only one instance of a considerable collection of serous fluid naturally existing in health, namely that around the spinal mar- row and certain parts at the base of the brain, and there it exists, not in a serous cavity, although there is one near enough to it'