THE SDPRA-CONDYLOID PROCESS. 213; at this part. This development into a process, however, but rarely occurs, and the rudimentary ridge is employed for the specific purpose of giving origin to tendinous fibres for the bra^" chialis anticus. We have seen that, in every case in which a process existed, the median nerve, when its position was noted, de- viated and passed round it, but we have other cases still to record in which the nerve and artery deviated but in which there was no process beyond the existence of the short rough ridge. The correct view to take perhaps is this—that the median nerve, ac- companied or not by the artery, occasionally deviates, and that, when it does so, we occasionally or usually find a protective arch thrown over it, formed by a supra-condyloid process above and a ligament below, being an arrangement analogous to that which occvu-s in the most highly formed condition of this part of the mammalian humerus. Comparative Anatomy.—Although there is no doubt that the foramen in the humerus affords protection to the parts which it transmits, it is not understood precisely in what manner it does so in the animals in which it exists, nor why they, more than some others, require such an arrangement for the protection of the vessel and nerve. The arrangement is found among the Quadrumana, Rodentia, Edentata, Marsupialia, and more frequently among the Carnivora. The cat presents the most familiar example, and the following description is taken from my dissections of the part in that animal. Bone.—The humerus is three inches and a quarter in length, and the situation of the upper end of the arch which completes the foramen, is half an inch above the internal condyle. The supra-condyloid process in man occupies the same proportional situation, being two inches above the condyle, whilst the hu- merus is on an average twelve inches in length; that is to say, the distance of the foramen in the cat, and the process in man, from the lower end, or internal condyle of the humerus, is about one- sixth of the length of that bone. The supra-condyloid foramen is a short oblique passage, directed downwards and forwards. The space is oval, measuring one-fifth of an inch in depth and one-twelfth