ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. into the mesentery. It is at first somewhat dilated, being here the size of the httle finger, half an inch in diameter, and then tapers to a small rounded apex, from which a ligament passed. From the upper and fore part, near the apex, of the parent diver- ticulum, there projects a small pouch, like a tubercle or split pea, which has mucla tlie appearance of a hernia of part of the coats. It begins gradually at one side, and two-thirds round its base there is a slight constriction. The parent diverticulum is evidently continuous with the struc- ture of the intestine, both longitudinal and circular fibres being plainly continued from the one to the other. The circular fibres form a uniform layer, and at the base run obliquely across the bowel as its circular fibres, whilst the longitudinal fibres of the bowel turn and run up longitudinally, especially on one sur- face. The walls of the diverticulum and of the intestine have the same thickness. The secondary diverticulum is thicker and less transparent, but the circular fibres are obscurely visible. The little secondary hernia-like pouch is more transparent, and no fibres can be distinguished on its walls, as if it had passed through the muscular coat. In the di'ied preparation the apex of the secondary diverticulum is smooth and rounded, as if no ligament had been attached to it; this, along with the mesentery, having been removed before drying the preparatioii. The intestine is wholly destitute of valvulte conniventes. The diverticulum was situated on the bowel a distance of eighteen inches from the caecum. In the illustration, fig. 19, to show the position and form of the secondary diverticulum, I have drawn it as if passing from the side; naturally it passes backwards, and is not seen in a front view. 20. Dried preparation. Diverticulum, three inclies in length and very wide, with secondary diverticulum an inch in length. Origin gradual, from concavity of intestine, close to mesentery. Diverticulum, at its base or origin, measures two inches in breadth, and 1-^ in thickness, being considerably larger than the largest side of the intestine. This on one side is twice as large as on the other. Diverticulum forms a wide blunt cone, the ex- tremity smooth and rounded, but from its posterior aspect, near