102 DISSECTION or THE ORBITS IN A CASE OF communication with the sympathetic. Tlie connection in tlie present case between the sixth and third nei-ves, further explains the apparent anomaly of the third nerve supplying, close behind and at the ciliary ganglion, a twig to the external rectus; and that this apparent union between the third and sixth nerves did not affect the relative distributive influence of either, is evident from the fact that the parts supplied by the third nerve, not ex- cepting the pupil, were entirely paralysed, whilst the external rectus continued to act. Had the motions of the pupil continued in this case, the erroneous inference might have been drawn, that the iris received its innervation from the sixth nerve, instead of simply concluding that the part of the third nerve which goes to the iris had not been involved in the disease, or that the nerve could still act reflexly in obedience to the stimulus of light, after there was no longer any power to use it under the influence of the will. It has been suggested that the existence of the ciliary ganglion might explain the occasional continuance of the motions of the iris in palsy of the tliird nerve; ^ but were this the reason, the motions of the pupil should always or generally continue, instead of rarely so. We have no evidence to show that the ciliary gan- glion is a centre for reflex motion on the iris, or that it in any way governs the motions by which the pupil is either contracted or dilated, although we know that, in some animals at least, the sympathetic in the neck appears to have such an influence. We are, indeed, as yet quite ignorant of the uses of the ciliary gan- glion, knowing only, as facts, that it is present in all animals which possess a movable pupil, and that we have not the same volun- tary power over tlie iris as over the other parts supplied by the tliird pair of nerves; from which, however, it does not necessarily follow, as has been supposed, that the use of the ganglion is to intercept the transmission of voluntary influence. As to the apparent varieties which anatomists have from time to time observed among the nerves of the orbit, it may be re- marked tliat no such observation is of any physiological value 1 Dr Brinton, Cycloped. Auat. and Phys., vol. iv. p. 622.