DISSECTION OF THE ORBrtS IN A CASE OF 96 moved readily. The vision of the eye was good, and apparently unaffected by the attack, and its common sensibility was un- impaired. The falling of the eyelid was noticed a fortnight before, one morning, after he had been sitting in the open air the previous evening, in his usual health. The diagnosis was evident. The unaltered vision and unim- paired common sensibility of the eye and forehead, showed that the optic nerve and the fifth pair were unaffected. The power to move the eye outwards, and the somewhat everted position, showed that tbe sixth or abducens nerve was not involved. The loss of power was in the parts supplied by the third or common motor oculi nerve,—the levator muscle of the lid, the superior, inferior, and internal recti muscles, and the fibres of the iris by which contraction of the pupil is effected. We have no very decided indication of the result of paralysis of the inferior oblique, the remaining muscle supplied by the third nerve. The rotatory motion already referred to may, however, be looked upon in this light. According to the view, which I have brought evidence to establish, in my papers on the muscles and nerves of tlie eye, that the use of the oblique muscles is to turn the eye more or less directly on its antero-posterior axis, we can explain this rotatory motion on the supposition that it is occasioned by the action of the superior oblique, unopposed by the action of the inferior oblique, which must be paralysed along witli the other muscles supplied by the third pair. The treatment in this case consisted in the application of blisters to the nape, and a mild mercurial course, with the use of occasional laxatives, under which a gradual improvement of the symptoms connected with the paralysis took place. Towards the end of October (two months after the commencement of the attack) the eyelid could be raised about a third, and there wrs evident power of inversion and depression, but the pupil still remained dilated and fixed. Soon after this the iris also began to regain its power of con- tracting the pupil. By the middle of November the pupils were equal, and equally contractile, the left having returned to the