24 ON DOUBLE STOMACH. disappears soon after death or on distension. In a few of the cases, however, the constriction has evidently been permanent, though the want of precision in the descriptions leaves it doubt- ful whether the constriction was moderate or deep. In Sir E. Home's case the constriction was deep, but was regarded by him as morbid. In Dr Palmer's case, the communicating passage •was very narrow, but there seems to have been thickening of the coats, and ulceration of the lining membrane at this part. It may therefore be concluded that there have been very few if indeed any instances placed on record in which the stomach was so deeply and permanently divided, independent of disease, as in the two cases I have had the opportunity of recording. An analogy may be drawn between this condition of the human stomach, and that more especially of some rodent ani- mals ; but only in so far that there are two cavities separated by a constriction, varying in position and extent in different genera; in other respects, as regards form, position of orifices, and struc- ture of the lining membrane, there is no correspondence. In re- gard to the latter point, I speak only from the appearances pre- sented to the naked eye, the specimen in the case first related having been too old for miscroscopic examination; but the lining membrane of both cavities presents the same appearance, and the thickness of the walls was the same in both and at the constric- tion. M. Cruveilhier would regard a difference in structure as essential to constitute the case one of " double stomach." But,—. whilst in animals in which the stomach consists of more than one cavity, there is a difference in structure in accordance with their habits and the stages of their digestive process,—I should rather expect, in the case of a division of the human stomach into two parts, not to find any difference in their lining membrane, greater at least than that which normally obtains in the microscopic struc- ture of the cardiac and pyloric portions. Independent of the condition of true or permanent constric- tion, the preceding notice of the history of this subject brings out prominently the circumstance of the occasional or frequent existence of a temporary constriction, which is worthy of notice in connection with the physiology of the stomach.