225 VARIETIES or THE ARTERIES. from the inner margin of the biceps, the deeper trunk in one of the cases being external to it, in the other internal, having the position of the condyloid deviation. In both, the high ulnar passed over the muscles of the forearm, although not superficial to the aponeui'osis. In the more numerous and common cases of high radial, I have observed, that the more superficial of the two, or high radial, coui'ses down along the inner edge of the biceps, covered by the aponeurosis and, it may be, slightly overlapped by the edge of the biceps, whilst the other trunk occupies a position internal to it and deeper, to a varying extent. The median nei-ve is at first still crossing obliquely between the two arteries, but, in the lower third, has now gained the inside of the deeper trtmk and descends parallel to its inside, in the situation where the two arteries are most separated from each othier. The deeper trunk is generally, if not always, covered by a second aponeurosis. It is very frequently, if not generally, lodged or suidc in a groove in the brachialis anticus muscle, and from the raised or projecting fibres on the outside of the artery, an aponeurosis is sent inwards over the artery and nerve, binding them down upon the surface of the brachialis muscle, or into a groove in it. Frequently also, the fleshy fibres themselves pass across or partly across, and bind down or overlap the artery and nerve, as already described to be a position not uncommonly occupied by the undivided brachial artery. The deeper trunk is thus so placed, that, to expose it, requires the division of a deeper layer of aponeui'osis, or the division or displacement of some muscular fibres, but a more important point is the frequent removal of the deeper trunk more or less to the inner side, gradually approaching the intermuscular septum, until it constitutes a condyloid deviation of the deeper of the two trunks. In some of the cases the deeper artery lies close to the inside of the high radial, but deeper, in some it was a quarter of an inch to the inside, in some half, and in several three-fourths, of an inch: in either case bound down by the deeper layer of apo- neurosis. In five of the cases, this inward separation went as far as to constitute the condyloid deviation. Two of these five were P