ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 159 knot round a fold of the intestine, causing strangulation of the included portion of the bowel; the process near its extremity is attached to a ligamentous band." On careful examination of the preparation, I made out the anatomy described in No. 22, and the following additional points connected with the strangulation. We have seen that there was f )rmed a large ring; first, by the diverticulum, six inches in length ; secondly, by its strong terminal ligament, two inches in length ; and thirdly, by two inches of the surface of the mesen- tery, besides a part of the side of the bowel; the ring being three inches in diameter, and sufficient to allow the whole hand to pass within it. Through this ring a portion of small intestine, eighteen inches in length, had passed; and, on withdrawing it from the ring, which is easily done, the strangulated portion is still plainly marked off by constrictions. One of these, moderately marked, is immediately above the origin of the diverticulum, where tlie bowel had turned round and passed through the ring close below it; the other is situated eighteen inches higher up the intestine, and is well marked, being, for an inch in length, as narrow as the little finger, whilst at the lower constriction the bowel is con- tracted for a third only of its diameter, for the distance of an incli and a half. Eighteen inches then of bowel, -with its mesentery, which is thick and loaded with fat, had passed through the ring; but this as yet had not caused strangulation, as, after distending the bowel on both sides, there is ample room for it, in the three-inch diameter ring, to move freely in and out, without obstruction or bending round the edge of the ring. The loose end of the di- verticulum itself has turned round and passed through between the two pieces of intestine, and has thus tightened itself round one side of the bowel. Through the fatal ring is seen to have passed, as shown in the diagram, fig. 22 B—first, the two sides of the knuckle of intestine, with the accompanying mesen- tery included between them; and, secondly, between these and in front of their mesentery, the pendulous body, the last inch of the diverticulum, and the contiguous portion of the terminal ligament. But for the end of the diverticulum also passing through the