THE SUPRA-CONDTLOID PROCESS. 211 is bounded posteriorly by the internal border or condyloid ridge, and in front by a special ridge, which marks off the posterior half or third of the internal surface as the groove. It reaches for about an inch down from the situation which a supra-condy- loid process would occupy, and from one to two inches upwards from it, to near the usual situation of the principal nutritious foramen. Taken along with the existence of a supra-condyloid process, this groove is naturally supposed to correspond to the position of the deviating nerve or artery; but in two of my specimens with this process, the groove is not so distinct as in the opposite bone, where there is no process and was no deviation of the nerve or artery, and in case No. 3, the process existing on both sides with deviation of both nerve and artery, the groove cannot be said to exist. Besides, the occurrence of the deviation of the nerve and artery, or of a supra-condyloid process proper, is comparatively rare—whilst I have said this groove exists in the majority of arm bones; and farther, since the artery or nerve do not properly occupy or lie in it, but only in front of it, even when the deviation exists, we must conclude, that the groove is not there for the pur- pose of lodging a vessel or a nerve. Being much puzzled to explain the meaning of this groove I have lately carefully ex- amined in a great many arms the exact relation of the soft parts to the humerus at this part, and the following will be found to be almost invariably the exact arrangement. The true intermuscular septum gives attachment by its pos- terior surface to fleshy fibres of the inner head of the triceps. On dissecting these fibres off down to the bone, the septum is felt to be attached to a sharp ridge, and a little distance behind this ridge a prominent but somewhat rounded edge of bone is felt, as if it was the internal border of the humerus. It appears as if the septum were not attached to the border, but to a ridge ^ or ^ (or at least the muscular atid less mnscular) is usually more striking than the humerus. In articulatinjj four pairs of these humeri to each other, I noticed the curious fact, in three of tliem, that the right is longer than the left. In one pair, male, the difference is a quarter of an inch ; in the other two, female, it is as much as half an inch. It would be interesting to ascertain whether the right humerus is generally thus longer than the left.