ON RUDIMENTARY RIBS. 124 a case in which there were only eleven ribs, these eleven, however, appearing larger than usual. Of high supernumerary ribs, he says, " it resembles more or less the first, and is united by a cartilage, or only by a hgament, with the upper piece of the sternum. The first rib proper exists, and is attached to the superior piece of the sternum, is longer and narrower than ordinary, owing to which the space between it, the sternum, and the body of the vertebra, is sensibly larger." But he does not refer to any case, nor mention such an occurrence as an imperfect first rib, liable to be mistaken for a cervical rib. These remarks are not, of course, intended to question the occurrence of cervical or lumbar ribs, but merely to suggest caution in admitting any case to be of such a nature, unless after due examination of other parts of the spine and chest. Were the preparations in the two cases I have described now placed before any anatomist, without any history or information, they would, without doubt, be fixed on as instances of supeniumerary cervical and lumbar ribs, although they are merely instances of the first and twelfth ribs in an imperfectly developed condition. My second case also shows how readily a mistake might be committed, in supposing the number of the ribs to be reduced to eleven, as the twelfth rib may be so small that its presence can be ascertained only by dissection of the muscles close to it. These cases, however, illustrate, perhaps not less than the actual occurrence of supernumeraiy ribs, the analogy that obtains be- tween the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, the anterior part of the same processes of the vertebrae in the neck, and the ribs. As the case of supernumerary rib shows the trans- verse process expanded into a rib, these cases show a rib, as it were, shrinking into a transverse process. The now well known fact of the development of the anterior arch of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra in man, from a separate centre, enables us not only to understand the analogy more clearly, but Ukewise readily to account for the occasional exist- ence of a small rib on this vertebra; and the analogy may reasonably be extended to the other cervical vertebra, although the anterior arch or costiform portion of their transverse pro-