THE SUPRA-CONDYLOID PEOCESS. 203 deviating from their usual course; the whole forming an arrange- ment analogous to that which obtains in many animals, in the passage of the nerve and artery through an opening, the supra- condyloid foramen, in the humerus, in the same situation. A few instances of tliis variety had been recorded previous to 1848, wlien I gave a short account' of several which I had met with in the dissecting-room, and I have now met with the variety so frequently, that I am desirous of noticing it more fully, and of calling the attention of anatomists to it, as a variety which, I be- lieve, will be found to occur not unfrequently, to a more or less marked degree, if this part of the arm be carefully examined. The sketches at the commencement of this paper are taken from two of the numerous specimens of this variety now in my collection. In fig. 2, the bone and process are represented one- fourth the natural size. In fig. 1, the lower end of the humerus is shown half the natural size. The supra-condyloid process is broader and stronger in this specimen. The bone is seen a little on its external and inferior aspect, to show the size of the oval space, completed by the ligament, through which the nerve and vessels passed. Fig. 2, is from case No. 4, and fig. 1, from case No. 8, in the following list. List of Cases of Supra-Condyloid Process, ivith Azotes of the Peculiarities of each. 1. Left side. Process ^ of an inch in length. Adult female. Nothing known of right side. 2. Both sides. Process broad and long—nerve and artery passed round it on both sides. Adult female. 3. Both sides. Process of moderate length. Nerve and artery passed round on both sides. Adult male. 4. Both sides. Process f of an inch long on left side, and very short on right. Nerve and artery passed round on left side; on right side, nerve only, accompanied by small muscular arterial twie. 5. On right side only. Process of moderate length, and well- • Edin. Monthly Journal. Oct. 1848. See No. I. of this volume.