71 AND THE rCETAL HEART. and by the foramen ovale, as much as that the two cun-ents should be kept separate, in order that the purer blood may go to the upper half of the body. Whilst eitlier purpose separately would have required this arrangement, both are at the same time ao complished by it. In the foetus, then, the auricles being filled at the same time in this way, they contract; but no mixtui'e can occur at this time, as the valve of the oval hole wUl not allow any blood to pass back from left to right. Previous to the third month this does not hold, as the valve is not developed; but until then it may be said that the two auricles simply form one, the lower cava opening to the left side, the upper to the right. But what I desire to demonstrate is, that when the parts are well formed, as during the two latter thirds of foetal life, there is no exchange of blood between the two auricles from the mere existence of the foramen ovale; that the right auricle does not fill the left through the foramen ovale, nor does any regurgitate through it from left to right; but the left auricle is simply filled from the lower cava, as the right chiefly is fi'om the superior cava. Now, it appears to me that after birth it will be very much the same, when the foramen remains more or less open. Sup- posing that there is no contraction of the pulmonary orifice, which certainly would occasion the employment of the foramen ovale, still it appears to me that there cannot but be some amount of passage of venous blood into the left auricle, and this to a lesser or greater degree according as the valve is developed or not, as the lower cava still pours its stream in the direction of the aperture, through which it must partly pass, and encounter and mix with the blood still entering the auricle from the pul- monary veins. Still, the admixture occurs during the diastole and repose of the auricles, and is not from the cavity of the right auricle, but from the inferior cava; although this can make no difference on the symptoms or to the patient. Even in those common cases where there is a small oblique slit only, I do not see but that there must be some amount of ad- mixture. This occurs, it is well known, as often as in one out of every five or six subjects. There is usually (from the manner