ON DIVERTICULA FROM THE SMALL INTESTINE. 143 breadth, and terminates by a smooth rounded end, without any appearance of Hgament or mesentery. The intestine presents no valvular conniventes. 8. Dried preparation. Diverticuhxm two inches in length, and conical in form. Has a funnel-shaped origin from the whole breadth of the bowel, opposite from the traces of the former mesenteric attachment. Has a slightly obUque direction, and the bowel is largest on the side of the obtuse angle. Extremity smooth and rounded, and no appearance of ligament or mesen- tery. No valvulse conniventes on the intestine. 9. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length, conical and curved. Has a gradual origin from about half the breadth of the bowel. It is directed obliquely, and the bowel is much larger on the side of the obtuse angle than on the other. Termination like point of fore-finger, with a little pea-shaped prolongation towards the concave side. It is connected with the bowel on one side, close to the mesentery, which sends a small mesenteric fold along the concavity of the diverticulum. No valvulas conniventes, but there is a crescentic fold at the acute angle, a httle below the entrance into the diverticulum. 10. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length. Origin funnel-shaped from whole breadth of bowel, and nearer the mesentery on one side than the other. Direction horizontal, and bowel apparently of equal size on the two sides. Form somewhat conical, the last half-inch tapering to a blunt apex, which is smooth and rounded without any appearance of a liga- ment. There is a small mesentery for |ds of its length, prolonged from the mesentery of the bowel, on that side which is nearest the mesentery. No valvnlaa conniventes on intestine. The longitudinal and circular muscular fibres are distinct on the diverticulum, and are seen to be continuous with those on the bowel. 11. Dried preparation. Diverticulum two inches in length, and conical. Origin funnel-shaped, from entire breadth of bowel on side opposite from mesentery, but nearer to it on one side than the other. Direction somewdiat oblique, and bowel con- siderably larger on the side of the obtuse angle. Termination