ON THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES OF THE EYE, 14 removal of convergent strabismus. The power of inversion re- turns, though to a lesser extent, after the muscle or tendon has re-adhei'ed to the sclerotica. The view most commonly entertained is, that each of the oblique muscles performs, or assists in performing, one or more of the diagonal movements of the eye, whereby the direction of its axis is changed. Acting singly, the superior has been variously held to turn the cornea downwards and inwards, and, again, downwards and outwards; and the inferior up- wards and outwards, and, again, upwards and inwards. The names of the most eminent of anatomists and physiologists are attached to these opposite views, although the more strongly supported view is, that each performs the latter of the two movements above assigned to it. Assuming the latter view to be correct,—namely, that by the superior the cornea is directed downwards and outwards, and upwards and inwards by the in- ferior,—Valentin has founded on it an ingenious theory, chiefly intended to give an explanation of the singular arrangement of the motor nerves of the orbit. But, irrespective of a variety of objections of another nature, which might be taken to this theory, it is enough to remark here, that it essentially rests on the ground that the oblique muscles are capable of performing the movements above attributed to them. This, indeed, they might possibly be believed to do in man, but it is at once evident, from a consideration of theu' comparative anatomy, that they could not perform these movements in animals; in which, not- withstanding, there is the same peculiar arrangement of the motor nerves. Indeed, there is no good reason to believe that any of the muscles of the eye, or their nei*ves, are more in- voluntary than the others, all being alike under that influence which maintains the harmony of the ocular movements; which are alike consensual whether the muscles employed be corre- sponding, or non-corresponding ones, on the opposite sides. The view that the oblique muscles are provided for the pur- pose of turning the eye on its antero-posterior axis, is not a new one. It was advocated, in 1759, by Porterfleld, and seems, from the remarks in his treatise on the eye, to have been the