12 to his patients; and as an Anatomist, he lias few equals in this country. He commenced his career as a Lecturer on Anatomy in the Portland- Street School of Medicine, and on Dr. Hunter’s removal to London, five or six years ago, he was unanimously elected Professor of Anatomy, in Anderson’s University, where he has ever since continued to lecture with the most flattering success. As a Trustee of Anderson’s University, and in frequent com- munication with the students, I can speak with the greatest confidence of his talents, as well as his zeal and perseverance in the discharge of his arduous duties. His style of lecturing is popular, and commands attention; his demonstrations are, at the same time, minute and lucid, and his attendance in the dissecting room is laborious and unwearied. Having relinquished private practice, his whole energies are devoted to the study and practice of Anatomy, and a large proportion of his time is spent in the dissecting room, where he superintends the studies of his pupils, answering their questions with the utmost urbanity, and communicating instruction by every means in his power. He has also established a regular course of examinations in Anatomy, thereby testing the progress of his students, and stimulating them to renewed exertions. His private character is unimpeachable, and his manners are gentlemanly and courteous. I have, therefore, great pleasure in stating that, in my opinion, he is eminently qualified to fill the Chair of Anatomy to which he aspires; and in the event of his appointment to it, my only regret will be, that Glasgow would be deprived of a Professor whose talents and success have done honour to himself, and conferred lasting benefits on the medical profession. GEORGE WATSON. FROM ROBERT HUNTER, ESQ., M.D. Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology, Westminster Hospital; and Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, <£'c. 6 Great Queen-Street, Westminster, London, 6th February, 1846. I have known Dr. Moses Buchanan for many years, and can with confidence state that he is well qualified to superintend the department of Anatomy in any School or University in the kingdom.