21 School of this University for several years, and can truly say that I believe the present prosperous state of the School to be in great part owing to your unremitting and successful efforts in the Anatomical Chair. You have devoted yourself to your work with untiring perseverance, and spared neither time, nor trouble, nor expense, which could conduce to the advancement of the students or facilitate their studies. In con- sequence of this, there has been a very great increase in their number, and a most marked improvement in their attention and habits of study: the Museum and Dissecting Room, once large enough, are this session quite incompetent to accommodate them. Although I cannot help wishing you success in your canvass, I yet feel that your leaving Glasgow would be the severest blow that could be inflicted on the Medical School of Anderson’s University. Believe me, My Dear Sir, Very truly yours, ANDW. ANDERSON, M.D. FROM JAMES PATERSON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Obstetric Medicine, Andcrsonian University, (be. Glasgow, 6th February, 1846. Understanding that the Professorship of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh is vacant by the resignation of Dr. Munro, and that my respected friend and colleague, 1)r. Moses Steven Buchanan, is a Candidate for the important situation, I beg to offer my opinion in reference to his qualifications for discharging the duties of the office. As a demonstrator of Anatomy, I believe he stands unrivalled; and for zeal, industry, and attention to his students, he is second to none in this department of the profession. His unwearied and persevering exertions in the dissecting room have uniformly been the theme of admiration; and his success as a Teacher of General, Comparative, and Surgical Anatomy, is sufficiently evidenced by the fact, that, as an extra-academical Lecturer, he has, I believe, the most numerously attended Class in the united kingdom. I have had the pleasure of being associated with him as a colleague in the Andcrsonian University for the last five years, and during that period, I have had many opportunities of knowing, that, as one of the