17 FROM JOHN MACFARLANE, ESQ., M.D. Late Senior Surgeon to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, &c. Glasgow, 5th February, 1846. I have been intimately acquainted with Hr. M. S. Euciianan for the last twenty-five years; and having been associated with him, at various times, as a Surgical Colleague in some of the chief medical charities of this city, I have very great pleasure in bearing my testimony to his talents and acquirements, and to his untiring energy and zeal in professional pursuits. He has enjoyed ample opportunities, of which he has faithfully availed himself, during his successive appointments in the Royal Infirmary, of establishing his reputation as an excellent practical Surgeon, and an expert and successful operator; and I have, also, reason to know, that his Lectures on Clinical Surgery were highly appreciated by large classes of students. For several years past, while a Lecturer on Anatomy in the Portland- Street School of Medicine, and more especially since lie was appointed to the Professorship of the same branch of Medical Science in the Andersonian University, he has, by his zeal, enthusiasm, and knowledge, attracted yearly increasing classes, and obtained great and deserved popularity. If, therefore, success in piddic lecturing affords any proof of a Candidate’s abilities, knowledge, and power of communicating scientific and practical information in an effective and popular manner, 1 feel assured that Dr. Buchanan’s claims to the Chair of Anatomy which is about to become vacant in the University of Edinburgh, will not be JOHN MACFARLANE, M.D. disregarded. FROM THOMAS THOMSON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Chemistry in the University of Glasgoiv, <l'c. Glasgow, IK/i February, 1846. I nave been acquainted with Dr. Moses Buchanan for many years. He has been for a considerable time Lecturer on Anatomy in the Andersonian Institution here. I believe him to be an excellent and enthusiastic Teacher of Anatomy. He is deservedly a favourite with his students, who are good judges, and his class is much more numerous than that of any other Anatomical Teacher in Glasgow. THOMAS THOMSON, M.D. B