22 Surgeons to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, as a General Practitioner, and above all, as a Lecturer and Demonstrator, he is, in every sense of the term, fully qualified to fill the Chair, after which he has the honour to aspire. I may be allowed to mention, that since his accession to our Institution, the number of students attending the Medical Classes has very materially increased; and at the present day, the Andersonian University will bear to be compared with any unendowed School in Great Britain. Should Dr. Buchanan be successful in his application, I shall certainly regard his removal as a great and serious loss to the Medical School of the Andersonian University; still I am not so selfish as not to wish, for his own sake, that he may be elevated to the rank which he so well deserves; and to a situation which, in my opinion, he is well calculated to fill, with the highest credit to himself, with the greatest benefit to the students, and with much honour to the University of Edinburgh. JAMES PATERSON, M.D. FROM JOHN CRAWFORD, ESQ., M.D., M.R.C.S.L. Professor of Medical Jurisprudence and Police, Anderson's University, Ac. Glasgow, 12th February, 184G. I have had the pleasure of being acquainted with Dr. M. S. Buchanan during the whole of his career as a public Teacher of Anatomy; first, as his pupil, and subsequently, as his colleague in Anderson's University. I have, consequently, had ample opportunities of admiring his talents and witnessing his success as a Teacher. The latter has been worthy of the former; and the steady increase, year after year, in the number of students attending his lectures—until his classes have become, I believe, the most numerous which the study of Anatomy brings together in Scotland, if not in the United Kingdom— is a stronger and more honourable testimony to his merits, than any that can be borne by private friendship. I may, however, be permitted to say, as I can do most sincerely, and as the result of a pretty extensive personal experience and observation of Schools of Anatomy, both in this country and on the continent, that I have never met an individual so well qualified to conduct the business of a large Anatomical Class, as Dr. Buchanan. I do not allude