19 FROM WILLIAM DAVIDSON, ESQ., M.D. Late Lecturer on Materia Mcdica in the Portland-Street Medical School, Author of the Treatise on Fever which obtained the ThacJcrah Prize, Sj'c. Largs, Oth February, 181G. I HAVE much pleasure in stating that I have been long and intimately acquainted with Dr. M. Buchanan, and that he was a colleague of mine in the Medical School, Portland-Street, Glasgow. Along vuth his other eminent acquirements in the profession, he has long cultivated Anatomy with rare perseverance and assiduity, and has justly attained the highest distinction in that department of science. For several years I had the most perfect opportunities of judging of his method and success as a Teacher. With a most accurate and thorough knowledge of all the modern divisions of human Anatomy, he combines great fluency and clearness of language, a most assiduous interest in the instruction of his pupils, and much discrimination and judgment in conducting his demonstrations, which are illustrated by numerous and valuable preparations. His success as a Teacher, under the circumstances, has been greater than that of any other person with whom l am acquainted; and I have much confidence in stating it as my opinion, that if appointed to the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, his distinguished talents as a Teacher of this branch of science arc highly calculated to support the celebrity of that ancient Institution. WILLIAM DAVIDSON, M.D. FROM J. A. EASTON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Materia Mcdica in Anderson’s University, it'c. George-Street, Glasgow, 11 th February, 184G. Though the removal of Dr. M. S. Buchanan from Anderson’s University would prove a serious drawback to the usefulness of that Institution as a School of Medicine, yet a sense of what is due to the interests of science, a sense of what is due to the well-earned reputation of a famous University, and to the qualifications of a meritorious individual, compel me to offer an opinion which selfishness would willingly avoid, and even friendship almost suppress.