23 only to his thorough and intimate knowledge of his subject, and to his powers of clear and perspicuous demonstration and exposition, although with these essentials to a Teacher of Anatomy he is eminently gifted; I refer especially to his unwearied zeal, unceasing perseverance, and ardent enthusiasm in the communication of knowledge. He never tires of teaching; he superintends with as much enthusiasm the first dissection of the beginner as the most intricate investigations of the advanced student, and labours with as much zest and alacrity to impress the first details of the science on the novice, as lie displays in the exposition of its higher and more interesting departments. It is, in my opinion, to this untiring and unvarying zeal as a Teacher, leading him to adapt himself so admirably to all the capacities and all the circumstances of the taught, and enabling him to communicate to them a portion of his enthusiasm, that Dr. Buchanan’s signal success is to be mainly ascribed. Should he be appointed to the vacant Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, I feel convinced that the usefulness of that venerable seat of learning, so far as Anatomical teaching is concerned, will be materially extended. JOHN CRAWFORD, M.D. FROM ANDREW BUCHANAN, ESQ., M.D. Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the University of Glasgow, and Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, d’c. Glasgow, 13 Moore Trace, 12th February, 1046*. Dr. M. S. Buchanan has lectured on Anatomy in Glasgow for the last ten years with distinguished success. He is thoroughly acquainted with the structure of the human body, and the applications of Anatomy to the purposes of Practical Surgery. I have been assured by many of his pupils, that he is an excellent Teacher—clear in his demonstrations, ingenious in devising means of illustration, and most liberal in providing them, lie possesses, besides, the important art ot infusing into his pupils the zeal with which he is himself animated tor the study of Anatomical Science. ANDREW BUCHANAN, M.D.