14 about six years ago, when he was unanimously elected, and since which, he has filled the situation of Anatomical Professor to the perfect satisfaction of the Trustees, and with much acceptance to the students. I have no hesitation in giving my opinion, that Du. Buchanan will be an important acquisition to any School of Medicine of which he may become a member; and he carries with him my best wishes for his success in regard to the present object of his honourable ambition. JAMES WATSON, M.D. FROM WILLIAM WEIR, ESQ., M.D. Physician to the Royal Infirmary, late Lecturer on Practice of Medicine, Portland- Street Medical School, &c. Buchanan-Street, Glasgow, 6th February, 1846. I have had the pleasure of being acquainted with Dr. Moses Steven Buchanan for a great many years, during the whole of which our intercourse and friendship have been uninterrupted. We have been intimately associated together, as students, as fellow practitioners, as colleagues in the Royal Infirmary, and as lecturers in the same Medical School. I have therefore had the fullest opportunities of knowing and judging of his talents and acquirements, and of his abilities and success as a Medical Practitioner, and a Lecturer on Anatomy. In the latter capacity, I consider Dr. Buchanan superior, in many respects, to most teachers. He possesses, in a high degree, the talent of communicating knowledge to others. His manner of lecturing is clear and forcible; his illustrations always plain and to the point; and his style of demonstrating is attractive and interesting. His great desire while lecturing, always appears to be to present the subject in a form the most easily understood, and so to fix the attention of the student as to make him comprehend it thoroughly; and in this, I have had occasion to know, he has been very successful. By these means, joined to his untiring industry, zeal, and persever- ance, and his uniform kindness of manner, Dr. Buchanan has reared a class in Anderson’s University, equal in point of numbers, probably superior, to any private Anatomical Class in the kingdom. This success is sufficient of itself to give him a high status as a Lecturer on