29 Anatomy. Of late I have hacl many opportunities of observing the practical and philosophical mode of tuition which he adopts, (and which is peculiar to himself,) and I have no hesitation in stating that it is by far superior to any system I have ever witnessed. His devoted zeal, assiduous attention, and indefatigable perseverance in the Dissecting Rooms among his students, I think can scarcely be equalled by any. The great success which has attended the labours of Dr. Buchanan is itself a strong proof of his talents and attainments as an Anatomist. Ilis Classes at the Andersonian University are most numerously attended. Though by no means wishing to draw comparisons, yet, in justice to Dr. B., I must say, that he is the Teacher of Anatomy in this City, and that if he should leave us, the Medical Schools of Glasgow will experience a sad loss, more particularly the Institution with which he is immediately connected, and to the present success and high position of which, it is notorious lie has so eminently contributed. JOSEPH BELL. FROM ALEXANDER MAXWELL ADAMS, ESQ., M.D. Late Lecturer on Midwifery in the Portland-Street Medical School, <L’c. 50 Rose-Street, G arnet Hill, February Oth, I84G. Having lectured in the Portland-Street School of Medicine when Dr. Moses Buchanan held the Chair of Anatomy there, I was afforded every opportunity of judging of his abilities as a Lecturer—of his attention to the duties of his office—and of the estimation in which lie was held by his students. I have therefore much pleasure in certifying that his power of rendering the driest Anatomical details interesting— of keeping alive the attention of his pupils—and of infusing into them a zeal for Anatomical pursuits was such, as I have seldom seen equalled. I have farther pleasure in certifying that his labours in the Dissecting Room were unremitting, and that his students had the highest appre- ciation of his character, both as a Teacher and as a gentleman. The almost unprecedcntly numerous classes which he has drawn together sufficiently prove the latter fact, without any testimony of mine. ALEXANDER MAXWELL ADAMS, M.D.