10 and Dr. Buchanan soon became a very popular and useful teacher. Since he became Professor of Anatomy in the Andersonian University, his success has still been more marked; and at present, his Class numbers more than any Anatomical Class in the kingdom. Dr. Buchanan possesses great zeal and activity;—in his dissecting rooms there is the most perfect order—both there and in the lecture room strict discipline is maintained by the authority of kindness; and I am sure, from what I know of Dr. Buchanan, that if he is appointed to the Chair of Anatomy, in the University of Edinburgh, for which he is at present a candidate, he will not lessen the reputation of that distinguished School of Medicine. JAMES WILSON, M.D. FROM JOHN COUPEE, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Glasgow, <Sac. University or Glasgow, 11#A February, 1846. I have been very long and intimately acquainted with Dr. M. S. Buchanan. After receiving a very complete medical education in the most eminent British and continental schools, he commenced his professional career in Glasgow in 1817. Besides uniformly sustaining a very high character in private medical practice, he has officiated for some years as Surgeon to the Glasgow Eoyal Infirmary, and in that capacity has successfully delivered several courses of Clinical Lectures. He is the author, likewise, of a number of useful professional papers and detached publications; but he has chiefly distinguished himself in teaching Anatomy, to which he has devoted himself almost exclusively, with indefatigable energy, and eminent success, during the last ten years. Ardent and enthusiastic himself, he possesses the happy talent of inspiring his pupils with feelings similar to his own, and sparing neither time nor labour to place the means of instruction of every kind within theu reach: he has always enjoyed a very high degree of popularity as a Lecturer, and attracted very numerous classes. Pos- sessed of such talents, acquirements, and experience, he lias, as was to be expected, proved an important acquisition to the Medical School with which he is at present connected. JOHN COUPEE, M.D.