20 But having been intimately acquainted with Dr. Buchanan for nearly fifteen years, having been guided by his instructions as a teacher, and benefited by his counsels as a colleague, having observed his zeal and efficiency as an Hospital Surgeon and Clinical Lecturer, hut above all, having witnessed the pre-eminence of his success as a Teacher of Anatomy, I am hound to say, that, in my humble opinion, the Town Council of Edinburgh could not adopt a more effectual plan of elevating still higher the character of their renowned University, as a School of Medicine, than by appointing so eminent a person as Dr. Buchanan to the Chair of Anatomy. The extent of Dr. Buchanan's success as a Teacher, can be estimated by the fact, that during the present session there are one hundred and forty students attending his prelections; a number, considerably greater, I believe, than is to be found in any other Anatomical Class in the kingdom, either endowed or unendowed. And never was distinction more honourably conferred or success more worthily attained. But Dr. Buchanan is something more than merely a popular Teacher of Anatomy, and his claims to the proud distinction which he seeks, rest on other yet equally favourable grounds. In his contributions to the medical literature of the day in the various metropolitan and provincial journals, and particularly in his interesting reports of cases of ligature of the subclavian and external iliac arteries, and still further in his graphic History of the Royal Infirmary of this city, he has evinced a knowledge of, and a taste for literature, that cannot fail to be of the highest value towards the proper superintendence of medical education. On these, and many other grounds, I respectfully recommend Dr. Buchanan as a fitting successor to Dr. Mimro in the University of Edinburgh. J. A. EASTON, M.D. FROM ANDREW ANDERSON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Institutes of Medicine in Anderson's University, Ac. Anderson’s University, 7th February, 184G. Dr. M. S. Buchanan, My Dear Sir,—You ask me for a testimonial of your qualifications to teach Anatomy. I have had the pleasure of being your colleague in the Medical