13 Dr. Buchanan is well known as an experienced, able, and successful Teacher of Anatomy in Glasgow. Indeed, I do not know any Teacher of Anatomy in Great Britain or Ireland, whose success in teaching has been at all equal to his. This astonishing success is attributable, I conceive, to three causes,—First, To his superior abilities;—Second, To his mode of teaching, which is peculiar and excellent;—and. Third, To his enthusiasm, which infuses into all his prelections and demon- strations an ardour calculated in an eminent degree to encourage and excite the youthful mind. The appointment of Dr. Buchanan to the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, would be conducive to the interests of science, and would impart new freshness and life to the Anatomical department of the Edinburgh school. ROBERT HUNTER, M.D. FROM JAMES WATSON, ESQ. M.D. Late President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, and Physician to the Royal Infirmary, d'c. 152 St. Vincent-Street, \lth February, 1B4(>. It gives me much pleasure to state the very high estimation in which 1 hold my friend Dr. M. S. Buchanan, who, I understand, is a Candidate for the Anatomical Chair in the Edinburgh University. 1 have had full opportunity, both in public and private, of forming an opinion of his talents, acquirements, and practical skill as a Physician and Surgeon, during the long period, nearly twenty years, of my personal acquaintanceship with him, and that opinion is highly favour- able. I have not had the same opportunity of judging of him as a Teacher; but his excellent early literary and scientific education, his unwearied industry and enthusiastic energy in investigation, so essential to an Anatomist, his crowded classes in both Institutions in which he has taught, and the several Monographs on matters connected with his profession, which he has from time to time published, entitle me to infer that his teaching must be both interesting and improving. Under the impression that Dr. Buchanan’s accession to the School of Medicine in Anderson’s University would contribute much to its prosperity, 1 did myself the honour of proposing him to the favourable consideration of the Trustees of that Institution, of which I am one,