PREPARATION FOR OPERATIONS 273 be made of unpolished wood, and covered with a blanket and a mackintosh. A large supply of carefully cleaned basins, bowls, porringers, and clean dry towels must be at hand. Having consulted the surgeon as to what antiseptics and lotions will be required, a plenteous supply must be provided. It must always be seen that there is an abundance of hot and cold water ready in the room, and that there are facilities for quickly obtaining more if desired. A small table covered with a clean towel must be provided, on which the surgeon can place a sterilized towel and his instruments, ligatures, &c. Also a safe site must be selected for the boiling of his sterilizer ; the fireplace is usually satisfactory. It now remains for the operating table to be prepared, and this will usually be done by a nurse, but the practitioner will be wise to see that it is done properly. The table should be padded with one or two blankets folded to a sufficient thickness to prevent the patient lying on a hard surface. The whole is then covered with a sheet of mackintosh, which has been washed, aired, and dried; its surface being warmed immediately before the operation by means of hot bottles. A pillow, with a thick clean towel wrapped round it, is placed at the head; and another blanket supplied to cover the patient. A small table covered with a thin towel is required for the anaesthetist, on which he can arrange his bottles, &c., ready to hand. The practitioner must see, but unobtrusively, that brandy, strychnine, sal volatile, and other restoratives are at hand ; also a porringer. The bed is arranged by the nurse, who must see that it is well warmed and aired, that there is a sufficiency but not an excess of bedclothes, and that a mackintosh is placed where necessary. Two or three hot-water bottles should be placed in the bed while the operation is being done, so that it will be warmed by the time that the patient is placed in it. Where it is possible, the surgeon aud assistant should wash their hands first outside the room, such as in a lavatory, so as to remove the ‘outer coats’ and husband the resources of the operating room. C. N n