246 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE consisting of these structures is turned down, in doing this the bursa over the head of the first metatarsal bone will be opened or come into view, and should be dissected out. The head of the metatarsal bone being thus exposed, the enlarged inner surface is removed with a chisel and hammer, all sharp edges rounded off and the toe forcibly abducted; in order to bring it into the correct position, it may be necessary to divide the external lateral ligament, which can be done with a sharp tenotome passed through the joint. All bleeding points are ligatured and the skin edges united accurately by interrupted catgut stitches. The wound is dressed with cyanide gauze and wool, and a well-padded splint applied along the inner margin of the foot, projecting at each end beyond the toes and the heel. The first toe is firmly bandaged to this in a position of adduction, the deformity being slightly overcorrected. The stitches are free in one week or ten days; and after the toes have been gently moved, the splint is reapplied. Two weeks later, the splint is discarded and a firm bandage worn for about six weeks; then passive movements are commenced. As a rule it is about three months before the patient has a perfectly sound foot. The results of this operation are extremely satisfactory: when performing it, however, the surgeon must be especially careful not to infect the wound, as owing to the fact that the metatarso-phalangeal joint is open, the results of septic infec- tion might be very serious. The operation will not succeed unless it is seen that the patient wears proper boots and shoes afterwards (p. 249). It is often beneficial for the patient to wear a ‘ toe post ’ in the boot or shoe. INGROWING TOE-NAIL In this condition, which usually affects the outer side of the great toe, it is best, if any ulceration is present, to do a thorough operation, as if only a small fragment of the nail is cut away the condition generally recurs. The essential