16 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE Drainage for deep wounds. Deep narrow wounds or sinuses often cause considerable trouble in healing, because in a long channel the more superficial layers are very apt to unite before the deep ones. A deep wound should be treated by inserting an india-rubber tube, which must be cleaned, boiled, and reintroduced daily, being gradually shortened; it will be necessary in all probability to use a tube of a smaller bore as the walls of the sinus contract. If the wound is too small to hold an india-rubber tube, a gauze wick must be inserted. If a large piece of gauze is pushed down the sinus it will act as a ‘ plug ’ or ‘ cork ’, preventing the discharges from escaping and doing considerable harm. To be done correctly a very thin, narrow strip of gauze is taken; a probe, which has been boiled previously, is fixed against the end of the strip, care being taken that there is not a lump of gauze at the end. The probe with the gauze running alongside it is gently pushed down to the bottom of the sinus, no plugging or packing being done; the probe is then withdrawn. By this method a thin, narrow strip of gauze runs from the top to the bottom of the wound, not acting as a cork, but allowing fluid to escape beside it. The wound should be replugged daily in this manner and it will gradually heal from the bottom upwards. It must be remembered that a sinus is caused in nearly all instances by the presence of some foreign body at the bottom of a deep, narrow wound, and this must always be removed before the sinus can heal up. Counter openings may be required in large abscesses to provide efficient drainage, and these openings should be made at the most dependent points. A director is inserted through the original opening until it projects beneath the skin at the spot where the counter opening is required. An incision is made through the skin on to the director, and a large india- rubber tube with lateral openings is drawn through with artery forceps, so that its two ends project outside; where they are secured by means of sterilized safety-pins or by stitches.