143 MALE GENITOURINARY discharge present, circumcision must not be done until this has all disappeared. VARICOCELE The operation for varicocele is easy and can be done with safety by any medical man who is reasonably confident of his ability to keep the wound clean. In former times, the veins were removed through a scrotal incision; in the present day, it is done through an inguinal one. The patient is prepared and the part shaved and cleansed, special attention being- paid to the penis, to prevent its touching the wound. An incision, 1-| inches in length, is made from just above the external abdominal ring downwards in the direction of the cord; in the hands of the less experienced this incision should be slightly extended both downwards and upwards; one of the most common mistakes in this operation is that the incision, though long enough, is made too high up on the abdomen, and the cord is not exposed sufficiently. The fat is divided until the aponeurosis of the external oblique is seen in the upper part of the wound; then the external abdominal ring is identified, by sight and not by touch, with the cord and the enlarged veins of the varicocele issuing from it. By means of two pairs of forceps the cord is freed from the surrounding structures, brought out of the wound, and a retractor passed under it. Search is now made for the vas deferens and its vessels, which should be separated from the varicocele with forceps and perhaps a blunt dissector, always leaving a few veins with the vas, for if all are removed some atrophy of the testicle on that side is certain to follow. The mass of veins, which it has been decided to remove, is isolated throughout the length of the wound, the upper and lower ends carefully ligatured and the intervening mass of veins excised. These ligatures should be tied very carefully, and the veins must not be cut off so closely to the ligature that this may slip off, an accident which is very liable to occur. After the veins have been cut always see that there is no haemorrhage