2 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE works little attention has been given to the smaller operations which are voluntarily undertaken by the practitioner. It is intended, by considering these, to place within his reach a practical book; and, in keeping with this character, the authors have avoided discussions on alternative methods, as being apt to leave the reader in doubt; especially when he has not the constant practice necessary for him to become a surgical expert. In the past, the general practitioner did but little operating. The principles which underlie the suc- cessful performance of an operation have now been brought to light so fully, that he is able to undertake, with evei’y hope of success, measures which a few years ago it would have appeared folly to attempt. The chief factor which has brought about this change has been the preaching of the gospel of surgical cleanliness. A surgeon, in his art, differs from an artisan in dealing with living and not dead struc- tures ; and this imposes a great restriction on his work; for whereas the dirtiest artisan may produce the best results, the surgeon must be scrupulously clean, even when performing the most trifling operation, for a small error in aseptic technique may cause results disastrous either to his work or, more rarely, to his patient’s life. It is now recognized that three postulates must be satisfied for the greatest possible measure of success to be obtained from an operation. Firstly, the patient must supply ‘ good ’ tissues to be sutured or manipulated, this is the patient’s factor; secondly, the surgeon must do his work well and by the most appi’oved method, this is the surgeon’s factor ; thirdly, the wound must heal by first intention, this is the aseptic factor and concerns every one who has had anything to do with the operation, but particularly the surgeon. If these three postulates are satisfied, a patient has been placed under the best conditions for speedy recovery, having had conferred on him the greatest benefit he was capable of receiving. He could not attain to more. If the first and third are fulfilled, nature is very kindly in improving the second. So, if a practitioner can