23 GENERAL operations for varicose veins, varicocele, or haemorrhoids. The clots within the veins become septic, from which the whole system may become infected, causing septicaemia or pyaemia; or in the case of haemorrhoids, the sepsis is at first confined to the liver and portal system, pylephlebitis and portal pyaemia. In such operations as the removal of cutaneous and subcutaneous bodies, suppuration is of little importance. It is more serious when it occurs amongst deeper structures, such as after an operation for glands of neck, and is practically fatal if it affects large serous membranes, such as the peritoneum. But apart from its danger it can create local damage by causing the sutures to give way, as after the operation for hare-lip, cleft palate, tendon-suturing, hernia, &c. Thus, after operations for the destruction of a part, such as the removal of varicose veins or tuberculous glands, ive are mainly concerned with the danger of suppuration ; after operations for the construction of a part, such as the suturing of the inguinal canal in the radical cure of hernia, we are more interested in the damage which it can do than the actual danger it may cause. SOME USES OF SKIAGRAPHY During the last few years the use of the X-rays has been introduced into surgery. But in spite of the fact that all medical men are familiar with them, yet there is a widely conceived fundamental misconception concerning them. A skiagraph is not a photograph. It is merely the record of the shadows cast by the structures, partly or perfectly imperme- able to the rays, which are prevented in this way from reaching the sensitized plate. Now a walking-stick casts shadows of different sizes and shapes according to the position in space in which it is held. Similarly, a bone will cast all varieties of shadows according to the methods employed in taking the skiagraph. As a further example may be cited the childish game of making with the hands shadows on a screen, resembling animals, such as rabbits and ducks. Yet