THE HEAD 49 are. On the forehead a vertical incision can be made in the middle line, and horizontal ones along the lines of the shaved eyebrows; care must be taken not to divide the supraorbital nerve. By the side of the nose incisions are made parallel to the infraorbital fold. On the cheek they are made hori- zontally, parallel with the fibres of the facial nerve. In the upper lip they should be horizontal; in the lower lip, vertical in the middle line, and obliquely downwards from the angle of the mouth, avoiding the facial artery. In cases of severe cellulitis of the face and neck (Ludwig’s angina), many and large incisions are necessary, and it is far better to make too many and too free incisions rather than too few. In some instances, not common on the head and face, it is best, after the primary incision, to open up the wound by means of artery forceps, as less damage is then done. As a rule no drainage is required, but if necessary a small gauze wick, at one end of the wound, will prevent its closing too soon. Small abscesses can be opened under local anaesthesia by freezing, though considerable pain is felt; it is more satisfactory, if the abscess is at all large, to administer gas. In cases of Ludwig’s angina a general anaesthetic should always be given. FIBROMATA There are two varieties of fibromata: the hard and the soft. Hard fibromata, occasionally found on the face, scalp, &c., consist of dense, exceedingly vascular, fibrous tissue; some- times they are encapsulated. Wherever possible they should be excised: il a capsule is present, the tumour can be shelled out through a straight incision; if there is no capsule, it must be dissected out, care being taken not to cut into the substance of the tumour lest troublesome bleeding follow. The whole of the fibroma must be removed, otherwise recurrence is almost certain to take place. Fibromata can be excised under local anaesthetics, but general ones are preferable, as there is sometimes considerable trouble in removino1 the to c. H