15 7 FEMALE GENITOURINARY canite, metal, india-rubber covering a watch-spring, and celluloid, and it is impossible to say which is the most satis- factory to use ; the india-rubber would be the best but they are apt to set up a foul discharge; vulcanite is the most frequently used. Before inserting a pessary, it is necessary to place the uterus in its normal position: this can usually be managed by bimanual manipulation; but if not, it can be done by the sound. The patient being in the left lateral position, the sound when in position will have its concavity directed backwards; the handle is then rotated through the arc of a circle, so that the concavity looks forwards, and is then gently depressed towards the perineum. As the handle moves backwards, so the uterus moves forwards, from a retro- verted to an anteverted position ; no force must be used or considerable damage may be done. If any discharge is present, the vagina is douched ; the external parts are cleansed, and the pessary, having either been boiled or placed in an antiseptic solution, according to the material of which it is made, is lubricated. The perineum is retracted with a finger of the left hand, the labia are held apart, and the broad end of the pessary is slipped into the vulval opening. In doing this remember that the largest diameter of the vulval opening is antero-posterior, that of the vagina transverse; so that, directly the pessary enters the vagina, rotate it through a right angle. The finger is pressed against the upper end and the instrument pushed up into the posterior fornix. It is so placed that the superior concavity is directed forwards and upwards, the inferior concavity backwards and down- wards, the cervix projecting through the instrument. When a pessary is worn there are several points to note:— 1. The instrument must fit well: not so tightly that ulceration of the vaginal walls occurs; not so loosely that it will fall out. It should be comfortable, and fit so accurately that the patient is unaware of its presence. 2, When wearing a pessary the vagina must be douched daily with an antiseptic solution.