37 ANAESTHETICS 2. Blueness oC the patient throughout the operation is a sio-n of either bad administration or of a subject unfit for ether. Blueness is due to insufficiency of air, so the mask must be removed from the face to allow the patient to obtain a little. If the patient cannot be kept under without becoming cyanosed, change to chloroform at once, or a little oxygen can be administered at the same time as the ether. 3. A widely dilated pupil may mean one of two things: either that the patient is coming round, when the pupil in all probability will react to light; or that an overdose has been given, when the pupil will not react to light. When in doubt, treat the condition as if it were due to an ovex’dose. 4. Always listen to the respirations and note any change; rapid and shallow breathing usually indicates an overdose, in which case remove the inhaler and allow the patient to breathe pure air until the respirations return to the normal. If the breathing becomes slow and quiet, and the pupil is con- tracted, reacting to light, it means that the patient is coming- round and the dose should be increased; if this causes coughing, switch the pointer back to \ and then slowly work up to about 3-| in a manner exactly similar to that employed at the commencement. 5. The pulse should be felt if there is the slightest suspicion that the patient is suffering from shock, and this will be indicated by a weak, thready, irregular pulse. It should be remembered that just before a patient’s coming to from an anaesthetic and when he is about to vomit, the pulse generally becomes very small in volume. 6. During the operation, if the patient tends to come to and the anaesthetic is being pushed, see that the inhaler contains ether ; the original two ounces last on an average about ten to twenty minutes, but this time is very variable. /.If at any time the breathing becomes noisy, it can usually be rectified by slightly changing the position of the head, or by pushing forward the base of the tongue, either by pressing forward on the angles of the inferior maxilla