26 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE frequently in the cervical spine, subcoracoid and subglenoid dislocations of shoulder and rotatory dislocations of the astragalus. In these cases, the X-rays will help; but in the usual run of dislocations they will not be required. When used, an expert should take and interpret the skiagraph. When the dislocation is accompanied by a fracture, a skia- graph foiuns the most delicate and exact means we possess of estimating the amount of the damage. In fact, a skia- graph should be taken in almost every case of fracture, and often when there is merely a suspicion of a fracture. There can be no surgeon who has not met cases in which he has been surprised to find a fracture indicated on the skia- graph. From the patient’s point of view, skiagraphs are more useful in making the diagnosis than for indicating the method of treatment to be adopted. At any rate, it is very unwise to neglect an opportunity of using the X-rays if they are available. It will do the practitioner no harm to use them in diagnosis. In fact the discovery of the exact nature of the injury or injuries will redound to his credit. But it is in diagnosis that they are most useful, not in treatment. As regards the results of treatment it is by no means clear that the use of the X-rays is a blessing to the public. By their aid the medical pro- fession have learned that in a very large majority of cases, say ninety per cent., the bones remain deformed in conse- quence of the fractures. This subsequent deformity is more the result of the situation of the fracture and the action of the patient’s muscles on it, than of the treatment employed. We know now that with the imperfect means at our dis- posal it is but very rarely that we can restore a fractured bone to its original form. But the public have yet to learn it. This has a very important result in skiagraphy. By means of varying its position, a straight stick can be made to take various forms as judged by its shadow. The forms taken by the shadow of a bent stick are much more various. In fact, the bend or deformity may be exaggerated and appear