140 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE is passed, the end of which is connected by a glass junction to a long india-rubber tube with a funnel. The tube and funnel should be filled with the water or lotion before being joined to the catheter and the tubing ‘pinched’; otherwise air will be introduced into the bladder. Various substances are employed for washing out: sterilized water, normal saline solution, boracic acid (20 grains to the ounce), a neutral solu- tion of quinine (2 grains to the ounce), &c., and the fluid should be at about the body temperature. The funnel is filled with the solution and lifted up above the level of the bladder, but never more than 1 or 2 feet, when the solution will flow into the bladder. On lowering the funnel a mixture of urine and lotion runs back into it, and is poured away; this manoeuvre should be repeated until the returning fluid is clear. The amount which should be run into the bladder at one time depends on the patient’s sensations; as soon as discomfort is felt, causing straining, sufficient has been introduced. A patient can be taught to wash out his own bladder. A FOREIGN BODY IN THE URETHRA Foreign bodies impacted in the male urethra either come from the bladder, such as calculi, or have been introduced from outside, either from some perverted sexual idea or for the relief of a real or imaginary stricture. The treatment will depend upon whether the body is lodged in the penile or in the deep urethra. When in the penile portion, the lips of the meatus should be compressed, and attempts made by the patient to micturate; if the body is smooth and rounded it will be driven forwards towards the meatus, and can then be extracted with sinus or urethral forceps. Calculi are frequently lodged in the fossa navicularis, especially in children; the meatal opening can be enlarged when necessary by a simple incision and the body removed. If it is firmly impacted, and the above methods fail, an incision should be made, the urethra incised and the body extracted. In suturing the wound the