110 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE to time, and thus by compression the intra-abdominal pressure is maintained as the fluid is evacuated. The tapping should be done through a medium-sized cannula and the fluid with- drawn slowly, the patient’s pulse being carefully watched all the time, and stimulants given if necessary. It will be found impossible to draw off all the fluid, but as soon as it stops running, the cannula is withdrawn, and the wound dressed with a small piece of gauze and collodion; a firm bandage should be worn round the abdomen for a few days. SUPRAPUBIC PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER The operation of tapping the bladder suprapubically is useful as a temporary measure for relieving retention of urine, whilst preparations are being made for the permanent relief of the patient by the removal or the relief of the cause of the retention ; after all, it is only a means of giving temporary relief to the patient, and is not a cure for the condition. As a rule this small operation is perfectly safe, it being very unusual for any urine to escape from the puncture in the bladder into the cellular tissue of the cavum Retzii, a complication which will, should the urine be septic, set up cellulitis, probably giving rise to the formation of a local abscess, and possibly even to extravasation of urine. These complications, however, are so rare, and the demand for relief so urgent, that fear of them should not deter the practitioner from resorting in suitable cases to suprapubic puncture. The risk of setting up extravasation of urine is much increased if a large trocar and cannula is used. For the safe performance of this operation the bladder must be well distended, so that the peritoneum is lifted up, well away from the site of puncture. The hair on the lower part of the abdomen must be shaved, the skin washed, and all the instruments sterilized. With a small, sharp knife, a puncture one-third of an inch in length is made in the middle line just above the pubes ; this can be done under local anaesthesia if necessary. A trocar with cannula attached is thrust through the skin opening,backwards