201 THE LIMBS. GENERAL outer side in front of the biceps tendon. It is then exposed through an incision. In this situation there is no danger of injuring the external popliteal nerve. When pus originates deeply in the popliteal space, as from hone, the above incisions serve admirably. But if the infection is distributed generally in the cellular tissue, or arises in con- nection with the more superficial lymphatic glands, the lateral incisions are not so useful as a median posterior one (Fig. 107). The patient lies on his chest with a pillow under his shoulders. After shaving and cleansing, an incision 4 inches long is made in the middle lime of the lower part of the popliteal space. The popliteal fascia is very strong, so that infections spread up into the thigh and down into the leg sooner than come to the surface. The fascia is incised throughout the length of the wound, the internal popliteal nerve is directly under it and is retracted to the inner side. A finger or director is passed into the abscess, the aperture, if necessary, being enlarged with artery forceps. A tube is inserted and, if the abscess is localized, the wound sutured in part. After all inflammation has subsided and the part is granulating well, the practitioner must see that the knee does not become flexed in the process. Movements must be begun and practised to avoid such a con- tingency ; or a splint can be used. 7. Antecubital Abscess. Abscesses in the antecubital fossa, in front of the elbow, correspond to popliteal abscesses behind the knee, but are not nearly so frequent, and differ in being opened by an incision on the outer side, avoiding the cephalic vein, or from the front; instead of from the inner side or behind, as are the popliteal abscesses. INFUSION When a patient is suffering from severe haemorrhage, shock, diarrhoea, vomiting, or other loss of fluid, the introduction of saline into the body will raise the blood-pressure and benefit the patient. There are three main methods of doing this c. D d