5 GENERAL exposed to the action of antiseptics their phagocytic action is destroyed; so that antiseptics remove a powerful factor in the healing process. It would, therefore, seem best to take a middle course; antiseptics being used before an operation on a clean case but never during an operation. Nothing should be put into a wound which will impair the resisting power of its tissues; it may be mechanically cleansed by flushing gently with sterilized water or saline solution, but should never be chemically treated. The frequent use of chemicals for the hands makes them so rough and coarse that it is difficult or impossible to clean them; and any one with such hands is unfit to undertake an operation. We would urge that much reliance be placed in the use of soap and water, and little in the use of chemicals. STERILIZATION By sterilization is to be understood the production, not so much of the ideal aseptic condition as of the more practical state of superlative cleanliness, the most important part of which being the avoidance of all possible chances of contami- nation by contact with anything doubtful or unclean. As it is not possible to sterilize everything by the same method, it will be best to consider the various ways under special heads. 1. The patient's skin should be shaved for some distance around the site of operation; the razor is useful, not only to remove hair, but also any sebaceous material, epithelial debris, &c., such as collects in all places not exposed to constant washing and friction. Then the part should be well soaped and rubbed with water, this being done very thoroughly. For twelve hours before the operation the affected part should be covered with either a wet antiseptic compress or an antiseptic powder under a dry dressing. The wet dressing has the disadvantage of making the skin sodden; the dry dressing is much better because it keeps the skin in good condition, and the powder inhibits the growth of any organisms which are exuded from the glands by