99 THE CHEST clown to the rib, the periosteum ot which is incised and stripped oft' both the superficial and deep surfaces with a raspatory. This is done for two reasons: to avoid injury to the intercostal nerves and vessels, and to allow the periosteum to regenerate the piece of rib to be removed. It is the practice of some surgeons to remove the periosteum with the rib, but the method described above is certainly the easier and the more satisfactory. In order to protect the pleura a raspatory is placed at one end of the incision under the rib, which is divided with bone forceps; the other end of the rib is divided in a similar manner, and the piece of bone, which should be at least 2 inches in length, is removed. The parietal pleura is then carefully incised. In the majority of cases this step is easy, but on more than one occasion the authors have seen the diaphragm incised and the abdominal cavity opened: although this is serious, it need not necessarily be fatal. The danger of this mistake is greatest when some of the pus has been removed by aspiration recently; the lung being contracted, with the removal of the fluid the diaphragm rises. The pus should be allowed to escape slowly. A finger should always be inserted into the cavity for two reasons: firstly, to see if the lung expands; secondly, to remove any clotted masses that may be in the pus, which might subse- quently block the tube. It is not necessary to sew the pleura to the skin. A large rubber empyema tube is inserted and attached to the skin by a stitch or two; and the ends of the incision are closed by a few stitches. On no account should the pleura be washed out: sudden death by cardiac inhibition or by drowning, owing to the fluid entering the lung through a hole, has resulted from this procedure. The patient should be turned over to empty the pleural cavity before putting on the dressings, which should be large and thick. The wound will want dressing frequently during the first twenty-four hours; after this, daily dressings will usually suffice; in all dressings great cleanliness must be observed in order to avoid introducing fresh infection. The cavity heals by the expan-