111 THE ABDOMEN and a little downwards, until it enters the bladder; the operator can easily tell when this happens by the sudden cessation of all resistance. When the trocar is withdrawn, the urine escapes from the cannula or through a rubber tube attached to it; in feeble and old patients, it should be allowed to escape slowly. A medium-sized cannula should always be employed, and it must be of sufficient length to prevent the bladder slipping off the end as it contracts. After a short time the flow ceases; some more urine can be drawn off by changing the position of the patient, such as turning on to his side, half on to his face, or on to ‘ all four-s ’. The instru- ment is withdrawn, the skin dried, and the wound sealed with cyanide gauze and collodion. It is better to tap a second time, if required, rather than to leave the cannula as a ‘permanent’ drain. SUPRAPUBIC CYSTOTOMY Instead of simply puncturing the bladder, the practitioner can perform a suprapubic cystotomy, an operation which also affords a ready means of extracting calculi or other foreign bodies; it is not difficult to perform when the bladder is distended, and does not require as much technical knowledge or skill as do the various perineal operations. A general anaesthetic is necessary, and the patient should be in the recumbent position, with the pelvis raised. If the bladder is not full it is best to introduce some warm boracic lotion by a catheter until the organ is fully distended. The pubes having been shaved and washed, an incision is made m the middle line from an inch or two below the umbilicus to the symphysis, its length being about 3 inches. The skin and fat are divided, laying bare the aponeurosis of the rectus sheath ; this is divided in the middle line in the direc- tion of the wound, exposing the lower portions of the recti and perhaps the pyramidales muscles. The fibres of these muscles are carefully separated in the median line with a blunt-pointed instrument and retractors. It must be remem-