FEMALE GENITOURINARY 163 it removed; while still in position the climacteric may occur and the vaginal orifice atrophy; finally the patient consults the doctor for a foul and often bloodstained discharge, suggestive of a carcinoma. If the pessary is of the collapsible variety, it is easily removed; but hard ones made of vulcanite, celluloid, &c., are more troublesome. The perineum is pulled backwards with the fingers of the left hand, and attempts made to extract the pessary with forceps in the right. If this is not successful, the vagina must be douched several times daily in order to render it less septic. An anaesthetic is given, and attempts made to extract it as before, the patient being in the dorsal position. If, however, these fail, the perineum is shaved and cleansed, and an incision made in the middle line from the posterior part of the vagina for a short distance backward. The foreign body is extracted, it is sometimes necessary to divide it with bone forceps, and the perineum stitched up with interrupted silkworm-gut stitches; if necessary, the vaginal mucous membrane is united with catgut. The wound is dressed with gauze. Vaginal douches must be given three or four times daily until the wound has healed and all discharge ceased. The silkworm-gut stitches are removed in a week. If a healthy young woman or child complains of a foul vaginal discharge, the presence of a foreign body in the vagina as its cause should be excluded. URETHRAL CARUNCLES Urethral caruncles, angiomata of the urethra, are small, tender tumours which grow around the urethral orifice. The only treatment for them is operative ; they are, however, very apt to recur, and consequently it is as well to warn the patient of this before operating. They can be removed under a local anaesthetic, but a general one is more satisfactory. The patient is placed in the lithotomjr position, the vagina douched, and the external parts cleansed; the labia are then held apart, and the growth destroyed by the red-hot blade of a Paquelin’s cautery. The portion of the urethral wall from which the