THE RECTAL REGION 191 patient lies in the left lateral position, the knees being drawn up. A small bougie, of a size which will easily pass, having- been warmed and oiled, is gently introduced through the stricture. This is withdrawn in a few minutes, and larger sizes introduced until one is gripped, which is left in position for at least a quarter of an hour. In two or three days’ time, the last bougie introduced is again passed, and withdrawn after a few minutes; then the next size is inserted and left in position for about thirty minutes. This manoeuvre is re- peated every third or fourth day until the rectum is sufficiently dilated to admit the index finger easily. Then the last bougie introduced is passed once a week; after three months, once a month will usually be sufficient to maintain the dilatation. The patient should always have a bougie passed two or three times a year, and more frequently if at any time there is any difficulty in its passage. In passing bougies the two essential points are never to cause the patient pain and never to use force. They should not be passed if the patient has a high temperature or if there are any signs of local inflammation; as the passage of the bougies might displace a septic clot into the portal vein and set up pylephlebitis and portal pyaemia. THE REMOVAL OF FAECES FROM THE RECTUM It sometimes falls to the lot of the medical man to have to perform this disagreeable task. As a rule no anaesthetic is required. The patient lies in the left lateral position with the buttocks raised, when as much warm olive oil as possible is introduced into the rectum through a tube and funnel. If this is impossible at first, the faecal masses are broken up with a spoon to allow the oil to be injected. When the olive oil has softened the faeces, the masses arc further broken up with the spoon and finger ; rubber operating gloves should be worn: some is also removed so as to allow of the introduction of an enema. The process is repeated again and again until it is possible to administer a copious soap and