151 MALE GENITOURINARY with the solution to be injected at the body temperature, and the nozzle is inserted in the external meatus, the lips of which are held firmly around it. The urethra is compressed in the perineal region by the patient sitting astride the arm of a chair, and the fluid is slowly injected; the syringe is with- drawn and the lips of the meatus are closed with the fingers, after a few minutes the fluid is allowed to escape. When the injection is done in this manner the urethra is distended with the solution, which comes in contact with all the folds of the mucous membrane, but none of it reaches the bladder or prostatic urethra. Various solutions are employed for in- jecting, and whatever one is selected it should be used weak, and if desirable its strength increased later; the following are frequently used: Zinc sulphate (2 grains to the ounce), protargol, permanganate of potash (1 part in 4,000), silver nitrate (-| grain to 1 ounce), &c. At first the injection should be done four times daily ; but as the discharge decreases, less often. When using injections containing silver salts, always warn the patient that the fluid will stain his linen, and that these stains are exceedingly difficult to remove. As there is much difference of opinion about the value of injections, it will be as well if a few remarks are offered. Clinically, there is no doubt whatever of two facts. Firstly, suitable injections do diminish the amount of the discharge and alter its character; secondly, there is a higher percentage of patients who suffer from epididymitis and orchitis amongst those who use injections than amougst those who do not. Pathologically, it is known that these injections have little or no effect upon the prime cause of the infection, namely, the gonococci. Injections affect the organisms which may be associated with it. So that by helping to destroy them and by affecting the granulations, injections may render the locality unsuitable to the growth and even to the existence of the gonococci. Thus indirectly they are of value. On the other hand it is only fair to state that gonococci have been found in the urethra, as long as five years after the infection,