THE HEAD 61 form anaesthesia, at the commencement of the operation the patient should lie on his back, the head being drawn ovei the end of the table; and should this make the patient ‘ come round a little more of the anaesthetic must be administered. A gag is placed in the mouth, and the projecting portion ol: one tonsil and then of the other is removed with the guillo- tine ; it is necessary to remove the top of the tonsil with the greater part of the crypts. It is a bad habit to exert pressure behind the angle of the jaw ; for by this method a larger piece of tonsil is removed than is necessary, and there is a risk of troublesome haemorrhage. When the projecting portions have been removed, it will be noticed that the tonsils often extend down the lateral Avails of the pharynx, and are much more enlarged than the first inspection had led one to believe; a condition which cannot be ascertained easily before operation. Having removed the tonsils, the adenoid curette is introduced round the soft palate, and the vegetations broken up and removed. Manipulation must be gentle, and care exercised to avoid damage to the Eustachian tubes. This step in the operation can be concluded, if necessary, by means of a straight curette passed first through one nostril and then through the other, guided by a finger in the nasopharynx. It should be remembered that the object of the operation is to establish nasal respiration, so that it is necessary to make plenty of space by removing the larger masses; but there is no need, however, to expend energy in trying to remove every trace of adenoid tissue, as the subsequent cicatrization and the future establishment of nasal breathing will cause any which may be left behind to atrophy. At the end of the operation the child should be turned over on to its side, and the face sponged with cold water; the bleeding will soon cease. A few further words must be added about this operation in adults. It will often confer great benefits upon them : relief from deafness, headaches, colds, sore throats, bronchitis, &c. It will not, however, greatly improve their poAver of nose breathing; or alter, in the slightest degree their facial