282 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE AFTER-TREATMENT FROM THE ANAESTHETIST’S POINT OF VIEW Hie duties of the anaesthetist do not cease when the admin- istration is finished. If the operation has been on the head or neck he must see that the bandages are not placed so that they impede the respiration. The patient should be lifted from the operating-table and placed in a previously warmed bed; in doing this, care must be taken that he is not jolted, and that the head and shoulders ai’e not raised above the rest of the body. If the surgeon raises no objection the patient should be placed on his right side, as this facilitates the escape of mucus. Before leaving the patient the anaes- thetist should always make certain that the patient’s pulse and respiration are satisfactory, and that his general con- dition is good. The room should be darkened and at a tem- perature of about 65° Fahrenheit, with all draughts excluded, A responsible person should be at the patient’s bedside for at least two or three hours after the end of the operation. When vomiting, the head should be turned to one side, and care taken that no vomited matter enters the larynx. No talking should be permitted in the room; and when conscious, the patient should be encouraged to go to sleep. Sickness after an operation is as a rule more distressing to the onlookers than to the patient; it is often relieved by sipping small quantities of very hot water. With regard to diet no food should be 'riven for at least three or four hours after the O operation, and then a little beef tea or soup is more suitable than milk; but as a rule the surgeon will give instructions on this point. If a patient is violent when recovering from an anaesthetic, he should never be tied down, but persuasion and restraint tried; if these fail and the condition becomes worse, morphia must be administered hypodermically. SHOCK After severe and prolonged operations the patient may be found to be suffering from shock. The face will be white