THE LIMBS. GENERAL 195 every four hours until the inflammation has subsided: later, as the discharge decreases, dry dressings are better as they do not make the part sodden and need changing less often When dealing with cellulitis, the inflamed area must be thoroughly opened up, the incisions being parallel to the long axis of the part and extending to the limits of the inflamed tissues: it is of no use to make a small superficial incision. In many instances, multiple incisions will be required. Drainage tubes or small gauze strips should be placed in the wound if necessary, to ensure proper drainage taking place: commonly it is merely needful to leave the wounds open. The whole of the inflamed area is to be covered with hot fomentations, which must be changed frequently. In cellulitis of a limb it is often advised that it should be kept absolutely at rest on a splint. If, in spite of this treatment, the inflammation extends, fresh incisions should be made and, if the wounds are situated in the lower leg or forearm, they can be treated by means of a water bath. The limb is suspended by a sling in a metal vessel containing water or some lotion; at one end of the vessel is a tube carrying the water off, at the other end, water at a temperature of about 110° Fahrenheit runs in from a reservoir above the level of the limb. This bath should never be used for more than eisrht hours at a stretch. It is a method of treatment which is exceedingly troublesome to carry out, the apparatus requiring constant attention: but it can be used very easily for half an hour or so two or three times a day, when the dressings are changed, and is exceedingly useful. Abscesses in certain situations require to be opened with special care, owing to the danger of wounding important structures. 1. Wliitloiv. The pus may be superficial to the tendon sheath or within it. If superficial, the finger should bo incised on the flexor aspect in the middle line; the incision must be free, but care must be taken that the tendon sheath is not opened. If the sheath contains pus (suppurative teno-