169 FEMALE GENITOURINARY solution of perchloride of mercury, in glycerine. The patient should be in the left lateral position. When a vaginal douche has been given, the sound is introduced to determine the length and direction of the cervico-uterine canal; the laminaria tent is then cut to this length. The anterior lip of the cervix is gripped by a volsellum and pulled down. The labia being separated, the tent, held by a pair of speculum forceps, is passed into the cervical canal. The forceps are removed and the tent pressed home with the finger. If possible the uterus should be anteverted, as in that position there is not so great a tendency for the tent to come out; should this, however, not keep the tent in position, the vagina should be lightly packed with cyanide gauze. The plug and the tent must be removed in twenty- four hours, if they have not already come out; by which time the canal will be dilated sufficiently to admit the curette. If it is necessary to introduce the finger, dilatation can be continued by means of Hegar’s or some other form of dilators; or, after one tent has been in for twelve hours, two more can be introduced beside it and the canal dilated sufficiently to admit the finger. When removing a tent, first give a douche, then seize the tent with forceps and withdraw it. THE GRADUATION OP UTERINE DILATORS As has been said already, dilatation of the cervix uteri by the quick method is very apt to result in the tearing of the tissues. We cannot but think that the cylindrical shape of the dilating ends of the sounds must be largely responsible for this. lo meet the difficulty we have suggested the graduation of the dilating ends in conical shape; and have so arranged them that each succeeding sound is smaller at its end than the size to which the internal os lias been dilated by the previous one passed. To illustrate this, the accompanying figure shows two successive sounds which have been drawn to scale. They are numbered 4-7 and 5-8, the figures representing the diameters at the different parts of the cervical end in millimetres. Thus the diameters of the sounds