ANAESTHETICS 31 inhales the vapour. It is not nearly so safe as gas but is safer than ether; therefore it should be given in cases where slightly longer anaesthesia is required than can be obtained by gas. It is often useful to employ it instead of gas in alcoholic, very muscular, or thick-necked patients, who as a rule take gas badly. In this type of patient ethyl chloride is very useful to induce a preliminary anaesthesia before going on with ether. Its chief disadvantage is that it often causes vomiting, but this can be prevented frequently by the patient’s abstaining from food for some time before the administration. Recently, it has been suspected as the cause of some cases of post-operative pulmonary embolism and cardiac failure. Ether, or ether preceded by gas, is the best and safest anaesthetic for most cases where longer anaesthesia is neces- sary than can be obtained by gas or ethyl chloride ; but it requires more skill to administer than chloroform. It is contraindicated in the extremes of age, when advanced bron- chitis or arterial disease is present, and in prolonged opera- tions on the mouth, nose, and throat. As a rule, stout, short, thick-necked patients take ether badly ; in this class it is as well to commence with ethyl chloride, follow with ether, and, if necessary, change later to chloroform. Ether should never be employed near a naked light or when the actual cautery is in use near the face. It should never be given when the patient is suffering from urgent dyspnoea, as it will tend to increase the condition. There are many forms of apparatus for administering it, and as all are alike in principle, i.e. by the ‘ closed ’ method ; it makes very little difference which form of apparatus the anaesthetist selects; but having chosen one, he should use that only. In children, it can be dropped on a mask by the ‘ open ’ method with great advantage ; and when during chloroform administration considerable shock is present, ether poured on the open mask acts as a powerful cardiac stimulant. Chloroform is especially indicated in the extremes of life,