FEMALE GENITOTTRINARY 173 delivery ol‘ the placenta, for the patient is as a rule already partly under the influence of a general anaesthetic, and the parts are partially anaesthetic through stretching; even if the suturing fails, which is very unlikely, the condition is no worse than before. The patient should be lying on her back across the bed, the buttocks resting on the edge; when lying on her side it is extremely difficult to gauge the amount of the tear, and also to insert the stitches accurately. If desirable an anaesthetic may be given, chloroform being the most satisfactory in nearly all cases. The thighs should be flexed and held apart. If there is no assistant to do this, tie a bandage to each knee, and fasten each to either end of the bed ; this will hold the knees in position. Thoroughly douche the vagina, removing all blood clots, and then carefully examine the tear and determine its extent. The method of stitching varies according to whether the rupture is complete, i.e. extends into the rectum, or incomplete. INCOMPLETE RUPTURE Various methods of stitching up these tears are described ; the method we recommend is to use a large curved needle mounted on a firm handle, Culling worth’s perineum needle is a good pattern, and silkworm-gut for the perineal stitches; as, when these are removed the result of the operation will be seen. The left forefinger, the flexor surface being turned upwards, is introduced into the rectum, and the point of the needle made to pierce the skin close to the raw edge on one side, at the end of the tear farthest away from the anus. The point is made to travel across the perineum, beneath the raw surface, between it and the rectal mucous membrane, until it emerges on the other side close to the raw surface. The finger in the rectum feels the position of the needle, and prevents it piercing the mucous membrane. The eye is then threaded with silkworm gut, one end of the gut secured, and the needle with the other end withdrawn. As many stitches as necessary are inserted in this manner, all being left untied,