THE NECK 81 o-lands can be felt beneath the fluid. These solid parts may to clear up under general treatment after the abscess has been opened and drained, but it is not always so; if they do not disappear, they must be removed as soon as the abscess has healed soundly, or when a sinus is present which shows no tendency to heal. The operation of opening and curetting a broken-down tuberculous gland must be done through an adequate incision, and the wound must not be sewn up, lest there should ensue the development of a condition known as ‘ local tuberculous infection \1 In this condition, the cellular tissues, and sometimes other structures of the neck, become invaded by tubercles. The most frequent cause of sinus formation after an operation, is that the incision has been too small to allow the practitioner to remove properly the diseased tissues. A larger incision is usually required for the removal of a soft than for a hard gland. Should one of the big veins be wounded, it should be clamped, and a lateral ligature applied; or the vein itself can be ligatured above and below the wound. When the gland is surrounded by much fibrous tissue it may be im- possible to ligature the vein: artery forceps must then be left on for thirty-six to forty-eight hours. TRACHEOTOMY The operation of tracheotomy is one that is usually asso- ciated with the idea of the utmost speed and a suffocating patient. At times, however, it is done quietly and at ease, for such conditions as papillomata, malignant, tuberculous or syphilitic disease, cicatricial contraction, &c., of the larynx. In general, under such circumstances the operation is an easy one to perform. It is usual to discuss a high and a low tracheotomy according as the operation is done above or below the isthmus of the thyroid ; in practice this is rather a needless distinction, as during the operation little attention is paid to the isthmus. The higher up the trachea is opened, 1 Clinical Journal, xxvi. pp. 206-8. July 12, 1906. M c.