9 The Oxford Medical Publications. Enlargement of the Prostate. By Cuthbert Wallace, M.S., F.R.C.S. Assistant Surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, etc. Fully Illustrated, 12\6 net, post free 6d. extra. This is a full account of this affection and its various consequences. The author first deals fully with our present knowledge of the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the prostate, the work being copiously illustrated through- out by original drawings from specimens and photographs, also photomicrographs. He then treats of the anatomical characteristics of enlargement and its results direct and in- direct. The various means of treatment are then discussed, the more recent operative treatment is fully described, its results summarised, and the after treatment carefully dealt with. The work is a complete and exhaustive monograph containing over 150 illustrations in the text and a coloured plate. Contents : Surgical Anatomy.—Experimental Pathology. Morbid Anatomy.—Morbid Histology.—Bacteriology.— Aetiology.— Diagnosis.—Treatment. — Operative Treat- ment.—Prostatectomy.—Nature of the Enucleation Opera- tion.—Carcinoma of the Prostate. Physical Diagnosis, including diseases of the Thoracic and Abdominal Organs. A manual for students and practitioners. By Egbert Le Fevre, M.D., Professor of Clinical Medicine in the University Medical College, New York. Illustrated with 102 engravings and 16 plates, 10j- net. post free 4d. extra. Contents : E Topographical and Relational Anatomy of the Chestand Abdominal Organs.—II. The Respiratory System. —Inspection Palpation.— Percussion.—Auscultation.— Changes in Disease of the Respiratory System.—III. The Cir- culatory System. —Inspection.—Palpation.—Percussion. •—Auscultation.—Diagnosis of Diseases of the PIcart.— Diagnosis of Diseases of the Pericardium.—Diagnosis of Diseases of the Blood Vessels.—The Abdominal Organs. —Inspection. Palpation. Percussion Auscultation. Syste- matic X-Ray Examination of the Chest and Abdomen. This forms a thoroughly practical and carefully syste- matised account of the more usual methods of examining the chest and abdomen, rf clear description of the changes in various diseases is given and the text is very fully illustrated by diagrams.