2 77 PREPARATION FOR OPERATIONS THE ANAESTHETIST When called upon to administer an anaesthetic, it is always necessary to be well equipped with the requisite instruments and appliances. If the patient is one to whom it is intended to give gas and ether, chloroform and a mask should always be taken as well as the apparatus for gas and ether. It is important to make certain that there is a plentiful supply of the necessary drugs; there is nothing more annoying to the surgeon, anaesthetist, and the patient’s friends than the dis- covery in the middle of an operation that the chloroform has run short. The anaesthetist should always take with him a pair of tongue forceps, some sponge-holders and sponges, a hypodermic syringe and drugs, brandy and ether for hypo- dermic injections, some amyl nitrite capsules, and the necessary apparatus for performing a tracheotomy or a laryngotomy. The surgeon frequently has some of these instruments with him, but the anaesthetist, being wholly responsible for his part of the patient’s condition, should always be provided with them. It is a golden rule to have too many rather than too feiv instruments and appliances. Before the anaesthetic is administered the patient should always be examined : in doing this, great care should be taken that he is not frightened or upset, but rather reassured as to his condition. The heart should be examined, and when doing this it is as well to remember that usually the patient is very nervous and the rate of the beat therefore accelerated. In cardiac disease the presence or absence of a murmur matters little, the important point being whether the lesion is compensated or not, and as indicators of this, the colour and pulse are far better than a murmur. The lungs should be auscultated for signs of bronchitis. The choice of the anaesthetic will depend on the age and general condition of the patient and the length and nature of the operation (see pp. 30-2). Inquiries should be made as to the presence of false teeth; as a rule these should be removed, but if a large