4 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE only by a few. With the advance of medical and surgical knowledge a better educated and more highly skilled practi- tioner has come into existence. At the beginning of his career he is prepared to do much surgery, but experience teaches him what he may safely undertake and from what he should abstain. In other words, he has learnt that it is not so much the question of operation as the question of policy which must determine his professional action. The subdivision of surgical work into major and minor operations has broken down; a practitioner may refuse to do a so-called minor operation and the next day perform a major one. The terminology makes such an action appear illogical and the man untrustworthy; the sooner these misleading terms are abandoned the better. ASErSIS AND ANTISEPSIS When we speak of an aseptic operation, we mean that every- thing in connection with that operation has been rendered absolutely sterile and is used as such. This is undoubtedly the ideal condition, but we know that it is not obtainable for any length of time. For instance, the instruments are bound to be contaminated by air-borne organisms, and the skins of those participating in the operation must become infective by means of unconscious perspiration. It is a well-known and easily demonstrated fact that when talking a large number of organisms are expelled from the mouth; so of necessity wounds which have been open for a short time must be full of organisms, which, as such wounds generally heal by first intention, we know are practically harmless. The knowledge of the presence of such organisms has caused many surgeons to use certain chemicals from time to time during the opera- tion ; these chemicals arc termed antiseptics, as they interfere with the growth of and' perhaps kill the organisms. But it is equally obvious that these chemicals must affect the cells and tissues laid bare in the wound at the same time as they are acting on the micro-organisms. When leucocytes are