OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE 50 tumour. Should it be pedunculated, the base must be taken away with the tumour. Soft fibromata. (1) Molluscum fihrosum, small peduncu- lated tumours which can be snipped off with a pair of scissors. (2) Moles, generally found on the face; these should, if pos- sible, be excised, being a source of danger, as they may become the starting-point for melanotic sarcoma. They often occupy large areas, and after excision it may be found that the skin edges will not meet; if this is so the raw surface must be grafted. When excision is impracticable owing either to their size or situation, treatment must be carried out by electrolysis. Operation should not be delayed if the mole is increasing in area or thickness, becoming more deeply pigmented, ulcerated, or bleeding. DESTRUCTION OP SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS Superfluous hairs, especially on the chins and upper lips of females, or on facial moles, can be removed by electrolysis. The negative electrode should be made of a very fine platino- iridium needle, bent at an angle of 45° one-third of an inch from the point. The positive electrode should consist of a flat pad moistened with salt solution; this is placed on the patient’s lap. For hairs on the upper lip, a current of 1 milliampere will be sufficient; on the chin, or for hairs on moles, about 3 milliamperes. Small currents such as these should be used to start with, and, if the hair is not destroyed, the current can be increased. The needle is intro- duced into the hair follicle in a direction parallel to the hair, and, as it must not penetrate the skin, the introduction of the needle is facilitated by working with a lens. When the needle has been inserted, the patient grasps the electrode on her lap; almost immediately small bubbles of gas appear at the mouth of the follicle, and, in from ten to fifteen seconds, a yellowish area appears round the hair. As soon as this is seen, the patient is told to drop the electrode, for if this area of necrosis is allowed to increase, the scar will be per-