29 ANAESTHETICS 2. Drugs. Cocaine should be used in solutions of from one to five per cent.; formerly solutions of greater strength than this were employed, hut these are undoubtedly dan- gerous, causing in some instances severe toxic symptoms. Whatever strength is used, not more than half a grain in all should be given. It can be employed in several different ways. For the throat, a three per cent, solution is sprayed two or three times at short intervals on the part, and the operation can be commenced in about five minutes. One or two minims of a five per cent, solution can be dropped into the eye; this is repeated in a short time and the eye will be anaesthetic in ten minutes. A five per cent, solution can be painted on a mucous membrane, or, still bettei’, a piece of cotton wool soaked in the solution can be laid on the part. When used hypodermically the drug should be injected where it is proposed to make the incision, one or two other injections being made round the operation area. In a few minutes the skin becomes anaesthetic and the operation can be commenced. If the operation is at all long, and the effect of the drug wears off, more can be injected directly into the wound. Eucaine is almost as efficacious as cocaine, and is less likely to produce toxic symptoms. It can be used in from two to eight per cent, solutions, and as much as five to ten grains may be given. If a small quantity of active adrenalin is added, a one or two per cent, solution of eucaine is sufficient. It can be employed in the various ways described for cocaine, but is not satisfactory in ophthalmic work, owing to the irritation which it produces. With hypodermic injections, small lipomata, fibromata, sebaceous cysts, &c., can be removed satisfactorily.1 3. Infiltration. By this method the tissues round the operation area are infiltrated with a solution of neutral sodium chloride, sometimes combined with minute quantities 1 The authors have used a solution made from the following formula: Solution of adrenalin (1 in 1000), minims 10; 13. eucaine, grains 3; sodium chloride, grains 12 ; water to 3^ ouncos. This amount can bo used without fear, and will suffice for an ordinary operation.