THE ABDOMEN 113 receptacle beneath the bed. The aponeurosis of the recti is closed with silk stitches, and the skin edges united with silk- worm gut, except immediately around the tube, which is fixed to the skin by two silkworm-gut stitches which pass through the shield of the tube. The wound must be dressed with gauze, and a large amount of absorbent wool and Robinson’s tissue packed round the drainage tube, the whole being maintained in position by a manytail bandage. The skin sutures should be removed in a week, and the stitches uniting the bladder to the muscle removed by traction at the end of ten days or a fortnight; none should be left in the bladder wall as they might form the nucleus for the future development of a calculus. In simple cases the time required for a suprapubic fistula to close is about twenty-four days. If the method of siphon action is effective, it may be allowed to continue for eight days, so that the closed part of the wound may heal soundly. The drainage may be aided by a White’s pump or a Cathcart’s apparatus. If the siphonage is imperfect, which is often the case, it may be better to detach the flexible tube and to rely on the dressings to absorb the urine. Under such circumstances the drainage tube should be removed from the bladder on the fourth day, as the longer it is retained the longer does the fistula take to heal. Careful attention must be paid to the patient every three hours, night and day, the dressings and draw-sheet being changed, and sometimes his shirt also. The ‘Suprapubic Dressing’ devised by Mr. G. H. Colt secures the greater comfort of the patient, as it ensures his being kept dry and at the same time allows him to sleep undisturbed; incidentally, it has the advantage of saving expense. The principle of this dressing is that a sheet of rubber is attached to the skin by means of a solution of rubber in naphtha, so that the whole of the urine flowing through the fistula can be collected and allowed to escape merely by its own pressure. So close is the connection Q C.