185 THE RECTAL REGION thoroughly stretched and paralysed. The patient is kept in bed on a light diet for a few days, the bowels being opened by an aperient on the fourth day. If it is decided to divide the sphincter, it should be cut through in the track of the fissure; the whole thickness of the external sphincter must be divided, but the internal sphincter must not be touched. The dressings and after-treatment are similar to those employed after an operation for haemorrhoids. A fissure is occasionally associ- ated with a torn down valve at the lower end, called a ‘ sentinel pile ’. In such a case the pile can be cut off with scissors under eucaine and adrenalin, but it is extremely doubtful if such treatment will always succeed in curing the fissure. It is a bad plan to lay down a rule of thumb for treating fissures, each case requiring some difference both in its medical and surgical treatment. After any operation for fissure it is necessary to regulate the habits of the patient with a view to pi'eventing a recurrence of the condition ; in other words, the constipation which is nearly always present in these cases must be treated, or the patient will be disappointed with the result of the operation. PRURITUS ANI Pruritus ani is a most distressing affection, and should be combated by every means short of operative treatment, unless there is some such condition present as haemorrhoids, fistula, &c., which require to be treated surgically. But if in spite of palliative treatment the pruritus still persists, and it has been ascertained that the symptoms are not due to gout or diabetes, there remains only one form of treatment, and this rarely fails. The patient is prepared, &c., as for the operation for haemorrhoids. The anaesthetic having been administered, the sphincters stretched and the region carefully inspected for any cause for the pruritus, such as a fistula, fissure, haemorrhoids, &c.; if anything is found it should be dealt with. But if no such cause is detected, the anaesthetist’s drugs are removed to a safe distance and a Paquelin’s cautery, heated to a dull red B b C.