THE ARM 235 gauze and collodion, and a firm pad and bandage applied in order to prevent the sac refilling. If possible, an anterior splint should be worn. The dressings and splint are dis- carded in fourteen days. In performing this small operation, attention must be paid to the anatomy and position of surrounding structures, and it will sometimes be found that it is unwise to do a subcutaneous operation owing to the close proximity of important vessels or nerves. Tapping and injecting pure carbolic is not advised, owing to the com- munication with a joint or tendon sheath. In this case and in instances of recurrence after the subcutaneous operation, the ganglion must be excised. A general anaesthetic having been given and the skin thoroughly cleansed, a curved incision is made over the tumour, a flap turned back, and the ganglion exposed. The wall of the cyst is carefully defined, and by a few touches of the knife it can be removed entirely, but in doing this the tendon sheath or joint is of necessity opened. The sheath or joint is left open whilst the wound is closed with interrupted stitches and a dressing applied. In performing this operation particular attention must be paid to cleanliness, as suppuration is very serious if the joint or tendon sheath become infected. After five or six days the dressing can be removed, the stitches extracted, and gentle active and passive movements commenced, in order to prevent any adhesions forming between the tendon and its sheath. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LIMBS The foreign bodies most commonly found lodged in the limbs are needles, small pieces of metal, glass, wood, &c. As a rule, needles are the most difficult to remove, partly owing to their shape, and partly because after a time they may penetrate further into the tissues owing to muscular movement; it is extraordinary the ease with which a large needle will hide itself in a muscle. These foreign bodies are generally driven into the hands or feet. The point of entrance should always