THE NECK 79 the handle of the knife. There are often outlying lobules which must be removed, or recurrence will be certain to take place. The skin is united with interrupted stitches, and the wound dressed with uauze. If the tumour is in a situation where it has been subjected to pressure, as at the back of the neck, it may be firmly adherent to the skin, and to remove it careful dissection may be required. The diffuse lipoma, if at all large, is exceedingly difficult to remove entirely, and unless all is taken away it will recur. Further advice should, therefore, be taken before operating. TUBERCULOUS GLANDS OF THE NECK Pathologically, these glands are generally a combination of inflammatory products and tuberculous disease. They may be regarded as being in one of two conditions, solid or fluid. By the term ‘ fluid ’ is understood a state of advanced caseation, or the suppuration of the gland. When solid, the glands are excised and, provided that they are not firmly adherent to surrounding structures owing to perilymphadeni- tis, this is done easily. If they are firmly adherent however, the operation may be converted into one of the most difficult in surgery. The movability of the glands is a very important clinical sign in helping a practitioner to decide whether to operate himself or not. A sound precept to remember is that there is always more trouble than is apparent, or in other words, although only one gland may be felt on external palpa- tion, yet on operating more, perhaps even four or five glands, will be found. Should an adherent gland be met with in the course of an operation, and it is decided not to persevere in the attempt to remove it whole, the capsule should be incised, and the gland itself shelled out with a spoon. By adopting this method, such unpleasant accidents as tearing the internal jugular vein, dividing the spinal accessory nerve, &c., are avoided. Another practical point is never to attempt to operate on glands of the neck through a small incision, as there is nothing which so readily makes an otherwise easy operation