207 THE LIMBS. GENERAL intravenous injection. The syringe is taken to pieces and sterilized by boiling; a second barrel should always be at hand in case of breakage. Whilst this is being done, the saline solution for injection is prepared. The syringe is cooled, and put together and filled with saline. The site of the injection is selected and cleansed with ether or turpentine; the skin is picked up with the forefinger and thumb of the left hand, whilst the needle of the syringe is introduced beneath it with a sharp stab. The needle is passed well in, so that the in- jection is made at some little distance from the skin puncture. The injection must be done slowly. If the puncture allows none of the fluid to escape it will only need a little boracic powder as a dressing. The situations generally selected for injection are the loins, groins, breasts, axillae, and flanks. Thiersch’s method op skin grafting Skin grafts are most frequently employed in the case of ulcers, old-standing wounds, or for recent lesions where the skin edges will not meet. The following is a description of the method of grafting an ulcerated surface:—Before the grafts are applied to the ulcer, it is necessary for that surface to be aseptic or relatively so, and in a healing condition; it is useless to place grafts on a suppurating wound. The presence of a dry, thin, red line around the margin of an ulcer is an indication that it is healing ; the quality and quantity of the discharge will determine whether it is suppurating or not. An anaesthetic having been administered, the surface of the ulcer is scraped over gently with a curette, the granulations being removed down to the layer of newly-formed fibrous tissue, on the floor of the ulcer. The edges of the ulcer, where fresh epithelium has formed, are cut away all round, and by this means a raw, fresh, bleeding surface remains. It is necessary to stop all haemorrhage before applying the grafts. For this purpose the wound is covered with a piece of pro- tective gauze, over which several dry sponges are placed, the whole being then firmly bandaged. This continuous pressure,