MALE GENITOURINARY 137 anaesthetic abolishes the warning which would be given by the patient’s feelings; and secondly, the urethral haemorrhage is diminished by the action of the cocaine and adrenalin. Hence two important guides are taken away from the surgeon, who should, when dilating under a local anaesthetic, pi-oceed the more cautiously. A word must be added about the graduation figures of the various sounds. For instance, one of Clutton’s is 18-22, which means that the tip is of a size f 18 ’, and as the sound is passed more and more into the stricture, it becomes dilated from size 18 to size 22. The sound is conical. The next larger size is 20-24, 20 being the size of the tip, which easily enters the stricture which has already been dilated to size 22, which it dilates from 20 to 24. All the sounds are graduated on this principle. Lister’s sounds are graduated on a similar principle, the tip always being a little smaller than the size to which the stricture has been dilated already. (See Fig. 75.) gouley’s tunnel catheter In cases of stricture with retention of urine, Avhen the operator is unable to penetrate the stricture with ordinary catheters or sounds, and where resort will have to be made to a suprapubic or perineal operation, it is always advisable, before doing so, to endeavour to pass the stricture by means of a Gouley’s tunnel catheter. The apparatus consists of several very fine whalebone bougies, and a fine silver catheter with stylet; at the end of the catheter is an opening which admits a whalebone bougie. It is used in the following- manner : One of the fine bougies is passed gently down the urethra and, as attempts have already been made, it will probably fail to penetrate the stricture; a second is then passed down the urethra alongside the first, and first one and then the other are gently pushed up and down. If neither gets through the stricture, a third is inserted and the manipu- lations repeated; if this fails, a fourth and even a fifth are passed. In all probability, on gently pushing these up and c. t