32 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE and when lung disease or urgent dyspnoea is present; and in operations on the nose and throat it is used for continuing the anaesthesia which has been induced by gas and ether. It is the most satisfactory anaesthetic to employ for opera- tions on the abdomen or brain. Usually, it is reckoned as the least safe of all anaesthetics, but it is one of the easiest to administer, and should always be given by the open method. Junker’s inhaler is an instrument for administering chloroform in operations on the nose, throat, tongue, &c. In this apparatus, air is pumped through chloroform to a mask placed over the patient’s mouth or through a tube placed in the nose or throat. When using it, always ascertain that the bottle is not too full and that the india-rubber tubes are fixed to the proper nozzles; if this precaution is not taken, liquid chloroform might be pumped down the patient’s throat. When giving chloroform, always have the patient in the recumbent position. In midwifery this drug is especially useful for relieving the pain of strong uterine contractions, a very slight degree of anaesthesia is required, and it can be given with advantage by means of a Junker’s inhaler. A.C.E. is a mixture of absolute alcohol, chloroform and ether, and is used for anaesthetizing children of from three to twelve years old and the aged. It is the best anaes- thetic to employ in cases of uncompensated cardiac lesions, and is generally used as a substitute for chloroform, the ether present causing a certain amount of stimulation. The patient is anaesthetized by the open method, the mixture being poured on the mask. As the alcohol does not evaporate as quickly as the chloroform and ether, it keeps the mask wet, and in consequence the patient’s face is very apt to be blistered by the chloroform subsequently poured on. A little vaseline put on the face round the area to be covered by the mask will protect the skin. The alcohol can be omitted in making the mixture.