21 GENERAL in fact, for a great deal of his work to be of value his wounds must heal by primary union. Whereas the least cleanly car- penter is not prevented by his lack of cleanliness from pro- ducing the best work, the surgeon who is wanting in this technique of his art can never pi’oduce good work. In fact, the situation may be summed up as follows:—to possess a sound technique is the prime justification for a man to become an operating surgeon. The suppuration of a surgeon’s wound is equivalent to a carpenter splitting the board with which he is working. Thus, the prevention of suppuration is the first aim and object of conquest for every one who intends to become an operating surgeon. Lord Lister’s pioneer work has done much to help us in this, but the day of chemical antiseptics is passing. The plenteous use of soap and water, and the habit of using the fingers no more at the operating table than at the dinner table, would seem to be the direc- tions which the modern technique of surgical cleanliness is taking. But though we can do so much to prevent sup- puration, it is beyond human power to be always perfect; and our technique must fail from time to time, suppuration being the regrettable result. There must always be a certain percentage of suppuration; we cannot hope to banish it entirely in the present state of our knowledge. But we must appreciate that its non-occurrence is our plenary justi- fication for attempting an operation; its occurrence must, wholly or in part, undo any constructive work done, e. g. the suturing of the inguinal canal in the radical cure of a hernia. When suppuration does occur, as it will do from time to time, what should be done 1 When suppuration is diagnosed else- where than in an operation wound, the treatment to be adopted is classical; a free incision is made without delay, and also counter openings are made if necessary. With regard to operation wounds we are apt to take a pettifogging course of action, opening up the wound a little or leaving the pus to do so! Such action would be heartily condemned, were the pus elsewhere, by the veriest tyro in surgery.