268 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE ends ligatured. The vein is often very much thickened, and requires to be securely tied, care being taken that the ligature is not applied so close to the cut end that it may slip off. The three veins, the superficial circumflex iliac, the superficial epigastric, and the superficial external pudic, which join the internal saphenous vein just before it enters the saphenous opening, should also be tied. All bleeding points are ligatured, the skin edges accurately united by interrupted sutures, and the wound dressed with gauze; over this a thin layer of gauze is fixed with collodion, as there is a tendency for the dressing to slij) when in this situation. All steps of the operation should be done by sight, never by touch. 2. Local removal. Before the anaesthetic is given, the position of the most marked varicose veins should be noted, or the skin over the veins can be marked with a solution of carbolfuchsin, the patient standing up while this is done. When the skin has been cleansed, a curved incision is made over one of the marked situations, as by this means more veins are exposed than through a straight incision. Care must be taken that the incision is made through healthy skin, and not in a situation where it has become thinned. The cut must not extend so deeply that the veins are wounded, as the haemor- rhage will greatly increase the difficult}’ of the operation. The veins are then dissected with a knife and forceps from the fat and fibrous tissue which hold them down, and portions are cut away between artery forceps. All bleeding points are liga- tured, the wound closed with interrupted stitches, and dressed with gauze and collodion. In several other situations where the veins are most markedly varicose, they arc dealt with in a similar manner. Incisions should not be made in situations which will be exposed to subsequent pressure or irritation, such as the inner side of the knee, which is rubbed in riding. The stitches are removed in a week, and the wound redressed, but the patient must not stand until about three weeks after the operation. It is an easy operation, and a perfectly safe one if the