179 TI-IE RECTAL REGION part is cut through with scissors all the way round. I hen the edges of the mucous membrane are separated by means of scissors or a blunt dissector, and the base of the pile tied with strong silk, number two. The strangulated portion is then cut oft’, care being taken to leave sufficient tissue distal to the ligature to prevent its slipping. The silk is cut oft' short. If the pile is very large it should be transfixed by a curved needle loaded with the silk, and each half tied separately. The cut edges of the mucous membrane can be united by a few catgut stitches, but this is not necessary, as they slip over the stump. Each haemorrhoid is treated in an exactly similar manner until all have been removed. At the conclusion of the operation no plug or tube should be placed in the rectum, as it merely adds to the discomfort of the patient. The oozing ceases when the parts are reduced within the sphincter. The region is dusted with boracic powder and covered with gauze and wool, and the whole supported by a T-bandage; whenever the dressing is soiled, it should be changed. When the patient has come round from the anaes- thetic, but not before, a third of a grain of morphia can be given hypodermically if necessary, as is usually the case. For the first three days the diet should be light and mainly fluid. On the third night a purgative should be given, and, a short time before this is expected to act, 4 or 6 ounces of olive oil should be injected, per rectum, through a rubber tube and funnel. After the first action, the bowels should be moved daily, by medicine, and the diet increased as the patient progresses. At the end of ten days or a fortnight the patient can get up if the local condition is satisfactory; that is to say, if there is no tendency or sign of inflammation. The anus must be carefully washed and powdered after every action of the bowels; wool, not paper, being used for toilet purposes. The operation described is much more satisfactory for general practice than simple ligature or the method of excision described by Whitehead; it being as effectual and