10 The Oxford Medical Publications. Cancer of the Womb : its Symptoms, Diagno- sis, Prognosis, and Treatment. By Frederick J. McCann, M.D. (Edin.) Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, England. Mem- ber of the Royal College of Physicians, London. Physician to the Samaritan Hospital for Women, London. Lecturer on Gynaecology, Medical Gra- duates College and Polyclinic, London. Fully Illustrated, 20 - net. Post free, 6d. extra. This book gives a concise account of the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of cancer of the womb, and is illustrated by a large series of plates representing the actual specimens removed by the author. Each type of cancer as it occurs in the womb is illustrated by a short description of the case, and a plate representing the disease which has been removed. As the book is intended for the use of general practitioners,as well as specialists, a full description is given of the differential diagnosis, and a chapter has been added on the after treatment of vaginal and abdominal operations for uterine cancer. It is hoped that by the method of description adopted in the text, the disease may be detected in its early stages. Contents : Anatomical Introduction.—/Etiology.—Can- cer of the Neck and Body' of the Womb.—Speading of Uterine Cancer.—Diagnosis.—Microscopical Appearances and Diagnosis.—The Surgical Treatment of Uterine Cancer.—The Value of Vaginal Total Extirpation of the Cancerous Uterus and the Extended Abdominal Opera- tion.—The Treatment of Inoperable Uterine Cancer.— Sarcoma Uteri.— Deciduoma Malignum.— Cases.—The After-treatment of Operations for Cancer of the Womb. A Laboratory Handbook of Bacteriology. By Dr. Rudolf Arel. Medical Privy Councillor, Berlin. Translated by Dr. M. H. Gordon, M.A., M.D., Oxon, B.Sc. 10th Edition. 5/- net, post free 4d. extra. 'This book, which has already reached the tenth edition, is the standard Laboratory book throughout Germany, it gives a complete account of every' important technical detail which is in practice in the Bacteriological Labora-