46 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE succumbing to some other affection. In some cases, beyond the presence of the scabbed sore on the face there may be little trouble; in others, the growth invades the eye, nose, mouth, pharynx, &c., or may form a large tumour on the scalp. If these ulcers or tumours are small they can be excised with safety; in undertaking this responsibility, however, it must be remembered that rodent ulcers show very varying pictures of malignancy. The free removal of a £ mild ’ rodent ulcer will in all probability be successful; in the more virulent forms •' recurrences ’ take place again and again. Rodent ulcers have responded to treatment with X-rays and radium. In the present state of our knowledge, however, it is better to treat them by early and free excision; should these measures fail, X-rays and radium can be tried. When removing small rodent ulcers, an anaesthetic must be given: and the incisions must be made wide of the growth, always cutting through healthy tissues, great care being taken to remove the base of the tumour; unless this is done, recurrence is certain to take place. When it is found that the skin edges will not meet, grafting must be used to cover the deficiency (see p. 207). When operating on these cases, the practitioner must not belittle his work on account of the small size of the tumour. His incisions must be made wide of the edges and continued well below the base of the tumour. Before making his incisions he had better consult Fig. 18, p. 48. SUBCUTANEOUS TUBERCULOUS NODULES These are most frequently found in children, a favourite situation being the cheek near the angle of the mouth, where they appear as raised patches of a purple or bluish colour, being generally soft, seeming almost diffluent to the touch. As a rule they subside under general treatment; if they do not. an anaesthetic should be given and the nodules excised. or freely opened, any unhealthy skin cut away, and the granulations thoroughly curetted. The wound may or may not be closed with a few stitches. Ihe scarring is not