146 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE behind, and an incision made from the top to the bottom of the hydrocele, only cutting through the skin. The dartos muscle and fascia are then divided carefully throughout the whole length of the incision, until the tunica vaginalis is seen as a white layer; the tumour is then separated from the surrounding structures with a blunt dissector, aided by an occasional touch with the knife; whilst the hand holding the scrotum projects the hydrocele more and more until it is delivered outside the wound. It is then incised and the fluid contents allowed to escape; the sac is completely freed from the surrounding tissues and cut away a third of an inch from the testicle all round, care being taken to avoid injuring the structures of the spermatic cord, which should be identified before the tunica vaginalis is removed. All bleeding points must be clamped and ligatured very carefully and thoroughly, or a haematoma may form; the part is then washed with hot saline solution or warm water and the testis replaced in the scrotum. No attempt should be made to suture the remains of the tunica vaginalis round the testis. Retractors are placed at each end of the wound and pulled in opposite directions in order to stretch the skin, which is then united by means of interrupted catgut stitches. Catgut can be used with ad- vantage in this situation with a view to save the patient the discomfort of having the stitches removed. The wound is dressed with gauze and collodion, over which is placed a pad of wool, kept in position by a T-bandage. The patient is allowed up in ten days ; a suspensory bandage should be worn for another two weeks. PERIURETHRAL ABSCESS A periurethral abscess occurs occasionally in the course of an attack of gonorrhoea, as a complication of urethral stricture, &c. If left to itself, the pus usually finds its way into the urethra, and sometimes also externally through the skin. The resulting urinary fistula may prove exceedingly difficult to cure. If the swelling is increasing in size or pus can be