118 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE anaesthetic sufficiently to cough or strain, when gut or omentum will be driven down into the sac, which can then be identified. The hernial sac is then opened, artery forceps put on each side of the opening, and any gut or omentum present reduced into the abdomen. When omentum is present, and especially when adherent, part of it should be removed; this is done by ligaturing small pieces, one at a time, and cutting off the distal portions. Not more than two or three vessels should be included in one ligature, or it may slip and the stump bleed. When sufficient has been removed the stump is inspected to see that there is no haemorrhage, before it is returned into the abdomen. The sac is held firmly by the artery forceps and isolated from the surrounding structures; this is done most conveniently with the aid of dissecting forceps and perhaps a blunt-pointed dissector, with an occasional touch with the knife. Care must be taken while doing this not to wound the vas deferens, which should be identified and held on one side by a retractor. When the sac is freed as far as the internal ring, it is transfixed with a needle threaded with silk; the needle is withdrawn leaving the silk behind, and one-half of the sac is securely tied. The thread is then tied again round the whole sac, which is cut away on the distal side of the ligature, sufficient being left to ensure that it will not slip. The cut end of the stump should be examined to see that there is no haemorrhage, the ligature is then cut off short, the sac retracting into the abdomen. The thorough removal of the sac is probably the most important part of the operation, certainly in children. The cord is held up and well out of the way by means of two retractors, and the edge of the conjoined tendon and Poupart’s ligament defined. This can be easily done by a little dissection with a blunt-pointed instrument, aided by traction on the artery forceps holding the aponeurosis of the external oblique. A series of interrupted silk stitches is then inserted, joining the edge of the conjoined tendon to Poupart’s ligament beneath the cord; it is necessary that these stitches obtain a