]30 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE of the most frequent causes of disappointment to the parents is that an oedematous mass or ‘blob’ appears under the frenum, which is the result of leaving too much mucous membrane and submucous areolar tissue in this situation (Fig. 70). The mistake arises either from fear of the haemorrhage which might result from cutting the frenal artery, or from forgetting that by the frenum the line of attachment of the mucous membrane is vertical and not horizontal. The bleeding artery must be ligatured, but the haemorrhage is not severe. The mucous membrane and areolar tissue should always be carefully cut away in this situation, and it is here that a stitch can sometimes be inserted with advantage. The circumcision of an adult differs from that of a baby, as, owing to the greater size of the part, all inaccuracies are greater and more apparent. Full anaesthesia is the most satisfactory from both the surgeon’s and the patient’s point of view. After thoroughly cleansing the area, an elliptical incision is made with a sharp knife, dividing the skin round the edge of the corona glandis, the direction of the corona being carefully borne in mind (see Fig. 69). In making this cut, always see that the penis is held exactly in the middle line, and that the skin is not twisted. With a few touches of the knife the areolar tissue is divided down to the mucous membrane, which is then removed all the way round at about an eighth of an inch from its coronal attachment, after split- ting up the prepuce along the dorsum and laying it open. All bleeding points are ligatured with fine catgut; it is important that all haemorrhage should be stopped, as any blood escaping later will collect beneath the skin, causing great pain and giving considerable trouble to arrest. The skin edge is united by means of catgut to the mucous membrane at the coronal edge; the rectangular, so-called ‘mattress sutures are very useful for this, as they bring about excellent apposition. The wound should be dusted with boracic powder, and a strip of lint smeared with boracic ointment wound round the penis and fastened with a safety-pin. A pad ol