160 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE and held apart whilst, with a large blunt spoon and a douche oi' sterilized water, the tarry material is removed from the vagina. When this has been done, the canal is lightly packed with gauze. The four flaps at the vaginal opening are removed with scissors and, if desirable, the edges of the mucous membrane and skin united by one or two rectangular or mattress sutures of catgut, the ends of which are cut short. If the vaginal plug has become soiled, it must be changed, the vagina being douched again if necessary, and the plug replaced by a strip of gauze sprinkled with some antiseptic powder, such as iodoform or aristol. Part of the plug is left outside to aid its removal. The whole is covered with some antiseptic pads of wool, maintained in position by a T-bandage. The wool must be changed directly it has become soiled. If much material is left to come away from the dilated uterine cavity, it should be allowed to do so slowly, being removed from time to time by a vaginal douche. The gauze must be changed in from twelve to twenty-four hours and, if desirable, replaced by some more. It can be done with the patient in the left lateral position. A douche should be given whenever this is required. After two or three days the vaginal packing can be discontinued. If there should be any local inflammation, the gauze is best removed after soaking in a warm bath, and the packing discontinued. The catgut stitches, if used, require no attention, but the new vaginal orifice should be inspected when the edges have healed. INFLAMED CARUNCULAE MYETIFORMES G'arunculae myrtiformes are the portions of the hymen which remain after its complete laceration, as after child- birth. In by far the majority of women their presence is unnoticed; but should they become inflamed, the seat of a haemorrhage or thrombosis, their removal is required. The patient is anaesthetized, placed in the lithotomy position, the vagina douched, and the vulval region shaved, washed,