135 MALE GENITOURINARY angles to the long axis of the body, the handle being over one thigh, usually the left. The prepuce having been retracted, the penis should be fixed by holding it between the finger and thumb of one hand, and the instrument gently pushed down the urethra until the perineum is reached, then the handle is brought round to the mid-line of the body, not quite touching the abdomen; at this moment the point of the sound should be entering the membranous urethra. The handle is raised to the vertical position, and by gently depressing it between the thighs the instrument slips into the bladder. The point where a mistake usually occurs is that the handle is raised to the vertical position too soon, i.e. before the tip has reached the opening of the membranous urethra in the triangular ligament, and consequently the sound tends to make a false passage. The introduction of the sound as far as the stricture is usually simple, but when the stricture is reached it is more difficult; the handle must be held lightly between the finger and thumb and the tip moved and rotated until it enters and is gripped by the stricture, then it is firmly and gently pushed on. In some cases considerable assistance is obtained by placing a finger in the rectum and pressing the urethra upwards ; it is also possible to ascertain if the instrument has left the urethra. A medium-sized sound should always be passed first. If it will not enter the stricture, try smaller sizes until a sound passes the stricture, then pass the next larger size, and so on, dilating it. If two or more strictures are present, first of all attempts should be made to dilate only the one nearest to the meatus ; when that is done, the second can be attacked. Too much should not be attempted at one sitting; if the stricture is tight, and it is difficult to pass even the smaller instruments, the dilatation should only be carried a little way, and a second attempt made later ; if too much is done at one sitting, splitting of the mucous membrane will occur, which, followed by cicatrization, may increase the very condition for which treatment has been sought. After sounds have been passed,