36 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE the remainder of tire administration tire mask should he removed from time to time to allow the patient to obtain one or two breaths of pure air; if this is not done the air in the air bag very soon becomes saturated with ether. As the operation proceeds it will be found that the amount of air can be increased and the ether decreased, the patient still being kept under. No rule can be laid down as to the amount of ether required to keep a patient under, but generally men require more than women, and women more than children; muscular, alcoholic men requiring most. The process of anaesthetization can be divided arbitrarily into four stages:— 1. The stage in which the ideas are confused, slight dizzi- ness, and tingling of extremities ; rapidly merging into— 2. Stage of excitement, struggling, conjunctival reflex present, pupil dilated. 3. Stage of surgical anaesthesia. The conjunctival and superficial reflexes absent, the deep reflexes present, the pupils of a medium size, reacting to light. 4. Stage of overdose of the drug. Both superficial and deep reflexes absent, pupils dilated and insensitive to light, breathing shallow. The anaesthetic should never be pushed beyond the third stage. The following is the ideal condition for the patient to be in: The face of a good colour, not at all dusky or cya- nosed, the respirations deep and regular, the pupil of medium size and reacting to light, the conjunctiva insensitive. Special attention must be paid to the following points:— 1. Ether causes an increase in the flow of mucus which accumulates in the mouth; if the head is kept turned over to one side and a sand bag is placed well under the other shoulder, it will tend to run out, but from time to time the mucus should be swept out with a finger, or the end of a towel can be kept in the angle of the mouth to act as a drain. If a large quantity collects in the throat and lungs it may be advisable to change the anaesthetic and to continue with chloroform.