279 PREPARATION FOR OPERATIONS 3. Mucus sometimes accumulates at the back of the mouth, leading to obstructed breathing and the inhalation of the mucus into the lungs, especially when using ether. It should be treated by opening the mouth and wiping out the pharynx with sponges mounted on holders. If the obstruction is marked the patient must be allowed to come round sufficiently to vomit and expel the accumulated mucus. In any case the anaesthetist should change to chloroform. 4. When a patient is about to vomit, the breathing is often obstructed; in these cases the corneal reflex is always present. The condition rapidly improves, if the dose is increased, or after the patient has vomited. 5. Spasm of the glottis may be due to a variety of causes; it only occurs with ether, and is generally due either to too rapid administration or to a too rapid increase of the dose. It should be treated by diminishing the strength of the ether or by changing to chloroform. 6. Occasionally obstruction to breathing is caused by the surgeon or assistant pressing on the patient’s chest; this can be easily remedied. 7. The breathing sometimes ceases temporarily when the skin incision is made; in these cases the anaesthesia is in all probability too light. If the tongue is pulled forward or the lips rubbed, the breathing will recommence. 8. Occasionally a foreign body finds its way into the larynx, leading to obstruction of breathing. The commonest body is a tooth or a portion of one. This accident usually happens when the patient is sitting up for the extraction of a tooth under gas. The head should be bent forward and the patient’s back struck sharply. Attempts should be made to remove the body with the finger or forceps. If, however, the breathing is very embarrassed and is accompanied by cyanosis, laryngotomy or tracheotomy should be performed at once. If vomited matter is carried back into the larynx, the mouth should be forced open, with a gag if necessary, and attempts made to clear the air-way with the finger. If