187 THE RECTAL REGION ADENOMATA AND POLYPI OP THE RECTUM Adenomata of the rectum occur more often in children than in adults, and are not infrequently found to he the cause of haemorrhage from, or prolapse of, the rectum. They are either sessile or pedunculated. The latter can usually be pulled down outside the anus, the pedicle ligatured with stout silk, and the tumour cut away; but care must be taken to leave a sufficient amount of the pedicle behind to prevent the ligature slipping off. The silk ligature can be cut short and left to come away later, usually in about seven to nine days. The sessile variety should be treated by cutting through the mucous membrane all round the edge of the tumour, which can then be shelled out with a spoon or the finger. When this is done the sphincters should be stretched, and in cases where the tumour was large, divided, in order to prevent extravasation of faeces. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM Foreign bodies met with in the rectum have either been swallowed or introduced through the anus. The former class are by far the more common, a fish-bone is the body which the practitioner will most often be called upon to remove. This reaches the rectum and is driven into the mucous mem- brane, causing great pain and sometimes even an ischiorectal abscess or a fistula. An anaesthetic must be given, the sphincters stretched, and the body extracted with forceps or the fingers. A little boracic ointment should be inti’oduced into the rectum, and the bowels opened by enemata daily. In some cases, if the body has been present for a few days, an abscess may be formed in the ischiorectal fossa, which will require treatment (see p. 188). Occasionally bodies are intro- duced into the rectum by lunatics or weak-minded individuals, and should be removed in a similar manner to the above. Should it become necessary to enlarge the anus, an incision should be made through both sphincters towards the coccyx in the middle line. This incision should not be stitched up.