58 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE secondly, nasal respiration must be taught. The great criterion of the success of any operation is that the resulting condition should be useful, that is to say, physiological. If it is not useful, the operation is not a success. After every operation for adenoids the children must be taught to become habitual nose breathers and to cease to be habitual mouth breathers. If the child still goes about with its mouth open and does not breathe through its nose, the lymphoid tissue will again hypertrophy, reproducing the obstacle to nasal respiration which was present before the operation. If the child is taught to breathe through the nose, the aeration and the expulsion of discharges through the nose will prevent the organisms multiplying; stopping the growth and leading to the atrophy of the lymphoid tissue. Further, when the nose is acting physiologically, the bones entering into its formation will grow properly. The lesson which all this teaches is that the object of the operation is to establish habitual nasal respiration, without which treatment is not concluded. The failure to establish habitual nose breathing is equivalent to the failure of the operation. Seeing the importance of nasal respiration, it is always advisable to make a trial of nasal respiratory exercises before the operation. If these can be carried out thoroughly, in all probability no operation will be required ; the natural, healthy, physiological growth of the nose and nasopharynx effecting the cure. As a matter of experience, it is found that not all children in whom nasal respiration is established improve markedly. The chief reason for this is easy to see, if the tonsils are much enlarged and show enlarged follicles, the condition of the children will not show much improvement until these are removed. The above advice may be summed up dogmatically as follows:— 1. Instruct the child in nasal respiration. 2. If habitual nasal respiration can be established, and the tonsils are small, no operation will be required. 3. If the tonsils are large an operation should be per- formed.