210 OPERATIONS OE GENERAL PRACTICE this not he clone, the patient suffers considerable pain; and, owing to the fact that the muscles are not relaxed, the deformity is difficult or impossible to correct. There are many other cases, however, in which no anaesthetic will be required. 1. Plaster of Paris bandage. Before this is applied, the limb must be prepared. It should be washed with soap and water, thoroughly dried, and any abraded surfaces dressed with dry gauze and boracic powder, over which a pad of wool is placed. The limb is dusted with boracic powder, which is well rubbed in, and then loosely but evenly bandaged with flannelette, care being taken that the bandage covers all the skin over which the plaster is to be placed, that it is not tight and there are no creases in it. The next step is to apply a crinoline bandage impregnated with plaster. These can be obtained ready prepared, or they can be made by unrolling and unfold- ing a crinoline bandage and rubbing fresh plaster of Paris on both sides; it is then folded and loosely rolled up. Just before use, the bandage is immersed in a basin of cold water for a few minutes, by which time it will be thoroughly wetted. The affected limb is held in the required position by one or more assistants, and the plaster bandage rapidly applied from below upwards. This bandaging must be done wliere- ever possible without any ‘ reversed turns ’, each turn must, however, overlap the one below it. It must not be put on tightly because plaster shrinks as it sets, and there must be no creases present. This last point is of especial importance in such situations as the ankle joint, where a little extra pressure would impede the circulation. Two or more bandages are applied in this way, and it will strengthen the splint con- siderably if an iron bar, bent to the required shape, and a little plaster and water, of the consistence of thick cream, are inserted between the layers of bandage. The limb must be held in position until the plaster has set; then a neat bandage should be put on outside. The patient is placed in the re- cumbent position in a bed provided with fracture boards; the