211 THE LIMBS. GENERAL limb being surrounded with hot water bottles and not covered with the bedclothes, to allow the plaster to dry. Some cotton wool is wrapped round the toes, which must never be covered with the plaster. When lying in bed, the patient should always be provided with a cradle, in order to take the pressure of the bedclothes off the toes. On the following- day the surface of the neat external bandage should be painted with flour or starch paste; this to a great extent prevents the plaster breaking off in flakes or getting dirty and untidy. When the splint requires removal this can often be done by unwinding it, a very dusty proceeding, or by sawing it through down the middle line with what ironmongers call a ‘ metal saw ’; the patient can do this himself. 2. Plaster of Paris Bavarian splints. This method is a modification of Croft’s original splint. The material used is thoroughly shrunken house flannel, known as Bavarian. A broad posterior and a narrow anterior splint are cut out of this material with scissors, to fit the shape of the sound limb. Several long, narrow, straight strips can be used instead, or a splint can be cut out in one piece, leaving a gap in front. Whichever method is adopted, the splints should be so arranged that one or two gaps are left all the way down the limb. A second set should be cut exactly similar to the first. The limb is prepared and bandaged with flannelette as before. The plaster is then made by slowly sprinkling fresh plaster into a basin of cold water, until it no longer sinks, and the fluid is of the consistency of smooth, thick cream. It is thoroughly mixed by stirring with the hand, and the splints are soaked in the mixture, wrung out, and laid flat, when some dry plaster is rubbed into the surface. The limb is held in position, and the splints accurately applied and securely fixed by a few turns of ordinary bandage, great care being taken not to allow any crease to form. Always see that the two splints do not overlap anywhere; there being a gap between them all the way down, where the bandages may be cut to remove the splint. When the first set is in position, the