251 THE LEG nail. If any granulations are present at the bottom of the exposed surface they should be swabbed with pure carbolic acid, and the wound dressed with hot fomentations. The patient will be saved a great deal of pain if, when the dressings are changed, the hand or foot is soaked in warm boracic lotion and the dressing allowed to soak off. The nail usually takes from four to six months to grow again and is, as a rule, perfectly formed. In many cases it is more satis- factory to remove the whole nail. TAPPING THE KNEE JOINT At times it is imperative that a joint should be tapped, either to relieve distension or to ascertain the nature of the fluid present. Of all joints, the knees offer most facilities for this operation. The greatest care and cleanliness must be exercised, on account of the disastrous results of the intro- duction of septic matter into a joint. The front of the knee should be carefully cleansed, and surrounded with sterilized or perfectly clean cloths. A trocar and cannula, a hypodermic syringe is usually too small and the needle too fine, is boiled and cooled in sterilized water. With a knife, a small super- ficial incision, about a quarter of an inch long, is made, about half an inch to the inner side of the ligamentum patellae, the knee at the time being flexed at a right angle. The trocar and cannula is then thrust through this opening into the joint; on withdrawing the trocar, the fluid escapes through the canula. From the mere appearance of the fluid, it is usually impossible to decide if it is simple synovial fluid or pus, as both may appear turbid. When there is any doubt, the fluid, which has been received in a sterilized syringe, should bo inoculated on a culture medium and examined later by a bacteriologist. A single stitch closes the wound; this, how- ever, is not always needed, as when the joint is empty and the knee extended the incision contracts. The wound should be dressed with gauze and collodion. Besides acute synovitis, the joint may require to be tapped in Charcot’s disease.