208 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE while the grafts are being cut, will arrest all haemorrhage. The best grafts are obtained from the anterior surface of the, thigh, which must have been thoroughly cleansed. An assistant draws the skin down towards the knee, and up towards the groin, by placing the ulnar edge of each hand firmly on the leg, and making traction in opposite directions. The operator fixes the skin by gripping the under surface of the thigh with his left hand, at the same time pressing the thigh upwards, and so flattening out the anterior surface. A razor with a broad blade is required, and this, while the grafts are being cut, should be kept continuously wet with sterilized water. The razor is applied to the surface of the thigh and is made to cut through about half the thickness of the skin, and is then drawn through the skin at the same level, with a sawing motion. The grafts should be cut as wide and as long as possible, each being of the same thickness throughout. As each is cut, it is placed in warm sterilized saline solution, or directly on the wound if the bleeding has ceased. When sufficient have been obtained, and it is always better to cut more than it is thought will be required, the dressings are removed from the surface of the ulcer, this being done gently in order not to restart the haemorrhage. One of the grafts is taken out of the solution and its raw surface applied to the ulcer. It will be found that the edges of the graft turn in and will require flattening out by means of two probes. The entire surface of the ulcer is covered in this manner, care being taken that the grafts extend over the skin edge all round the ulcer, and that they overlap each other. No raw surface must be left uncovered. A piece of wet protective is placed over the grafted area, and over this a dry dressing is firmly fixed. Care must be taken in applying the dressings that the grafts are not shifted. If the ulcer is situated on a limb, this should be immobilized by means of a splint. The dressing is removed at the end of a week, or longer, by care- fully washing it off, in case some of the grafts arc adherent to the protective. The part should again be dressed with pro-