152 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE of a man who during that period had used nearly every variety of injection known. To sum up, urethral injections by diminishing and decolorizing the discharge conduce to the patient’s comfort at a slightly increased risk of epididymo- orchitis; but they only have an indirect effect on the gonococci, which may persist in spite of them. BALANITIS AND BALANOPOSTHITIS. POSTIIOTOMY Balanitis means inflammation of the glans penis, and balanoposthitis inflammation of the prepuce as well. Both are particularly prone to occur in subjects with a long pre- puce. They are usually combined with gonorrhoea, but can occur without it or with other organisms. The inflammatory condition frequently subsides with measures directed towards local cleanliness, baths, syringing, insufflation of antiseptic powders, hot dressings, &c., but in the acute stage an opera- tion may be required ; firstly, to prevent the discharges being pent up; and secondly, to ascertain if there is under the swollen prepuce any such condition as soft sores, a hard chancre, carcinoma, &c. The operation, posthotomy, consists of splitting up the prepuce on the dorsum. A general anaes- thetic is required. After the usual preparations, the pre- putial cavity is syringed out and a director passed along the dorsal side of the glans penis, between it and the prepuce. The oedematous prepuce is divided with a knife on the dorsum until the director is exposed. Scissors are useful to complete the operation, which can be done with them alone if the prepuce is not much swollen. No stitches are required. The incision is carried far enough back to expose the situation where the mucous membrane is reflected on to the neck of the penis. The after-treatment consists of hot dressings, baths, and general cleanliness, combined with the treatment of any specific sore found. The swelling soon subsides; indeed, in the loose tissues of the prepuce a little oedema causes a great deal of swelling. When all has healed, the patient should be circumcised, the operation of posthcc-