180 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE practically free from danger, whilst the risk of recurrence is very small. It is a common practice to leave the stout liga- tures long and not to sew up the mucous membrane. The long ligatures, however, have to be removed by traction, and this is a painful process, whilst they are very uncleanly. Dr. G. R. F. Stillwell, of Beckenham, has urged that the ligatures should not be left at all, the pile being cut away so close to the ligature that it slips off. This is often followed by haemorrhage which must be stopped, otherwise the method is excellent. We would strongly recommend this operation to the practitioner. Its results are excellent and amply repay him. Often in a few days the patient can return to his work. As the operation for haemorrhoids is undergone for definite troubles, such as pain, bleeding, or dirtiness ; and not because of any possible or hypothetical trouble in the future; a patient who has been relieved is truly grateful. Recently, the authors have made a great change in their practice by giving salts, magnesium and sodium sulphates within twenty-four hours of the operation, as suggested by Dr. Stillwell. It is found that such patients can get up earlier and attend to their office or business letters. This is a great advantage to business men and quite compensates them for any slight risk of recurrence. Finally, let the practitioner be on the look-out and guard against the formation of a fissure after the operation, which will mar his results. THROMBOSIS OP HAEMORRHOIDS People will go about with haemorrhoids for years until something like thrombosis, a fissure or strangulation, compels them to submit to operation. In this section we are only concerned with the first of these incidents. It has been contended that what is ordinarily called a thrombosed pile is a small haemorrhage into the tissues. Whichever it is, the pain can be relieved. The patient is given gas whilst lying in the left lateral position, the part quickly washed, the