116 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE adhere; if properly spread, however, the disc adheres firmly, until either epithelial desquamation, the growth of the hair, or the secretions and movements of the skin, loosen it. The flexible tube is curled round, fixed to the abdominal wall with plaster, and its end placed in the i-eceptacle beneath the bed. The patient is instructed to see that the tube does not become kinked, and that he only turns on to the side on which it is led off. The tube must be without a joint, uncoiled, and just long enough to reach the receptacle. Inattention to these points is a common cause of overflow through the top of the glass. The average time for this dressing to remain effective is five days, the longest time recorded being fourteen days. Through the hole at the top of the glass the bladder can be irrigated, the excess of lotion being allowed to run off through the side tube, or a catheter can be passed down the penis and the bladder washed right through. Patients sometimes take their baths, after detaching the side tube, while the dressing is still in place, but this is apt to loosen the rubber disc. With this form of dressing the appearance of the wound is the same as with those dressed in the usual way; several have healed while the dressing has been in position. By this simple means, a patient who before was wet, exceedingly uncomfort- able, and liable to bed sores, can be kept dry, odourless, and comfortable. Large, oval glasses are made which will cover the longest incision. In some cases, but very rarely now, the suprapubic opening is used as a 'permanent drain; in which case the bladder wall is sewn to the skin, or in fat people to the aponeurosis of the recti, with silk sutures, which arc left long so that they can be pulled away later. The tube is l’ctained until a definite sinus has formed, when an instrument is worn permanently over this opening. In these cases the ‘ suprapubic dressing ’ described above acts well; it is fitted and a piece of rubber tubing with lateral holes is inserted into the bladder through the top of the glass, so preventing the opening from closing. The side tube is joined to a portable urinal.