THE ABDOMEN 119 firm hold of the tissues. Four or five in all will be required, and it is a good plan to insert them from below upwards, and not to tie any until all are in position. The edges of the external oblique are then united by interrupted silk sutures. There are two main methods of dealing with the cord; the best is to suture the conjoined tendon to Poupart’s ligament below the spermatic cord, and the external oblique above it as described; this is called Bassini’s operation. The easiest way, but not the best, is to suture both layers above the cord, Foster’s, or, in America, Fergusson’s operation. But the method of suturing the canal is of secondai-y importance to the perfect removal of the sac. The vessels are then ligatured with fine silk and the skin closed with interrupted sutures of fine silkworm-gut or horse- hair. The wound should be dressed with gauze, the edges of which are fixed by collodion, a firm layer of wool and over this a double spica, the hip and knee of that side being flexed and adducted whilst the bandage is being applied. Outside the bandage a piece of jaconet, with a hole in it for the penis, is fixed in order to save the dressings from being soiled. In children the wound should be dressed with gauze and collodion, the other dressings being as above. The stitches are removed in a week; but the patient should not be allowed to get up until at least a fortnight after the operation. No truss need be worn subsequently, but heavy lifting work must not be undertaken for about six months. The above description is brief and quite inadequate to teach a practitioner to perform it who has not seen the operation recently. The practitioner will in that case be well advised to see it per- formed several times, until, in fact, he has become thoroughly familiar with the various steps. Then the above description will serve to remind him of the stages of the operation and their sequence, full accounts of which are given in the large textbooks of operative surgery. It is not a difficult opera- tion ; in adults it requires little special skill in the ordinary cases, and can be confidently undertaken by any surgeon who