THE LIMBS. GENERAL 219 again. The needle should he boiled with the syringe, but it can be sterilized by heating the end in the flame of a spirit lamp. The phials with the antitoxin should be opened and the serum drawn into the syringe, to which the needle is then fitted and the air expelled. A place, usually in the flank, is selected and cleansed. The skin is drawn one way and picked up between the finger and thumb, as in making a hypodermic injection, when the needle of the syringe is introduced under it by a stabbing movement in the same direction. Its full length is introduced. The shin is drawn in the same direction as the needle is inserted, so as to make the injection as far from the puncture hole in the shin as p>ossiblc, and by this device lessen the chance of any of the injection escaping. The injection is made slowly, whilst the skin is kept drawn up. If needful, the syringe can be detached from the needle, which remains in the skin, filled again and more serum injected. After emptying the syringe the needle is withdrawn with a quick movement, its track being closed by the pressure of a finger, and the skin allowed to slide back to its natural situation. This little manoeuvre makes the track valvular and oblique, preventing the escape of serum. The puncture is dressed with gauze and collodion. OBTAINING BLOOD FOB WIDAL’S TEST In the diagnosis of typhoid fever by Widal’s test, it is necessary to draw off a little blood. Tubes for collecting the blood are made of glass with a small bore channel within: the ends are drawn out to fine capillary tubes, and sealed. Just before use, the two extreme ends are broken off. A fin o'er of the patient is washed, cleansed with ether, and stabbed close to the root or side of the nail with the point of a needle, which has been sterilized, by heating it in the flame of a spirit lamp. A drop of blood exudes, one end of the tube is applied to this drop in such a way that the blood runs into the tube, partly by capillarity and partly by gravity. When sufficient has