142 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE PARAPHIMOSIS In paraphimosis the prepuce is retracted over the glans penis, has become oedematous, and cannot be drawn forward, the glans being partially strangulated. When a case presents itself, ascertain exactly where and what the constricting band is, generally the meatal opening of the prepuce is responsible, but sometimes in children the swelling is due to a tight rubber band or metal ring placed round the penis, which has become hidden by the oedematous tissues. Even previous to the examination, in view of the painful nature of the con- dition, inject a few minims of eucaine and adrenalin under the skin on the dorsum of the penis above the constriction. This will paralyse the dorsal nerves. As soon as the part is suf- ficiently anaesthetic, make numerous small punctures with a knife in the oedematous mucous membrane, in order to let the fluid out. When the swelling has decreased, hold the penis firmly, immediately behind the constriction, between the first and second fingers of both hands, the palms being turned upwards; steady downward pressure should then be exerted by the two thumbs on the glans; this will expel some of the oedematous fluid. After pressure has been main- tained for a few minutes the enlarged glans will, in many cases, slip through the constricting prepuce. If this plan does not succeed, the constricting band must be divided on the dorsum by a sharp-pointed bistoury; when doing this an anaesthetic may be required, gas usually being sufficient. As soon as the constricting band is divided the prepuce will slip forward, the part should then be bathed in warm water and wrapped in gauze and wool, or dressed with hot lead lotion. The dressing should be changed every two hours for the first twelve or twenty-four hours, the inner surface of the prepuce being syringed with warm water at each dressing. The swelling will subside in a few days, and circumcision should be advised as soon as the part has healed. If there is any