PREPARATION FOR OPERATIONS 281 chloroform is the anaesthetic employed. It may take place at the commencement of the administration, when the patient is deeply under, or when he is coming round and is about to vomit. The symptoms of cardiac failure sometimes come on with startling rapidity, especially when occurring in the early stages of anaesthesia; but, as a rule, they are more gradual in onset. The anaesthetist should always be on the look-out for the signs of cardiac failure, which are :—The pulse be- comes gradually more rapid and weaker, the pupils dilate, becoming insensitive to light, the face changes in colour, becoming pale, at first the respiration is unaltered but gra- dually becomes shallower until it ceases. The treatment should be preventive to a large extent. The patient should be carefully prepared for the operation; he should not be held down forcibly when conscious by assistants, but gently restrained from doing harm to himself or to those around; he should never be disturbed until fully under the anaesthetic. Administration should always be commenced gradually, par- ticular care being taken if the breath is held not to pour on a large amount and so give an overdose. When cardiac failure has occurred, artificial respiration is the best form of treat- ment. The remedies recommended for dealing with respi- ratory failure apply with equal force to cardiac failure. Other remedies to be tried, while artificial respiration is being carried on, are inhalation of amyl nitrite, hypodermic injec- tions of ether, and the puncturing of the heart with a fine needle. When the cardiac failure is due to shock or loss of blood, stimulants should be given hypodermically, and saline solu- tion injected per rectum or intravenously; if the abdomen is opened hot saline may be poured into the peritoneal cavity, whence it is absorbed very rapidly. The extremities should be raised, swathed in wool and bandaged; the body is warmed by means of hot-water bottles, care being taken not to burn the unconscious patient.