117 THE ABDOMEN When a suprapubic cystotomy is done for the second time on the same patient, special care must be exercised, as, in all probability, the peritoneum will have become adherent to the old scar and be easily opened, as it cannot be retracted until separated with the knife. INGUINAL HERNIA The practitioner may elect to undertake the operation of ‘ radical cure ’ of an inguinal hernia, either as the sequel to an operation for strangulated hernia or as a primary opera- tion. Although not difficult, this operation requires consider- able practice before it can be done quickly and well. Let it be remembered that three factors are necessary, in order to obtain the best result possible in any particular person: there must be good structures to suture, the operation must be correctly done, and the wound must heal by first intention. The inguinal region is shaved and thoroughly cleansed, and a piece of gauze is placed over the penis, which is held to one side by a towel, great care being taken that the wound is not contaminated. An incision, about 3 inches or more long, is made above and parallel to Poupart’s ligament, in the direction of the inguinal canal, starting below over the external abdominal ring. In very stout patients the incision must be made longer. The skin and fat are divided, exposing the external oblique muscle; the external abdominal ring is defined by passing the end of a pair of artery forceps into it, —a finger must not be used. The aponeurosis of the external oblique is split in the direction of its fibres from the external abdominal ring upwards, and the cut edges clipped with artery forceps and held apart. The cord is lifted from the canal with forceps and placed on a retractor, its contents spread out, and the sac of the hernia defined with two pairs of dissecting forceps. If the sac contains adherent gut or omentum it is easily identified; but if thin and empty, there may be some difficulty in finding it. If it cannot be dis- covered, the patient should be allowed to come round from the