104 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE caruncles spring should also be cauterized, and it is advisable whilst doing so to introduce some instrument into the urethra to protect it. The growth can also be dealt with by excision. The bladder should be emptied and the urethra dilated; the growth is then dissected off the floor of the urethra with fine forceps and scissors, care being taken to remove the base of the tumour. Free haemorrhage generally occurs, but this can be controlled by passing a few fine catgut stitches through the cut surface of the urethral mucous membrane. Iodoform is dusted on the wound and a firm dressing applied. The operation may cause retention of urine for a few days, necessitating the use of a cathetei’, when scrupulous cleanliness must be observed or septic trouble may ensue. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE FEMALE BLADDER Foreign bodies are sometimes introduced into the female bladder through curiosity or sexual aberration. Whatever the motive of introduction, they require to be removed. The patient is anaesthetized, the vagina douched, the vulva shaved and cleansed. The patient should be placed in the lithotomy position. The labia are held apart and the urethra dilated with sounds. It is a refinement to have special instruments for this purpose. Though not so conveniently shaped, ordinary male urethral sounds can be used to begin with, and followed by uterine dilators. When the orifice is large enough, the finger should be introduced and the foreign body felt and examined. Forceps are then introduced, alongside the finger if possible, and the body seized and extracted. It is very frequent to find a hairpin, in which case care must be taken that the sharp ends inflict no harm on the soft structures as the pin is withdrawn. This is best accomplished by seizing the blunt curved end. At the conclusion of the operation the bladder is well washed out. Afterwards the patient is given 15 grains of citrate of potash four times, and some urinary antiseptic such as urotropin, 3 grains, three times a day. It necessary the bladder must be washed out. Often the patients