172 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE uterus is being curetted for retained products. When the douching is finished the hand should be placed on the abdomen, and the uterus compressed to expel all fluid from its interior. The inside of the uterus is then dried by means of cotton wool fixed on to the end of a Playfair’s probe. It is best to swab the interior of the uterus with an antiseptic solution such as tincture of iodine or iodized phenol, consisting of iodine 4 parts, carbolic acid 1 part. When using these solutions care must be taken not to touch surrounding structures with them; introduce a Sim’s speculum posteriorly, pull the cervix down with the volsellum, place some gauze in the vagina, and then, having dipped the probe covered with wool into the solution, pass it up the cervical canal into the interior of the uterus, pressing it against the walls : then withdraw it. As a rule very little haemorrhage occurs. If, however, it is at all severe a plug of gauze inserted into the vagina, by pressing on the cervix, will usually stop it; severe haemorrhage generally comes from a tear in the cervix. If this fails to stop the bleeding, or if it is copious, the cervix must be exposed and any bleeding point ligatured or con- trolled by means of a stitch. If the blood comes from the interior of the uterus, a strip of gauze soaked in adrenalin must be introduced; this will usually stop it at once, but it must be removed within twenty-four hours. After curetting, the patient must remain in bed for three or four days, the vagina being douched once or twice daily. The chief dangers of the operation are: (1) Perforation of the uterine wall with the curette, but if care is taken this occurs very rarely; in many instances no harm results from this accident, but in some a septic peritonitis is set up. (2) Sepsis, and this danger can be greatly reduced by careful attention to technique. SUTURE OF RUPTURED PERINEUM The practitioner is certain sooner or later to meet with a ruptured perineum, however carefully it is protected during labour. It should always be sutured immediately after the