145 MALE GENITOURINARY be sitting up in a chair, standing against a wall, or in such a position that he is unable to draw back as the puncture is made. The exact position of the testis must always be determined by means of the translucency test and by palpation, it being found usually below and behind the hydrocele. The scrotum, having been cleansed, is grasped from behind by the left hand, pushing the hydrocele forwards, and at the same time making the skin tense. A spot, free from any large veins, is selected on the anterior and lower part of the swelling, and the trocar and cannula introduced with a sharp stabbing movement; the instrument should be guarded by the finger, which is held about 1 inch from the end, to prevent its penetrating too far and perhaps wounding the testis. On withdrawing the trocar the fluid escapes; when all has been drawn off the cannula is removed and the puncture covered with a small piece of gauze and collodion. If an irritant is to be injected, an exploratory syringe will be required capable of holding one drachm, and the cannula must be of such a size that it will fit the syringe. The hydrocele is tapped in the manner described above; the cannula, however, is not withdrawn, but the syringe, containing 1 drachm of carbolic, is fitted on to it. As the carbolic is injected the patient experiences a feeling of warmth, followed by one of numbness, but has practically no pain. The cannula is withdrawn and the puncture closed as above; the scrotum is then manipulated to bring the injection into contact with the whole surface of the tunica vaginalis. It is best when possible for the patient to remain in bed for a day after- wards. In certain cases, especially in young adults who can spare the time to lay up, or when there is a question of the possibility of the hydrocele being dependent on any pathological condition of the testis, it is better to recommend an ‘ open ’ operation. A general anaesthetic should be given, the pubes and scrotum shaved and thoroughly cleansed. The penis is wrapped in gauze and covered with a towel to keep it away from the site of incision. The swelling is rendered tense by grasping it from