209 THE LIMBS. GENERAL tective, which can be left on for about the same time, and then the wound, if satisfactory, is dressed with boracic ointment. The situation from which the grafts are taken should be covered with protective gauze, and a dry dressing. This need not be changed for about ten days, when it will be found generally that the wound has healed; if, however, this is not the case, an ointment dressing should be applied. The patient often complains of more pain in the part from which the grafts have been taken than anywhere else. Recent wounds will not require scraping, it is only necessary to have the surface thoroughly clean. The grafts are cut and applied in exactly the same manner as described above. After grafting an ulcer on the lower limbs, the patient should not walk until at least two months have elapsed. The grafted area may be protected by lightly covering the part with a gauze bandage, which is painted layer by layer with Unna’s dressing.1 The whole is covered by a neat, firm bandage. PLASTER OF PARIS SPLINTS Plaster of Paris splints are used chiefly for treating fractures of the limbs and for tuberculous disease of the joints. The great virtue of plaster of Paris is that it makes an almost ideal splint; fitting the part perfectly and, at the same time, securing absolute immobilization. It can be employed in many different ways, but the two following are the methods most commonly used : (1) Plaster of Paris bandage; (2) Bavarian 'plaster of Paris splints. Both methods will be described as applicable to the fitting of a splint to the lower limb; the splints can, however, be used for other parts of the body in a very similar manner. In the case of a recent fracture or where any deformity has to be corrected, it is always advisable to administer a general anaesthetic. Should 1 This dressing consists of oxide of zinc in gelatin made into a solid at ordinary temperature. It is molted by placing the vessel which contains it in warm water, when it is painted with an ordinary brush on each layer of gauze.