39 ANAESTHETICS METHOD OF ADMINISTERING CHLOROFORM Chloroform should always be given by the open method ; it is best to have some form of wire frame large enough to cover the mouth and nose (Skinner’s mask answers the purpose admir- ably), over which a piece of flannel is stretched. A graduated drop bottle should be employed for administering the chloro- form and a finger should always be held on the stopper to prevent it falling out. The position of the patient is very important: he should be recumbent, with the head slightly turned to one side; and never in the upright position. He should be directed to breathe gently and to keep the eyes closed, as the vapour is very irritating. A few drops of chloroform are put on the mask, which is held 2 or 3 inches off the patient’s face and gradually lowered, chloro- form being dropped on it from time to time; the great essential is to commence slowly, coughing being usually an indication of too rapid induction. If retching occurs in the early stages press the anaesthetic; if vomiting occurs remove the mask, open the mouth and see that all vomited matter is cleared out before continuing the anaesthetic. The adminis- trator continues to drop chloroform on the mask, this being done more frequently than at the start, and the patient rapidly passes into the stage of excitement, the pupils being dilated and the conjunctival reflex present. This is the dangerous period ; an increasing amount of the drug must be given, but at the same time more air should be admitted by lifting the mask from the face every now and then. The patient soon quiets down and passes into the third stage, with contracted pupils, quiet respiration and the superficial reflexes absent. If the drug is pressed much further the patient will pass into the fourth stage, with dilated, insen- sitive pupils and both, deep and superficial, reflexes absent; this is a dangerous condition, for very little more of the drug- will cause death. The patient, to be in an ideal condition should have a good colour, quiet, regular, rather deep respira-