MALE GENITOURINARY 147 detected by fluctuation, the abscess should be opened from outside. The part is shaved, cleansed, and an incision made, under gas or local anaesthesia, over the swelling and the pus evacuated. The part should be dressed with hot fomentations, and the patient can sit in a warm bath twice daily. When a stricture is present, it must be dilated or the condition will recur. The acute abscesses which may complicate acute gonorrhoea are more likely to lead to a urethral fistula, on account of the sloughing of the tissues, than are the more subacute abscesses secondary to a stricture, provided that the stricture is treated. URETHRAL IRRIGATION This is an excellent method of treating urethral discharges. It is employed in two ways : for the anterior urethra and for the posterior or deep urethra. The patient should micturate immediately before irrigation. 1. Irrigation of the anterior urethra. An ordinary douche tin capable of holding one or more pints is connected by a rubber tube to a glass nozzle. The injection is diluted with warm water and put in the douche tin, and is prevented from flowing down the tube by a pinchcock. The patient can stand, in which case the contraction of the compressor urethrae prevents the injection entering the deep urethra. But in subjects who have had urethritis before, particularly a long gleet, this contraction is untrustworthy, and it is better for the patient to sit on the angle or arm of a chair, or on a firm cushion, with his legs apai’t. He holds a kidney porringer, and there is a pail at his feet. The douche tin should only be at the height of the patient’s pelvis. The glass nozzle has two lateral flanges to facilitate the return of the injection. The pinchcock is released and the tube and nozzle emptied of air, the latter is then insinuated between the lips of the meatus and turned through a right angle to ensure that the flanges open up the urethra, so allowing the fluid to return. The injection is run in slowly, care being taken to ascertain that