128 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE made to remove them, the local swelling making this difficult and consequently painful. A sound should not be passed for at least a week, and then only once or twice. The best form of dressing is some boracic ointment on lint. If there is much pain on micturition, the urine can be passed while the patient is lying in a hot bath. It facilitates the operation if the edges are undercut in removing the little triangular lump of tissue, and if the mucous membrane of the fossa navicularis is freed before inserting the stitches, three rect- angular mattress sutures are sufficient. The dilatation of the urethra to form the fossa navicularis, and the looseness of the urethra in that situation, aid con- siderably in the performance of this little plastic operation. PHIMOSIS Circumcision and Phimosis. Phimosis is a very common, condition and consequently the practitioner will frequently have the opportunity of performing the operation of circum- cision. The technique differs considerably in the baby and the adult. In a healthy baby the operation can be performed at any age, and the pain is so small that it is unjustifiable to submit the patient to the risk of chloroform anaesthesia. It is as well to remember that a baby of one month is less sensitive to pain than one of twelve months, so for preference the operation should be done during the first few months of a child’s life. A clean towel is wrapped round the body so that the infant cannot move its arms; its legs, covered by another towel, are held round the ankles by an assistant; the baby resents this less than fixing the legs by a bandage. The part is then carefully washed. The prepuce is now freed from the glans, to which it is often adherent, with a probe or director, care being taken not to pass the instrument into the urethra. This step is important because unless the adhesions are separated the foreskin cannot be drawn forward without the glans, which might be injured. The tip of the prepuce is held with forceps, care being taken not to pull it too far