OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE 78 which protects the rest of the system from infection. No stitches .are inserted, the wound being dressed with hot fomentations ; these are changed frequently, and will speedily cause the carbuncle to heal, if it has been thoroughly opened. As the inflammation extends under the skin, superficially rather than deeply, any spreading of the septic process can be recognized by an extending area of tenderness and hardness. If the septic process is not extending, and the carbuncle does not improve rapidly, examine carefully for diabetes, kidney disease, and cirrhosis of the liver, any of which may be responsible for the delay in healing. The simple crucial incision can be made under gas, but if more than this is necessary it is better to give chloroform, or gas followed by ether. Boils in the neck require much the same treatment as car- buncles ; the condition is, as a rule, milder, and consequently does not require such severe measures. One incision is usually sufficient. Older surgeons had a method of dealing with carbuncles or boils not requiring incision, which is at times satisfactory. The affected area is covei’ed with an irritant ointment (unguentum sabinae, B.P.), which helped the boil or carbuncle to open and shed the slough. Sebaceous cysts, dermoids and similar tumours can be re- moved by the methods already described (see pp. 44-47). LI POM AT A There are two varieties, the circumscribed and the diffuse. A circumscribed lipoma is easily removed, owing to the fact that it is surrounded by a capsule. An anaesthetic should be administered, and the part thoroughly cleansed; the skin over the tumour is made tense by pressing with the finger and thumb on each side of it, but, at the same time, care must be taken not to contaminate the skin over the site of incision. A cut is then made through the skin and superficial fascia down to the capsule; this is incised, and the lipoma can be easily shelled out. A blunt dissector may be used, but never