168 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE curved, the cylindrical end having a blunted extremity, and arc numbered from one to twenty-six, gradually increasing in size. Before use they should be sterilized by boiling, and laid in order on a sterilized towel. The patient is anaes- thetized and placed in the lithotomy position, an antiseptic vaginal douche given, and the external parts thoroughly cleansed. The anterior and posterior lips of the cervix are each seized with a volsellum; when traction is put on them, the uterine canal is straightened and the cervix fixed. A sound is passed in order to determine the length and direction of the uterine canal. There is no need to commence the dilatation with the smallest sized bougie, as the normal cervix will usually admit No. 6; this is held by the handle, dipped into sterilized paraffin or glycerine in an upright vessel, and passed up the cervix in the direction of the canal, as indicated by the uterine sound. If this passes in easily it is withdrawn and the next size inserted, and so on until the internal os offers resistance to the passage of one of them, which is gripped on attempting to withdraw it. AVhen this occurs the instrument is left in the canal, and after a few minutes it will be found that the resistance has passed off. The instru- ment is withdrawn and the next size introduced. The bougies are passed in this manner, with occasional pauses to allow the resistance to be overcome, until the required dilatation is obtained. If it is desired to use the curette, the dilatation will have to be carried up to No. 10 ; if the interior of the uterus is to be explored with the finger, up to No. 20. TENTS There are two varieties which are commonly used, the sponge and the laminaria; the latter are the slower, the more powerful in action, and the more frequently employed. Laminaria tents when placed in water become enlarged and useless as dilators. Therefore they must be stored dry in a dustproof box, and, before use, placed in a 1 in 2,000