102 OPERATIONS OF GENERAL PRACTICE performing an oesophagotomy. This operation is robbed of half its dangers if proceeded with before septic ulceration of the oesophagus has occurred. A fish-bone lodged in the oesophagus is an occurrence with which the practitioner has to deal occasionally. It is always situated higher than the patient imagines, consequently the pharynx must be thoroughly examined by the aid of a strong light and a head mirror, before resorting to the passage of the probang, or to more serious measures. It should also be remembered that if a small fish-bone has wounded the wall of the oesophagus and subsequently been dislodged, it will give rise to pain, leading the patient to imagine that it is still present. The more carefully the pharynx is examined the more often is a fish-bone found. There is much to be said for anaesthetizing the pharynx by swabbing it with a five per cent, cocaine solution ; the patient’s uneasy sensations are relieved and the pharynx can be examined with ease. CARIES OF THE RIBS Fluctuating swellings on the ribs of children and young adults are almost always due to caries of the ribs. The condition is not infrequent and it is unusual for other signs of tuberculosis to be present. Operation must be combined with general treatment, and then very satisfactory results are obtained. After the patient has been anaesthetized, and the skin prepared, the swelling is incised in a direction parallel to the rib affected. When the pus has been evacuated, the diseased bone is thoroughly scraped away with a sharp spoon, and the walls of the cavity curetted; it is then washed out with sterilized water, and the wound com- pletely sewn up. If the incision heals by first intention, there will probably be no return of the trouble. On the other hand, if the wound is infected by other organisms, which is almost bound to happen unless the wound is completely sewn up, in all probability there will be some necrosis of the rib. In some cases it is advisable to resect the rib and remove the