70 Cake Decoration and Flower Piping. question of “ looks ” ; and to this end it is necessary for the ornamentalist to know as much about the thing to be imitated in its natural state as possible. Suppose, for instance, one is desirous (as we often have to do) of piping a climbing clematis or canary creeper round a gateau in the shape of a bee-hive or some other shape, well, without the knowledge of these flowers in their natural state, we certainly cannot aspire to reproduce even approximately anything like their beauty, for, after all, imitations are but imitations, and if the imitation is poor to the real flower what must a poor imitation be by the side of a very good imitation to the natural and perfect article. My advice to my readers then is, don’t take second-hand models—no, not even mine—but go straight to the floral world and select for yourselves what your taste directs you to choose, and try your best to reproduce them in as perfect a manner as you can. Now the method of reproducing or forming flowers is, of course, another question. This part the floral king- dom will not reveal to any but the most diligent and per- severing student, and in these days, when time is so valuable and one’s living greatly depends on possessing practical and immediate or present knowledge, the question of how to do things must be settled at once, and then the theory will be all the more welcome later on when by constant observation it will come, for whilst we live in the future (it has been said “ we live in the present.”). This is not true. We do not live in the present, nor in the past; but, in the real sense, we live in our aspirations, our desires, our hopes, and these are all in the future. But whilst this is true, the fact still remains that the body in which our real selves are clothed must be sustained, and to do that very important part of our duty we must have, as I have remarked, immediate and present know- ledge. This knowledge, then, I will offer my friends, and leave them to improve on as opportunity offers, if they find they are able so to do. I will make this question as simple as possible, and to do so I will take first a section of a flower at the time, and