A Basket ok Flowers. 15 of 1895, “Piping and Ornamentation,” and need not, therefore, deal with it here, only so far as to say that I must again emphasize what I said in that book, and for which ample reason has been afforded since, in the work exhibited at the various shows in the kingdom ; for whilst (as intimated above) some have dared to get out of the “beaten track” of colour in cake decoration, it is only natural to expect, as we have seen, that some will overdo the amount of colour, whilst others have so violated the rules given in my first book as to disgust the onlooker completely, and to produce a most painful feeling in the minds of all wellwishers of the art of piping. For instance, at one show, in the case of one who should, and did, know better, a spray or wreath of forget-me-nots, which was placed or piped round his cake was of such a revolting and ugly blue, in contrast to the white ground of his work, that one was compelled to exclaim, “ Does this gentleman represent Reckitt’s Blue Factory ? If so, he has done that firm an irreparable injury.” Study the rules which govern the question of colour, as laid down in “ Piping and Ornamentation,” in the chapter on “General Hints” and the one on “ Colour and its Application to Cakes,” and not only a pleasing effect should be the result, but you will have helped somewhat in the effort to lift the taste both of our fellow-workmen and the public to a higher standard of excellence. My first design, by way of illustration, is a representation of a basket of flowers (Fig 1). The basket, of course, may be made to imitate the usual wickerwork of any design or pattern ; but, whichever pattern is decided upon, the method of production is the same. You require for the above a tin, either a 7-lb. icing sugar tin, round, or a piece of sheet tin bent to the desired shape of your in- tended basket. This tin must be prepared with a little paraffin wax. The tin is made hot in the' oven, and the wax (which must be quite colourless) rubbed over the surface till a thin coating of it covers the part on which you are going to pipe your basket. Next, with a small cornet of piping paper, filled with Royal icing (see “ Piping and Ornamentation,” page 21), mark out the out-