35 Freehand Piping—Preparatory. the tube, and then try one’s hand at a simple piece of either carving in block salt, or piping an easy sample of, say, “ landscape,” either from a picture or from nature, the former preferred, after which one can come to the question of modelling in Royal icing with the tube. Say you commence by piping a country lane in colours. First sketch in pencil; this will help you at the start, and afterwards one may dispense with the aid of the pencil by substituting for it a paper cornet filled with very pale amber-coloured sugar. Mark out the sky line, and then proceed to fill in the objects of the picture— such as the cottage, barn, or other buildings, hedges, and so on, and then try and raise the various parts by filling in the various colours. Before giving illustrations of this kind of piping, allow me first to give you a recipe and information as to how the panels, or plaques, should be made and produced. These are made of gum paste, as a rule; but they may be manufactured on a much cheaper scale, if necessary. The first composition is made by using, say, for “ gum paste,” ^ lb. of very fine icing sugar. J lb. of starch powder. Very small pinch of powdered blue, and enough dissolved gum arabic to produce a firm smooth pliable white paste, well rubbed down on a clean marble or slate slab, and when not using it (the paste, not the marble), kept in an earthenware jar covered with a lid and damp cloth, as exposure to the air dries it. The second composition is as follows :—Take the gelatine mixture given in “ Piping and Ornamentation,” but use “ Gold Medal ” French glue, not ordinary “ sheet gela- tine,” as so many people are very stupidly advised to use by those professing to know, but who evidently do not, and use this in the place of the “gum arabic” with the same proportion of ingredients as given above for “gum paste,” and mix in the same manner. When finished put into covered jar for use. For the purpose of forming the plaques, use a smooth hard boxwood rolling-pin, and roll out on a stone slab of some sort so as to produce a very even and smooth surface, and cut out the plaques