24 Cake Decoration and Flower Piping. handsome looking-glasses of the present day. Next by going round the bottom of the bevel with the No. 3 tube, and afterwards the top of the bevel, two circles are obtained in which the chain or opposite loops are worked, which loops are raised, as in Fig 5, by going over them three or four times with smaller tubes as one gets nearer the finish. The inner parts are worked out in keeping with the border and in proper proportion, towards the centre of the top of the cake. Also the same method must be adopted when one has to work out the “ side.” This design looks very attractive when marked out in two colours, taking the loops alternately. The top of the cake, when iced and bevelled, may be covered with silver paper the same way that Golden Wedding cakes and Silver Wedding cakes are covered on the sides, and then piped on that. Again the foundation glazing may be varied by colouring it different tints, but these must on no account be of a deep colour, or the effect will be spoiled. Fig. 7 is a design of the usual “ thread work ” style, and is worked out on eight points in two circles : and here let me describe how to get a perfect circle of any size, and in the centre of the cake. I have said some- ; t « where in my first book to the effect that one should be as ready with his tube to mark out any pattern, without the aid of any other help than his own tubes, as one would with a box of geometrical instruments; and fitting two perfect circles on the top of a cake is as difficult a piece of work as any I know. But, with the following instructions and method, any one with an ordinary amount of intelligence should accom- plish it very easily. First, then, get your cake placed on the centre of your revolving stand (our latest stand is fitted with ball bearings, and works in consequence very smoothly and evenly ; price 7s. 6d.; we have some brass fittings, 6s. 6d.). Now fill your cornet with Royal icing, and have ready by your side something slightly higher than the top of the cake you wish to ornament, say a tin or a box turned upside down, on which to rest your hand, in