12 Cake Decoration and Flower Piping. dally in the London exhibitions, is only too painfully self- evident. For instance, there is a very good general work- man; he puts in a one, two, or three-tier cake, as the case may be; his time is limited, and perhaps his means (I wonder if this is a good guess); and this production is placed in competition with a work which, on the face of it, says, “ it took my master some months to mould and finish me,” in addition to the amount of money necessary to build such a costly production. The question, there- upon, comes from many lips, “ Who is the best workman ? Which is the best cake)” And to answer that question it is best to be like the old Greek with a dash of the Scotchman in him, and tell a little story and ask another question. “ Once upon a time”—this is the orthodox way to begin—“two men appeared at the entrance of an Aca- demy in London, one dressed in fine cloth and soft felt hat, with hair that indicated the artist and a face that indicated that the wearer had received a good education, andwas living an evenly-balanced and well-ordered life; the other the ordinary type of a working man with a family of eight, not including his wife—because his appearance would seem to point to her absence, as it does to many of his brethren. Coming down the marbled hall of the Aca- demy are two persons, one a little man with a very active big mind, a small body with a big head, and beside him a little boy of lively disposition and brisk manner, with an intelligent face and enquiring eyes. “ Who are those gentlemen at the door, Mr. Secretary?”—for the little man with the important gait was the secretary of the society. “Oh, they are both—well both artists, or rather, painters, my boy,” was the reply. “ Are they both very clever, Mr. Secretary ? ” “ What at, house or picture painting?” “ Oh! picture painting, of course.” “Well, the gentleman in the felt hat is the cleverest picture painter on canvas, but the other makes pictures of houses. You see, my boy, one paints pictures merely to look at and admire, whilst the other paints them to use as well as to be admired—one to look at, the other to live in.” “ Then which is the cleverer of the two ? ” “ Fll give it up.” And so with those who produce speci- i