The Forward Movement of Piping. ii they commenced learning—and this I say to their credit —but young in the knowledge of piping, I mean) to the tempting danger of trying to excel in something very elaborate before well mastering the first stages or elemen- tary principles of the art of cake decoration. There is only one way to the top, and that way is by going down, on the principle of “ He that humbleth himself shall be exalted.” Although it may seem a contradiction to say so, I have been struck with the fact of late years— especially at the Exhibitions—that, whilst some of the work shown has given ample proof of the ability of the workman to produce a work of art, the very same men have, by their demonstrations in some of the halls, shown their inability to produce a work of commercial value and requirements. They have either shown their lack of any idea of the underlying principles of designing, or their inability to come down to every-day commercial require- ments, or both. Now, whilst I am desirous of seeing progress (as much progress as you like) in our confectionery productions in the higher grade of our trade—I must insist, both for the individual as well as for the good of tradesmen generally, that to be “commercial” in our capacity for work is the first, and very first, Article of our Faith as confectioners. The authorities of the various exhibitions are responsible for a great deal of this unsatisfactory state of things for not making it more clear wffiat is wanted when competitors enter the arena of battle for the trophies. The sort of work is left entirely to the discretion of the competitor, with scarcely any limit—in fact, without any limit, abso- lutely as to the time to be spent on a five-guinea cake. Does not this tend to a great deal of unnecessary discus- sion on the part of the judges, and also a lot of un- necessary comments and unfavourable impressions on the part of those competing, and of those who, whilst they do not compete, take a very keea interest in the trade of which they are members, as is evidenced by the fact of so many being present at the various trade shows? The difficulty (if difficulty there is) is very easily got over. That this state of things requires remedying, espe- B 2