64 Cake Decoration and Flower Piping. whole is executed in pale cream to imitate ivory as nearly as possible. The next piece of work (Fig. 31) will, I think, give suf- ficient illustration of what can be done in sugar. It is a portrait album moulded from marzipan or almond paste, the top cover being covered in chocolate, whilst the whole is mapped out into divisions. The centre medallion is un- like those given before, as instead of showing the convex side ofit, in the presentcase it shows the concave, and is pro- duced by moulding it. When the almond paste is moulded, and before the chocolate (which is pure block chocolate) is applied, it is placed in position, and is then afterwards picked out with a paper cornet filled with golden-coloured sugar, made by mixing yellow with a very little red colour. The four faces, one in each corner of the album, are then piped in and the centre. The clasp of the album is piped on glass separately, and when dry gilded with liquid gold, as is alo the edges of leaves, and fixed to the part of the album required. Fig. 32 (p. 66) represents a statue of “ Victory.” This, like the former, is done little by little, and should not be attempted without some pains have been taken to master the details first. Say, take a division of the sub- ject, and when this has been mastered, take another divi sion, and so on, and when the details have been mas- tered, try the whole. It must, however, be a work of love, not one of labour; it must come from the heart, the desire, or the work will not be worth producing—in short, it must have sympathy stamped on and in it to be successful. The child Christ (see Fig. 33, p. 67), is depicted in the act of descent, being borne to earth by the angels, one child angel on either side of the mother angel, smoothly gliding through the air on the angelic mission of bringing to us poor fallible mortals the knowledge of the possibility of our being able to rise to better and nobler things by catching the inspiration, which always comes to us from a pure, noble, and self-sacri- ficing life spent in the service of humanity. First of all mark out on glass your subject, and fill in with sugar