19 A Basket of Flowers. yellow (pale), or yellow tinted with very pale red—or with orange, rather deeper than the yellow—either of the narcis- sus or wild rose type. The border is a conventional treat- ment of the Canterbury bell flower, lying touching one another all round on the edge, produced by working each one with a plain No. 3 tube, and finishing off with a No. 1. The colour is pale pink with a yellowish-green tinted foundation ; that is, the cake is iced a pale amber green. The colours, of course, may be reversed, or varied tints may be indulged in as the artist should desire to keep within the rules of colour in its application to Cake decorations, always remembering that what we are ornamenting is meant not only to look at, but to eat also. Note.—To get the raised work off the tin the whole must be made slightly hot by inserting in the tin a piece of lighted paper, or it should be placed in the oven for one minute, and the wrork should deliver very readily. But be careful not to make the tin over heated, or the sugar will absorb the wax and stick to the tin. If this should happen let the whole get cool, and the work will deliver if again made slightly warm. Another very pretty effect in producing the foregoing basket design in raised work is by cutting out a piece of glazed coloured paper, or litmus or green-tinted paper, the shape of the outline given in Fig. 2 (page 17), and pipe on top of the paper in place of the greased tin. This would give variety, and somewhat strengthen the work, when lifting it from the tin ; not that it is difficult to lift it when dry, for it is one of the simplest things in the world, as the man said when he caught the rabbit—he had only to get hold of it. Another pretty effect is to get some narrow cream silk ribbon or pink silk ribbon, and with it tie some bows or knots. With a little Royal icing, fix one of these in front of the handle on the basket or on top of the handle ; but do not have it very large, or it will spoil the effect, and look clumsy. The basket may also have some fruit put in to