28 Cake Decoration and Flower Piping. and cut out the shape of your vase by folding the paper in half and cutting out the desired size, and, of course, the desired shape. Whilst the shape given is the usual shape, it does not follow that one is bound to this particular one, for there are many. Place the shape on the cake in position, and mark round the edge (on the cake) of the pattern ; remove the paper, and fill in the centre of pattern with pink sugar; “fondant” is the prettiest, as it retains its glaze. Well bulge the vase, so that it is not too flat, and pipe it with two different shades of sugar, using a No. i plain tube, and drawing lines straight across both ways, thus forming squares. Mark out the embellishments on either side of the vase, and proceed to raise the handles by piping over the outline three or four times ; next fill in the stems of the flowers with a greenish-yellow sugar, imitating the natural stem as near as possible, and afterwards pipe the narcissus with a No. 2 size flower tube (we keep these tubes, 3s. 6d the set for all flowers); when the leaves of the flower are piped, fill in the eye of the flower with a little yellow icing with a paper cornet, and afterwards go over the eye of each with a thin line of very bright red; the border is put on with a shell tube, marking them very close together; and then with a No. 1 or 2 plain tube go over each division and raise the scroll as in the illustration. Freehand piping, to which I shall later on devote a chapter, is, no doubt, the most fascinating, as well as the most attractive and difficult to accomplish, in the whole realm of ornamented work ; but, whilst this is true, the difficulty is in mastering it, inasmuch as this kind of piping lends itself to very attractive and beautiful work. On the opposite page we give a specimen. The centre of the design (Fig. 9) is a chocolate medal- lion, on which is piped a moonlight scene; but, it is almost—in fact, it is quite—impossible to convey any adequate idea, in the absence of colour, of this beauti- ful style of work. This sketch is really very good, the colour of the moss-roses and the contrast between the delicate foliage and the chocolate—which are neces- sarily absent in the illustration—being most effective.