50 Cake Decoration and Flower Piping. of cake shapes, it is quite as legitimate to have a square- shaped cake as a round or circular one. One of my lady pupils very successfully competed in one of the exhibitions in London with a two-tier heart- shaped cake, which was not only very novel, but very appropriate—two hearts being joined in one. Now don’t run straight off and put this into practice by making the “ apple of your eye ” a part of yourself in matrimonial unity because I have given the above suggestion ; not that there are not worse things in the world to do than that, but because weighty responsibilities require serious considera- tions. However, if you will do it—and I followed my father’s good example and did it—well do it. Fig. 22 is an illustration of a novel cake, and the first of its sort introduced into a London exhibition by one of my first pupils, and which was successful in winning the highest award—Gold Medal. It is a fountain, and, as will be seen, consists of three tiers, the beautiful floral figuring on the bottom tier—conventional of course—is what I believe to be the highest form of piping, neat, clean, and well-defined, without too much detail. The water representing the flowing spray of crystal is piped on greased glass and fixed in position, and then finished off by going over it with a little more sugar to “ round ” it off, the bottom tiers, of course, representing the basin part of the drinking fountain. This drinking-fountain shape is very easily obtained by using our instruments for shaping it, price 6s. 6d. the set. A two-tier Golden Wedding cake, shown on Fig. 23 (page 52), gives one another illustration of how classic work may be used to advantage—the flowing floral flags. A conventional treatment of the lily is piped on gold paper, with plain tubes and paper cornets ; but whilst I am giving a sample of this work it will be found difficult, and will require a great deal of practice before one gets anything like proficient in the work, but still, do not give in on this account, but try till your efforts are crowned with success. The border of the bottom tier is my “cockle-shell border,” introduced to the trade in the year 1893, and it has become one of the lasting borders