48 Cake Decoration and Flower Piping. different, and capped with a dome of thread-work piping, the object for which it was piped being table decoration, “ a centre piece.” In the question of how classic piping may be turned to advantage, the following illustration will give some idea. The plaque or medallion on the bottom tier of this cake, is one of four. As will be seen, it is piped in with scroll and wheat figuring, and represents the Goddess of Plenty holding wheat-sheaves, &c., in her hands. The medal- lions are oval, and running up on either side of it are flowers. The second tier is of the floral spray, flowing piping treated conventionally, whilst the top and third tier is a wreath of different piped flowers, round the cen- tre of the “side”; the borders, as will be seen, whilst of the thread-work style, are varied both in construction and finish, the bottom tier being divided in the centre of each division, whilst between the squares is cross-piping. I would draw the attention of my readers to the finish- ing edge of each border. This part of piping in most of the work 1 have examined at vaiious times at different com- petitions has been sadly neglected, the whole of the pipers’ attention apparently being given and devoted to the string-work portion of the design, leaving the very impor- tant part, the finishing, to take care of itself. The different tiers are raised in this cake by pieces of piped wood, leaving a space of 3 ins. between each tier, which, of course, necessitates the piping of the bottom and second tier cakes on the top, the third tier holding the base and bouquet of flowers not requiring this extra piping. Arti- ficial flowers, in the present instance, are used to connect the divisions of the borders. I need hardly add that the pieces of wood supporting the tiers may (as in this case) be cut from a broom-handle, and must be of one equal length. Also that a board is put under each cake to prevent the sup- ports piercing the cake and thus jeopardising its equili- brium ; the supports may be piped in pale green, which shows through the mass of white very effectively and prettily. Whilst on this question of finished cakes, I may say here that one is not bound to the old stereotyped styles