II GENERAL REMARKS. not into weekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. The best places and times for purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a discount of five per cent, is allowed for ready-money in London and other large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops; but it is safest to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, besides which, a higher price must be paid, and in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregularity and failure of payment may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and also contribute to the destruction of many families from the highest to the lowest. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted; for people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances, but it is presumed that a judicious arrangement according to them will be found equally advantageous to all. The minutise of management must be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank; and some ladies, not deficient in either, charge them- selves with giving out, once in a week or month, to a superin- tending servant, such quantities of household articles, as by observation and calculation they know to be sufficient, re- serving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice versd,. Such a degree of judgment will be respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are aiot interested in the ignorance of their employers; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maids in the capacity of housekeepers; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the economical observations in