54 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. To stew a Rump of Beef. Wash it well and season high with salt, allspice, pepper, cayenne, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it in a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat; add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savory, marjoram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several sorts ; let there be a good handful all together. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate ; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, etc. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness, add a few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stew- ing.—A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great improve- ment to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is generally sold whole with the edge-bone, or cut across instead of lengthwise, as in London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Stewed Rump—another way. Half roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small-beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or