9 GENERAL REMARKS. objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, respectability of appearance, and the comfort of her husband and those who partake their hospitality. Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respectability of a man is more immediately felt than the style of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the entertainments of the higher classes; but, if two or three dishes are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the expectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no irregularity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all situations of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the station than to the fortune of the entertainer and to the number and rank of those invited. The njanner of carving is now not only a very necessary branch of information, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the consump- tion of a family; and though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge apparently of less con- sequence, yet she must at times feel the deficiency; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable, that before the end of this century, great attention to guests may be again the mode, as it was in the commencement of the last. Some people haggle meat so much, as not to be able to help half a dozen persons decently from a large tongue or a sirloin of beef 3 and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the family