8 GENERAL REMARKS. When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, returns to reside at her father’s house after completing her education, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashionable circles. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occupation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the former, especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness; to preside over the family, and regulate the income allotted to its maintenance j to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued by intercourse with a jarring world; to be his enlightened companion and the chosen friend of his heart; these, these are woman’s duties ! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to a man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring his share to the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one may truly say, “ Happy the man who can call her his wife. Blessed are the children who call her mother.” When it is thus evident that the highest intellectual attain- ments may find exercise in the multifarious occupations of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ? It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aim is to fulfil them will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the virtues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally bends its attention to the smaller