0 FISH. When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver and roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapped in a nice soft cloth after it is well cleaned and washed.—When perfectly dry, wet with an egg if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better j then, having a thick- bottomed frying-pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the .fish into it, and let it fry rather quick, till the colour is a fine brown-yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire; carefully take it up, and either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kejDt for that purpose only, or on the underside of a dish to drain; and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap-paper must be put to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and the crumbs appear distinct; the fish being free from all grease. The same drip- ping, with a little fresh, will serve a second time. Butter gives a bad colour; oil fries of the finest colour for those who will allow the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus done : When washed and picked, throw it again into clean water; when the lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice; this may be done after the fish is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean; which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky; and not too near, that it may not be scorched.