ROUTLEDGE’S WORLD LIBRARY. EDITED BY THE REV. HUGH REGINALD HAWEIS, M.A. " Syllables govern the JVorld."—]OHN Selden. E is a sea below the sea,” said a distinguished American 1 of letters to me not long ago. He meant the reading world the surface of society is as nothing when compared with the reading world beneath the surface. The success of every cheap and well-chosen series proves the truth of this, and the hungry ocean of readers still cries for more. Good books are at present borrowed, begged, and, too often, wearily waited for by those who cannot afford to buy them. Messrs. George Routledge & Sons, in “Routledge’s World Library,” purpose to issue such books at 3d. apiece in paper covers, and in cloth 6d. Each volume—not too large for the pocket, not too small for the shelf— will consist of 160 pp. royal i6mo, printed in good clear type on clear white paper. The Editor will keep his eye on famous writers, ancient and modern, dealing with stirring, profitable, instructive, and recreative .subjects, Biographies, Travels, chapters on Social Science, Political Economy, History, Fiction, Poetry, and the Drama. His objects are to place within everyone’s reach what everyone ought to know : to circulate the works of great writers, or portions of books which should be familiar in our mouths as household words : to provide persons of small leisure with select matter which they will peruse with eagerness, and rise from without feeling that they have wasted their time. To give such variety that everyone who takes in the series for a year, at a cost of a few shillings, will have on his shelf 52 volumes, differing in all but this,—that the world will not willingly let any one of them die. To make the price of each volume so low that none need borrow it, everyone being tempted to buy it, and nobody to steal it! I believe that, with a wide extension of the franchise, the time has arrived for the best books to be offered to a large class hitherto almost untouched by such literature. I am not one of those who “ wish to rob the poor man of his beer,” R