UPON THE SERIES OF PBEHISTORIO CEANIA. 273 in which they lie ; fourthly, for their angular nucleolated nucleus prolonged at its angles into processes somewhat like those of the cell itself; fifthly, for these processes themselves, apical, basalj and lateral. Those who are impressed with the value of the hypothesis put forward by the late Professor Parkes ^ to the effect that in a living body activity of function entails certain processes of growth, whilst in rest the temporarily enlarged organ returns slowly to its normal size, will be inclined to consider the clear lacunar space which suri'ounds these large cells as eminently significant of their activity as allowing room for increase of their dimensions. Nor will any dispute as to whether these lacunar spaces are arte facta due to action of hardening and contracting reagents or natural, whether lymphatic or non-lymphatic, spaces affect this view. For the contraction which, on the former of these views, the cell undergoes in histological preparation may be very well taken as reproducing after death a similar contraction which, ex hypothesi, would accompany rest and abeyance of function in life. Coming in the third place to a consideration of the evidence which processes of disease or other injury may give us for the con- clusion that the parts of the brain anterior to the plane of the parietal tubera are more active and important in function than those situated posteriorly to it, I would refer the reader to the instructive Plates iii-viii given by Dr. J. Crichton Browne in his most valuable paper, already referred to, in the ' West Riding Asylum Reports,' vol. vi. 1876, on the pathology of the general paralysis of the insane. In those plates a number of brains from such patients are figured, and so coloured as to indicate the regions of the brain upon which the stress of the disease has fallen. There u in these jdaiea scarcely an instance in which a smgle patch of colour is given on a spot situated posteriorly to the fissure of Rolando. And I submit that as it is but reasonable to suppose that the parts of any organ which are found to be the most liable to * 'Proceedings of the Eoyal Society,' June 20, 1867, xvL 94. Dr. Parkes having discovered that though active exercise produced no immediate increase in the elimina- tion of nitrogen, such increase did nevertheless take place when a certain interval had elapsed after such exercise, explained (p. 55, 1. c.) this succession of phenomena by suggesting that ' during action a muscle takes nitrogen and during rest gives it off,' or that, ' in other words, the action of a muscle would seem from these experiments not to be connected with disintegration but with formation; when it is in exercise the muscle increases, when it is quiescent it lessens in bulk,' T