ON THE PEOPLE OP THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. 867' of a clog buried with the woman's skeleton; whilst a similar receptacle in the same barrow, examined by Canon Greenwell, contained parts of no less than ten human skeletons, all but one of which had belonged to adults, packed together within an irregularlj'^-shaped space^ which was 8 feet 6 inches long, and 4 feet broad at one end and 3 feet at the other. When these crowded masses of bones are looked at in situ, they strike the observer as having certain sets amongst them left in their natural relations and juxtapositions, whilst certain other bones have been somehow dislocated away from their normal connections. The upper cervical vertebrae, for example^ I find myself to have noted as retaining, in many cases, their position of approximation to the lower jaw and the base of the skull; the same is recorded occa- sionally of a larger or smaller number of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, and of the patellae in their relations to the tibiae and femora, whilst portions of the pelvis, of the feet, of the humerus, and of the scapular arch, may also be found all close together. It may be well to give here an exti'act from the notes taken of part of the excavation carried out in a cremation long barrow near Kirkby Stephen, in Westmoreland :— 'Monday, Aug. 24, 1874.—Two strong" adult men were repre- sented, within a circle of I foot 6 inches diameter, by portions of their lower jaws, of their skulls, of their second cervical vertebrae, and of their scapulae. A fragment of an occipital bone was seen looking up- wards, with the proximal end of a right humerus on one side of it, and the distal of a left one on the other, and portions of an atlas also in relation with it. But fragments proving the presence of two odontoid vertebrae, and shortly aftprwards of two lower jaws, were found close by, as also an os ealcis and an astragalus, which last were less than an inch from a clavicle, whilst, finally, a number of vertebrae were found in apposition, and parts of two scapulae were in relation with the head.' In the case of a third skeleton, out of the seven found in this barrow, a patella, the only one found in the entire set, was found in apposition with the proximal end of a tibia. In the cases of the bones whence evidence was drawn for the presence of four other burnt skeletons in this large barrow, it seemed from their condition of arrangement, or rather disarrangement, that they must have been disarticulated before they were burnt.