UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 291 burnt, are frequently found so buried togetber as to leave no doubt that they were interred simultaneously. The very structure of a cremation long- barrow as described (' British Barrows,' p. 495) by Canon Greenwell shows that all the bodies it contains must have been subjected at one and the same time to the action of fire. Burnt bones again are not rarely found ^ in the cists and also in the urns of the ages subsequent to those of the long-barrow builders which give unmistakeable evidence of tbe presence of more than one skeleton intimately intermingled. Finally, burnt and unbumt bodies ^ are sometimes found so interred together as to show certainly that the two modes of disposing of the dead body were from choice or necessity practised simultaneously. All this how- ever does not prove that of the bodies thus found lying together one set belonged to one and another to another class of men. If one set of bones had really given evidence of the reception by their owners of injuries ante moriem, whilst the other was free from any marks of such lesions, there would have been some reason for accepting this view. This however I have shown not to be the case. Or, if it could be shown that in certain barrows one or more skeletons were arranged apart and carefully, whilst other ^ Interments in urns giving proof of the presence in them of more than one body are recorded in the accounts given in ' British Barrows' of— Barrow cxlv. 2. Two skeletons in one urn. Barrow clxxxii. Woman and child in one urn. Barrow cxcvii. Two adults in one urn. Barrow ccv. I. Two women and child. Barrow ccv. 2. Two or three adults. Interments in cista giving similar proof of the presence in them of more than one burnt body are recorded in the accounts given in the same work of— Barrow Ixii. Two bodies. Barrow Ixxxii. Woman and child. Barrow Ixxxv. Two children. Barrow cxxxiii. Two adults. ' See for this account of barrows x, xi, xiii, xxvi, Ixix, elxi, clxxvi. For the practice of cremation and inhumation simultaneously, see Kemble, ' Horae Ferales,' p. 918; Neville's 'Saxon Obsequies,' p. u ; Wylie, ' Archaeologia,' xxxvii. p. 456; Akerman, 'Archaeologia,' xxxviii. p. 85; ' Inventorium Sepulchrale," pp. 165, 195; Weinhold, I.e., bd. xxix. p. 138, bd. xxx. p. 176; Lindenschmidt, 'Archiv fdr An- thropologie,' iii. 114. Burning and inhumation are carried on simultaneously now amongst the Gonds. The women and children of the Mdrid tribe .ire always buried, and Colonel Dalton, 'Ethnology of Bengal,' p. 283, suggests that unmarried males may be similarly disposed of. In the ' Report of the Etlmological Committee of the Jubbulpore Exhibition,' Nagpore, 1868, p. 81, it is stated that burning is considered moat honourable amongst the Gonds, but being expensive is usually confined to the old.