319 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. horizontal segment corresponding to its molar teeth, of its wide ramus, of its short coronoid process, of its feeble chin, of its rounded, the same observation, a statement which I have not been able to verify, writes (1. c.) as follows of the modern Highlanders :—' The Highlanders, notwithstanding the mention offish iu several old poems, certainly did never willingly make use of such food. It was a matter of astonishment to an English resident among them a century ago that the trout with which their streams were teeming remained entirely disregarded, but they retain a proverb which implies their contempt for fiah eaters, and the encouragement of govern- ment has not yet induced either the Scots, Welsh, or Irish to enter with spirit into the fish trading.' Later evidence is not wanting to the same effect. The same peculiarity is recorded by Mr. Whymper in the 'Alpine Journal' of May, 1870, with the same indications of surprise, as distinguishing the Esquimaux:—'Fish are plentiful on most parts of the Greenland coast, particularly cod, holibut, and salmon. But, although their quality is little, if at aU, inferior to the best we can obtain in this country, the Greenlander does not care for them, he will eat them and does eat them, but he will seldom do so unless there is a great necessity It is certain that in his heart of hearts he cares for none of them as food.' Neither modem research among still existing savages (see ' Reliquiae Aquitanicae,' p. 95) nor ancient literature justifies the scepticism which has been expressed (see Sturzius in ed. Dio Cassius, 1824, vol. vi. p. 812 ; Selden, ' Mare Clausum,' ii. p. 127, ed. 1635) as to the abstinence from fish-food on the part of wild races living by the sea-side. Irrespectively of notices in the classical writers as to the prohibition of such food for religious reasons by Pythagoras, or in the cases of priests as in Egypt (Hdt. ii. 37), or as in the service of the Bona Dea (Julian, pp. 176, 177, ed. Lipsiae, 1696), we have such abstinence on the part of early races repeatedly mentioned by them as a matter of wonder and contrast. Marsham (' Can. Chron.,' Leipzig, 1676, p. 220) has improved upon the well-knovra remarks of Plato (' Rep.' iii. 404, or Trans. Jowett, ii. p. 231) and of Athenaeus (' Dipnosoph.' iv. p. 157, ed. Leyden, 1612), fol- lowing Mfcleager of Gadara, to the effect that the warriors of the Iliad did not eat fish, by pointing out that the same may be said of the luxurious Phoenicians and the Ithacan suitors of the Odyssey, and that it was only under the pressure of necessity that the sailors of Ulysses betook themselves to fishing (Od, xii. 329-331):— 'AW' ore St) vqbs i^t<p9iT0 fi'Ca iravra, Kai dypijv ttptireaKov aXrjTtvovrts dvayKr/, 'lx6vs opvidas re, <pi\as on xfipos iKOiro, Similarly the lines of Horace (Sat. ii. 2. 46-48),— ' Haud ita pridem Tutus erat rhombus tutoque ciconia nido,'— and those of Ovid (Fasti, vi. 173-179) show that even in the times of Augustus a tradition remained of the period when fish and fowl were not used in supplementa- tion of mammalian meat, when ' Piscis adhuc illi populo sine fraude natabat,' though ' Sua erat in pretio.' The second peculiarity which I wish to note is one recorded by the ancient Strabo (iii. 4,16) and by his contemporaries Diodorus Siculus (v. 33) and Catullus (xxxv, xxxvii) as distinguishing the Iberians and Celtiberians of their time; and by the modem Egede ('Description of Greenland,' second edition, London, 1818, p. 127; French edition, 176.^, p. 98, cit. Sir John Richardson, 'Polar Regions,' 1861, p. 304) as distinguishing the Esquimaux; and it may be best given in the words of the first-named of those authorities :—(02 ''iPrjpts oii) irpis Siayarffiv aWcL fidWov npli? dvayKijv Kat opfiffv OrjpiuiST) fitrd. (0OVS (pavKov ^wai . . , . ti nrj rts oUrai irpbs Siaywy^v (fjv ram ovpo) Xouo^eVous iy Sf^afievais ■na\aiovp.iv(^ koI toiij oSwToy cr/ii;xo/ie'cous koX avroiis Kai toLs yvvaiKas