484 THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDE8. The words I have italicised are quoted from my book; but I did not speak of blood, but of blood-vessels, as combining with another blood-carrying cavity. This, however, is mere verbal criticism What are the facts of the case? BrancMobdella is an animal which so far as I know, never exceeds i inch in length, and which, for a satisfactory examination of its internal organs, needs to be rendered transparent by lying some days in acetic acid and subsequently in glycerine. When examined whilst alive under the microscope, Dr. Dorner ('Zeitschrift Wiss. Zoologie,' xv. p. 479, 1865) tells us that the observation of its circulation is made exceptionally difficult by the fact that the dorsal vessel in the posterior part of its length is very closely apposed to the digestive tract, and whilst its walls are in this non-contractile portion of its length extremely thin and transparent, the digestive tract, on the other hand, is dark coloured. In the larger of the two species, Branchiobdella parasita, it is true. Dr. Dorner says the intestine has a less dark colouration, and that it is possible in it to make out clearly the course of the dorsal vessel, especially if the animal is kept a long time under the covering glass, and subjected to gentle pressure. The pressure, I will remark, must be very gentle indeed, if it is not to introduce a source of fallacy into such an investigation as this; and this con- sideration may well make us hesitate before accepting in their entirety, and in the strict sense which the author himself con- templated, the following words of Dr. Dorner (p. 499 1. c.) :— ' Das gesammte Blutgefiiss-system des Korpers steht so mit im unmittelbaren Zusammenhange, und stellt einen vollstandigen Kreislauf dar.' I may illustrate this matter further by referring to the disputes which were raised in former days as to the existence or non-exist- ence of an orifice of communication between the anterior or exteriorly opening sac of the organ of Bojanus and the secretory part of the organ even in animals of the size of our fresh-water mussels, where the difficulties of being quite sure as to one's ground were by no means so great as in this case. BrancMohdella, how- ever, has not, so far as I have been able to find, been as yet met with in the parts of the United Kingdom with which I am ac- quainted, illustrating therein the well-known natural history law of the partial, and to us often inexplicable, distribution of parasitic organisms, to the life of which, and consequently to the diseases produced by which, other conditions are often necessary besides