CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 117 a single one. The rectus abdominis is prolonged up to the first rib, and is overlapped in the guinea-pig by a muscle homologous with that figured at e o in fig. 3, of the crocodile's shoulder-joint muscles ; but it does not give any tendinous or muscular factor to the sub- clavius here, as it does in the wombat {Fhascolomys wombat). A description of the arrangement of these parts in this latter animal will be found in my description of fig. 3, which, though taken from a dissection of a crocodile^ makes the account of the structures, as seen in the wombat, much more intelligible. Both descriptions alike warn us not to lose sight of the possibility that the avian levator humeri may have borrowed a factor from the anterior pro- longation, over the sternum, of the rectus abdominis. The arrange- ment of these selfsame structures in the aardvark {Orycteropus caj^ensis) enforces the same lesson. In this animal (a detailed account of the myology of which, by J. C. Galton, Esq., appears in the Linnean Society's 'Transactions,' vol. xxvi. p. 571) the subcla- \'ius arises from the manubrium, from the cartilage of the first rib, and from the tendon of the rectus abdominis as it passes upwards to be inserted into the manubrium and first rib. The muscle is folded upon itself much as the pectoralis major is in the human subject; the concavity of the pouch thus formed looks inwards. The inferior or superficial portion of the muscle passes upwards; and its tendon spreads into the fascia covering the supraspinatus, and thus is in- serted into the acromion at its root, whilst towards its apex, by the intermediation of fascia covering the acromion, it can act upon the fibres of the deltoid taking origin there. The portion of the muscle which lies deeper or more dorsally is inserted into the coracoid, into and along the coraco-acromial ligament, into a detached ossicle, which lies outside the angle formed by the meeting of acromion and clavicle, and finally into the clavicle. But the clavicle seems to give fibres to the subclavius, as well as to receive the insertion of fibres from it; these fibres, however, are but few in number, and seem to lie between the superficial and the deep portions of the muscle. The subclavius of certain New World monkeys {Mycetes seni- culus and Mycetes ffeoffroyi) furnishes us with a stepping-stone whereby to pass from the subclavius of the three mammals just treated of to the subclavius of anthropotomy. In these monkeys the subclavius takes origin from the junction of the first costal