ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAREOW PERIOD. 398 covered from this cist, two of which possibly, though not probably, belonged to the same female subject. Of three other adult female humeri from this cist, one shows the commencing of perforation; the other two have no indication of it. Some of the human bones and some of the brute bones found in this cist or chamber present the manganic discolouration. The male and female bones, when compared, show the female bones, especially the clavicles and humeri, to be disproportionately smaller than the male. Some of the bones are beset with exostoses. The instance of an ossified costal, and another of an ossified ensiform cartilage, belong to this series. Swell vi. (2, i).—Skull, with part of lower jaw of a strong man in middle period of life, corresponding with the Hohberg type of His and Riitimeyer. i and 2 were close together at the south-west corner of the cist, with other bones, all disturbed, but still in some order. N.B.—Parts of two bodies, one a frontal of woman. Ext. length . . . .7-5 Ceph. and 72 Ext. breadth . . . .5-3 Glabello-inial length . . 7-3 Vert, height (approx.) . . 5-9 Circumference (approx.) . .21 Ant. post, index, 97 out of 190. There is considerable obliteration of sutures internally. The teeth are much and horizontally worn; some appear to have been lost during life, but no wisdom teeth were developed. The mas- toids and supraciliary ridges are large, and the muscular lines for the temporal insertions pronounced. Frontal and parieto-occipital regions describe an even curve. The highest point in the vertical arc is a little posterior to the coronal suture. The sides of the occipital pentagon incline outwards a very little from the region of the parietal tubera, which in this skull are very faintly indicated, as in the Hohberg type of His and Uiitimeyer, which it resembles also in its well-marked vertical carination. The mental prominence is not very great, but is markedly triangular when viewed from the front. Under this label came the frontal and other bones of a woman. Swell vi. (2, 2}.—Skull, with part of lower jaw of woman past middle period of life. This skull was in the south-west corner of the cist, close together with Swell vi. 2, i. Other bones were together with the skull; some finger-bones were at the head of 2 ; and in front of the neck a bead of Kimmeridge shale; but the