392 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. level of the natural around. The mammalian hones helono-ed to ox, sheep, pig, dog-, vole, and rahbit: the larger bones amongst them appeared to be ancient; whilst the smaller, like the bird- bones, some of which belonged to a goose, and some to a fowl, and some to a bird smaller than a pigeon, may have been comparatively recently introduced into the barrow. None were stained with manganese. September 28, Monday.—A fragment of a tobacco-pipe was found low down, in fact, on the natural soil. On this day the Rev. David Royce came upon the boundary-wall, which had two prolongations inwards, to meet the chamber represented by the large stones mentioned above, and formed thus a passage 4 feet 2 inches wide. The remainder of the day was employed in tracing out the two horns of the east end of the barrow. September 29, Tuesday.—At a distance of 46 feet from the apex of the re-entering angle, in the centre of the east end, we found the skeleton of a child of about ^ or 6 years of age lying just outside the boundary-wall, on the south side of the barrow. The child had been buried in the contracted position, and had been laid upon the right side, with one hand at its face and the other upon its hip. The teeth have the same purplish blackening, due to manganese, upon them, which has been so often observed in these long-barrow bones from chambers. On this day we came upon what I believe may have been the ruins of a ' cist,' i. e. of a closed grave, walled in with slabs, and without any passage leading to the exterior such as has been noted in the other barrows, and also in this, and as would have justified us in speaking of it as a ' chamber.' It was 80 feet from the re- entering angle at the eastward end, and being about 5 feet 6 inches by 4 feet, had its long axis at right angles to, and in the middle line of, the barrow. In this cist were found parts of two adult human skeletons, one belonging to a strong man, the other to a woman past the middle period of life; of the skeletons of three children of from 7 or 8 years of age; of one child, of about 2 years of age or less; of a dog's skeleton, lying in situ, and close to the bones of the old woman, as also scattered bones of ox and sheep. The bones themselves, closely packed at first, had been much disturbed subsequently, as had also the cist itself. An indication of this was furnished to us by the discovery of the fragments of a