GENERAL REMARKS 290 Shifting of soil or the downward settling of stones upon them. The first efieet of such agencies appears to be the forcing inwards of the basi-cranial bones, a process analogous to that which Dr. Barnard Davis has described as taking place in the senile living body, and which other writers have spoken of as ' impressio baseos cranii.' The second effect upon the vault of the skull thus deprived of its basal support may take either the direction of flattening out of the arch or that of compression of it from side to side. Those who are most familiar with the multiform and even grotesque shapes into which skulls thus crushed are distorted, and with the cleanness and sharpness and extent of the fissures, which pass sometimes more than half over their transverse arcs, will be slowest to accept Dr. Thurnam's interpretation of the fractured skulls in question. Until the frac- tures of which Dr. Thurnam has written are shown to me in a skull with its basi-cranial bones left, as they might be in a sacriflced victim, uninjured and in situ, I shall hesitate to refer them to the working of any but one of the two following verae causae, viz. {a) settling or sinking of the soil or stones in which the skulls have been laid; [b) the disturbance and violence necessitated by succes- sive interments, and resulting, as has often been said, in a 'strangely huddled,' ' irregular, confused' packing together of a great many skeletons in a very small space. The first of these causes I believe to have been the most frequent; the second, I am well assured, accounts for the injuries observable in the Rodmarton ^ and the Swell crania. Desiccation and other alterations of various kinds may often have powerfully co-operated towards the production of fissures in these skulls ; but whilst the cracking of other organic bodies forbids us to forget the influence of drying, the way in which skulls are often found almost entirely ' perished' makes it clear that we must not leave chemical activities out of sight. These however would not be competent alone to produce lesions which could anyhow be mistaken for wounds. There can, I allow, be no doubt that skeletons, burnt and un- were associated—a bronze knife, a perforated stone ase, a hammer of micaceous grit, and a flint implement. ^ Of the chamber in the Rodmarton barrow, which contained no less than thirteen elceletons, Canon Lysons wrote thus:—' Altliough most of the human bones exhibited no traces of cremation, some few had been burnt. The bones were all in great con- fusion, and some had been dragged into a corner.'—' Proc. Soc. Ant. Load., 1863, vol. ii. p. 278. [The Swell crania are described in Article XVIII of this volume. Ed.]