EEPORT ON EXCAVA.TION AT SIGWELL. 444 importance to note that in the soil inside the bark coffin no frag- ments of charcoal sufficiently large to be detected with the naked eye were visible; as hence we see that the body was bumt some distance away from the grave, and that the burnt bones were picked up out of the ashes and carried to the grave separately ^, being distributed as deposited throughout the entire length of the coffin examined. The upper bark was much thinner than the lower, the lower being as much as seven-eighths thick, whilst the upper was as little as one-fifth to one-fourth. The upper piece had split in some places and the sand had worked away into the space left empty. Itt situ, the layers of the bark towards the interior were black, and the outer reddish; but, on drying, the reddish colour is in many pieces the colour throughout the entire thickness of the bark. Microscopic examination showed no dotted cells, and the Scotch fir is thereby excluded, but it is possible that it may have come from the Wych elm. Its structure, however, had been made exceedingly difficult to examine by the ravages of a fungus. In this coffin, together with the bones and two or three flint chips, was a bronze dagger with three rivets, 6-5 inches long from proximal rivet to point. It was much decayed, and did not rest on the bottom of the coffin, but was separated from it by a considerable thickness of dullish yellow sand. Its point was broken away for a length of 7-10 inches, and this part was brought away on a piece of the hardened sandy earth. This lump of earth is preserved with a little of the crumbled-away part of the point adherent to it; the greater part of the point, however, has been attached, together with the rest of the blade, to a piece of cardboard. The lamina which held the rivets has broken up, and the small fragments of bronze diffused throughout the soil in the bottle labelled ' Sigwell ii b' represent it. The dagger lay near the southern end of the grave, about 2 feet from the end; its pivot end was at the south, its point at the north. An interment which must have been of a somewhat similar character is described by Mr. Spence Bate, F.U.S., in the ' Trans- actions of the Devon Association,' vol. v. 1872, pp. SSSSS^- There 'a mass of comminuted bones mixed with earth, instead of being * For the picking up of burnt bones see Max Miiller, Die Todtenbestattung, Zeit- chrift der Deutschen Morgenljind. Gesell. vol. ix. p. 17 ; Colebrooke,' Life and Asiatic Researches,' vol. ii. ibique citata.