CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDEB-JOINT. 127 that which explains their oneness by a reference to ' genetic affinity.' As to which of the two theories a man will take for his guide in research, so far as any theory can serve for a guide in research, much will depend upon the idiosyncrasies^ original or acquired, of individual minds. But though the theory may have only a sub- jective, the facts have an objective cogency. "With regard to the serial homologies of the fore and hind limbs, and, first, with regard to the representation of the ulna by the fibula and of the radius by the tibia, I have much pleasure in referring to Professor Pagenstecher's views, inasmuch as with many other of his conclusions I cannot bring myself to agree. But any- body who will look at his figures of the bones of the human arm and leg, placed side by side, each in the position which best shows their homotypical relationship, will have good reason for acquiescing in the view stated in the following sentence. In those figures we have the limb in either case so flexed as to have the angle formed at the knee and elbow respectively pointing upwards; the fore-arm is supinated, and the hand segment hyper-extended, so as to make almost a right angle with the long axis of the fore-arm. The ulna then lies and is directed a little posteriorly and dorsally as regards the radius; and the thumb and great toe, as also the little finger and the little toe, occupy, severally, corresponding positions. A very similar position, 1 may observe, is instinctively assumed by a man when he uses his pectoral muscles for the purpose for which quad- rupeds ordinarily employ them, viz. for raising and supporting the trunk upon the fore limbs. And an observation of the position assumed by a man who puts himself into a quadrupedal posture for the purpose of drinking at a stream, or who raises himself by the help of his arms from a low seat by placing his hands on the table at which he is sitting, will illustrate the relations of the extensor and flexor, and of the inner and outer aspects of the two limbs, as w-ell as the most detailed parallelisation of the skeletal elements. Secondly, a study of Mr. Parker's descriptions and histories of the shoulder-girdle will leave no doubt on the mind of any one, I apprehend, as to the serial homology of the coracoid with the ischium, and of the praecoracoid with the os pubis. The shoulder- girdles of the frog and the chelonians are especially instructive when compared with the pelvic girdle of the crocodiles. Express utterances as to the relationship of the two sets of bones may be