THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. 496 fig. I, G) from the still living blood-vessels of one of the Opheliae which in some other respects resembles the Oligochaela. A more instructive confirmation of the view which regards the minute granules in human blood, known as Zimmermann's bodies, if not those figured by Schultze (' Archiv Mikr. Anat.' pi. i.) as being, in opposition to the views of Zimmermann himself, to whom we owe so much of our right views as to fibrin, mere ' Detritus- bildungen,' I cannot conceive than that which is furnished by the watching of the falling to pieces of the lumbricoid corpuscles under the disturbing action of the addition of water, or, though to a less degree, under that of the transference from a glass vessel such as the capillary pipette to the wider contact of glass constituted by the slide and cover ^. It is possibly even more interesting to remark how closely parallel is the behaviour of alumina, and some other inorganic substances, to that of the sanguigenous colloids which we are dealing with; ' soluble alumina,' says Professor Graham Phil. Trans.' 1861, p. 307), ' is one of the most unstable of substances— a circumstance which fully accounts for the difficulty of preparing it in a state of purity. It is coagulated or pectized by portions so minute as to be scarcely appreciable of sulphate of potash, and, I believe, by all other salts, and also by ammonia. A solution * Since writing as above, I came, by following up a reference of Virchow's (' Cell. Path.* ed. 1871, p. 240), upon the following passage (Virchow's 'Archiv,' i. p. 389), in which that observer, in describing the separation of the coloured elements from the rest of the blood-corpuscles, writes as follows :—' Sowohl bei dieser Entwickelungs- weise, als da, wo das Hamatin zuerst an FaserstofFgeriniisel, etc., getreten war, sieht man in dem Maasse, als die Korner schiirfer hervortreten, am Rande eine farblose Substanz erscheinen, die nicht selten, ahnlich einer ZeUenmembran, die Komer umschliesst. Indess babe ich mich nie tiberzeugen konnen, dass dieser Saura etwas anderes, als eine homogene Substanz sei; er zeigt keine der Eigenschaften, welche als Kriterien fiir eine permeable, vom ZellenLnhalt trennbare Membran gelten diirfen, und ich muss daher Gluge beistimmen, wenn er sagt (' Atlas der Pathol. Anat.' Lief, iii. Melanose, p. 4) : "Oft werdea die unregelmassigen oder viereckigen schwarzen Massen nur von einer membranosen Unterlage (die wahrscheinlich durch coagulirten FaserstofF gebildet ist) zusaramengehalten, und als darm erscheint eine diinne Lamelle unter dem Mikroskop, wie Schildplatt." ' Remak, in his ' Entvvickelung der Wirbel- thiere' (1855, P- 22-23), gave a similar explanation of the nature of the so-c;illed ' Blut-inseln,' speaking of them as ' Zufiillige Anhaufungen von Blutzellen welche durcli geronnen FaserstofF zusammengehalten und eingehiillt sind.' 1 incline, how- ever, to think that the concentric striation observable round the pigment nodules above mentioned may be due to the rearrangement of the 'oecoid' after the central concentration of the ' zooid,' which is then surrounded by it much as a rocky islet may be seen at low water to be surrounded by a zone of smooth sand.