413 ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. individuals of this variety of Bos are represented in this collection ; five are bones of the domestic pig, Sus scrofa v. domed., and give proof of the presence of two individuals; one bone only testifies to the presence of the red deer, Cervtis elaplms, so abundantly repre- sented by its horns; the roe, Cervtis capreolus, is represented by a piece of frontal bone carrying a nearly perfect horn, and also by a seventh cervical vertebra. A large part of the skull of a goat, Capra hircus, is labelled 'Red seam, large pit, 9 feet 6 inches beneath surface.' The first remark to be made about tbis collection of bones is that the smallness of their number is an argument in favour of the pit having been filled up very soon after it was first excavated. To this conclusion other considerations have been shown (see ' Journal of Institute,' 1. c. pp. 381 and 386) to point. Eight bones of the thirty bear labels which show that they were found below the level of the ' red seam,' i. e. below the level to which the first ' filling up' reached.' These eight bones belong to the roe, the domestic ox, and the goat respectively. There is one bone, a nasal, which might have belonged to Bospr'migenius, but it would not be safe to speak positively as to thus identifying it. And dismissing it from consideration, we have from this ' large pit' three domestic animals, the cow, the goat, and the pig, accompanied by two wild ones, the stag and the roe. The absence from this particular collection, and, indeed, from the entire Cissbury series which has come into my hands, of the dog, would be remarkable if we did not bear in mind the short time for which these pits were ordi- narily left open, and then consider at what widely distant intervals in a modem household such an event as the death of a dog takes place. The remains of the dog are found, though very sparingly, in the earliest human habitations, ancient, like modern, savages having domesticated it before they domesticated the pig ; and we have Professor Boyd Dawkins' authority (see ' Journal of Institute,' 1. c, p. 390) for saying that the dog, as well as the goat and the Bos lonr/ifrons, were found by Mr. Tyndall in his pit, already dealt with. The fauna of the 'large pit' may, perhnps, therefore be considered to belong to a somewhat later date than that of Mr. Tyndall's pit, as it comprises the domestic pig, which was not reported to have been found amongst that collection, and is entirely without any bones of the wild boar, and probably also without any