466 ON THE CEANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN. less ban 5-4 in. which, however, falls short of its absolute width, which is no less than 5-6 in., by which inferiority the tapeinocephalic or platycephalic character which Mr. Busk ('Journal Ethn. Soc' London, Jan. 1871) insisted upon as existing in Bushman crania is preserved in it as well as in the two other crania just specified. Eetzius, in a paper first published in Swedish in 1856, subse- quently in German in Miiller's ' Archiv' for 1858, and fully repub- lished in the posthumously issued (1864) ' Ethnolog-ische Schriften,' p. 149, after saying that he had before him only a single skull of a Hottentot, and the figures which Blumenbach and Sandifort had published of Hottentot and Bushman crania, declares himself unable to detect any essential difference between such skulls and those of true Negroes. His great authority therefore should not be quoted to the disfavour of craniological evidence in this or any other similar question, inasmuch as he only speaks, and avowedly, from very scanty materials. If we begin our comparison of these two sets of crania by a reference to the great distinction, pointed out by Betzius himself, of brachycephalic from dolichocephalic crania, we have in the first place to demur to the statement, ' In Afrika, fehlt, so viel man bisher weiss, jedes Spur brachycephalischer Bevolkerung.' Against it have to be set in the first place Professor Owen's words in the old 'Osteological Catalogue/ 1853, p. 838, 5385, already referred to; and in the second, Professor Flower's measurements (as recorded in the new ' Catalogue of the Specimens illustrating the Osteology and Dentition of Vertebrated Animals,' pt. i. 1879, p. 232, 1238) of the ' articulated skeleton of a Negress, born in the United States of North America, and about 16 years of age/ who was said, pre- sumably by the donor. Professor L. J. Sandford of Yale College, 'to have presented all the external characters indicating purity of race,' the cephalic or latitudinal index of the cranium belonging to this skeleton being no less than '811. But though this be so, there is no doubt, firstly, that the immense majority of Negro and of CafTre and Abantu crania are dolichocephalic, and some—such for example as the Mozambique skull, casts of which were given by the late J. South, Esq., F.R.S., to many museums—exaggeratedly so; and secondly, that the cephalic index of the Bushman is con- siderably higher on the average than that of the Negro. One of my six Bushman crania (that named No. i, Mr. F. Oates, 788 e)