293 UPON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC CRANIA. stabat, justis funeribus confectis, una cremalantur' These two last words might seem to justify us in holding that of the burnt bones packed together in a cremation long barrow with no detectable diSerentiation indicative of distinctions of rank or position, some nevertheless may have belonged to conquerors, others to captives, or some to masters, others to slaves. If we compare however the words of Homer used in the account of the funeral of Patroclus we shall see that the words of Caesar must not be interpreted too strictly. Achilles, II. xxiii. 183, says distinctly that the twelve noble Trojan youths were burnt together with Patroclus— AwSe/ca jtxey Tpwcoz' ij.fyadvp.uiv v'Uas eadKovs Tovs afia <toI -navras nvp IcrQUi— using words as precise at-first sight as Caesar's 'iina cremalantur but a little further on, 1. 239-243, we find him telling the other Greeks that they would have no difficulty in distinguishing the bones of Patroclus, for that they were in the middle of the funeral pile, whilst the bones of the human and brute victims were lying apart from them at its edge— 'Oarea UaTpoKKoio MevoLTidbao Xiyoipev E3 biaytyvcaa-KOvres, apicppabia be rirvKTai, 'Ey pLiaar] yap CKetro "nvpfj, tq\ 8' aAAot avevOev 'Eaxo-Tifi ^ KaCovT i-rrLpi^, i-niroi re kol avbpes. According to the legend given by Bartholinus in his 'Antiqui- tates Danicae/ 1689, pp. 291-292, the spirit of the Icelandic Asmundus was unable to rest until the body of a slave, who had killed himself from unwillingness to survive his master, was re- moved from his tomb ; and we may be quite sure that the haughty and harsh sentiment attributed to that hero, ' Animoso vacuus locus melius placet quam mali comites,' must have been too strong in every age and country which tolerated human sacrifices to allow of any equality between master and slave being set up even in the grave. In two words, I can understand how the bones of slaughtered slaves or captives might lie 'scattered at the grave's mouth,' I cannot understand how they would be likely to find entrance into the tombs of the kings. ' 'E(TxaT(5 appears to me to be used in contradistinction to Iv SI Trvprj vnaTri of line 165 supra and line 787 of book xxiv, and to furnish a good comnieutary on the words ev \oiiry thpvxupiri t^j ^jj/c^j used by Herodotus (iv. 71) in his account of the siinilar Scythian rites.