ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONQ-BAEEOW PEEIOD. 397 had belonged to a person below the age of puberty, this one having belonged to a boy or gid of eleven to twelve years of age; six had belonged to persons past the middle period of life, one to a young man with the wisdom tooth just coming into use, a ninth to a man in whom that tooth had come into use, but had had only little wear, and a tenth to a woman in the same condition of dentition. Three of the ten appear to have been women, two of whom were aged, and one probably about thirty years of age ; four appear to have been strong men, past middle life, but the sex in one case is doubtful; one of them had been a strong man of about thirty. The lower jaw of the sixth male subject, in which the wisdom teeth are just rising into use, does not enable one to predicate much as to his strength beyond what is implied in assign- ing it to the male sex. All the lower jaws except three lie evenly from angle to mentum, when laid on a horizontal surface; only one has the foramen mentale further bacli than it is found to be in modern European specimens. The alveolar portion of the mental region has not the same relative development as is observable in several of the lower jaws from the other long barrows of this dis- trict ; and this and some other osteological considerations, approxi- mating these skeletons to later, rather than earlier, Celtic types, when coupled with the fact that these bones are much less stained with manganese, and that the grave containing them was most probably not connected by a gallery or passage with the exterior, as is usual in long barrows, incline me to think that this collection of bones may be of less antiquity than the others. In none of these lower jaws had any teeth been lost before death; in only one is there any caries visible, and in one other there is a cavity formed by an alveolar abscess in connexion with a lower front molar worn down to the fangs, and with its pulp-cavities almost entirely ob- literated by osteo-dentine. A considerable number of anteriorly platycnemic tibiae have been removed from this cist; one femur, length i8-a inches, giving a stature of 5 feet 6 inches, came with such a tibia, length 13*3 inches. It is somewhat flattened superiorly, but is not carinate, though in all probability it belonged to a male subject. One tibia, not platycnemic, has been recovered from this cist; its length is 13-1 inches, giving a stature of 4 feet 9 inches. Three humeri, probably of females, with olecranic perforations, have been re-