104 ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENREC development of any one of these vascular connexions does not destroy the distinctive and specific character of that peculiar system. The perirrhachidian or dorsispinal anastomosis is chiefly developed in the right side in the pig-, which has a left azygos also ; its endorhachidian or intervertebral factors have absorbed its lower intercostal tributaries in the porpoise ; and in this animal there is no vena azygos on the left. These points of difference are, how- ever, but slight as compared with the difference which the state- ments ordinarily made on this point would lead us to expect. The Cetacea, we may add, have been observed to resemble the sheep and pig and horse, in the deficiency of the rudimentary structure known as the Eustachian valve, which, however, is by no means invariably present in deciduate mammals. A few points of re- semblance between the placentae of the Ungulata and the Mutica have escaped notice. First, in Cetacea and in certain Ungulata we find the membranes of what is often a solitary embryo prolonged from one cornu round into the other, and projecting by a caecal extremity into the short corpus uteri. Such a condition of the structures is figured from the mare by Colin (1. c), and has been seen by myself in the membrane of a small cetacean, sp.? ; and in the cow and other ruminants a similar extension of the mem- branes of a foetus lodged in one cornu round into the other is not rarely seen, but without any caecal diverticulum markedly deve- loped in their short corpora uteri. The multiparous sow does not of course resemble its less fertile congeners in this particular; but the membranes of the deciduate and ordinarily uniparous seal [Phoca vitulina) have been observed to be confined to the uterine cornu which contained its single foetus ^. Secondly, we find on the umbilical cord of the foetal cetacean, filiform outgrowths of the amnios which are undoubtedly homo- logous with the similarly placed growths in the early ruminant, and in the soliped embryo, as well as with those on the amnios of the tenrec, as already described. In the amnios of the pig no such growths are observable, but certain dilated microscopic vesicles ^ have been supposed to take their place and function. ' Barkow, ' Zootomische Bemerkungen,' p. 7. [The Editor observed this to be the case also in the grey seal {Ealichoerus gryphus). ' Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinb.' 1875, vol. 27.] * Bimbaum, ' Untersuchungen fiber den Bau der Eihaute,' Berlin, 1863, pp. 18 and 67.