Xll LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON, was elected. It was in 1847 that he came into residence, and one who came up about the same time describes him as a tall thin lad, looking quite a schoolboy, with his clothes showing recent growth of limbs which had left the tailor behind. Another contemporary, who knew him well, remembers how young he was in every way, beginning at first sight to tell with schoolboy frankness all about his study at Sheffield, how he furnished it, how the boy next him had died, and how he had read all his Greek plays. The Master of the College did not mind his youth, and only said, ' He is a clever Yorkshireman, and when a Yorkshireman is clever, he is clever.' Boy as he was, he took rank at once. It was the time when the College was undergoing transforma- tion. Dr. Jeune, Dean of Jersey (afterwards Bishop of Peter- borough), had lately succeeded Dr. Hall as Master. Under him Pembroke was just on the change from a small close foundation, chiefly limited to certain schools and localities and to founders' kin. The buildings were insufficient and some were dilapidated, and the undergraduates few, when the new Master set himself to fill the ranks of the College; funds supplied by benefactors were made efiective in open scholarships and fellowships, and rebuilding and reorganisation had gone well forward before the time came when parliamentary powers were obtained to do away with the limitations of the old foundation. Thus RoUeston's connexion with Pembroke began in years of change and activity, and threw him into the midst of a society more mixed even than usual through the overlapping of the old and new regimes. Though never hiding his own strong likes and dislikes, he already had the faculty of getting on with men of difierent kinds, the boating men, the fast men, the quiet reading men, and the dilettanti, who would nowadays be called aesthetes. Yet his character was already so fixed, that the influences which might have moved a more moveable disposition left him substantially what home teaching had made him years before. In the common dissipations of undergraduate life he took no part; in fact, he worked too hard. When he lived out of