52 AFFINITIES, ETC., BETWEEN THE BRAIN OF MAN AND ANIMALS. and matter, structures and functions, do not always vary conco- mitantly. But omitting these, let us look at the fact of the cor- relation which usually is to be found existing between them secun- dum statum praeseniem.. Which is in the condition of dependence mind or body? which modifies, which is adapted, which is the second, which the first ? I may transgress the rules of logic, but I shall not violate the laws of reason, if I hint my argument in the words of our living poet. Have we not all read of him whose mental struggles 'Had marr'd his face, and marked it ere his time*'? and of the happier history of him 'Whose very face with change of heart was changed^'? In what other way than the one just suggested can we read the physical results of education, operating, as it often does, upon the adult well nigh as markedly as upon the younger and more plastic ? Are not all these phenomena facts in just as true a sense as any which scalpel or callipers, which weights or measures, can disclose ? The creations of art reproducing, and the instinct of the million ap- preciating, physiognomy, speak, it is true, in plain and trivial, yet for all that, in forcible language, to the truth of the explanation at which I hint. All alike, when coldly and dispassionately viewed as concomitantly varying phenomena, lead us to hold that our higher and diviner life is not a mere result of the abundance of our convo- lutions. How harmony may have come to exist between them, our faculties are incompetent either to decide or to discover; but this shortcoming of man's intelligence affects neither his duties nor his hopes, neither his fears nor his aspirations. [As regards the first and second bridging convolutions {];jlis de passage) described in both this memoir and that on the Brain of the Orang, the Editor may refer to his account of their arrangement in the brain of the Chimpanzee (Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin- burgh, Feb. 1866). Of four brains in the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh, two have the parieto-occipital fissure unbiidged; in one it is crossed on the left side by the first bridging convolution ; whilst in one it is crossed on the right side by the first and on the left side by the second. M. Paul Broca (' L'Ordre des Primates,' Paris, 1870) refers also to a specimen, like the one last named, dissected in Paris.—Editor.] ' Tennyson, ' Idylls of the King,' ' Elaine.' 2 Ibid. ' Enid.'