19 OF THE OKANQ UTANG. symmetrical in the chimpanzee than in the orang, but it is not lai-o-er in size. Both ascending' convolutions are a little more simple in the chimpanzee than in the orang. Having arrived at our last head—that, namely, of such differ- entiae as are detectable by dissection only—we will proceed to lay them before the reader in the shape of a short account of the dissection which disclosed them. The right cerebral hemisphere was removed down to the level of the corpus callosum, as seen in Fig. 4. At a point relatively much further distant from its posterior edge, 14, than is the case in man, we see the internal perpendicular fissure, 16. Posteriorly again to this fissure, and running nearly parallel with it, we see a second, 17, the ' scissure des hippocampes ' of M. Gratiolet. Corresponding with this indentation, we have within the cavity of the ventricle an eminence, 19, the lesser hippocampus, bounded by an arm or creek running up, 18, along its outer surface from the central ventricular expanse. This arm or creek was called, by another metaphor than those we have used, the third comu of the lateral ventricle, in the phraseology of the old anatomists. The large smooth headland into which the hippocampus swells at 19, justi- fies the expression we find at page 16 of M, Gratiolet's work, ' L'anfractuosite d'ergot . . . qui est plus eviclente encore clans les Shiges qtie dans VHomme, In the brain of a cereopithecus now before us, its proportions are very much larger. The width of this third comu was at its commencement three-eighths of an inch ; and the similar cavity in a human brain examined at the same time was of the same width. But the cavity nan*ows much more rapidly in the orang than in man; and before reaching its termi- nation, at a distance of one inch from its commencement, it be- comes almost a linear cavity; but, as our figure shows, the distinctness of its limiting walls and the continuity of its lining membrane were unambiguously visible up to its very extremity. The length of this third cornu is as great absolutely and relatively, therefore much greater in the cereopithecus than in the orang. In the human brain it was but half an inch longer than in the orang, scooped out though it was in a posterior lobe relatively very much longer. Neither in the cereopithecus, nor in the orang, does the bourrelet or posterior rounded edge of the corpus callosum extend nearly so far back as to allow us to take it as ' the best