ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARKOW PERIOD. 385 Ceph.ind.(approx.).but the skull Tnterangular lower jaw . . 3-8 is broader as restored than it Ant. post, index ^ . . 90:195 was in nature . . -78 Basilar angle (approx.)^ . .10 This, thoug-li a very large calvaria, must nevertheless be a -woman's, not only for the intrinsic reasons of the verticality of its forehead, the comparative verticality of its parieto-occipital region, the general smoothness and roundness of all its outlines, and the small size of its supra-orbital and mastoid ridges, but also for the extrinsic reason that from the cist and its neighbourhood evidence of four other adult bodies is before us, one of these being a woman's skeleton nearly entire, the other three being undoubtedly male skulls^ accompanied, however, by a second set of adult female bones, which can only be referred to this skull. The first thing to be remarked, perhaps, is tbe enormous differ- ence of size of the two female skulls^ and the consequent unsafeness of saying that men and women are or are not of much the same size in savage races. There is some indication of a post-coronal furrow in this skull, to which some internal thickening corresponds, as is usual. This skull would be spoken of as belonging to the Sion types, just as skull (<?) would be referred to the Hohberg type of His and Riitimeyer. The lower jaw, which with much probability can be referred to this skull, is feeble, rising up from the level of the mental foramen forwards, which foramen, however, is further forward, being in the plane of the first premolar, than in some other lower jaws of this series. The teeth are much and horizontally worn; the wisdom teeth were never evolved, in correspondence with which fact the smallness and absence of wear of the wisdom teeth, in an upper jaw probably belonging to this skull, are to be noted. The ramus forms an oblique angle with the body of the bone. Swell i. (b).—Skull of a man past the middle period of life. The cranial bones are thick, and the pits for the Pacchionian bodies well developed. To it probably belongs an old upper jaw. The lower ' By ' antero-posterior index' is meant the relation held to the extreme length by that part of it which lies anteriorly to a line drawn as a tangent to the anterior border of the auditory foramen, and cutting the line of extreme length at right angles. It is easily taken by fitting an indicator to M. Broca's ' cadre b, maxima.' It shows the degree of frontal development, and, per contra, of occipital dolicho- cephaly. * Taken with M. Broca's Goniombtre occipital. See ' Eev. d'Anthropologic,' ii. 2, p. 202, 1873. 0 0