140 HOMOLOGIES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDE-JOINT, playing over the lower and outer angle of the coracoid; it arises also from the three anterior sternal ribs, and from a triangular space on the sternum, lying between the two other points of origin. It is inserted into the gre.it tuberosity of the humerus by a tendon attached distally and internally to those of the epicoraco-humeral and deltoid, e/t. Epicoraco-humeral muscle. It arises from the mesial point of the sternum or ' rostrum' of the bone, from the coraco-clavicular membrane extending from the sternal rostrum up to the clavicle, and, thirdly, from an irregularly quadrangular praeglenoid headland, which, as verified in a young specimen, is constituted by scapula as well as by coracoid. It is inserted into the humerus a little proximally and internally to the deltoid, and superficially to the coraco-brachialis. It is obviously the homologue of the pectoralis secundus s. levator humeri of ordinary birds. (See Meckel on Anatomy of Cassowary, 'Meckel's Arcbiv,' 1830, P- 255- 5-) _ be. Tendon of biceps inserted into the humeral, and not, as in the Crocodile, into the cephalic edge of the coracoid. Between this tendon and that of the epicoraco- humeral or pectoralis secundus is seen the coraco-brachialis muscle, much reduced in size as compared with its homologue in the Crocodile. It has lost all the portion which arose mesially to the insertion of the biceps, and which Meckel called' coraco-brachialis inferior s. pectoralis tertius,' and Schoepss, 1. c,' pectoralis medius.' Neither Schoepss nor Meckel seems (as far as the name 'deltoides inferior' can show, which they have given to the small muscle arising in ordinary birds from the lip of the coracoid underneath the tendon of the biceps, and inserted into the upper part of the great pectoral tuberosity) to have recognised its homology with the upper part of the coraco-brachialis muscle of the Crocodile and the coraco-brachialis bre\'is s. rotator humeri (Wood) of mammals. The only difference, however, between the muscle which Meckel and Schoepss call 'del- toides inferior' in the common Fowl and that which I have called in the Emu 'coraco-brachialis' is, that the larger biceps of the former animal has overlaid and stunted the muscle which the smaller biceps of the Emu has allowed to retain its reptilian proportions supenorly to its own insertion. d. Deltoid, overlying and concealing from view a teres minor not found ordinarily in birds, tc. Triceps.