436 NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CIS8BURY. An abnormal depression, y^^-inch long, of the shape of a segment of the lateral sinus in the cranium, exists immediately internally to the rough oblique line corresponding with part of the upper and outer limit of the origin of the soleus for the posterior surface of the fibula of the left side. This may possibly have been produced by the malnutrition caused by the temporary hemiplegia. But no other lesions of this kind, if such it be, have presented themselves to me elsewhere in this skeleton. The cranium of the male skeleton contrasts with the female, already described, page 425, in the following particulars:— When placed on a horizontal plane, and viewed in the norma lateralis^ without the lower jaw, the skull rests on the occipital condyles and the first molar and the teeth anterior to it, whilst the female skull, when similarly placed, rests on the conceptacula cere- belli and the first and second molars, showing thus at once a greater cranial curvature, which is a sign of elevation, and a greater convexity downwards of the upper alveolar line, which is rather a sign of the reverse. The male skull is more orthognathous than the female, whilst the slope of the forehead is more oblique, as is usual in male skulls. The same applies to the obliquity in the parieto-occipital region. The fi'ontal and parietal regions are, as the measurements of their absolute widths show, less well filled out and globose than those of the female skeleton; the muscular im- pressions show the large development to be expected in a male subject. The ear is seen, as the low antero-posterior index (-48) indicates, to be placed far forward in the skull. The origin of the temporal muscle from the frontal and of the masseter from the malar bone are marked by rugged lines; there is a large foramen emissarium in each temporal bone posteriorly to the digastric fossa, in compensation, as it were, for the existence of but a single small one in the place of the normally present pair in the parietal region. Viewed from behind, the parietal tubera are so faintly marked as to mask somewhat the pentagonal contour which the falling away of the parietals from the middle line of the skull on either side, together with the comparative flatness of the temporal regions, would otherwise give. Viewed in the norma verticalis, the skull is seen to be phaenozygous; to have the denticulations of the sagittal suture somewhat coarse where present, and to have the fused halves of the frontals sloping away from the middle line. When the