227 UrON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. of England at the present day ^ is shorter in stature and feebler in development, and at the same time longer in skull-form than the lighter haired and lighter complexioned variety. Therefore the longer skulls found with shorter skeletons, but in the long barrows and there to the exclusion of brachycephalic forms, I should speak of as belonging to this ' Silurian' type. The brachycephalic skulls of the bronze period whichj as already stated, are found in the round barrows mixed xip with long skulls, I.shall speak of as belonging to a 'Cimbric' type; firstly, because there is no doubt that a similar form of skull is found at the present day to be the skull form of the inhabitants of Denmark, once called'the 'Cimbric' Peninsula2; and, secondly, because, as I have elsewhere pointed out ^, there are other reasons for thinking * Dr. Beddoe, * Mem. Anth. Soc' vol. ii. p. 350. * Dr. Beddoe,' Mem. Anth. Soc' vol. iii, and Handelman und Pansch, ' Moorleichen- funde,' p. 26. The skiiU-form of the Danes was eminently brachycephalic 800 years ago also, if we may judge from the skuUs of Flambard and some other distinguished ecclesiastics of the early Norman period in this country. These sl<tdls were exhumed and, after being measured by me, reinterred in the course of certain excavations close to the cathedral in Durham in 1874. skulls of the Anglo-Saxon interments disturbed in these excavations were of the dolichocephalic type usual in that race. ' See ' British Association Eeport' for 1875, Bristol Meeting, pp. 148-149, where it is suggested that in addition to the a priori probability which the fact of so many immigrations from Denmark into Great Britain having taken place in the way of invasions in historic times lends to such a view, we have some more definite likeli- hood given to it by the discovery in Yorkshire of monoxylic coffins with similar contents and fashion to those found in South Jutland ; and by the existence in the same country of earth-works, which remind us of the ' castra ac spatia' of the Cimbri in their native land (Tacit. Germ. 37), but which have been shown by Colonel Lane Fox to have been thrown up by invaders advancing inland from the sea. I was not aware when I made these suggestions that Miinch in his ' Det Norske Folks Historic,' p. II, German translation by Claussen, 1853, ^^'^ drawn an argument for the same suggestion from the words of Ammianus Marcellinus, xv. 9, relating to one of the ' Cimbric Deluges,' taken in connexion with the well-known words of the Welsh Triad, 4. p. 57, cit. Sharon. Turner, ' History of the Anglo-Saxons,' vol. i. book i. chap, ii. and iii. pp. 32, 42, 48 and 49, 7th ed. 1852, which say that Hu Gadarn ' led the nation of the Cymry first to the isle of Britain; and from the country of Summer which is called Deffrobani they came ; this is where Constantinople is; and through, the hazy ocean (the German Ocean) they came to the island of Britain.' Whatever may be the value of these words from the Triad, it is of importance to recollect that there are geological reasons for holding that the so-called ' Cimbrian Deluge' was but one of a series of submersions each of which may have caused an emigration. Sir Charles Lyell has recorded an opinion to this efifeot in his ' Principles of Geology,' vol. 1. PP- hh^, 559> citing the traditions recorded by Strabo, vii. 2, and Florus, iii. 3, as to the occarrence of such catastrophes in the Cimbric Peninsula, and in ' extremis Galliae.* Other references to the Cimbric Deluge will be found in Professor Nilason's ' Early