ANIMAL KEMAINS FOUND AT CISSBUKY. 415 none such is forthcoming-, we have a fresh point of agreement between the fauna of Cissbury and that of other excavations of the stone period. The bones of a young badger^ Meles taxns, as also of a young fox, Canis v^dfes, have been put into my hands from the Cissbury excavations; their exact locality is not specified ; and it is possible that they may be of comparatively modern date. It should be noted that neither the red-deer nor the roe antlers are always merely slied horns, portions of the frontal bone being in some cases left in connexion with them, I come now to the fauna of the ' skeleton shaft/ the shaft in which a human skeleton was found, as described by Colonel Lane Fox, p. 375, 1. C.J Journal. The animal remains found in this shaft not only bear directly upon the mode of life and degree of culture which the excavators of this shaft and its fellows enjoyed, but they also very irrefragably prove that these shafts had been fi.lled up before the second race of stone-using men dug their ditch and threw up their ramparts. It will be convenient, firstly, to give an account of the vertebrate animal remains, as has been already done with those found in Mr. Tyndall's and in the ' large pit'; secondly, to show how the shells of the mollusca, found in great abundance in the shaft, bear, as the shells of mollusca so ordinarily do, upon the age of the various strata in which they are found ; and, thirdly, to describe the human skeleton found with those remains, attempt- ing whilst doing this to frame some reasonable hypothesis as to the way in which this representative of the horde of Cissbury flint- miners came by her death and burial. III. Mammalian remains from Skeleton Pit. The skeleton shaft was a smaller but not a shallower pit than most of those examined by us at Cissbury; its diameter was 4 feet 6 inches, whilst its depth from the surface, before the ditch was made, was 14 feet. In this pit were found more than 1000 sepa- rate bones and fragments of bones of artiodactyle mammals, mixed up with an almost entirely complete human skeleton, but contrast- ing with it, firstly, in being usually fragmentary themselves, and, secondly, in making up by no means the full tale of the bones of the skeletons which they represented. The immense majority, about 600 out of 1000, of the lower animal bones in this pit was