Xlll LIFE OF DR. KOLLESTON. college, his incessant reading through the night, or in summer in the window-seat in the full glare of sunshine, was a wonder to the people at his lodgings; they once ran up to tell him of a great &e, but he only said, ' How peculiar 1' and would no more look up from his work than if he had been Archimedes. To be late for a lecture was a sin he could never forgive himself for. Once he was at a breakfast in college, when ten o'clock struck; he rushed headlong downstairs, struggling into his gown as he went, meeting half-way the upcoming scout, who was knocked to the bottom of the flight, and to this day carries in a broken nose the record of punctuality. When Kolleston came to be himself a lecturer, he was in like manner severe on his class, though in his later years he relaxed a little. He used to say, ' When I was young I could never forgive my men for being late—but now I give 'em five minutes.' It must not be thought, however, that this studious life was due to want of ability for manly exercises. At school the old drill-sergeant would not condescend to fence with any other boy but RoUeston, who, he used to say, was the only one who could handle a single- stick if the Mounseers came among us. He rowed in his College eight, and kept up through life his fondness for the river, priding himself on his pupils who distinguished themselves there—indeed his class sometimes fancied that he tolerated their shortcomings more easily than those of other men. An influence one would have expected to find marks of in RoUeston's character was the religious controversy which then divided Oxford. Newman and Pusey had raised the standard of church supremacy, and a phalanx of zealous youths followed their lead. Since then Stanley, preaching for liberty, had raised a new spirit among many of the bolder and more independent. Thus within the lines of the Church of England there was renewed the world-old strife between authority and reason, with its usual distracting results of personal animosity and social division. Rolleston's temper and work both kept him outside the actual battle of theology. The ceremonies, the symbolisms, the ecstasies of the High Church School wanted the reality he cared for. The