483 THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. slightly transposed, so as to take their place between the next 'and' and the word 'communicates,' Of the adequacy of this argument any conscientious critic can judge without troubling himself to consider the context in which the passage in question stands, or the other two portions of my book in which the subject is treated, and indeed without special knowledge of the matter at all. To proceed synthetically: I will add that anybody who will write the statement out in lines of eight words each or thereabouts, omitting the toords 'and BrancJiiohdella' from those lines, and will then add them in his MS. with the customary Greek lambda-A.-like note placed interlinearly, will be amused to see how easily the supple- mented words come within tbe grasp of the embracing brackets. Unfortunately, even for my own satisfaction, I allowed my MS. of ' Forms of Animal Life' to be destroyed only quite recently; the printed proofs, happily, I still preserve. Commas and brackets are, it is true, not anatomical or natural history facts, but they are facts of human history, and if looked at carefully, will furnish a scientific observer with as sure a clue to the interpretation of a man's intention as the observation of the actions of one of the lower animals will do as to the interpretation of its meaning on any par- ticular occasion. Having thus, in the first place, appealed to the judgment of scientific men of every class—that is to say, to the judgment of all fair-judging men who will take the pains to attend to all the circumstances of a very small question—I will, in the second place, adduce some evidence, the appreciation of which does require some special knowledge of the subject, being based upon a consideration of the passage, in connection with its context and its obvious meaning. Anybody who will read that part of my chapter on the sub-kingdom Vermes, from p. cxxii. to cxxxi., which relates to the ' class Annulata proper,' will see that on p. cxxix., the page con- taining the passage which Professor Lankester has taken for his text, the word 'Annulata' is used no less than four times, and obviously and expressedly as inclusive of the Discophora. The likeness indeed of Branchiobdella to the Naidea had been hinted at by both Grube in i85r ('Die Familien der Anneliden,' p. 115), and Claparede in 1868 (' Bibliotheque Univ. de Geneve,' N.S. xxii. p. 348); but no one had in 1870 proposed, as Gegenbaur has sub- sequently (Grundriss, 1878, p. 134), to consider Branchiobdella one