ON THE PEOPLE OP THE LONG-BAEKOW PERIOD. 400 of life, long, flat^ and low, from, probably, very much such a skull as Swell vi. 2, 5 ; so that it is possible enough that these two skulls may have belonged to a mother and a daughter. The adult female humeri imperforated. Under this label came also the bones of a strong male subject, many of which were exostotic. Swell vi. (2, 5).—This calvaria probably belonged to a woman in the middle period of life. All the bones are of considerable thick- ness, but the skull does not bear the appearance of old age in other respects. Under it, however, are the bones of a much older and stronger subject (sex?). To it probably belongs an upper jaw which had lost no teeth during life, though some are much worn, and in which no wisdom teeth have been developed. Ext. length . . . •7-4 Ext. breadth . . . • 5-3 Ceph. index . . . .7-2 Glabello-inial . . . .6-8 There is a furrow developed along the posterior two-fifths of the sagittal suture; and in this respect, as in the more significant one of its elongato-oval vertical contour, and its fairly rounded-out outlines, as also in its relative lowness, so far as can be approxima- tively made out, this skull resembles the dolichocephalic form so common at Frilford, and in other Romano-British cemeteries. I have seen similar skulls in Dr. Thurnam's collection from Tilshead, West Kennet, and Nympsfield, but thev nr»' not common in early British cemeteries. A bone of a pig came with these bones, as also parts of another and older human subject, distinct from either, under label vi. 2, 4. At knees of 4, another body, 5, apparently on right side, head to E.S.E., hands to f"ce, only one piece of lower jaw. Swell vi. (2, 6} :— Ext. length . . . .7-7 Ext. breadth (approx.) . • 5-6 Vert, height . . . .6-1 Ceph. index (approx.) . . 74 Glabello-inial length . . 7 Frontal arc . . . • 5'7 Parietal arc . . . . 6-i Occipital arc .... 4-9 Calvaria with upper and lower jaws of man in middle period of life. The sagittal suture is entirely obliterated internally. The teeth, some of which had been lost during life, though none are carious, are a good deal worn. The mentum is characteristically triangular, but not prominent. The foramen mentale is in the