443 BEPOBT ON EXCAVATION AT SIQWELL. subject. With this and one or two more fragments of skull there were some fragments of the long bones. With the white fragments were mixed up here (as also in ' Sigwell iii' to be hereafter described) masses of bones so burnt and so broken up as to present an Oxford grey colour from the intimate intermingling of their white with their carbonised factors. With the bones were mixed up inside the oak bark coffin some flint flakes labelled ' Sigwell ii c;' but not a single fragment of charcoal. It had been made of two pieces of bark, which had been fastened together at the sides, so as to leave two free ends projecting freely, not wrapped round each other. But in one section drawn by General Lane Fox the upper bark cover having been shorter than the lower, this latter simply curves round its free edge. As the ensuing description will show, the lower piece of bark must have been laid upon the ground, and the bones from the pyre or ustrinum must have been brought to it and placed upon and along it together with the earth and the bronze dagger, and the flints which were found inside the coffin by us. The upper piece of bark was then put over the entire mass of contents, and the rest of the barrow piled over them. The coffin's -east edge was nearer the east border of the grave than its west edge was; at this edge it was about i foot 3 inches short of the grave's boundary. Its length was, from south to north, about 7 feet; in working from south to north we had cut away the south end of the coffin before we were aware of it, so that we cannot say with perfect certainty where its south end began, but as its north end was detectable % feet from the north end of the grave, the entire length of which was only 10 feet, this is of no great consequence. The width of the coffin was from 34 inches to 36 inches; its depth in the middle line about 6-5 inches. The contents of the bark coffin contrasted very strikingly with the made earth of the barrow above, with the natural soil into which the grave was sunk on either side^, and thirdly with the soil from the grave itself, which had been thrown up on the east side of the grave as seen and shown in the section. The soil within the coffin was lighter a good deal than the made earth of the barrow, the intermingling of which with fairly divided carbonaceous matter had made it in places very dark; but was much less light than the natural ground into which the grave was sunk. But it is of great