"UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA.. 309 • Naturvolker' is plain enough, the same cannot be said of the inter- pretation or signification of the fact. In none of the recent, nor, so far as I can learn from plates, in any of the fossil Simiadae, has any fission of the fang of a canine been observed ; indeed the lower-jaw canines in this family with their single fangs and the lower-jaw premolars with their invariably double ones differ from their human homologues more strikingly than do any of their other teeth. It is true that in some even of the Cynomorphous Simiadae the fang of the lower canine is laterally grooved as well as laterally com- pressed ; and in the gorilla the long diameter of the oval section of this fang forms a much more widely open angle mesially with the long axis of the molar series than it does in the chimpanzee or orang. Still these are but approximations to what is fully carried out in the bifidity of the human canine fang; and though we may speak of them, therefore, as ' anthropoid/ we cannot speak of it as ' pithecoid.' To my thinking a fair expression of the facts may be given by saying, the interchangeability of form which exists between ' canines' and ' premolars,' but which ordinarily requires for its illustration the comparison of two distinct species, is exem- plified by different varieties within the limits of our own single species. If in this instance we have to go as far afield as are such animals as GaleopitJieciis, Drinaceus, and Talpa, to understand how a so called 'canine' can become 'premolariform ' and develope two fangs, it is but one instance out of many which show that many questions in anthropology can be read only in the light furnished by comparative anatomy ^. I have not observed in these series any wisdom teeth with that larger development which is so commonly noticeable in the dental series of AustraKans as compared even with other black races, not to say with Europeans. Rather indeed the reverse, the wisdom teeth being often very small, especially in female skulls of the earlier series. Nor in spite of the grinding down which is so marked a feature in many of these skulls, as for example in the skull of the woman from Cissbury, described by me in the ' Journal of the Anth. Inst.,' vol. vi. p. 34 (Article XIX), have I ever observed ' For a philosophical discusaion of the homologies and nomenclature and the inter- changeability of form in mammalian teeth, see Messrs. Moseley and Lankester, 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' Nov. 1868, ser. ii. No. iii. p. 73, and Mr. C. S. Tomes, 'Mantial of Dental Anatomy,' 1876, p. 260.