ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. 419 IV. The mollusca foxmcl in the Skeleton Pit and their hearing on its date. The mollusca found in the Skeletoa Pit, though they do not throw any lig-ht upon the habits, furnish an almost perfect de- monstration of the relative antiquities of the pit-dig-gers, of the woman whose remains were found in the pit, and of the digg-ers of the ditch who came last of all, little suspecting what ' mouldered there below.' The following species of mollusca were found in the pit, adhering to its walls, or amongst the rubble :—Helix nemoralis, Helix arlus- torum, Helix lapicida, Helix rotundata, Zonites cellarius, Cyelostoma elegans. They were found in great abundance, but there is no reason to suppose that they had been used for food. There were no specimens of the large edible snail, Helixpomatia, found in Cissbury at all, and though the next largest English snail. Helix aspersa, was found in other parts of the works excavated, I have no note of it from the skeleton pit. Oysters which (see Colonel Lane Fox, 1. c. 367) were found in one instance at the bottom of the ditch, were not found' in any stratum deeper down, and may, therefore, like the horse, be considered as marking a later age. To under- stand the value of the argument for the antiquity of the shaft and the priority in point of time of the entombment of the woman, whose remains are hereinafter described, to the digging of the ditch. Colonel Lane Fox's section (fig. 3, PI. xv, 1. c.) of the skeleton shaft, with the ditch escarp and counterscarp, should be before the reader and be compared with his description given at p. 376,1. c, of the structural arrangements there figured. In the skeleton shaft (H, fig. 3, PI. XV.) the larger snail shells, by themselves, are suffi- cient to show, firstly, that the ditch must have been cut through rubble continuous with that which we cleared out of the pit, to the great surprise, no doubt, as also to the great satisfaction of the excavators, who would find the work of cutting through rubble much easier than that of cutting through the natural chalk; and by consequence, secondly, that the shaft was anterior, not posterior, in date to the making of the fort. For it is simply impossible that such large shells as those specified could have worked their way in any abundance through the red seam of silting, made up of fine rain-washed particles, which marked the line of the bottom, E e a