SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN ONE HUNDRED AND SIX YEARS OLD. 149 with one of the columnae carneae of this cusp, arose a moderator band, and passed to the anterior wall of the ventricle. In the apex of the right ventricle there was a very complex reticulation of columnae carneae unconnected with the valves; a similar but less complex arrangement existed in the apex of the left also. Of the pulmonary valves there is nothing to be said, and of the mitral and aortic, merely that there was a little atheromatous discoloration upon them, and that the latter seemed a little larger than usual. There was a good deal more atheroma arranged on the aorta in a line opposite the free edge of the aortic valves, and at one spot a considerable calcareous deposit was mixed up with it. But on the aorta beyond there was very little more of this deposit; but a single patch, in fact, in a length of vessel of as much, as 2\" from the aortic valves. All the atheromatous and calcareous deposits alike were covered by the internal coat of the vessel, which was easily stripped off them in a continuous longitudinally fibrous sheet. There was no such deposit observable in the pulmonary artery; there was no clot in any of the cavities of the heart. Under the microscope the transverse striation, and even the branching of the heart fibres, were very clearly observable ; but parallel with most or all the fibres, oil-drops of a yellowish colour, soluble in ether, were arranged in a moniliform fashion. The liver was pale. Hepatic congestion was observed. Some yellow bile was seen in the ductus choledochus communis, which did not seem larger than usual. The weight of the liver was the same as that of the brain—viz. 2 lb. 11 oz. Under the micro- scope it was seen to be gorged with oil, every cell containing one or two large drops. The spleen was very small, its weight two ounces, its capsule tuberculated. The stomach and intestines presented little which was abnormal. There was no thinning of coats, or dilatation or narrowing of the calibre of any portion of the tube ; the lowest part of the tract con- tained a quantity of well-elaborated faecal matter. There were no mesenteric glands to be seen in the layers of the mesentery; and Peyer's glands were represented to the naked eye by black specks merely. But these latter glands, on being placed under the microscope, presented just the same appearance of tur- gescence and roundness that they would have done in a younger