139 CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. the homologue of the aubclavius of other mammals. The prolongation of the tendon of this muscular fascicle (ei) may be considered to be due to the with- drawal of the Crocodile's epicoraco-humeral to the upper end of the coracoid. Finally, as the rectus is often fused with the pectoral, we may regard this fascicle as a nascent pectoralis minor. e 0. Musculivr fascicle arising from the tip of the freely ending cartilage of the first thoracic rib (a point homologous with the points of origin of the several fascicles of the external oblique), and passing downwards and forwards to end in an aponeurosis attached mesially to the sternum and continuous with that of the external oblique. By contracting a close adhesion to the fibres of the anterior prolongation of the rectus abdominis instead of passing freely over them, as here, this muscular slip may, in other animals, as e. g. Cynocephalus hamadryas, assume the appearance of an outer head to this anterior prolongation. But its true character of homology with the fascicles of the external oblique is seen as plainly in the Guinea-pig {Cavia aperia) and the Aardvark {Orycteropus capensis), and, according to Meckel (' Vergleich. Anatomie,' p. 454), in the Eaccoon {Procyon lotor) and in the Hedgehog {Erinaceus europceus), as it is here. In the Wombat {Phascolomys wombat) the true relations of this fascicle are very clearly seen; and a fascicle, obviously homologous with the one lettered e i in the Crocodile, passes from under it to join the subclavius arising from the first rib. This latter muscle arises, thick and fleshy, from the first rib in the Wombat, and is inserted into the outer end of the clavicle, and, by means of the fascia covering the supra- spinatus muscle, into the whole length of the spine of the scapula. Before its insertion it is joined by a fine tendon from a delicate muscular belly, arising from the sixth costal cartilage, and homologous with the muscular fasciculus figured here at ei. Over this fascicle, which might be described in the Wombat as a second head of the subclavius, there passes inwards from the outer part of the first rib a muscular fasciculus, homologous with the one here figured in the Crocodile as eo, to end in a broad tendinous aponeurosis over the sternum, opposite the third and fourth costal cartilages. It is probable, on the whole, that this fascicle e 0 may be really the homologue of the muscular slip which is called 'rectus thoracis' by Professor Turner, I.e., and which, as figured and described by him, appears to have a tendency to be produced obliquely inwards towards the sternum. (See 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' May 1868, PP- 393) 394. ibique citata.) gel. Subclavius or triangularis sterni muscle, the ' pectoralis secundus' of Haughton, and 'costocoracoid' of Mivart (' Proc. Zool. Soc' June 1867, p. 776). Its super- ficial layer arises from the free cartUage of the second thoracic rib, and from the intermediate and sternal elements of the third and fourth thoracic ribs, and is inserted along the posterior edge of the coracoid. This muscle is obviously homologous with the similarly stratified muscle of similar origin and insertion in the bird, which is ordinarily called 'subclavius,' e.g. by Schoepss (Meckel's Archiv, 1829); but it cannot be homologous with the pectoralis secundus or levator humeri of the bird, inasmuch as the two muscles coexist with each other there. The same reasoning shows that it is not homologous with a pectoralis minor, though the slip which, in Alligator luciua, it gives to the muscle e i may be so in part. ch. Coraco-brachialis, arising from anterior four-fifths of humeral edge of coracoid. kc. Tendon of biceps, passing to be inserted on cephalic edge of coracoid. Fig. 4. Muscles in connexion with the scapulo-coracoid aroh and upper extremity of the Emu, Dromaius novae lioUandiae. p m. Pectoralis major. This muscle has a few fibres of origin in an aponem-osis