406 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEEOW PEETOD. beyond it. The long exposure to indiscriminate plundering which this chamber had undergone, accounts for the fragmentary con- dition to wliich most of the bones still left in it had been reduced; had a freer entrance been made into it, however, even what has been saved to us would long ago have been irrevocably scattered. Some of the long bones, however, have escaped, so as to allow us to measure them, and draw from these measurements conclusions very similar to those which the remains found in the two other long barrows here described have enabled us to draw. Some of the femora and some of the humeri, for example, must have belonged to men of very great muscular power, whilst some of the other long bones must have belonged to females of eminently small size and strength. Two radii, for example, measuring, one of them 8^^^ in., and the other J-^q in., and being exceedingly slender, though obviously adult, enable us to say that their owners must have been ill-nourished women, such as are the wives of savages, of a stature, in the one case, of 4 ft. 9 in., and in the other of 4 ft. 7 in. The femora of the male and female skeletons found lying at the entrance to the chamber being iS-i in. and i^-g in. in length, re- spectively, give us for their owners the disproportionate statures of 5 ft. 6 in. and 4 ft. 9 in., respectively. A similar disparity exists between the clavicles; an observation made, like several others re- lating to this barrow, also in the cases of the other barrows examined here, and in the case of the human remains from the caves ^ of Gibraltar examined by Professor Busk. Six lower jaws were recovered from this chamber, all but one of which must have be- longed to strong adult men. The body of the bone lies, in nearly every case, evenly, on a horizontal surface, and forms a right angle, or something nearly approaching a right angle, with its ramus. The mental foramen lies far back in several instances, and the alveolar portion of the mental region is largely developed. In every case but one the full number of teeth was retained up to the time of death, even though the teeth are very much worn in most cases, and in some even down to close upon the fangs. There was only one case of caries. Mr. Mummery ^ has made similar observations to these in relation to Dr. Thurnam's Wiltshire skulls, remarking, in addition ^, that a much less favourable state of things prevailed * See ' Transactions Prehistoric Congress,' Third Session, p. 54. ' 'Transact. Odont. Society,' Nov. 1869, p. 13. ^ p. 15, 1-c.