ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD. 391 temporals of an adult, were found at about the same distance from the east end, and at a point a little south by west of the middle line. In the middle line of the barrow at this distance from the east end was a blackish seam of about 6 feet 6 inches in width, containing bonesj but limited in the eastward direction by masses of stones, under which also were found a few fragments of human bones, adult and young. Amongst the bones from this part of the barrow was one fragment of burnt bone, possibly human, as well as some teeth of ox and horse. These teeth, as also the human temporals, were stained by the manganic oxide. These appearances were difficult of interpretation until we came upon the ruins of a ' chamber/ about 6 feet or so further to the north-west, the destruction of which, and the scattering the contents of which, may explain the blackening of the central strip of the barrow observed here, as also the presence of the human bones. The single burnt bone, whether human or notj may have been an accidental importation. Some adult teeth of £os, from the south side of the barrow, found together, are beautifully coloured by the manganic oxide. September 26, Saturday.—A piece of the parietal of a human subject, beyond the period of childhood at least, a considerable development of diploe having taken place in it, was found at the bottom, to the south of the middle line, under the slaty, slantingly- arranged rubble, not under the central deposit^ at a point about 27 feet from the centre point of the eastward end. On a level with it, as regards the long axis of the barrow, but close to its northern wall, we came upon a stone, 4 feet 9 inches long, 3 feet 2 inches high, placed on its edge, and sunk some way into the natural soil. It had its long axis at right angles to that of the barrow, the wall of which, as afterwards discovered, formed a passage, 4 feet 2 inches wide, leading down to it. Another large stone, 2 feet 10 inches long, 3 feet 3 inches high, also standing on its edge, abutted on the inner end of the first stone, and projected in a south-westerly direction into the barrow; and two other large stones were lying flat near the upright ones. There can be little or no doubt that these stones represent what was once a chamber, such as that found in the long barrow, Swell i. On this day some few bones of mammals and birds were found in the barrow, west of the line of the cist, and some way above the