ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTUBES OP THE TENREC. 75 walls. The lower part of the vagina is one inch in length; the upper is one inch and an eighth. The interlocking processes developed from the walls of the upper part leave a pervious passage from below upward for about half the length of this part of the tube J the uppermost half, however, is entirely blocked up by the formation of complete transverse septa. Upon one of these, at a distance of three-eighths of an inch from the commencement of the uterine cornua, an os tincae like projection a quarter of an inch long, but ending blindly, is developed. Its presence may make it doubtful whether the partition of the sexual canal, with the inter- locking processes developed upon it, does not correspond to parts both of vagina and of corpus uteri. Somewhat similar processes are figured by C. G. Carus^ in the Kinkajou {Cercole^ites caudivolvu- lus) in the vagina alone, the corpus uteri having been left un- dissected in the preparation there drawn ; and Leuckart speaks ^ of similar outgrowths being developed in the vagina of the Banx- ling [Cladobates, sp, ?) during pregnancy; whilst in the ordinary ruminants and Llama [Auchenia glama), figured by Carus, (1. c. fig. 5), they are confined to the corpus uteri. In the common pig [Sus serofa) similar processes to those in the tenrec are to be seen occupying a similar situation ^. There is in the tenrec a short corpus uteri above the closed portion of the sexual canal. Of the two cornua opening into it, the left one is three inches and a-half long, and the right four inches. In the left cornu there were contained four foetuses, and in addition to the utero-placental areae corresponding with them, there were two patches of tumid mucous membrane over and above, indicating apparently that two additional ova had been attached there and aborted. There was one similar patch in the right cornu, together with eight foetuses. In all, therefore, as many as fifteen ova had been impregnated ; three had aborted, and twelve might have been brought to the birth. As many as twenty-one young ones are said to have been brought forth by the tenrec at one time : it has twenty-four mammae ; but the number ' C. G. CaruB, ' Tabulae Anatomiam Comparativam Illustrantes,' pars v. tab. viii. fig. 6,1840. ' Vergleichende Anatomie und Physiologie,' von C. Bergmann und R. Leuckart, 1855, p. 627. ^ The same condition obtains in the rhinoceros and in the elephant. (See ' Hunterian Catalogue,' iv. 2775, 2777 a.)