ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAKROW PEBIOD. , 393 drinking-cup only a couple of inches from the surface of the soil over the barrow. This cup was of a not uncommon pattern, thong'-made ; and with its paste red outside and black inwards, but was somewhat thicker than ' driuking-cups' are usually. It bad probably been interred with a body of a later period than those buried in the cist, and had come into the position in which we found it in consequence of agricultural or other disturbance of the place. To such other disturbance the following appearances seemed to speak. The bones seemed in a few cases to have been left, partially, at least, in situ; but in many cases I found a few bones between a couple of slates, the lower of which^ in its turn, overlaid a second set of bones. This would appear to be explicable by supposing that, the roof of the cist being re- moved, its contents were taken out partially, and then thrown in again, with any rubble which came to hand, so as to fill the cist up again. It is not safe to say what the precise size of the cist had been originally, but it may have been somewhere about 5 feet by 4 feet. The bones contained in it, when examined by me, were disposed as follows:—The first bones come upon were bones of children, some of which had apparently been left in situ, and upon the left side, whilst others had as evidently been disturbed. As there were no less than three children with the first permanent molar in use, but with no more, or with only the first incisor of the second set in addition, and consequently all three between 7 and 8 years of age, in this cist, and the western half of it, and, besides them, a child of 2 years, or something less, it is a little difiicult to be quite sure how many of so many similar bones had been placed in situ. None of all the bones lay upon the natural ground, but all had a flagstone intei-posed between them and it. On the south side, and, I think, at the south-west angle, part of the lower jaw of a strong adult and the atlas were found near each other. Further east, under one large flagstone, were lying the patella of a strong adult male and some bones of a skull of a child. Of course, these bones must have been disturbed to get thus into company with each other, and with no other bones between two flagstones. In the middle of the cist were found some of the bones of a youngish dog, and amongst them its lower jaw, which show it to have been about the size of an English mastiff; and in the same situation were bones of ox, of