388 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD. Swell i. (d).—Part of frontal, and riglit molar and maxillaries of a strong young man, aet. twenty to twenty-four. The frontal appears to have been vertical up to the tubera, which are low down, and then to have sloped very gradually to the coronal suture. The temporal ridges are greatly developed. Orbit width . . . .1.65 Orbit height . . . .1-3 The wisdom teeth are in place, but have been very little used. The supraciliary ridges are large, but are not underlaid by sinuses. Swell i, 22-9-1874.—Imperfect calvaria of old woman, 4 feet 10 inches in stature, dolichocephalic both by contour and by measurement. It contrasts very markedly, as regards size, with the other female skull procured from this barrow, into the inside of which it could be put, though its owner was an incb taller (4 feet 10 inches as against 4 feet 9 inches) than the owner of skull in Swell i. (a). This skull might be taken as a fair specimen of the River Bed type of Professor Huxley, the larger as a fair specimen of the Sion type of His and Riitimeyer. Ext. length . 7-1 Ext. breadth (approx.) . 50 Cephalic index . . 70 Vert, height • S-3 Frontal arc • 4-9 Ulna . 9-2 Parietal .... • 5-4 Stature . . , 4 ft. 10 in. The forehead is vertical; the highest point in the vertical contour lies about an inch posteriorly to the coronal suture ; the posterior half of the parietal curves evenly into the slopes of the superior occipital squama. The cerebellum was much overlapped by the posterior cerebral lobes. The lower jaw is feeble. The mental foramen corresponds to the interval between the second bicuspid and first molar. The teeth are very much worn down, and there are two or three alveolar abscess-cavities in the jaw. One very large one occupies a great part of the molar region of the left upper maxilla. Many of the vertebrae, from the cervical downwards, are beset with exostoses, but they are not anchylosed. The tibiae were not sufficiently well preserved for me to decide whether they were platycnemic, as w^ere all the other four adult tibiae. The femur is very much flattened in the region of the insertion of the glutaeus