119 CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. levator humeri is one and not the other of two, either of which, so far as we can see, might have been so employed. I cannot adopt Prof. Pagenstecher's views (' Zool. Gart.' April 1867, p. 135), according to which the two mammalian pectorales are referred to two entirely distinct sets of muscles, the pectoralis major being one of a ventral, and the pectoralis minor one of a dorsal series. The single fact of their both receiving a nerve- supply from the same nerve (the internal anterior thoracic) seems to be conclusive against the validity of this suggestion. And I believe further, that it is impossible to observe how the posterior fascicles of the pectoralis major in the lower Mammalia have their tendons prolonged up from the lesser tuberosity of the humerus and the bicipital groove, which is bridged over by pectoral tendons, to the coracoid process, without being convinced that the pectoralis minor of anthropotomy is but a specialised anterior fascicle of the deeper portions of the pectoralis major. The commonest variation, according to Mr. Macalister ('Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' May 1867, p. 317), which the pectoralis minor exhibits in man is an insertion of the lowest part of its tendon, missing as it were the coracoid process, into the coraco-brachialis muscle. The arguments which I shall now adduce to show that the pectoralis minor is not the homologue of the avian pectoralis secundus will at the same time go some way towards proving that the primary insertion of the mammalian muscle is a humeral one, more or less internally to the tendon of the superficial layers of the greater pectoral, whilst the primary insertion of the avian is also a humeral one, but one more or less externally placed to that of the great pectoral depressor of the humerus. The attachment of the mammalian pectoral to the coracoid is secondary in its history; and the like place in the series of its specialisations is held by the development of the coracoid pulley in the history of the avian pectoralis secundus. The insertion of the ' subclavius' into the clavicle and the junction of the 'pectoralis minor' with the supraspinatus will be seen in the course of the argument to be exclusively mammalian developments. Now there are three lines of argument for showing the homological identity or non-identity of any two muscles. The first line of argument shows that they hold the same or different relations to the other structures they are connected with at their origin, in their course, or at their