408 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. parietal tubera, Much, mark the point of its maximum breadtli. From this level the skull is wall-sided downwards, and to complete the character of an ' ill-filled ^' skull, it slopes upwards from the same level to the sagittal line. It further shows a flattening ex- ternally and a convexity internally over the posterior inferior angles of both parietals, an appearance corresponding to the presence of certain irregular fissures in the brain, immediately posterior to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolutions, and indicative of a lowly developed brain. The mastoid, the glabellar, and the supraeiliary ridges are largely developed, and the latter are not underlaid by any frontal sinuses. Viewed in the norma verticalis, the skull is pear-shaped, tapering rapidly from the level of the parietal tubera, both forwards and backwai-ds. The parietal tubera are situated well forward, occupy- ing a point which is at the 105th division out of 189 of the line of the whole length of the skull from the forehead backwards. The occiput is blunted posteriorly; and in these two latter particulars the skull resembles the ' Sion types' of His and Riitimeyer. It is phaenozygous, as the ' Sion types' are sometimes, though not always. The three principal sutures are complexly denticulated; the sagittal is nearly obliterated in the fifth of its length, cor- responding to the entirely obliterated foramina emissaria. Internally the obliteration of the sutures has progressed much further than it has externally, and the walls of the skull are thick. In the norma occipitalis the pentagonal outline is very well marked, the lateral walls inclining inwards from the level of the tubera, and the roof falling away from a well-marked sagittal elevation. The concepta- cula ceiebelli have the horizontal position so characteristic of doli- chocephalic skulls. The palate is deep and elliptical. The wisdom teeth are little worn; the teeth anterior to them, on the contrary, very much. The lower jaw lies evenly on a horizontal surface; the alveolar portion of the mentum is largely developed ; the iuferiorly placed, triangularly contoured portion of the chin is less in propor- tion than is usual in European skulls. * For use and application of this epithet, see Cleland, 'Pliil. Trans.,' 1869.