327 PREHISTORIC FAUNA. the claims of which to be considered indigenous Mr. H. C. Watson ('Cybele,' i. p. 243) allows, it may be added that Mr. Edwin Lees (cit. Johns, 1. c. p. 260) informs us that there is in the neighbourhood of Worcester a wood remote from any old dwelling or public road, of about 500 acres in extent, the greater part of which is composed of the small- leaved lime. II. Of the PEErasTOEic Fauna of Neolithic Times. But though the lime may have been available in these islands for the use of the bee, and though both the laws (Wottou, ' Leg. Wallicae,' i. 22, p. 43) and the literature (Sharon Turner, 'Vindication of the Ancient British Poems,' p. 59 ; Stephens, ' Literature of the Kymry,' 2nd ed., 1876, p. 80) no less than the reput£(,tion (Holinshed, 'England,' ed. 1807, i. 286) of the Welsh tell us that they made 'no less accompt' of metheglin or mead ' than the Greeks did of their ambrosia or nectar,' I should for several reasons be slow to think that the bee was domes- ticated in this country before the Roman era, or that the Celtic mead was made of any but wild honey. If we consider however, firstly, that even by the Romans themselves sugar was mainly procured from honey, beet-root and maple-sugar being wholly unknown and cane-sugar having been heard of only in some tradition from the expedition of Nearchus ('Strabo,' xv. i. 20) ; and, secondly, how largely now separated sugars^ enter into the dietaries even of the poorest amongst us, we shall come to see that this at first sight trifling matter would, if we could transport ourselves back into the days even of Caractacus, constitute for us as con- stantly felt a difi"erence between ancient and modern life as would the absence or extreme rarity of glass and coal. The only evidence which I have met with which may seem to show that the British in pre- Eoman times obtained the honey which the authority I am about to quote calls an ' excellent succedaneum' for sugar, from hived bees rather than ntTpijs €k -yXa^vpijs of the Iliad (|3. 88), the 'stony rock' of ' See address to the Physiological Subsection of the British Association by Edward Smith, M.D., F.R.S. Report, Bath Meeting, 1864, p. no. ' Separated sugars were obtained by 98 per cent, of the farm labourers in England, 92 per cent, in Wales, 96 per cent, in Scotland, and 82 per cent, in Ireland ; and the quantity per adult weekly was—England 7^ ozs., "Wales 7| ozs., Scotland 5| ozs., and Ireland 4I ozs. ; so that Wales occupied the head, and Ireland the foot of the list, both in frequency and quantity. Of in-door operatives, silk^weavers obtained 1^ ozs., needle-women 7^ ozs., kid-glovers 4} ozs., shoemakers 10 ozs., and stocking-weavers 11 ozs.; and hence the average was higher than that of out-door labourers, as 8 ozs. to 6"6 oz.s. The frequency with which they were obtained was the same in both classes on the whole average.'