11 OF THE ORANG UTANG. velopment of the frontal, remain unaffected by the application of either canon. Of their value our figures will enable the reader to judge for himself. After comparing our single brain of the chimpanzee with the two of the orang we possess in our Museum, we cannot see that the African ape contrasts in any one of these nine points to disad- vantage with the Asiatic. Under our second head,—that, namely, of the differences which weighing and measuring enable us to enucleate as existing between the several subjects of our comparison,—we have eight points of difference to enumerate. When it is not otherwise specified, the measurements of the human brain were taken from a brain of a German of average intelligence, the brain having recently been brought to the Museum, and presenting nothing peculiar, in the way either of under- or of over-development, to render it unfit to serve as a standard of comparison to the brain of the orang. Both sets of measurement were taken at the same time. The entire weight of the orang's body being i51b. laoz., the weight of the brain was t2oz. The relation of the weight of the brain to that of the body was, therefore, as i : 22•3. I find recorded by Huschke ^ a set of observations analogous to these. They were made upon a child of six years of age. The child was a girl, dying emaciated of pleuro-bronchitis. Weight of body 13>377 grammes, or c". 29 lb. "Weight of brain 1.215 grammes, or c\ 2 lb. looz. The brain : the body =1 : 11. The state of emaciation in which this child is reported to have died makes it the fairer to take it as a standard in this comparison. The child's dentition may very well have been in the same state as that of our orang; its age, however, was in all likelihood much further advanced; but as the brain would have been growing rapidly during those years, whilst the weight of the body was not increased proportionally, the excess of years may not in reality have caused in this case any diminution in the relative disproportion of the child's brain to its body, as it does in cases of healthy development. ' 'Schadel, Him und Seele,' 1854, P- 112; 'Phil. Trans.' 1836, p. 501. Boy, set. 3, Body well nourished = 41 lb. 2oz.Troy: Br!iin=2lb. 30Z. 2 dwt. 28gr. Ko = Body, i8-oo8 : 1 Brain. Girl, set. 8-8, Body well fed = 49 lb. 2 dwt. 51 gr.: Brain = 3 lb. 5 oz. 5 dwt. Ro = Body, 14^ : 1 Brain.