UPON THE SEKIES OF PEEHI8T0KIC CEANIA. 255 both in strength and in size when we read (Tacitus^' Germania,' cap. 16) that their marriage-presents of' juncti boves, paratus equus, data arma' were intended to teach them symbolically ' venire se laborum periculorumque socias, idem in pace, idem in proelio passuras ausuras- que.' In women subjected to such equal trials^and incited to such equal aspirations, the great sexual disparities at once of a physical, moral and intellectual nature, which have so often been noted as well in more civilised as in more savage communities, would on principles of natural selection tend to disappear. That the series of skeletons from the bronze period also contrasts and in the same way with the series from the stone and bone period^ may be gathered from the fact that in the series from the later period there is from time to time a difficulty in distinguishing the sex of the skeletons when the entire number of the bones are not preserved, a difficulty which scarcely ever arises in the case of pre-metallic skeletons. The subequality in size of the sexes in the Gallic races was expressly noted by Diodorus, and many other writers, ancient as regards our times but entirely modern as regards the long-barrow era, have, as I have pointed out above, p. 170^ remarked that in Celtic, no less than in German tribes, both sexes exposed themselves to the same risks in war. To the British of the time of Boadicea, Tacitus ^ tells us ('Ann.'xiv. 35), it was 'solitum feminarum ductu bellare^;' and the presence and participation of women in governments, battles, and massacres is repeatedly mentioned by the same writer (see ' Agrieola,' I315 32 ; ' Germania,' 8 ; 'Ann.' xiv. 30. See also Diodorus, v. 32, 39 ; Strabo, iii. 4, 17, t8, vii. a, 3 ; Dio Cassius, Ixii. 4; and supra, p. 170). The words of Dio Cassius a historian deserving, even as ^ Tacitus of course is writing (locc. citt.) of races whom the antiquary would speak of as ' late Celts/ but the physical subequality which, this community of risks as incurred in his days must have entailed had existed in the much earlier bronze age; and the brachycephalic type persisted not only through the late Celtic period, but, as the examination of the Oxfordshire Crawley tumulus carried on by Mr. Akerman, Dr. Thurnam, and myself has shown, to a much , later period. Indeed in this tumulus the crania were almost exclusively brachycephalic, and to a most marked degree, while the skeletons possessed the size and strength already described (p. 253 supra) a.s being usually found to characterise the trunk and limb bones to which such crania appertain. For an account of the Crawley tumulus, see Akerman, 'Archaeologia,' xxxvii. p. 432 ; Thurnam, ibid. xlii. p. 175. * See p. 170 supra, and Bates, 'Naturalist on the Amazons,' ii. 132; Clements Mark- harn, 'Travels in Peru and India,' p. 159; Rochholtz, 'Deutsche Glaube,' ii. 289. ' BowSovitca yvv^ Bpfravvh, yhovs rod fiaaiKdov, fiu^ov ^ mr^ ywaim <Pp6v7]ixa