DESCRIPTION OP FIGURES OF SKULLS. 180 less powerful than is the ease in the male skull of the same age. In the norma verticalis the left half of the skull is seen to be, as is not uncommonly the case, a little fuller and longer than the right; the parietal tubera are placed far back and prominent, but they do not constitute the broadest part of the skull, which, as is usual in well-filled brachycephalic skulls, lies on a level with the upper and posterior angle of the squamous part of the temporal bone and in a plane considerably anterior to that occupied by the parietal tubera. The sides of the occipital pentagon converge somewhat rapidly, a sexual characteristic, from this level of maximum breadth. The slope, on the other hand, from the mesial sagittal line to the parietal tubera on either side is a little more pronounced than is usual in female skulls. The mesial sagittal line maintains its elevation up to the coronal suture, and some little way forward on to the frontal bone. A broad undulation may be observed on either side in the vertical aspect of the skull between the parietal tubera and the coronal suture; it appears however to be due rather to the prominence of the parietal tubera than to any depression such as is often observable in this part of the parietal. Owing to the non- development of an occipital tuberosity, there is a difference of jjjih. of an inch between the extreme and the fronto-inial lengths, a point often observable in young brachycephalic skulls, but of no real importance as compared with such points as the vertical direction and flatness of the superior occipital squama, the back- ward position of the parietal tubera, and the abrupt dip downward of the parieto-occipital region immediately posterior to the level of these tubera, and the very considerable relative height, all characteristic of the brachycephalic type, and all recognisable in this skull. The skull Weaverthorpe (Smith, xlvi) has not admitted of having its cubical capacity taken ; a male brachycephalic skull (Goodman- ham, No. xcviii, p. 305), however, of strikingly similar contour in its smaller as well as its larger outlines to this, which belonged to an individual about 5'' taller than the owner of the skull here de- scribed, exceeds its cubic capacity by only 10 cubic inches. The cubic capacity of the Flixton female skull being 90-5 inches, is somewhat larger than that (1484-23 cub. cent. = 90-276 cub. inches) found by Professor Broca to be the average of ninety Parisian skulls, presumably of both sexes, of the present century, ' qui provenaieut