UPON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 247' pointed out above, p. 1^9, or as seen in such a skull as the one figured xiv. PI. xii. 'Cran. Brit.-" from Wetton Hill Barrow, being by no means rare in brachycephalic series. "Whatever differences may exist among craniographers as to the existence of sexual differences in the matter of the ' length-breadth index/ there is no room for questioning the fact that the height in women's skulls^, very variable though this measurement is, holds usually a less favourable relation to the length and breadth than it does in males. The only three instances in which I have in this series of dolichocephalic skulls found the latitudinal to be less than the altitudinal index, or, in Professor Cleland's (1. c. p, 148) and Professor Busk's ('Journ. Ethn. Soc' 1871, p. 467) language, found the skull to be ' tapeinocephalic,' Weisbach,'Arch.fur Anthrop.'iii. 74, 75,81; Broca,'Eev. Anthr.'ii.i, 1873,pp. 30-32. Very conflicting statements have been put forward as to the relative development in males and females of the posterior part of the cerebrum. I incline to hold that in most dolichocephalic races what Huschke calls the ' Zwischen-Scheitel-Hirn quae in fossis cerebri ossis occipitis liegt' is absolutely subequal to and therefore relatively greater than the homologous segment in males. As against this may be set the greater relative length of the basis cranii in males of our own as of other species. This is a difference however which amounts at most to about two millimeters, an excess insuflB.- cient to counterbalance that frequently observable in the female interparietal region. On the other hand, in typically brachycephalic races this absolutely and relatively shorter basis cranii and the absolute equality of the male and female intertuberal diameters in the parietal region do not rarely give female skulls a higher length- breadth index than male skulls of the same race possess. ^ This point is well put forward by Weisbach, ' Archiv ftir Anth.' iii. i. 66,1S68, in his account of the German female skull, which in this particular admits of wider application : ' Die Hohe unserer Weiberschadel von der Mitte des vorderen Randes des Grossen Hinterhauptloches zum Scheitel welche im Mittel nur 125 Mm. in den einzelnen Fallen n8 bis 139 Mm. betragt ist wie aUe bisherigen Maasse weniger veranderlich (i6.8 Proc), als beim Manne (21-8 Proc), jedoch unter den drei Hauptdimensionen den Meisten Schwankungen zuganglich, die Breite den geringsten ; wahrend am mannlichen Schadel die Lange die geringsten, Breite und Hohe fast die gleichen individuellen Schwankungen erleiden. Das Minimum der Hohe habeii beide Geschlechter geraeinsam, wogegen die Maxiraalhohe des Weiberschadels sich nur wenig iiber daa Mittel des Mannerschadels (133 Mm.) erhebt, dessen Maximum (147 Mm.) jenes des weiblichen Geschlechtes weit iibertrifft. Die Hohe des Weiber- schadels hat im Vergleiche zu der des mannlichen noch das eigentbiimliche vor den anderen Hauptdurchmessem voraus, dass sie von derselben sich viel weiter (6 1000, $ 939) entfemt, daher auch der Weiberschadel im Verhaltnisse zu seiner Lange (1000: 729) viel niedriger als der mannliche (738) ist.' Dr. Thurnam ('Further Researches,' p. 25), found as many as 8 out of 48 male skulls, and as many as 7 out of 19 female skulls, of the long-barrow period to be 'tapeinocephalic' For 'the Iate.1t accession of height in the male skull being wanting in the female' see Cleland, 1. c. 148, 164; for the reverse from the Caveme de THomine Mort, see ' Eev. d'Anthi-.' ii. p. 29.