229 UPON THE SERIES OF PBEHISTORIC CRANIA. probably have been of the same stock as the Cimbri whom we know from history. This division in this nomenclature is proposed entirely indepen- dently of any consideration drawn either from philolog-y or, to borrow a phrase from the Triads, from the 'hazy ocean' which they and similar documentary traditions make up. As regards philo- logical considerations, I apprehend that it may cost some trouble to reconcile the fact that very many of the long skulls found in the round barrows of the bronze age lying peacefully in company with brachycephali are indistinguishable from very many of the long skulls found in long barrows together with implements of bone and stone (see p. 527 of'British Barrows'), with the conclusion drawn from the Celtic and other words signifying metal to the effect that all the Celts were in possession of metal from the first time when they came into Europe, unless we agree to speak and think of the Stone Age as Preceltic. In other words, it is of importance to keep in mind that a division of skulls into skulls of a Silurian and skulls of a Cimbric type is, probably, not coincident with that division of the Celtic race into Gaels and Cymry which is, I suppose, the division usually adopted by historians and literary antiquarians. The race which used stone and bone implements may, so far as. the naturalist's investigations teach him, have spoken either a Turanian or an Aryan tongue; what he sees in their skulls and their sur- roundings impresses him with the notion of an antiquity which may have given time enough and to spare for the more or less complete disappearance of more than one unwritten language. The Plutarch, CamiUus, 15. Plutarch, Marius, 11. Dio Caasius, sliv. 4. 2. Crassus, 9. Justin, xxiv. 8. Pliny, iv. 28. Orosius, V. 16. Mela, iii. 3. Livy, Epitom. 77. Justin, 37. 4. Seneca ad Helv. 6. Most of the modem German writers on this suhject, with the distinguished exception of Niebuhr ('Kleinere Schriften,' p. 383), claim the Cimbri as their kinsfolk. It may be suflBcient to name ZeusB, D'Ukert, Grimm, Duncker ('Orig. Germ.' 79-92), and Dahlmanii, and a monograph containing many references and other valuable matter by Dr. Pallmann, 'Die Cimbem und Teutoneii,' Berlin, 1870. Baron de Belloguet agrees with these writers; see 'EthnogcSn. Gaul.' iv. p. 87,1873. For the Celtic origin of Cimbri we have, with Niebuhr, among Englisli writers Prichard and Latham, among French writers Thierry, H. Martin (' Sur rEthnog^nie Gauloise,' iv. p. 89, 1873), and amongst Northern writers Mtinch and Nilsson. The craniographer will incline to the Celtic hypothesis.