\VEA.VERTHORPE. 177 some posthumous pressure. Owing to this distortion the line of maximum breadth can only be taken approximatively; we are, however, justified in saying- that it lay low down in the skull-walls, and that the parietal tubera were not well marked, thoug-h they are so sometimes even in male skulls of this type. asymmetry, which he observed as often on one side as the other, in the skulls of modern Peruvians, in part at least 'to the manner in which the child is placed in the ci-adle.' See also Nott and Gliddou, 'Types of Mankind,' p. 325, 1854; 'Indigenous Eaces,' pp. 334-336, 1857. Dr. Gosse in his ' Esaai sur les D(5formations artificielles du Crane,' p. 74, 1855, refers both to Vesalius and to Morton, and speaking of Taction prolong^e de ce genre de berceau, le compagnon des peuples nomades sur I'aplatisse- ment du derrifere de la tete,' he adds, ' Les anciens habitants de la Scandinavie et de la Caledonie devaient s'en servir si Ton en juge par la forme de leurs cranes.' Pro- fessor Daniel Wilson of Toronto, who does not seem to have been acquainted at this time (1S57) with Dr. Gosse's work, explained the asymmetry of certain ancient British brachycephali similarly. See ' Canadian Journal,' vol. ii. p. 406 ; ' Edinb. Phil. Journal,' N.S. vii. p. 25, Jan. 1858. In 1862 ('Canadian Journal,' Sept., 'On Ethnical Forms and Artificial Deformations') he suggested that peculiar modes of carrying the infant during suckling, or peculiarities of head-dress, or carriage of burdens on the head might, as well as the use of the cradle-board, produce this undesigned though artificial deformity. In a later paper (' Canadian Journal,' 1864, p. 403) Professor Wilson says that this deformity is usually on the left side. Dr. E. Zuckerkandl (' Eeise der Osterr. Eregatte Novara,' p. 43 seqq., 1S75) has also found parieto-occipital asymmetry to be usually sinistral; and more frequent in brachycephalous and large than in dolicho- cephalous and small skulls; he explains its occurrence by a reference to pressure inter partum. It appears to me to be more reasonable to explain the greater frequency of sinistral deformation in children by a reference to ' dextral pre-eminence' in the mothers. Savages are at least as distinctively'right-handed'as civilised races. See Weisbach, 'Eeise der Osterr. Fregatte Novara,' 1867, Abtheil. ii. p. 181, where the author speaks of 'die starkere Entwickelung der rechten Seite die wohl bei alien Wilden beobachten war ;' and Ogle,' Med. Chir. Trans.' 1871, vol. liv. of Andamanese, Fuegians, and Eskimos. The wish to keep the right arm free causes the left arm to be usually employed for carrying a child; the pressure of a sling used in aid of the left arm would come to bear mainly on the left side of the child's head, and the observed flattem'ng would thus be accounted for. It is by no means rare, as Professor Wilson has observed, to find instances of unilateral parieto-occipital deformity produced arti- ficially, though unintentionally, in modem times. A modern skuU, as it is believed of an Italian, with very well-marked flattening of tlie right side of the region specified, may be seen in the Oxford University Museum, No. 865 a. A cast of the interior of this skull shows that the flattening has not affected the occipital loljes proper, i. e. the parts of the brain which are lodged in the superior occipital squama and lie behind the internal per- pendicular fissure, but has left them overlapping the cerebellum j ust as in typical dolicho- cephalic brains. The part of the brain which has been flattened is that which lies between the plane of the apex of the fissure of Sylvius and that of the internal perpendicular fi.s8ure. It has often been suggested, and, an regards alterations of nervous structures, not altogether unreasonably, that such artificially produced alterations may in course of time become hereditary. And it may be possible to explain the brachycephalism of most nomad and indeed of some other races by a reference to the mode of carriage in infancy. For Artificial Cranial Deformities purposively produced, see pp. 194 seqq., infra. N