GENEEAL EEMARKS 318 has been said above (pp. 242, 251, 252, 307) of the pecuh'ar characteristics of the ' priscan' human lower jaw, of the tumid Relatively to the Bushman language, however, the same authority writes in answer to an enquiry of mine : 'As regards phonology, the Bushmen with their clicks certainly Htand on a far lower level than the Esquimaux In some grammatical points, moreover, the Bushman language is what you aptly term " poor stuff." Thus the plural is denoted by reduplication, and the verb has not been developed. However, we do not yet know as much about the Bushman dialects as is desirable. Where the Esquimaux—like most of the other inhabitants of the Old World—best represent the primitive condition of speech is in the structure of the sentence. The in- dependent word has not yet been evolved out of it.' I have above (p. 2 29) expressed my feeling of the strain which is put upon the imagina- tion by the effort to think even of the neolithic races as genealogically connected with the palaeolithic ; and a still gi-eater eflfort is of course required for putting in thought any still existing races into a similar relationship. The exertion necessary will however become lighter in proportion to the hold which the uniformitarian doctrines of modern geology obtain upon our minds, and in the meantime what is going on in the world at the present day may teach us that it has not always been ea.sy, and may sometimes, even now, be impossible, entirely to extirpate a wild race of men in a wild country. Such were of course the men and the country of the cave and other palaeolithic periods. Neither, I apprehend, is it meant by speaking of affinity as existing between these ancient races and the modern Esquimaux, that these stone- and bone-using men are to be connected together at all in the same way as the Massaliotes were connected with the Phocaeans, or the Galatians of Asia Minor with the Gauls. No one supposes that an immigration has ever taken place from the district inhabited by the Esquimaux into the regions now occupied by the Fi-ench, English, and Belgians. Nothing that is suggested by the facts goes beyond making us suppose that those countries were in the times in question occupied by a race of very considerable uniformity of physical structure, of habits, and of appliances for fighting their hard battle of life; and that the great changes which have since those 'unhappy far-off times' taken place alike in their inorganic and organic environment have broken those tribes up into fragments, of which some infinitesimal traces are perhaps still detectable amongst ua, and of which the stiU widely-spread Esquimaux may, however altered in the course of ages, be with some probability held to be the most characteristic remnant. I take this opportunity of drawing attention to two instances of the tenacity with which certain customs and practices have maintained themselves amongst some of the races which we have had under comparison, leaving to the reader the task of deciding how far such persistence may be explicable upon the principle tcL Kam avvayei roiis avdpdirrovs (Arist. Rhetor., i. 6. 22), that community of needs and distresses brings all men together, and makes all men alike. First of these, as being less amenable than the other to the objection just referred to, I will put the singular aversion to fij-h as an article of food which has characterised certain of the inhabitants of Scotland from the time of Severus down to our own day and has been noted as something remarkable in the history of the modem Esquimaux. Dio Cassius (fl. a.d. 230), lib. Ixxii. 21, p. 866 c, ed. Leunclavii, observes with the surprise not unnatural to .an Italian, that the two most powerful British tribes, the Maeatae and the Caledonii, though they have no agri- culture, but are dependent upon the produce of pastoral and hunting life and fruits, such as nuts and acorns, make nevertheless no use of fish for food, though fish are avail- able in countless and inexhaustible quantities: e« t« vo/jlt}? Kal 6i)pas aKpoSvaiv ri rtveov (u)VT(s, tSiv IxOvoiv arre'tpaiv ical anXhcuv ovrojv ov ytvovrai. Logan, who in his work on the Scottish Gael (vol. ii. p. 125) says that Herodian, a contemporary of Dio Cassius, makes