ON THE HOMOLOaiES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES 122 and the nerve corresponding to the external respiratory of Bell comes off from the dorsal surface of the same part of the plexus, just as the subclavius and external respiratory do in man, whilst the nerve to the great depressor pectoral muscle comes off lower down, and does not send any branch to the pectoi-alis secundus, which, if it were the homolog-ue of the pectoralis minor, it would do. In the sparrow-hawk the trunk formed by the first and second of the cervical nerves, which join to form the plexus, gives off nerves to the subscapularis, the teres major, the subclavius, and the pectoralis secundus. The nerve to the last muscle is the first one given off from the front of the plexus, and it gives no branch to any other muscle. The external respiratory nerve, which passes down behind the brachial plexus and between the serrati antici and the ribs, has one root from the second factor of the plexus and one from the third. Its origin therefore, and distri- bution, and its relation to the nerve to the pectoralis secundus, are close enough in resemblance to those of the human external respiratoiy to leave no reasonable doubt as to its homological identity with that nerve, and, by consequence, as to the identity of the nerve to the avian pectoralis secundus with the nerve to the mammalian subclavius. The nerve to the pectoralis major of the sparrow-hawk is given off from a point lower down in the plexus ; and the three main trunks, which mainly make up the plexus, seem, as in the alligator, all to give factors to it. It can scarcely be doubted that this nerve is the homologue of the two anterior thoracic nerves of the mammal. If, thirdly, we are asked. Where is the second pectoral of the maminal to which the anterior thoracic nerves supply fibres as well as to the pectoralis ? the answer furnishes us with our third argiiment, and runs thus : In the young sparrow-hawk it is easy to divide the pectoral mass into two strata, the upper and deeper of which is much the feebler, but which is continued into a tendon continuous, indeed, with that of the pectoralis magnus on its deep surface, but prolonged upward, from its primary insertion into the inner tuberosity, very distinctly to the coracoid, being loosely connected with the tendons of the biceps, and ultimately attached (which the tendon of the biceps is not) to the precoracoid epiphysis of the clavicle. The description which I have given of the posterior layers of the great pectoral of the young bird is not, as far as