277 UPON THE SEBIES OF PBEHISTOEIC CEANIA. peculiarities, viz. the posterior position of the parietal tubera (p. 234 supra) and the vertical dip of the posterior half of the bone (p. 235 supra ibique citata) so characteristic of the brachycephalic skull, and so clearly indicative of a brain, joro tanto and ceteris pari- bus, favourably conditioned and advantageously constituted. And the rationale of a third craniographical distinction, that, namely, which is given in the ' Antero-posterior Index' (p. 167 supra), lies in its furnishing us with a more or less exact numerical expression of the relative extent of the more favourably conditioned segments of such brains. The average antero-posterior index of the dolicho- cephalic skull as obtained from the measurements, given with the descriptions, of the small number of ' Silurian' skulls figured in Sec- tion XV. of this volume, is 47 as against 52 for the average of the brachycephalic ' Cimbric' skulls, also figured here ; and this disad- vantageous proportioa is only reduced by a fraction amounting to f when we compare the average obtained from six other prehistoric Silurian skulls not figured in this book with the average obtained from six other brachycephalic skulls taken from Swiss, English, and Tamil series. These figures may be taken as being strongly con- firmatory of the other evidence for the inferiority of the Silurian dolichocephalic to the Cimbric brachycephalic race which is fur- nished by several other physical peculiarities (see p. 238 seqq. supra and p. 279 infra), as well as by the historical or rather prehistorical fact of its having been conquered and in some parts of this country displaced and replaced by the later stock. To obtain, however, a complete idea of the characteristics of a people, it is necessary not only to know what their stature and what the proportions of their skull measurements may have been, both in themselves and in relation to the brain-segments they covered ; but to be able to reproduce to our view their complexion and the colour of their eyes. These latter points indeed, of which the barrows can tell us nothing, are to the ordinary traveller an enquiry at least as interesting as even the stature, and though it is possible to overrate their value and importance to the ethnologist, at all events when he is dealing with races as capable of complete fusion as those whose remains we are here concerned with, they still possess, even for him, an interest which is little inferior to that of the less perishable remains. In Europe at the present day we have the following combinations