414 ANIMAL EEMAINS FOUND AT CISSBUEY. of Bos pmnigenius, which was so abundantly represented there. From the fauna of the ' skeleton pit' (see page 376, 1. c., Journal), to be hereinafter described, that of the ' large pit' does not differ in any particulars which would justify us in thinking that the two pits belonged to different epochs; and here again the evi- dence from the animal remains coincides with that from other lines of investigation. List of hones from ^ Large TU^ Bos longifrons.—Part of left upper jaw with the two last molars in situ, labelled ' From large pit.' Part of palate, labelled ' From 33 feet below, beneath upper margin.' One lower jaw and nine upper jaw molars. End of radius 3 feet below the surface. Glenoid of scapula 6 feet. End of radius 30 feet beneath upper margin. Fragment of scapula 35 feet below upper margin. Part of right upper jaw of a calf with one tooth of large size in alveolus not through gum, and a second small tooth still in substance of jaw. Bos primigenius.—A single nasal bone. Susscrofav. clomesticus.—Os calcis 'from red seam.' Left ulna labelled ' large pit.' Right ulna, similarly labelled, and probably from same individual. Femur of young individual. Fragment of lower jaw of an older individual. Cervus capreolus.—Horn with part of frontal, 33 feet beneath upper margin ; seventh cervical vertebra. Cerviis elaphus.'—Part of radius of young specimen. Cajora Mrcus.— A considerable part of the skull with both horns, labelled ' Red seam/ 9 feet 6 inches below the surface. These bones afford proof of the presence in this pit of two in- dividuals of Bos long frons and Sus scrofa v. dom., one only of Cervus capreolus, Capra liircus, and Cervus elaphus, though the horns speak to the presence of many more. A number of molar teeth of the horse, Equus caballus, have also come into my hands, labelled ' Large pit, superficial,' and the addition of this last word is significant when we add that it is applicable to all the remains of the horse found at Cissbury, and that considering the large size and durability of the bones of this animal we have some justification for holding that if the first excavators of the shafts and galleries had domesticated it we should have come upon some osteological evidence of their success. As