ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD. 351& generally, are ordinarily well- and not 'ill-filled' skulls, it may, nevertheless, be allowable to say here that the ' brachycephali angustiores,' as Professor Cleland wonld call ^ the brachycephali of several other parts of the world, frequently present the depressions of which I have been writing. An excellent instance of the postero- parietal inward pinching of the skull-walls was furnished to me quite recently by a Maori skull presented to the University Museum by Dr. Batt, the skull having a latitudinal index of 79, and pos- sessing also markedly the contour which induced E-etzius to class the Maoris as ' brachycephali.' AVhen we come, however, to compare the long-barrow people with the still surviving inhabitants of the Southern Sea Islands, a comparison first instituted by Dr. Thurnam^, we must guard ourselves from supposing that 'ill-filled' skulls are by any means the rule amongst the ancient British inhabitants of this country, as they are amongst the little favoured indigenes of Australia and Tasmania. Dr. Thuruam's own tables of the capacity of the skulls and the weight of the brains of the modern English and the ancient Briton^, which show that the larger quantities characterise the older race, furnish the needful qualification to his above-cited com- parison. To this I would add, that in none of the long-barrow skulls which I have had the opportunity of measuring has the alti- tudinal index been found to be lower than the latitudinal; and that a point of degradation, therefore, has been found wanting in this series which Professor Busk has observed to exist in some priscan dolichocephalic skulls, and in Tasmanian and Bushman crania amongst those of modern savages^. The same facts may be ex- pressed in another way by saying that the ' Sion Typus ^' of His and Eiitimeyer, a type which Riitimeyer^ has spoken of as cha- racterised by ' Kraftigkeit und Wiirde,' is by no means sparsely represented in the long-barrow series, the larger female skulls corresponding very closely with the description given by those * See ' Phil. Trana.,' 1870, p. 148. ' ' Mem. Soc. Anth., Lond.' iii. p. 24. ' L.c, vol. i. pp. 55 and 57. * See 'Journal Ethn. Soc. London,' Jan., 1871, p. 467. ' For a description of the several types of prehistoric crania, as given by His and Rutimeyer, see their 'Crania Helvetica,' 1864; or Huxley on 'Prehistoric Remains of Caithness,' p. 103 seqq., 1866. , * ' Jahrbuch der Schweizer. Alpen ' for 1864, p. 398,