257 UPON THE SEKIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. owners an appearance of great feebleness during life. It has been noted by Professor Busk in the skeletons from the Gibraltar caves (see 'Trans. Internat. Congress,Prehist. Archaeology,' 1869,p. 158), and I have noted it in every case in which the trunk bones have been recovered from long barrows. It is as marked in the female clavicles from the cremation long barrows of Market Weighton and Crosby Garrett as in the non-cremation long barrows of Gloucestershire. As regards the skeletons of the stone age which have been examined in this country, the aphorism enunciated by Dr. Kuhfi" ('Revue d'Anthropologie,' iv. 3, 1875, p. 435) to the effect that 'plus Ton se rapproche des origines de I'homme, plus Ton voit s'effacer les caracteres differentiels sexuels dans la squelette' appears to me to be the very reverse of the actual state of the case, though the skulls are not rarely subequal in the two sexes. The reason for this disproportion ^ lies in the facts of the earlier attainment * The greatest discrepancy in the stature of the two sexes recorded by Weisbaeh in his measurements in the Anthropological part of the ' Voyage of the Novara' (1867, p. 217) is that observed in the Javanese, where the males were found to average 1679 ~ neaa-ly 5' 6" in stature, as against 1461 mm. = nearly 4' 9-5" for the females. The Rev. Richard Abbay, Fellow of Wadham College, tells me that the Javanese women are put to very hard labour, carrying enormous weights upon their backs. The philologist who may be inclined to explain the existence of Turanian or non- Aryan traits in Welsh and Irish grammar, by supposing that these traits are the result of the assimilation by bronze-importing Celts of the supposed non-Aryan tribes of the stone age, may be interested in comparing the following account of the treat- ment of the Mongolian female in modern days with the foregoing description of the osteological characters of the female of our long-barrow period. The Rev. James GUmour, Medical Missionary at Peking, writes thus in the Eleventh Report of the London Missionary Society's Hospital at Peking, 1875, p. 37: 'The women of Mongolia are hardy and capable. They look ruddy and strong-limbed. They work hard, and are badly treated. Woman's place in the tent is next the door; the felt she sleeps on is the thinnest and poorest. She does the milking and the drudgery generally, and when she sits in the tent, usually has nothing better than a worn cow- hide to protect her from the damp and cold of the ground. She jumps into the saddle and rides over the plains as recklessly as a man. She takes little care of herself, and h.is little care bestowed upon her. An old woman spoke some truth, at least, when she said to me, "The women are treated like the dogs which are fed outside the tent." The result is as might have been expected: strong, haidy and healthy as the women look, almost every one who has passed the stage of girlhood has some chronic malady or suffering. There are many exceptions, especially among the richer class; but as a rule, women suffer more, age sooner, and die younger than the men; and there is little prospect of a change for the better in this respect, till women are treated more considerately, and have accorded to them a fair share of the meagre comforts of tent-life.' DioJorua Siculus, again (v. 39), after dwelling with B