287 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. to have been fractured ante mortem contrast with several of those described by Dr. Thurnam is their great inferiority in mere number. The skull of a man whom we know to have been hewn down by a metal sabre, or to have been killed, as the New Zealanders are known to have been, by a stone axe, may have some two or tbree broken surfaces in its vault; in the skulls on which Dr. Thurnam bases his inferences ' the angular fragments are so numerous that one might suppose the gashes had been inflicted in sheer wan- tonness;' Cran. Brit., pi. 59 ^ Now I submit that the principle of least action is at least as likely to have regulated the proceedings of ancient as of modern manslayers, and that the very fact of these ancient skulls being broken into such a multitude of fragments, a comminution which would have entailed an amount of trouble as purposeless in the eyes of those who would have had to go through it as it is repulsive in ours, is a ^rima facie improbability of the very first magnitude against the interpretation in question. Leaving purely quantitative considerations and coming to the character of the fractures in each of the two sets of skulls, I have in the second place to say that the broken surfaces in the skull fragments described by Dr. Thurnam are, in spite of the very con- siderable variety which is observable in skull-surfaces, howsoever and whensoever fractured, very different as a whole from those of skulls which we positively know to have been cut into and through • A nearly equally valuable standard of comparison is furnished to us by the figures and description of chopped horses' bones given by Professor Engelhardt in his ' Den- mark in the Early Iron Age,' pp. 70-71 (Eng. Trans. 1866). Of two of the skulls of these horses it is said that the incisions upon them are ' both deep and numerous,' one of them showing as many as six, the other as many as ten different cuts. The skuUs from the long barrows are, unhappily for the interests of reconstruction, broken into much more numerous fragments ; and Professor Sfceenstrup does not believe that the horse-bones in question were so cut while the animals were living, or had their flesh upon them ; for ' a minutely-splintered fracture has been produced by the chip having been broken away from the bone by a vigorous twist of the sword, leaving a smooth sharply-cut surface; and this circumstance seems to indicate that these violent blows hafl been inflicted when the bones were no longer covered by flesh; for, if the flesh had still been on the bones, these would probably have presented a more jagged or ron'jhly splintered fractwre.' The words in italics relate to a state of things quite different from that quite correctly described by Dr. Thurnam ('Principal Forms of Ancient British and Gaulish Skulls,' 1865, p. 70) as presenting us with 'the edges of the divided bones perfectly sharp and clean, and the fragments themselves having a porcellaneoufl character.' The reference to Engelhardt's work I owe to John Evans, Esq., F.R.S.