SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN ONE HUNDEED AND SIX YEARS OLD. 147 the mental powers of the subject of this notice ; from my own per- sonal acquaintance with him, I came to consider him as a little more than equal in intelligence to most men in his class of life. The result, however, of a similar comparison of the brains in either case would be expressed by exactly reversing this conclusion. The cavity of the lateral ventricle was somewhat enlarged; its lining membrane, however, was smooth and unthickened ; numerous amylaceous bodies were to be seen in microscopic slides taken from the surface of the corpus striatum and of the eminentia collateralis. Von Baer^ has suggested that the transverse coronal depression in the skull, noticed above^ corresponds to a great development of the anterior and posterior genu of the corpus callosum of the con- tained brain. This anticipation may be said to be verified by the examination of the brain of John Pratt, for both the anterior genu and the posterior bourrelet of that commissure appeared remarkably large when compared with the corresponding structures in other brains. In the only other instance with which I am acquainted of a record having been taken of the weight of the brain in a cente- narian, the weight amounted to 45 ounces, exceeding that of John Pratt's by two ounces. For a note of this case, that of a woman of 100 years, I have to thank R. Garner, Esq., of Stoke-upon-Trent. This weight, it may be added, corresponds very nearly with that (45'34 ounces) given by Dr. Boyd ^ as the average of twenty-four brains from males about eighty years of age. Though the body generally had the appearance of much, though not extreme, emaciation, there was yet a considerable layer of yellowish fat over the pectoral muscles and anterior body surface. The thoracic muscles looked thin and pale to the naked eye, but under the microscope their fibres showed the usual characters of striated muscle with very great clearness and distinctness: the same remarks apply to the diaphragm. The costal cartilages cut with the greatest ease, the line of demarcation between bone and cartilage was very well marked; the section of the cartilage pre- sented a brownish-yellow colour, much like that of a decaying nut- kernel, to the naked eye; under the microscope the cartilage-cells, * 'Die Makrokephalen im Boden der Krym und Oesterreiohs/ p. 11. ' 'Philosophical Transactiona' for 1861, p. 253. L 2 I