ON THE PLACENTAL STEUCTUEES OP THE TENREC 98 The figure of the placenta of the sloth, which is g-iven by Pro- fessor C. G. Carus in his ' Tabulae Anatomiam Comparativam II- lustrantes,' pars 3, does not seem to me to be so decidedly different from even the human placenta, in its naked-eye bossy outlines, as Dr. Sharpey's account ^ of the placenta of the Maiiis shows it to be from the placenta of all the Carnivora, Rodentia, Insectivora, Chiroptera, and Simiadae which have been as yet examined. A well-injected or even a well-preserved pregnant uterus of a sloth would be most valuable, and would enable us to speak more con- fidently as to the extent of intimacy with which the maternal and foetal blood-vessels are connected than the figures alluded to from Professor Carus's work can do I Should the placenta of the sloth be found to bring away with it (as we know placentae to the full as cotyledonary in general outline do 3) maternal elements inextri- cably intermingled with its mass, the structure of the placenta of the Manis might perhaps be explained as being an instance of 'correlation of growth' between aberrant tegumentary and re- productive organs. This, however, is but conjecture. It is of more consequence to observe that, by Professor Huxley's exami- nation of the placentae of the elephant and the hyrax, we are enabled to make one general description of the placentae of all the Un- guiculata of Linnaeus, deducting from them, provisionally, the Eden- tata, and definitely RJiinoceros and Biclelphys. This general pro- position we cannot give better than in the words of Weber, ad- dressed, now nearly thirty years ago, to an association of German naturalists and Physicians at Bonn *:— ' Die gefassreiclien Zellen oder Falten oder anders gestalteten zur Verbindung vom Mutter und Frucht dienende Organe des Uterus rnit den gefassreichen Zotten und Professor Breschet has described and figured the two separate discoid placentae in the small South-American squirrel monkey {CallUhrix sciureus, Kuhl), in the green monkey (Cercopithecus sabaeus, Desm.), and in the long-nosed monkey {Semno- pithecus nasicua). (Linn. Soc. Proc. 1857, p. 17, note.) [The Editor has shown that the placentaiu the Old-World Cynocephalus mormon is single. 'Phil. Trans.' 1878,p. 560.] ^ Cited by Professor Huxley, ' Lectures,' p. 112. " [The Editor has since the above was published described the placenta of a two- toed sloth, Cholopus hoffmanni ('Trans. Eoy. Soc. Edinb.' 1873, vol. xxvii), and has shown the maternal to be intimately mingled with the foetal structures.] ^ Cazeau, 1. c. p. 191. * Froriep,' Notizen,' I.e., October, 1835. Weber refers here to a memoir of his own published in 1832 in Hildebrandt's ' Anatomie,' but he appears to have had no knowledge of Von Baer's now well-known paper on the same subject and to the same purpose, bearing date 1838. See Professor Huxley's ' Lectures,' p. 92.