106 ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENKEC of whicli is represented by the pachyderms, and the second by the ruminants. Of the first of these he says:— 'The placenta is wholly-wanting, the connexion of the ovum with the uterus is quite loose, the chorion carries well-nigh over its whole surface small villuli (Zott- chen) which insert themselves into slight (leichte, ? seichte) depressions of the uterine mucous membrane (type of the pachyderms, or of the pig).' Of the second we read, ' There is an intimate union of maternal and foetal structures; yet maternal and foetal placentae are separable without any tearing of tissues.' It is true that the cotyledon and the caruncle of the ruminant are visible to the naked eye, and the villus and the shallow pit of the pachyderm are best seen with the help of a lens; but this seems scarcely a sufficient ground for such a bifurcation as that made by Professor KoUiker. And when we consider, further, that an undoubted ruminant, the camel, possesses a diffuse placenta and no cotyledons, and that, according to Professor Owen's suggestion ^, the pigmy musk deer [Tragidus) will probably be found to be similarly organised^ whilst the undoubtedly swine peccary {Bicotyles torquatus) approximates markedly to the ruminant ^ not only by the increase of the stomachal cavities, but also by the decrease of the number of its offspring, the secondary division of the non-deciduate mammalia will appear to be even less justifiable morphologically. Leaving now the consideration of the points in which the non- deciduate mammalia resemble or differ from each other, I will pass in review certain statements which have been made as to the relation of their placental structures to those of the rodents. In the excellent * Vergleichende Anatomic und Physiologic' of Berg- mann and Leuekart I find, at p. 632^ the following comparison:— 'To these cotyledons (of the ruminant) the single disk-shaped placenta of the rodents has a strong resemblance, inasmuch as in their case also the maternal part iisually projects out from the surface of the uterus in the shape of a button (' mit diesen Cotyledonen hat die eine scheibenformige Placenta der Nager viel Aehnlich- keit, indem auch hier der Miitterliche Antlieil bedeutend knopfiFormig aus der Flache der Uterus hervorzuragen pflegt'). This comparison may seem to be amply borne out by a reference to a vertical section of a single cotyledon of a ewe. But though the appearance of the parts may be much alike, their history and physiology is very unlike. The downgrowth of deciduous serotina 1 Hunter's 'Essays and Observations,' vol. ii. p. 135. note 3. [The diffused form of placenta has been described by M. Alphonse Milne Edwards in Traguliis, and by the Editor and the late Prof. Garrod in Eyomoschus aquations. ' Proc. Zool. Soc.' June, 1878.] ^ Ibid. p. 124. note 3, and p. 125.