317 UPON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC CRANIA. down to this day from cemeteries in this country, the contrast would undoubtedly have been very much more sharply pronounced if we had had before us representatives of all classes from those early times. Secondly, though well shaped and capacious calvariae with ortho- gnathous upper jaws do abound in the series from the stone and bone ages, and after bearing a comparison, and by no means always to their own disadvantage, with modern specimens, may be only with difficulty distinguishable from them, the same can hardly be affirmed of that most distinctive bone, the lower jaw^. Enough ' The caves of Cro-Magnon and Mentone have furnished us with similar lower jaws from the palaeolithic men whose remains have been found in them, but, as in the cases of the Bushman and the Tasmanian, these lower jaws were combined with the low orbit so different from that of the Esquimaux, the wide opening of which in the skull contrasts so strikingly with the oblique, slit-like aperture of the eyelids in their living heads. And the prognathism of the Esquimaux, though it is possible to lay too much weight upon this point, as also the convex malar portions of the maxiUaries, wiU be held by many to differentiate him from the palaeolithic and neolithic races both. On the other hand. Professor Broca ('Eev. d'Anth.,' 1873, ii. pp. 26-28), with the remains from the Caverne de I'Homme Mort before him, has no difficulty in connecting these neolithic with the palaeolithic men, and Professor Boyd Dawkins so long ago as 1866 (see 'Cave Hunting,' p. 359, ibique citata) collected a set of coin- cidences between the implements, works of art, and animal surroundings of these latter men and those of the Esquimaux, the number and variety of which it is difficult to explain except upon the hypothesis of some connection having subsisted between them. Colonel Lane Fox and Mr. C. E. Ranee are cited in the ' Reliquiae Aquitanicae,' p. 284, as accepting and corroborating this view; and Sir John Lubbock at p. 262 of his edition of NUsson's ' Early Inhabitants of Scandinavia,' whilst pointing out that Mr. Busk's identification of Ursus priscus with Ursua ferox gives us some additional 'reason for the belief that the Esquimaux once inhabited Western Europe,' u^es language of a more cautious character as regards this conclusion than perhaps he might have done had not the author whose work he was editing expressed himself (pp. 104, 141) as being so very distinctly opposed to it. Mr. Alexander C. Anderson, ' Reliquiae Aqmtanicae,' p. 49, and M. Sauvage, ibid. p. 2 20, would appear to be of the same opinion as Nilsson; most recent anthropologists, however (see for example Mr. E. B. Tylor, 'Primitive Culture,' vol. i. pp. 64, 95, ed. 1873, or the various authorities, old and recent, cited in the Address to the Biological Section, British Association, Liverpool, 1870, p. 103), incline to accept the argument from identity of custom to identity of race. As regards the language of the Esquimaux, Professor Sayce has told us (' Contemp. Eev.,' April 1876, p. 722) that ' if we turn to the grammars of those savage tribes who beat represent the infanny of mankind we shall find them marked by the greatest synthetic complexity. The involved and monstrous words of the polysynthetic languages of North America, where the Esquimaux agleJcJcigiartorasuainipok, for instance, represents our "he goes away hastily and exerts himself to write," are really examples of those primaeval undecomposed sentences out of which the logical precision of a. French grammar or the severe grandeur of a Semitic prophecy were eventually to come. Their cumbrous barbarism is due to poverty, not to profundity of thought.'