LIFE OP DR. ROLLESTON. Ixiv got him a fox's skin and skeleton, and appeared on the whole less of a savage than most of his fellow-islanders. These are trifling details, but they make up the picture of a man still able to hold his own against bodily weakness, still comforted by friendship, and spreading around him the social enjoyment so well remembered by his friends. A graver letter from Corsica shows him under the influence of rest and quiet contemplation among the paradise-vegetation of the island, not yet burnt up by the summer sun, with the sea and the snow-mountains dividing the distant landscape. Here he had come to feel, for the first time in many years, that labour should have its bounds; he quotes George Macdonald's lines :— 'Help me to yield my will in labour even. Nor toil on toil, greedy of doing, heap. Fretting I cannot more than me is given.' He goes on to view his experience of Oxford, in the 'transi- tion from one system to another, from that of Protection of things sacred by artificial enactment, with the usual result of neglect of duty and ignorance, to that of free exposure to open competition in the battle with the unrestrained spirit of modern thought.' The correspondent he is answering had evidently put to him some searching theological questions, to which he replies: ' It is true that as regards many doctrines, I should, as in the case of the particular one you dwell upon, be slow either to assert myself in definite words, or to condemn other persons for having some one or for not having some one definite set of phrases about any such tenets. Many doctrines are really beyond the power of the human understanding to grasp, and I cannot see my way to making them de fide either for myself or for others. Or to put the matter still more in the concrete, whilst I am on the one hand a member of the Association for the Reform without Disestablishment of the Church of England, I am on the other one of some seven or eight Professors of Science who were to meet at Lambeth to confer privately with the Archbishop last Christmas on the supposed incompatibility of Belief and Science. So, I think, you have the facts as to my