ON THE PEOPLE OP THE LONQ-BARROW PERIOD. 377 southern wall; but the intervening- length, to which the testimony of one of our workmen spoke, as well as my own notes and those of Mr. Royce, had disappeared in 1874. What, however, is cer- tain is, that westward of a line which we drew in the g-round- plan, the barrow was crossed from north to south by a zone or strip, varying- in width from 3 feet 8 inches in the region of the chamber to 3 feet 6 inches in the middle line, and differing- from all other segments of the entire length of the barrow in the important particular of lodging eight human skeletons. In the chamber contained in this transverse zone were found, in 1867, parts of three skeletons, two being skeletons of adults, and one a skeleton of a child. At the same time a third adult skull was found immediately to the north, and a fourth immediately to the south of the chamber; whilst outside the chamber again, but at a greater distance to the south than the skulls, were found two headless bodies, which Mr. Royce found ' one about the centre of the barrow, west of the supposed central walling, and one more to the south- west.' Working in 1874 in this transverse zone, we found, at points varying from a spot a little south of the middle line of the barrow, four skeletons, one of an aged woman (described below under label ' Swell i., 22-9-1874'), one a male skeleton without a head, and two skeletons of children. Portions of the headless skeleton found by us in 1874 fitted with fragments of bones found and given to me by Mr. Royce in 1867 ; and the later headless skeleton, therefore, may be supposed to be identical with one of the two discovered earlier, which one of its discoverers did not think it worth while to remove in its entirety. But what is of consequence is to note, that after a very careful examination of all the bones obtained from the chamber, and from the transverse zone crossing the barrow in the meridian of the chamber in the year 1867 and in the year 1874, we proved that there was no proof in the entire assortment of the existence of more than eight skeletons, three of which had belonged to children, and five to adults. It is well known that many large barrows were erected for the purpose of containing only just such a chamber as the one found in this one, and for lodging only just as few bodies as—• or, indeed, often fewer than—the number found here. But it is also well known that many of these long barrows contained more than one, or even two, sepulchral receptacles, ' chambers,' or ' cists