ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENREC 80 aud the adoption of it would consequently cause confusion. That the utero-placental area is, after parturition, covered by a layer of mucous tissue, and that the muscular coat is not laid bare at that period, but protected by a more or less consistent and coherent coating", to which I would affix the name of ' non-deciduous sero- tina/ was clearly shown, in the year 1853, by Dr. Matthews Duncan^, and has been subsequently confirmed by Drs. Chisholm and Priestley^ in Great Britain and by M. Robin in France. This is not the place for histological and pathological details, such as will be found in the literature to which I have just re- ferred ; but, from a zoological point of view, it may be remarked that the fact of the non-reg'eneration of the uterine cotyledons of the ruminant, after accidental separation of them from the uterine wall, lends the strongest confirmation to Dr. Matthews Duncan's views. It has been most satisfactorily shown ^ that, after such an occur- rence, the place of the lost cotyledon is occupied not by fresh mucous membrane, but merely by a white cicatrix. I will now proceed to contrast and compare the foetal and maternal structures in connexion with the placenta of certain other mammals with their homologues already described in the tenrec. Inseciivora and Cliiroptera. In the hedgehog [Erinaceus europaeus), at a time when the foetus is about one-third the size of that of the foetal tenrec here de- scribed, and the yelk-sac is as large as the amniotic, the non-de- ciduous serotina is separable as a perfectly distinct and coherent coat from the circular muscular coat which it overlies ; the de- ciduous serotina is a very thick mass, bell-shaped, with its convex end attached to the non-placental mucous membrane by a thin peripheral parapet, within which vessels and cellular tissue connect it with the utero-placental area. Exteriorly to the attachment of the delicate parapet of non-placental mucous membrane, the ex- ternal surface of the deciduous serotina becomes smooth, and it may here take the name of ' decidua reflexa,' whilst its internal surface, in apposition with the ovum, remains rough and flocculent. 1 'Edinburgh Monthly Med. Journ.,' Sept. 1853. See also 'Medico-Chinirgical Review,' Oct. 1853; • Edinburgh Monthly Med. Joum.,' Dec. 1857, Feb. 1858; Obstetrical Society's Trans., vol. iv, April 1859, -A-P"! 1862. s ' Edinburgh Monthly Med. Journal,' Sept. 1854 ; iUd. Jan. 1857. 3 M. Goubaux, cit. Colin, 'Physiologie Compar(5e,' vol. ii. p. 612.