ON THE HOMOLOaiES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES 128 found in Mr. Parker's work 'On the Shoulder-Girdle and Sternum,' at pp. 7, 59, and 83. Professor Huxley's view (which has been adopted by Mr. Mivart, and a similar one to which, I am informed by Professor Turner of Edinburgh, was entertained by his predecessor Professor Goodsir), as to the homotypical relationship of the subscapularis and teres major, not to the iliacus and psoas, but to the middle and smallest gluteus, is a third point for discussion, and one which does not admit of being decided quite so cursorily as the two I have already glanced at. For the acceptance of this apparent paradox, it is necessary first to accept the principle that the true homology of a muscle is to be determined by its insertion (see Mivart, ' Trans. Linn. Soc' vol. xxv. pp. 398 and 400). To this principle I should give a general assent, without forgetting that we may find ex- ceptions to it, such as the insertion of the peetoralis major of the sparrow-hawk into both tuberosities of the humerus, such as the occasional insertion, in the way of corollary to this first exception, of the peetoralis minor into the outer tuberosity of that bone, or such, thirdly, as the insertion of the psoas of the crocodile on the outer, while the iliacus is inserted on the inner side of the femui". In these cases, however, rudiments at least of the primitive insertion in the shape of aponeurotic bands will ordinarily be left remaining, as if to indicate that it has been, so to say, not by an arbitrary transference, but by a gradual lateral extension that the alteration of the point of attachment has been effected : and the essential character of a muscle may be considered to be as little affected by these transgressions of its ordinary limits laterally, as the essential character of a muscle which is ordinarily inserted into the proximal segment of a limb is considered to be affected by its occasional prolongation into a distal segment, by fascia or aponeurosis, which may finally be specialised into a tendon. There are, however, three sets of anatomical facts to which I would draw attention, as they seem to me to make the denial of the homotypical relation of the iliacus and subscapularis, and the ranking of the latter muscle with the glutei, less of a stumblingblock. First, there can be no reasonable doubt that the essential character of the muscle I have called ' epi- coraco-humeral' in the crocodile, is determined by its innervation and by the insertion or wedging in of its tendon on the outer surface of the humerus between those of the peetoralis major and