144 NOTES ON THE POST-MOETEM EXAMINATION OF A MAN as works on the diseases of childhood. But one work on the sub- ject, that by Dr. Geist ah-eady referred to, has appeared in Ger- many since the classical work of Canstatt ^ which latter was pub- lished in the now, for medicine, far-off times of 1839. France has shown equally little regard for the preservation and prolonging of waning lives; M. Durand-Fardel's work 2, however, bearing in French the date of 1854, and that of 1857 in a German translation by Dr. Ullmann ^, makes an honourable exception to the general neglect with which civilised, like savage, medicine seems to regard senile maladies. No work has appeared in England, so far as I can find, treating of this subject as a whole since Dr. Day's work in 1849 The habits of the subject of this notice fell, I am informed, some way short of being strictly temperate ; Mr. Tyerman^s pamphlet and my own conversation with the old man make me rank his intelligence as somewhat superior to that usually possessed by per- sons in his rank of life ; his memory of persons whose acquaintance he had recently made was tolerable, and of events as of persons known to his early years, it was, unlike that of Thomas Parr, even more accurate. I am informed by Cyril Vincent, Esq., of Oxford, that this old man had been receiving medical attendance for seven years. For the last two and a-half he has had the benefit of Mr. Vincent's personal attendance, his ailments being cough and the usual concomitants of hypertrophy and outgrowths of the prostate. An acute attack of pleurisy seems to have been the immediate cause of death, and the post-mortem examination will explain how cough had come to trouble him for a much longer period than this recent attack dated from. Like Cornaro in his enjoyment of a long term of vigorous healthy years, he resembled him also in sickness, by refractory and obstinate resistance to medical treatment. ^ ' Die Krankheiten des hoheren Alters und ihre Heilung.' Von Dr. C. Canstatt. Erlimgen, 1839. " ' Traite Clinique et Pi-atique des Maladies des Vieillards.' Par M. Durand-Fardel. Paris, 1854. 3 Durand-Fardel, ' Handbuch der Krankheiten des Greisen Alters. Aus dem Franzosich ubertragen und mit Zusiitzen versehen.' Von Dr. UUmann. Wiirz- burg, 1857. * ' A Practical Treatise on the Domestic Manngement and most important Diseases of Advanced Life.' By George E. Day, M.D. London, 1849.