483 TlIE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELTDES. of the OHgochaeta rather than one of the Hirudineae. I submit, therefore, that I am justified in saying that my readers, on finding the word 'Annehdes' used once on a page in which the word 'Annulata' is used several times, might have been expected to suppose that the former word was not used in the same sense as the latter; and the more so as this different and restricted sense is the very sense in which it is used by both Leuckart (' Menschlichen Parasiten,' p. 155, 1863) and Gegenbaur Grundziige,' p. 159, et alibi, 1870), the two authors to whose pages I had most constantly referred. I will now ask the reader to refer to a somewhat wider context, and, turning to a note on p, 138, to observe that there, in opposition to the nomenclature of the two last-cited authorities, and also of De Quatrefages, I argue at some considerable length in favour of conneetino" the Hirudineae with the Annelides. The Introduction to my book was written after the other two parts; and in the corrected proofs now before me, I find that I have, it may be charitably supposed with a view of saving the student from con- fusiouj throughout the part in question altered the word 'Annelides,' which I had written and had before me in print, to ' Annulata' whenever it had been intended to be used in the wide sense in which Lamarck, Milne-Edwards, Grube, and Leydig use it, and I myself, as the note in question proves, should have preferred to use it, and indeed do use it, at pp. laa, 135, 138, so as to include both Discophora and Chaetophora. I do not blame my readers for not having consulted printed proofs which were not accessible to them ; persons, however, to whom an inner conviction of their own accuracy may be dear in the face of adverse criticism, may learn from this the advisability of preserving such documentary evidence as that to which I have here referred. Leaving now the very wearisome and somewhat unprofitable task of self-vindication, I will now proceed to point out that several of Professor Lankester's statements are in opposition, not only to the authorities, but also to the facts of the case. The first of these statements with which I will deal is to the effect that— 'The vascnlar fluid of Branchiobdella notoriously differs from the vascular fluid of true leeches, in that it most certainly does not communicate wUh ihe perivisceral catily to as to form a lacunar circulation.^ I i %