243 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. roidal;' and finally of 'massive and powerful' in an eminently emphatic manner. When a considerable number of stuUs from any one barrow of the stone and bone period, such as those spoken of at pp. 539~54i of' British Barrows,' are arranged in a single line upon a long table along another line of the surface of which a corresponding number of the brachycephalic crania of the bronze period, and along a third a corresponding number of Anglo-Saxon crania are similarly arranged, the following remarks suggest themselves to the craniographer. It might be said, firstly, that the two sets of pre-Saxon skulls were well nigh as distinct and as sharply contrasted as any other sets of skulls which it is possible to put alongside of each other from either ancient or modern times ; that the Tasmanian skull could scarcely be said to differ more from the modern European, nor the Eskimo from the Andamanese, than some of the typically elongated and wall-sided long-barrow skulls differ from the broad and sub-spheroidal skulls of the bronze period. And (what- ever may have been averred to the contrary) it might be said, secondly, that though the Saxon series agreed with the long- barrow series in being dolichocephalic, and though in a few instances skulls from these two series were very closely like each other, there was nevertheless no great difficulty in distinguishing between these two series also, and even that in the individual cases of similarity it was very rare not to be able to point out, when all the peculiarities of each skull were taken into account, some one or more than one important point of difference either in the calvariae, or in the facial bones, or in the lower jaws of the older and of the more recent skull ^. ' Many authorities may be cited for the proposition that the typical dolichocephalic Scandinavian is not to be distinguished from the typical dolichocephalic Celtic skull. Amongst these may be named Eetzius and Sir William "Wilde in Retzius' 'Ethnolo- gische Schriften,' p. 8, cit. Huxley in 'Prehistoric Remains of Caithness,' p. 129; Nilsson, ' Ancient Inhabitants of Scandinavia,' ed. Lubbock, p. 117, and' British Assoc. Report,' '847, p. 32 ; Omalius d'Halloy, cit. Yirchow, ' Archiv fiir Anthrop.' vi. 1873, p. 114; Virchow himgelf, 'Berliner Abhandlungen,' 1876, p. 3 ; Ecker, 'Archiv fur Anthrop.' 155 > Schaafhausen, ' Die Urform des menschlichen Schadels,' p. 5. Against all these weighty authorities I have to set the fact that if I place a skull of one or other of these two races before tlie skilful and very extensively experienced articulator and restorer of prehistoric crania, Mr. W. Hine of the University Museum, without giving him any hint of the archaeological surroundings in which it was found, he will ordinarily be right in his reference of the skull to one or other of these races. The R 2