13.2 ON THE HOMOLOaiES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES deltoid ridge, and the scapulo-coracoid fissure, and it is inserted just where the pectoral ridge sinks into the articular head of the humerus, proximally to the tendon of the teres minor. The supra- scapular muscle is not ordinarily differentiated in reptiles into an infra- and supra-spinatus. But in a gecko, I'latydactylus, sp. ?, I have observed it to take origin from the coracoid, as well as from the scapular region of the shoulder-girdle ; and by doing this, it has brought itself by origin, as it is often by innervation, into close correspondence with the coraeo-brachiales muscles, and, serially, with the iliacus of reptiles. The muscle seen in fig. 4, intercepted between the tendon of the biceps and that of the pectoralis secundus, is called ' deltoides in- ternus' by Meckel; it is, however, obviously homologous with an upper segment of the coraco-brachialis as seen in fig. 3 from the crocodile, and with the ' short coraco-brachialis' or ' rotator humeri' of Wood ('Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' Nov. 1866, p. 49). The muscle described by Mr. Mivart in the Iguana tuberculata, under the name of ' gracilis,' and stated by him to ' represent pos- sibly the gracilis of mammals,' seems to me to be a serial homologue, which I have not met with elsewhere, of the pectoralis major. It arises from ' the ischiatic symphysis' (where, in the saurians, an ossifie nodule, the os cloacae, may not rarely be found placed mesially, as though representing a sternum), and ' from the long tendinous arch which passes from the front of the acetabulum, round behind the pubic spine, back to the symphysis just mentioned.' This latter origin seems to me to correspond with the intercla- vicular and clavicular origin of the pectoral, as seen in some of the Sauropsida, and, as far as regards the clavicle, in mammals. Its insertion into the peroneal side of the head of the tibia seems to me to be paralleled by the insertion of the pecto-antebrachial of certain mammals, e.g. the cat (see Straus-Diirckheim, vol. ii. p. 353, pi. vii. figs. 13, 15). Mr, Mivart, by lettering his tibial adductor S, may be understood, perhaps, to mean that he considers this muscle homologous with the sartorius of anthropotomy; and in this identi- fication I should coincide. But the gracilis, which he seems to think may perhaps be represented by the muscle I suppose to be homologous with the pectoralis major, I think must be represented by a head which the tibial adductor in the Iguana tuherculala examined by me received from the symphysis of the ischia.