196 DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OP SKULLS. marked variety of a strongly brachyeephalic type. Skulls of similar proportions and contour have been procured from three or four other round barrows in the East Riding, viz. from barrows in the Goodmanham, Flixton, and Marr series; and two others, also of the same conformation, ' Rudstone, Ixiii. 6,' and 'Rudstone, Ixviii. 7,' have been, procured from this very series. The latter of these two skulls, which belonged to a man past the middle period of life and of about 5 ft. 8 in. in stature, goes farther than most even of the roughest hewn skulls of the Bronze Period to justify the comparison which Dr. Thurnam^ instituted between them and the macrognatlious Maori crania. This skull having been much broken, most of its measurements, as reconstructed, have to be taken with qualification; its great weight, however, alb. 4'()oz. av., the lower jaw included, but much loss of other bone having been incurred, as against a weight for the much more nearly perfect skull and lower jaw, here figured, of i lb. 10 oz. logrs. av., is unambiguously indicative as to its great size. Skulls differing from these mainly in the comparatively unimportant particular of a lesser frontal obliquity will be found figured in the ' Crania Helvetica' of His and Riitimeyer, t. ii. p. 130, and in Von Baer's description of the crania and people of the Graubiindten ^. Even more closely similar are the figures of the Borreby skull and of the Ledbury skull given by Professor Huxley in Sir Charles Lyell's 'Antiquity of Man,' p. 91, 4th. ed. 1873, and in 'Prehistoric Remains of Caithness,' 1866, p. 114. In none of these cases however, with the single exception of the Borreby skull, have we Patagonia, by Dr. Cunningham of H.M.S. ' Nassau,' or of that given by Ellis, 1. c. infra, of the Tahiti method with that given by Camper, 1. c, of a calvarium brought to Oxford by Captain King (No. 827. University Museum), will show that both forms of artificial deformity existed side by side with each other in Patagonia and in Tahiti. Annularly constricted and elongated sliulls, such as the one spoken of by Camper as 'tout pareillement conformde ' to the one from Tahiti, have been constantly found in the region of the Nootka Sound in company with the plagiocephalous variety. And the same is notoriously the case with the Peruvian series, though here it must be said that several authors have attempted to show, though not in the writer's opinion successfully, that these two forms of distorted skull may be taken as distinctive either of two different races, or of chiefs as opposed to the common people. See Forbes, 1. c. infra, pp. 12, 13. The annularly constricted skulls which have come into the present writer's hands appear to have belonged to females whose treatment, even in niatters of this kind, is often, amongst savages, different from that of males. ' ' Principal Forms of Ancient British and Gaulish Skulls,' 1865, pp. 31, 102. " 'Bulletin de I'Acad. Imp. des Sciences de Saint Pdtersbourg,' vol. i. i860; or 'Melanges biologiques tir^s du Bulletin,' t. iii.