NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CISSBUKY. 433 Cissbuiy fliut-mine-shafts as having belonged to a ' woman of about twenty-five years of age, of low stature, 4 feet 9 inches,' and very much the same words might be used for describing the male skeleton now before me. Some little doubt might have arisen as to the question of the sex of this skeleton in the mind of anybody who might have chanced to put his hand upon the long bones of the left arm on first seeing the skeleton. For these bones are dis- proportionately short as compared with ordinary male humeri, radii, and ulnae, as their measurements will show; and it is only when they are compared with the corresponding bones of the other side of the body, and found to be much shorter than those of ordinary male bones, that we see that this shortness has a patho- logical, not a sexual significance, and is to be explained as having been caused by infantile paralysis which was partially recovered from. There is, however—when we examine the other bones of the skeleton, happily, through Dr. Kelly's help, nearly all available for this purpose—no doubt as to the sex of the owner of this skeleton. As regards the limb bones even of the left arm, their markings for the insertions of muscles are much better defined, and their absolute dimensions are larger than those of the skeleton already described, and the same applies, mutatis mutandis, to all the other bones. The orbital ridges, the mastoid processes, the parieto-occipital and the frontal slopes in the cranium, the lower jaw and the pelvis, all alike possess the characters which are held to indicate the male sex. I spoke of the age of the Cissbury female as having been ' about twenty-five years,' and I think, as this phrase may be taken to cover the quinquennial period from twenty-five to thirty, it may be considered to have been scientifically as well as otherwise justifiable. It is difficult to pronounce definitely as to whether the male skeleton now before us belonged or did not belong to an older individual than the female already described. In both, the epi- physes of the movable vertebrae have coalesced with the centra, those of the ossa innominata and those of the ribs and clavicles with the rest of those bones, whilst in neither have the first and second sacral vertebrae coalesced, which they usually do about the thirtieth year. On the other hand, the lines of junction of these epiphyses are a little more evident in the male than the female skeleton, and the teeth are not quite so much worn down, so that I'f