225 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. mediate forms, the ' Misch-Formen' of the German anthropologists, in the slightness and shortness of many of the limb bones of the skeletons of the earlier periods, in the very frequent appearance of a certain 'ill-filledness' in the skulls appertaining to those skeletons, and an equally frequent ruggedness in the skulls of the later ages, and finally in the presence, in both series, of skulls which, while retaining their respective type, were very much smaller than the great majority of those classified with them. Questions of some difficulty as to the affinities of these two sets of crania to those of contemporaneous, of succeeding, and of still existing races of mankind, are suggested by an inspection of them Canestrini, given by Mr. Darwin,' Descent of Man,' p. 39, 2nd edition, to the efifect that brachycephalic crania have been found in the Drift. The cranium from Olmo in tlie valley of the Amo, supposed to belong to the post-pliocene age, was said to be brachy- cephalic, but has been shown by Professor Broca to have an index of 72-72, i.e. to be distinctly dolichocephalic. See his ' M^moires,' torn. ii. p. 354, 1S74. Professor Nilsson, in the third edition of his ' Primitive Inhabitants of Scandinavia,' the first edition of which was published in 1838, says at p. 121 of the English transla- tion, edited by Sir John Lubbock, 1868, 'Some isolated brachycephalous crania have been occasionally found in our stone sepulchres; but it may be taken for granted that the people who constructed these sepulchres belonged to one of the dolichocephalous races which stiU inhabit the greater part of the country.' Baron von Diiben ('Compte Rendu, Congrfes internat. d'Anthropologic,' Stockholm, 1874, torn. ii. 1876, p. 691), speaking of these brachycephalous skulls, says, 'Parmi les cent cranes que j'ai examines du Danemark et de la Sufede il s'en trouve ime dizaine de cette forme, dont 5 du Danemark et le reste de la Sufede depuis la Scanie jusqu'en Vestergotlande. lis ont tons ete exhumes des tonibeaux de I'age de la pierre, les cranes sont trfes arrondis, trfes courts, d'un indice allant jusqu'k 84-2. Grace k cette forme ils contrastent au premier abord et fortement avec les autres cranes qui sont dolichoc^phales, et ^videmment ils appartiennent k une race diff^rente. Ce sont les crUnes que MM. Nilsson et A. Eetzius ont attribu^s aux Lapons; et certainement quelqnesuns de ces cranes ressemblent tellement k ceux des Lapons que nos connaia'- sances cr^niologiques actuelles ne suflBsent pas pour y constater des differences. Cependant d'autres faits montrent que les Lapons ont immigrd par le nord de la Baltique et qu'ils n'ont jamais habits la p^ninsule Scandinave audessous du 62°. Par cette raison il faut attendre avant de decider but ce point. Au reste, si ce sont des Lapons, il se pent trfes-bien qu'ils soient arrives comme esclaves ou comme amis de la race dolichoc^phale dtablie de I'autre c6t6 de la Baltique, oh. vraisemblablement ont exists aux temps pr^historiques des relations intimes entre les Lapons et les racts gothiques.' Aa already stated, p. 189, there appear to me, so far as an examination of various casts, figures, and descriptions enables me to form an opinion, to be two forms of brachycephalic skulls reported to have been found in Danish tumuli of the stone period. I cannot however perceive any close resemblance between either of these forms and that of any one of several Lapp crania which the University Museum owes to the kindness of Professor Eichwald and Mr. A. J. Evans, F.S.A., of Brasenose College. See also infra, p. 264,