LIFE OF DK. ROLLESTON. xi ' He was vesry fond of animals and bii-ds, and dissecting them. I once went in to call him for dinner, and the table was spread all over with bii'ds and a foumart (polecat) he had dissected, and he showed me the different parts of the stomach. The white cat was brought up for me to see; he was waiting to dissect it, he said.' Not less significant of his future was his setting up heaps of stones to record the death of a favourite animal or other event. A boy who at eight years old piled up in the plantation a memorial cairn to commemorate his sister's recovery from scarlatina, was well started on the line for an explorer of ancient burial-mounds. George RoUeston had all the love of shooting and fishing of a Yorkshire moorland lad, but in later life his sensitiveness as to giving pain increased from year to year, till he came to look on field sports with horror. He used often to tell how when a boy he once went out shooting with a man-servant, and seeing something move in the hedge he fired at it, when the supposed rabbit dropped into the ditch, and the serving-man remarked it was 'only a boy.' Rolleston threw down his gun in despair, but the man consoled him with, 'Never mind. Master George, there's plenty more in Maltby.' After all, the boy was unhurt, and it was the sports- man's mind that received the shock. At ten years old he was sent to the Grammar School at Gainsborough. With pride in this advancement, when his eldest sister, who had taught him writing, now recommended his attending to it, he wrote a reply so characteristic that jt has been kept—' I have now no person to call " upstroke " and " downstroke." I have now such a great deal of writing every day and night, and if it is not written well it is not signed, so that there is no need of that friendly advice.' He stayed abou.t two years at Gainsborough, and afterwards went to the Collegiate School at Sheffield, then under Dr. Jacob. His schoolfellows remember him getting candle ends and sitting up to read at forbidden hourS; and sending fags to bring him books as he lay in bed in the early summer moi'nings. At seventeen he com- peted for an open scholarship at Pembroke College, Oxford, and