470 ON THE CRA.NTOLOaY OF THE BUSHMEN. The main sutures I tliink have perhaps something" peculiar about them, this consisting in their being made of denticulations which are complex but shallow, contrasting thus with the complex but deep denticulations of well-developed European, and the coarse but shallow ones of Australian crania. The verticality of the forehead observable in so many Bushman, and, indeedj in so many other African crania, is correlated with the comparative feebleness, and consequent lightness, of their lower jaws, which renders it unnecessary ^ that the brain and brain case should be rotated backwards to counterbalance the facial skeleton and to maintain the visual axis in a horizontal or semi-horizontal plane. I have appended to this paper the measurements given by Professor Mower, in his recently issued (1879) Catalogue, of the six Bushman crania in the College of Surgeons' Museumj pp. 246, 247, and also the same measurements, as taken by myself, of the six Bushman crania in the Oxford University Museum. The very close correspondence of the two sets of measurements will strike any one who will compare the columns which give the averages of the two sets. The fact may be expressed in technical language by saying that both lists coincide pretty nearly in showing thatj as 1867. Canestrini, 'Annuario della Soc. dei Naturalisti in Modena,' 1867, p. 83. ' Gazzetta della Cliruche,' Torino, 1871. G. Delorenzie's 'Tre nuove case d'anomalia deir osso Malare,'Torino, 1872. E. Marselli, 'Sopra una rara anomalia dell' osso Malare,' Modena, 1872. 1873. Gruber, 'Monographic des zweigetlieilten Jochbeines bei Menschen und Saugethieren,' Archiv. Anat. und Pliysiologie, p. 337. 1874. Gruber, 'Ann. Sci. Nat.' 3 ser. Zoologie, tome i. p. 30. 1878. 'Human Osteology,' Holden and Doran, p. 99. Laurillard's words from Cuvier's 'Anatomic Comparde,' vol. ii. pp. 381, 2, arc specially worthy of being quoted, as they were published so long ago as 1837. They are as follows:— 'Au bord inf^rieur d,u jugal nous avons trouv^ sur deux sujets un os particulier, along^ et aplati, etendu tout le long du bord inKrieur du jugal, et I'articulant en avant avec rextremit(5 trbs-saillante de I'apopbyse malaire du maxillaire et en arrifere avec I'apophyse zygomatique du temporal, laquelle se trouve ainsi presenter deux sutures, I'une verticale avec le jugal proprement dit, Tautre horizontale avec ce second jugal en fai^ant un angle presque droit avec la pr^cddente. Dans les sujets oil nous I'avons rencontr*^, la forme de ce nouvel os, ses connexions avec les os voisins, sa proportion avec I'os malaire proi^rement dit, ^taient les mSmes, et comme nous avons trouv^ ainsi que nous le dirons plus loin, dans certaines espfeces de singes une sub- division parfaitement semblable, nous sommes port^s h, la considdrer autrement que comme une disposition purement accidentelle.' 1 See Cleland, ' Phil. Trans.' 1870, p. 163.