411 ANIMAL EEMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. 3. Fragment of tibia, proximal end, Bos primigenius. Thickness of cylinder of bone, exclusive of spongy diploe, 15 millimeters. 4. Fragment of femur, proximal end, Bos primigenius. Thick- ness as abovCj 14 millimeters. 5. Two fragments of frontal bone of Bos primigenius, with strik- ingly glistening and dense-textured walls to frontal sinuses. 6. Fragment of rib of Bos primigenius. Its extreme depth is 53 millimeters^ as against 45 millimeters in the Chillingham bull. 7. Upper molar teeth, Bos primigenius. 8. Part of lower jaw of wild boarj Sus scrofa v.ferus, withi second and third molars in situ, and the last just come into use. The bright glazed appearance characteristic of the wild variety of Stis scrofa is well marked on the outer, but eminently well on the inner, surfaces of the wall of the jaw. Very many more bones than these were procured by Mr, Tyndall from his pit at Cissbury. His lamented death has, I believe, caused many of them to be irrecoverably lost. Those described are all that I have access to. The presence of these wild animals in Mr. Tyndall's pit may be explained by the usually mistranslated^ words of Julius Caesar, ^ Por example, Canon Tristram, in his ' Natural History of the Bible,' 1867, p. I48, translates them thus : ' The hunters are most careful to kill those which they take in pitfalls;' and the Eev. J. G. Wood, in his 'Bible Animals,' p. 128, renders them thus: 'These, when trapped in pitfalls, the hunters diligently kill.' Very little care or diligence would have been required for killing, though a very great deal would have been required for keeping alive, a wild ox which fell into such a pit as Mr. Tyndall's, thirty-nine feet deep. If the writers just quoted had recollected that in times previous to the invention of pumps it was a very common thing for ' an ox or an ass to fall into a pit,' not studiose, but casu aid forte fortund, they would have seen that the word studiose should be taken with ' captos.' So common, indeed, in those times were such accidents, that Maimonides has written at great length about them in Lis treatise ' De Damnis,' a well-known work of great authority. Or if they had read a few lines more of Caesar's in the same connexion, they would have come upon the words ' Haec (comua) studiose conquisita,' which might have suggested a truer rendering. It is curious to note that Cuvier, ' Oss. Foss.,' iv. p. 113, 2nd ed., omits the words in question altogether; and Gervais, 'Zoologie et Pal^ontologie Franijaise,' p. 131, 1859, who would have done well had he followed Cuvier in some other matters, follows him in this implicitly. The really ' learned' member for tlie City of Oxford, Sir "Wm. Harcourt, drew my attention to the splendidly illustrated edition of the 'Commentaries,' publi.shed by Jacob Tonson, in 1712. On referring to it I found M. Gervais' error anticipated, Caesar's description of Bos urus being illustrated by a magnificent, however misplaced, picture of a—Bison. Nor do I entirely agree with the translation given by Mr. Edward Lee (p. 13 of his charming little book, 'Excavations at the Kesserloch/ by Conrad Merk; translated by John