PREHISTOKIC FLORA. 325 'Britannia,' p. 476, cit. Professor Pearson, I.e.). As there is however no question that the beech fails to form any very large proportion of our South Britain peat-mosses, it may be suggested that this transference to the beech by the Welsh of a name which originally belonged to the oak (see Max Miiller, ' Science of Language,' ser, ii. p. 236) must have taken place in a country where a preponderance had been gained by the fonner over the latter tree. If therefore Denmark was the country, see supra, p. 631, whence the bronze-importing invaders of this island came, the beech must have been a prominent tree there at an earlier period than is usually supposed ^. Or it may have abounded here at that time and yet left, as in Denmark, no remains in the uncongenial peat. By the word ' abietem,' Julius meant probably the Abies 2}ectinata, s. Finns picea L., our ' silver fir,' a tree with which, as being a Swiss, a French, and a Pyrenean pine, and climbing those heights in company with the beech, his campaigns in Western Europe had sufficiently familiarised him. The Scotch fir, Pinus sylvestris, was for many cen- turies later the only representative in these islands of the Abietineae, and ' Ab against the prominence, though not against the existence, of the beech in our own country at a much later period might be urged the fact that it is not mentioned by Chaucer in three places, 'The Assembly of Foules' (ed. Bell, 1855, vol. iv. p. 195), ' The Romaunt of the Rose' (vol. vii. p. 59), and ' The Complaint of a Lover's Life ' (vol. viii. p. 8), where he does mention nearly all the other trees which in the fourteenth century entered largely into the composition of the English landscape ; to wit, the ' oke,' the ' asshe,' the ' elme,' the ' boxe,' the ' firre,' the ' ewe,' the ' aspe,' 'notes,' s. ' philbert' (hazel), the ' bolas,'the ' pyn,'the 'maples,'the 'popler,'the 'lyndes,' the 'hauthorne,' And it might be said that in a Welsh poem ascribed to Taliessin, but referred by Professor Pearson (1. c. p. 48) to the fourteenth century, the beech and lime are both left unmentioned in describing a battle of the trees ; and that the beech is omitted from a much earlier Welsh poem ascribed to Llywarch Hen in the sixth century. See Skene, ' Four Ancient Books of Wales,' i. pp. 279 and 576, cit. Pearson, 1. c. As against the evidence furnished by a fourth passage from Chaucer, ' The Knightes Tale,' vol. i. ed. cit. p. 182^ in which, as in Spenser's ' Faery Queen,' i. 7, 8, 9, the beech and also the birch and wiUow are added to the trees above enumerated, it might be objectud that ' the whole description of the funeral and games is taken from the sixth book of the Thebais ;' and as a matter of fact we have the words ' gli alti faggi' standing in the parallel passage, 'Teseide,' xi. 22, col. 237, ed. Ven. 1838. But Professor Earle writes to me upon this matter to the fol- lowing effect: ' In the Knightes Tale, the marshalling of the trees in a catalogue is in manner Chaucer's own; and the majority of the trees, also, are his, and not Boccaccio's. . . . But as far as philological and literary evidence goes, it is all in favour of the trees being at Chaucer's time familiarly English. The word beecJi was ready to hand, and in its final form which has not since been modified. Yet that word was a considerable remove from the Anglo-Saxon boc, and such modification postulates warm and con- stant u.sage. The word is ancestral, older, I mean, than our distinct national existence; it is so like in Anglo-Saxon to what it is in Icelandic and in German as to prove that there was no breach of continuity in its use from the earliest time.'