1 LIFE OF DB. E0LLE8T0N. element always added force and elevated the tone of any as- sembly of which he was a member.' Among the measures which he took up strongly was the affiliation to the University of Oxford of colleges intended, like University College, Bristol, to supply local needs. Another proposal which he took part in deserves notice from its intrinsic importance, notwithstanding that it was not carried out. This was that students passing an Examination in the Final School of Natural Science, turning mainly on their proficiency in the branches of science taken up, should receive Degrees in Natural Science, and not in Arts. This proposal was carried in the Hebdomadal Council, but was eventually rejected by Congregation. The objections to the pro- posed change came partly from those to whom the innovation seemed in itself undesirable, but also partly from those on the scientific side who thought that the recognised stamp of the B.A. degree had more practical value than a B. Sc. degree un- familiar to the public. As the question of the desirability of conferring Science degrees as is done by the University of London will doubtless arise again at Oxford, it is well to mention Dr. Rolleston's position in the matter. His views on the general subject of Examinations were strongly felt and not less strongly expressed, tested as they had been by years of comparison between a man's class and his merits as judged by the world in after life. No one was more sensible of the use of examinations within limits. Answering an enquiry made by the friends of one of his students, he writes, ' He has been working steadil}'-, but from one cause or another he has not put the results of his work so clearly before me as I could wish. More than once or twice he has been ill at the end of Tex-ms, and left me without the evidence which a terminal Examination, an excellent institu- tion, furnishes us.' It is interesting, however, to notice a certain change in his opinions in the course of experience. In 1863, toward the beginning of his professorial work, he writes to his brother in New Zealand a carefully-considered letter on educa- tion, in which he remarks, ' That frequent examinations are an evil to the very best men I admit, but it is only to the very best