PREHISTORIC FLORA. 323 clined to think that of Italy has been, the changes which the woodlands of this couutry have undergone since prehistoric times have been very great indeed. Much weight must in the first place be laid upon the enormously greater proportion of the entire surface of the country which was in early times occupied by trees, though England is even at the present day one of the best wooded of civilised countries; for the influence of this quantitative difierence upon both man and beast must have been important and many-sided to a degree which, in spite of all that has been written by others, it is difficult to exaggerate. Qualitatively the character of the trees which filled the plains, clothed the hillside, and formed the sky-line of the neolithic period was a very different one from that of those which stand at intervals in our hedges and enclosures and bound our horizon, at least in our midland and southern counties. Some difference of opinion exists among botanists as to whether the ' common' elm, which is now perhaps the most abundant of our southern and midland trees, is or is not indigenous^. I cannot but think that the facts of its absence from parts of Great Britain which are separated either by moorland or mountain from the southern and midland counties, whilst it flourishes in such districts when once introduced into them, coupled with the fact of its rarely seeding here, should incline us to the latter view. It is obvious, as has often been suggested, that the Romans who introduced the vine may have introduced with it the 'piller' elm, ' For the changes which have been produced in our indigenous flora by the suc- cessive immigrants into or conquerors of this country, see De CandoUe's Geographie Botanique Raisonn^e, 1855, vol. ii. pp. 645-705 ; the Rev. C. A. Johns, 'Forest Trees of Great Britain,' who says (p. 42), ' If in my history of forest trees I were to confine myself to those which are universally acknowledged to be indigenous to Britain, I should soon bring my labours to a close. England, though once a well-wooded country, never probably could boast of containing within it any great variety of species ;' and Pearson, 'Historical Maps of England,' 1869, pp. 48, 49. For the question as to the indigenous character of the common elm, see De CandoUe, I.e., p. 690, and VVatson and Bromfield, citt. in loco; Pratt, 'Flowering Plants and Ferns of Great Britain,' vol. iii. p. 98 ; Johns, 1. c. p. 227. The history of the common elm, which, though multitudinous and prominent in our landscapes, has yet failed, as its rarely seeding shows, to become really naturalised in our soil, may be taken as corresponding, and curiously, if it be really a Roman importation, to that of the Latin element in our language, which, though outnumbering by mere words the Teutonic or Saxon element in the proportion of 29,3.^4 to 13,330 (Thommerel, cit. Max MiiUer, ' Lectures on the Science of Language,' 1861, p. 74), has never established itself in our grammar. The wych-elm, which in spite of its more rapid growth and greater beauty has neverthelesM, owing probably to the lesser durability of its timber, had its area of distribution in Great Britain curtailed by successive invaders, may in like manner be considered to typify the history of the indigenous British races as encroached upon by Teutonic and Scandin^ivian conquerors, Y 2