150 NOTES ON THE POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION OP A MAN subject. Though the nodes on the stem of the lymphatic or lacteal tree had shrivelled and disappeared, the spongioles on its roots were still active. The statements in Haller's 'Disputations^' as to the total disappearance of the mesenteric system in advanced age, needs, therefore, certain qualifications, which our modern knowledge of the true nature of the Peyerian glands enables us to make. Both ureters were greatly dilated, and there was an abundance of reddish-yellow grains of uric acid in the pelvis and calices of the right kidney, as well as throughout the bladder. These concretions of uric acid were seen under an inch-power to be multi-tuberculate, or rather spinosCj on their exterior; they were of the size of coarsish sand. The weight of the right kidney was 2f oz.; that of the left, which was somewhat deeply imbedded in fat, was 2j oz. Exteriorly, both kidneys had indications of lobulation, and nume- rous small cysts, as in the case of Parr, scattered over their surface. Microscopically, the kidney tissues seemed normal. The bladder had risen so far out of the pelvis as nearly to abut upon the promontory of the sacrum. Its increase of size was due to the hypertrophy of its coats, and especially of its muscular coat. Everywhere, except over the trigonum vesicae, the mucous mem- brane was bulged into sacculi prolonged between the muscular bundles for a depth of as much as a quarter of an inch, the orifices of communication between them and the general cavity of the bladder lying transversely to its vertical axis. Just at the commencement of the urethra, on the right side of the veru mon- tanum, a pedieulate growth, the size of a pea, projected into the urethra ; on reflecting the mucous membrane, another similarly attached but smaller tumour was discovered close by the pedicle of the first; and on the left side of the veru montanum a broad and flat tumour, as large as both those of the right side taken together, was found, separable from, but, like the two pedieulate tumours, possessing the same microscopic characters and prostatic corpuscles as the subjacent glandular isthmus or ' middle lobe.' The orifices of the prostatic glands were large. The prostate figured by Sir ^ ' Disp. Anat.,' vii. p. 77. 'Constat glandulas mesentericas tnaximas et pulcherrimas in foetu esse, sed imminui pro aetate crescente, ut in senio evanescant omnes. Ita Ruyscliius senex de se ipso scripsit per multos nunc annos nulla sibi superesse vasa lactea, quod quidem non nisi ex experiraentis et observationibus didicit, quibus constat anno septuagesimo et prius glandulas mesentericas omnes evanuisse.'