APPENDIX. 324 the two plants being so commonly wedded in Italian husbandry, as in both Italian and English poetry. On the other hand, the readiness with which the wych-elm ripens its seeds, and its power of maintaining itself and flourishing even in the highlands of Scotland, to say nothing of its trivial name, the nationality of which is disputed, would appear to show that it at least is an indigenous tree ; and it may consequently have contributed in larger proportions and given 2>ro tanto a larger share of beauty to the prehistoric landscape than it does now to ours. Dwellers on or near the chalk districts of England are too familiar with the conspicuous and beautiful, though common, seedlings of the beech not to feel considerable doubt as to the accuracy of Julius Caesar's statement that the tree though present in Gaul was wanting in Britain. Antiquaries who are familiar with the fact of the great abundance of the bones of the domestic pig in British barrows, both of the stone and of the bronze age, will find it difficult to believe that, in the latter of those periods at least, beech-mast and beech-trees had not been made available for feeding that animal; especially when they consider how freely intercourse was carried on between Britain and Gaul, and how easily the seeds in question could and would have been carried across the Channel. Botanists at least (see De Candolle, I.e., pp. 154, 689, and Johns, I.e., p. 144) appear to be agreed that the words 'Materia cujus- que generis, ut in Gallia, est, j)raeter fagum atque abietem' ('De Bello Gallico,' V. 12) contain one of the few errors fallen into by Caesar. Had this statement related to Scotland it would probably have been correct, beech-mast never having been found any more than ash-seeds in the peat-mosses of Scotland, though both plants are now to be found even in the extreme north of that country, and though both, I think, must be held to be indigenous in South Britain. For these considerations and some others seem to me to outweigh the views of Dr. Daubeny, expressed in 'Trees of the Ancients,' 1865, p. 7, to the eflPect that the beech ' was not known in Holland nor probably in England or Ireland at the time of the Norman Conquest;' views against which, as pointed out by Professor Pearson, 1. c, p. 48, the mention of a ' bochholt' in a charter of OfFa, and of ' the old beech' in one of the Con- fessor, can be urged as regards Saxon times. It is difficult also to reconcile them with the general fact stated by De Candolle, 1. c, p. 689, on the authority of Davies (' Welsh Botany,' p. 90), that dans le pays de Galles Ffa-wydden {wydden etant une desinence commune aux arhres et Ffa le nom projirement dit) was the name for this tree ; or with the special exemplification of this with which the "Welsh name for Hereford, a city with beech-trees near it, ' Tre fawydd,' furnishes us (see Camden's