316 GENEKA.L KEMARKS ibique citata); secondly, that even in these ' tombs of tlie kings' we find (see supra, pp. 256, 258, 305) female skulls and female skeletons of disproportionate smallness; and, thirdly, that (see pp. 214, 249, 274 supra), mixed up in these tumuli with the large and well-filled male skulls, there are not wanting ' ill-filled,' ' boat- shaped ' crania, to parallel which we have to go far afield amongst modern ' Natur-viilker;' or that, in technical language, the crania of the neolithic period were not rarely dolichocephalic in a way which justifies us in speaking of them as being stenocephalic ^ and of their owners as being in contrast to modern civilised dolicho- cephali, ' angustiores ' rather than ' latiores.' To the narrowness of the ill-fed brain the simplicity or obliteration of the sutures testifies often, even in the most fragmentary of the neolithic crania; in more perfect specimens we have the same conditions more forcibly impressed upon our imagination by the sight of the parietal and frontal eminences standing prominently out in relief upon the wall- sided and vertically-ridged cranium. If a contrast such as this can be shown to exist, between a series of what were all but certainly the crania of the most favouraljly conditioned and best developed of the neolithic population and any mixed series of later times ' Professor Aeby in 1863 ('Verhandl. Naturforsch. Gesell. Basel.,' iii. 4) proposed to divide all skulls into the two classes of Stenocephalous and Eurycephalous, having regard simply to the differences of breadth. In 1867, in his ' Schadelformen des Men- schen und der Affen,' p. 32, he again argues that this division should be substituted for that of Retzius, according to which skulls are similarly divided into two classes, but into Dolichocephalous and Brachycephalous by reference to the relation sub- sisting between their length and breadtli. His words are as follows:—'Was er (Retzius) also fiir lang und kurz gehalten ist nichts anders als sclimal und breit, und es scheiden sich die Menschen nicht nach Dolichocephalie und Brachycepbalie sondem nach Stenocephalie und Eurycephalie.' As there appears to be some tendency in recent writers, e.g. Zuckerkandl,' NovaraReise,' 1875, p. 65, to adopt this classification, it may be well to say here that with dolichoceplialy and brachycejjhaly respectively many more properties are correlated tlian those which their mere etymo- logy connotes. Some of these are of primary morphological (see p. 233 supra), others of primary physiological (see p. 276 supra) importance. Neither is it possible to overrate the ethnographical importance of the fact insisted upon (pp. 189, 245, 260, 263, 264 supra) that within the circumscription of dolichocephaly and brachycephaly both, a natural subdivision may be made by reference to this very matter of breadth. There are 'ill-filled' brachycepbalie skulls as well as ' well-filled;' ' well-filled' dolicho- cephalic skulls as well as ' ill-filled ;' and to use, as is now sometimes done, the word 'stenocephalous' or 'schmalkopfige,' as convertible with dolichocephalous and as oijposed to brachycephalous, is simply to ignore facts. These are excellently ex- pressed by Professor Cleland's proposed quadrifid division of dolichocephali and brachy- cephali into 'latioies ' and ' angustiores' respectively. See 'Phil. Trans.' 1870, p. 148.