108 ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENREC stages of pregnancy, without leaving much of the injection in- extricably interfused with the foetal villi, whereas it is perfectly possible to do this with the ruminant placentulae at any period. The foetal villi of a placenta may be ' long, delicate, and branched, giving a flocculent appearance to the small portion of the centre of the dial by which the foetal placenta is attached to the womb ^;' but it is difficult to see how by this peculiarity they come to resemble ' the foetal portion of the cotyledon in the cow,' unless it could be shown that the uterine vessels when injected in a fresh specimen left none of their own substance or of the tissue sup- porting them interblended organically with the foetal upgrowths. This can be shown in the ruminants. The delicate arborescent ap- pearance which is described in the placenta of Pterojms is due, in all likelihood, to the prolonged maceration in spirit to which a pregnant uterus of an animal of its geographical distribution would in all likelihood be subjected, and it may be paralleled by the appearance which the human placenta, when similarly treated for the purpose of showing its villous structure, may, in most museums, be seen to wear. So fai', therefore, from approximating a chiropterous animal to the Pecora of Linnaeus, the placental peculiarity brings them, as Linnaeus did bring them, into the same class as the Primates—the necessary preliminary for the demon- stration of an arborescent placenta being, in both cases alike, the washing away of the intervillularly-placed maternal substances^. For though it may be possible to make the placentae of other deciduate Mammalia assume an arborescent appearance by macer- ation, as compared with the human or with the simious placenta they present ordinarily the appearance rather of interdigitating lamellae ^ than that of intertwining trees. From the facts given in this paper, imperfect as it is from the want of certain materials specified, as well as from other causes, it may seem to result that the modifications of the placental structures form a very safe basis for the classification of the Monodelphous Mammalia. 1 ' Phil. Trans.' for 1857, p. 351. Eschricbt's words .as to this intercellular substance are exceedingly apposite : ' Villos microscopii ope examinans massa grumosa eos obtectos esse saepissime vidi, quam tegumentum esse a tunica serotina praebitum nihil dubito.'—De Organis, p. 127. « Eschricht, I.e. pp. 14, 26 j Von Baer,' Gefassverbindung, pp. 23 and 24.