LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. xxi one of the lady nurses, slight as they are, may give an idea of what he seemed to others. 'During the nine months that I spent in the Hospital at Smyrna, I nursed almost exclusively under him in the Division confided to Dr. Leared's and his care, so that I had constant opportunities for understanding his fine character, so full of talent and energy, so kind, and with so much earnestness beneath his playful manner. Looking back I see a tall slight fair young man moving up and down the long corridors lined with the beds of the sick, and the wards opening from them, giving his orders clearly, attending to every case most carefully, always kind and cheering in his manner, and most pleasant and considerate to those working under him. . . . He was very successful in "fighting the fever," as he used to call it, and for a long time his Division was mostly filled with such cases.' On May 35, 1855, the young physician writes to his sister:— ' Everything just now wears the couleur de rose. The last few days of April we got our hospital nearly empty; and the first six days of May brought us down two shiploads of sick from Balaclava. The first- ship, the " Sydney," steamed in on the 1st of May about 10 a.m., ran out her anchor and ran up a yellow flag about 300 yards out away from the Hospital. It was very exciting. We found however that the cases she brought down were not so serious as had been expected ; and the second ship, the " Brandon," which came on the 6th, had still fewer cases on board. Matters, in fact, are improving in the Crimea, and we have not now the wretched depression and utter prostration to deal with of which we had so much in March last. It is a short three weeks since these arrivals took place, and the Hospital is rapidly assuming the appearance of a convalescent establishment again. Can anything speak more strongly for our organisation and sanitary condition? The English have put unbounded means at the disposal of the authorities everywhere throughout the Levant; we, here at Smyrna, have made use of them, and the results will justify the expenditure. Elsewhere, I believe, the good things sent out