AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 93 richly injected; the undisturbed superficial layer, the homolog-ue of the human decidua vera, is of a uniform opaque white, the injection nowhere showing its colour through its smooth unbroken surface. This layer of mucous membrane abuts upon the remain- ing- placenta a little way within its outer rim, and upon its uterine surface ; whereas in the human subject it becomes continuous with it at its free edge, or even joins it a little within this on the foetal aspect. In the section of the placenta we see the arborescent upgrowths which carry the villi, and the downward processes of maternal tissue'-, more plainly than we see their homologues, at least with the naked eye, in the lower mammals of which we have been speaking. The uterine surface of the placenta is clothed by a smooth continuous membrane, from which these ' Decidua- Fortsatze' pass downwards into it. Above the placenta, a thiu but coherent lamina of membrane is seen, left partly in apposition with, partly divaricated from it, and joining the decidua vera at the point where it impinges upon the after-birth. In its distinctness, and ready separability, and coherence, it resembles the deciduous serotina of the rodent; but there can be little doubt that it does not make up the whole of that layer in the macaque, but that more or less of the tissue between it and the deeper strata clothing the muscular walls, viz. the persistent non-deciduous serotina, would in the natural order of events have been deciduous likewise. More than the thin lamina may be seen to have been deciduous in the natural labour of a Macacus rhesus, of which the after-birth is pre- served in the College of Surgeons (Hunt. Mus., Phys. Series, 3584). It is not, however, easy to say what line will exactly define the limits of deciduous from those of non-deciduous serotina. For be- tween the muscular coat (from which in the Simiadae and Rodents, as in our own species, it is not easy to separate the mucous) and the deciduous utero-placental structures a very considerable interval exists, filled up with loose lamellae of tissue, the deeper of which, consisting of cells with large nuclei and tapering ends, have a horizontal direction, and those more directly in connexion with the deciduous layers a vertical one. In this interval a considerable * These are the ' Decidua-Fortsatze ' of Ecker ('Icones Physiologicae,' taf. 28. fig. i, df). They are described by KoUiker ('Entwickelungsgeschichte,'p. 145), and well figurefl by Dr. Priestley (Lectures, p. 57. fig. 16) in tlie human placenta at six months, after Van der Kolk. They are much less prominent in the human placenta at full time. Cf. Kolliker, 1. 0. pp. 143, 177, 183.