GENEKAL KEMAEKS 276 The argument from the history of the growth of the skull which comes under this head cannot be given better than in the following words of Gratiolet ('Bull. Soc. Anthrop. Paris/ torn. ii. Avril 18, i86t, p. 253): 'Chez I'enfant nouveau-ne le centre du point primitif d'ossification du parietal est plus distant de I'extremite occipitale du crane que de son extr^mite frontale. Le cas inverse est realist dans I'adulte. On d6duit de ces faits une consequence rigoureuse, savoir que dans le passage de I'enfance a I'dge adulte les parties anterieures du cerveau s'accroissent plus rapidement que les parties poste- rieures. Get accroissement marche d'arriere en avant de I'occipital au frontal, il se propage comma une ondulation d'une vertebre k I'autre.' The maintenance therefore by the part of the parietal posterior to its tuberosity, a part representing its primitive centre, of a pro- portion at all approaching equality with the part anterior to it is a retention of infantile proportions, and jjw tanto a sign of inferiority. Mutatis mutandis a comparison of the skulls of the anthropo- morpha leads us to a similar conclusion. In those apes, though the lobule of the marginal convolution and the parietal eminence cor- responding to it are only faintly marked ; and though the Asiatic Orang is often less dolichocephalous than its African allies; still the primitive centre of ossification of the parietal bone which may be supposed to hold the same relation to the subjacent brain which the homologous area in the human skull is wont to do, divides the bone, in all of these Simiadae, into two much more nearly equal segments than is usually the case in the adult human subject. Thus from the four points of view furnished by considering their irrigation, their histological structure, their relative activity as indicated by their greater amenability to the incidence of disease, and their comparative anatomy, the anterior parts of the brain of which we have been treating can be shown to be superior in importance to those which lie posteriorly to them. The convolu- tions which are curtailed in the posterior part of a brain with its anterior segments relatively large are those which underlie that zone of the skull which is interposed between parallel lines drawn over the parietal tuberosity and over the line of the lambdoid suture. Hence the importance of the two craniographical