AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 77 2. Maternal and Foetal Structures developed in utero in CONNEXION WITH THE EmBRYOS. Owing to the state of preservation in which the specimen was when it came into my hands, the maternal and foetal structures in connexion with the chorion had, in every case but one, become self-analysed into three parts. These parts were, first, an area of tissue continuous at its periphery with the non-placental uterine mucous membrane; secondly, a lamina of membrane floating loosely, and, like the utero-placental area, perforated centrally by vascular orifices ; and, thirdly, the placenta proper of a diameter of about half an inch. One ovum only retains its natural connexion with the uterine wall; but in several cases the lamina of mem- brane ordinarily found floating' loosely remains attached to its utero- placental area. Of this area I will first speak. It is sub-circular, and bounded by a slightly raised parapet of uterine mucous membrane, with which an upgrowth of the chorion was continuous in all the ova, and remains so in one instance at present. The diameter of each utero-placental space thus bounded being about half an inch, its area is divisible into two regions—one, the outer one, being quoit-shaped and surrounding a circular central inner region. The depth of the outer ring is about half the length of the diameter of the entire area; it is clothed with a mucous membrane of pulpy appearance and corrugated more or less regularly. In being thicker, and in being corrugated, this portion of the utero- placental area contrasts with the mucous coating of non-placental portions of the uterus, the mechanical pressure and contact of the many foetuses accounting probably for the smoother and thinner character of the mucous layer in the latter portions of the organ. The central circular portion of each utero-placental area is dis- tinguished, by its irregularly perforated and discoloured appear- ance, both from the ring-shaped area immediately surrounding it and from the rest of the uterine mucous coat. The membrane covering both regions in each utero-placental area is single, and does not admit of being split up into laminae j but in several cases the lamina, more commonly found floating freely, is left adhering to the utero-placental area. This lamina, when free, presents many orifices of blood-vessels, centrally; and its general structure is loose and pulpy. When adherent to the utero-placental area, it is by its