425 ANIMAL KEMAINS FOUND AT CISSBUKY. has the vertical dip which, as Ecker has pointed out, is so character- istic of such crania. As in typical dolichocephalic skulls, the glabello-inial is shorter than the g-labello-postremal line, and the lambdoid suture comes largely into view. As in many 'priscan' skulls, the coronoid process of the lower jaw fails to pass above the level of the lower edge of the zygoma. The anterior margin of the squamous nearly (but not quite, as drawn in the figure referred to) reaches the frontal bone. The alveolar border of the upper jaw describes a curve strongly convex downwards, and broken into, in the horizontal plane, by the great prominence of the sockets for the canines. The skull when placed without the lower jaw on a horizontal surface is supported by the first and second upper molars and by the conceptaculum cerebelli. When looked at in the norma frontalis this skull strikes the observer, firstly, as being eminently well filled or rounded out in the supra-temporal regions, but, secondly, as having the impression of culture which is given by this development neutralised by the peculiar conformation of the upper and lower jaws. The large size of the sockets of the canines in both jaws gives a squareness to that region of the face, whilst in the lower jaw the triangular raised area of the mentum is feebly developed^ as compared with the alveolar part of the jaw. The lower jaw, when placed on a horizontal plane, touches it with its inferior border on the left side only by a segment correspond- ing with the two anterior time molars. A wide interval separates the symphysis from such a plane, and though the angle of the jaw on the right side does aid in supporting it when thus placed, that on the left does not. Both angles are rounded off. The foramen mentale on the left opens a little further back than is usual in European jaws, viz, immediately beneath the second premolar. Just above it is seen the opening of an alveolar abscess in relation with tbe premolar, which appears to have been broken across mid- way between its crown and its neck during life, and to have had its pulp cavities consequently exposed. The apex of the coronoid pro- jects only about one-tenth of an inch above the level of the condyle when the jaw rests on a flat surface. Coupling these peculiarities with the shortness of the coronoid and the worn condition of the two anterior true molars, we may say that the lower jaw would, if taken alone, have furnished a strong ground for conjecturing that