264 GENEEAL EEMAEKS reindeer period, whilst in both of them small stunted crania are found mixed up with large ones, and that too in the tombs ' of the king's To obtain however any really satisfactory rationale of the difference between brachycephaly and dolichocephaly we must go beyond examination simply of the texture, relative proportion, and capacity of the skulls, and must enquire what the conformation of the cover- ing skull can teach us of the conformation and character of the contained brain. As I have already pointed out (p. 638), Huschke, nearly a quarter of a century ago, stated of certain readily recog- nisable landmarks on the skuU, such as the frontal and parietal tubera and the coronal and the lambdoidal sutures, that certain equally definite and recognisable brain-convolutions would be found to correspond with them. These important observations, owing probably to their being mixed up with a vast mass of matter of less precision and interest, failed to attract the attention which they deserved, and a considerable number of investigators, including myself 2, have subsequently to the appearance of Huschke's memoir * A considerable amount of discussion upon the subject of the Lapp h}'pothesi3 took place at the Meeting of the International Congress of Prehistoric Anthropology and Archaeology held at Stockholm in 1874 ; the opinions of the following authors, mostly iu disfavour of the hypothesis, will be found at the padres of the Compte Rendu of tlie Congress (published last year, 1876) which I append to their names:—Rygh, pp. 178-179; Montelius, p. 194 ; Worsaae, p. 208 ; Gustav Eetzius, pp. 231-233 ; Schaaf- hausen, p. 841; Virchow, p. 848; Baron von Dtiben's views, pp. 691-692, have already been quoted, p. 225 supra, and the following extract from Mr. Smiles'' Life of a Scotch Naturalist, Thomas Edward,' 1876, p. 357, looks a little strange when compared with it: 'It is probable that a great part of Europe was originally peopled by Lapps, and that they were driven North by the incoming of a more civilised race from the East. There are still remnants of the Lapps in the Island of Malmbn off the coast of Sweden, in North Connaught, and the Island of Aran in Ireland; in the Island of Lewis off the Western Coast of Scotland, and in several of the Shetland Islands.' So far as I know, Professor Nilsson's (' Skandinaviska Nordens Ur-invanare,' Lund 1838-1843, Hfl. 3, p. 12) and Professor Rask's names are connected with the origination of this hypothesis. The views of the former of these authors appear to have been considerably modified in the thirty years' interval between 1838 and the publication of an English translation of his work under the editorship of Sir John Lubbock (see p. 122 of this translation). The views of the elder Eetzius may be seen in ' Miiller's Archiv,' 1845, or ' Ethnolo- gische Schriften,' 1864, p. 20; and 'Miiller's Archiv,' 1849, ^'^'l' Ethn. Schriften,' p. 102. The small skulls described by Eetzius, from Marly and Meudon near Versailles ('Miiller's Archiv,' 1847, p. 499, and 'Ethn. Schriften,' pp. 62-64), furnish instances of stunted skulls the existence of which can be explained as in the text, ^ Professor Broca in France, Professor Turner in England, M. Ferdinand Heftier in Russia, and Professor Bischoff in Germany, have connected their names with this