BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 33 tempted to connect with this greater development of cerebral sub- stance, but that the uncovered cerebellum of the dog stands before us in the same plate as the largely covered cerebellum of the vervet. I must say a word, however, here upon the relations of being over- lapped and of outcropping, both laterally and antero-posteriorly, which the cerebellum holds to the cerebrum in the largest of the apes, for in them the cerebellum is much larger, and especially is it much wider, in relation to the cerebral hemispheres, than it is in man. In the lower monkeys, on a basal view, a broadish rim affords room enough for the anatomist's finger to travel all round the cerebellum, and the like is the case in man. In the chim- panzee, according to Mr. Marshall (from whose paper ^ I have already borrowed much), such a rim as this is traceable, though in more cui'tailed lateral and greater posterior proportions than in man around the cerebellum. In the orang the narrowed boat-like posterior lobes hold a less favourable relation, both laterally and posteriorly, to the nnderlying after-brain than they do in the African ape, but even in this ape there is, as casts of the skull cavity will show, no margin allowed us for speaking of an uncovered, outcropping cere- bellum, at all events in the longitudinal direction. I put in this limitation because the celebrated Dutch anatomists, already quoted, seem to think that the very small segment of cerebellum, which peeps out on either si.de, though not in the middle line posteriorly of their figure, may perhaps have peeped out to some extent, though not to the entire extent represented, whilst the organ held their natural relation to each other. Not the least valuable part of Mr. Marshall's valuable paper is that in which he gives us an explanation of the way in which the relative positions of the different parts of the encephalon become altered when the organ is removed from the cranial case which supported it during life. This explanation will be valuable to the general public, for it will make clear what to them has been a mystery, viz. how anatomists can come to differ as to mere matters of measurement; showing how widely a brain preserved in spirit may differ from the same bi-ain unsubjected to the working of that agent, it teaches us that no conscientious anatomist should describe a preserved brain without having side by side with it a cast of the skull whence it was taken. In the letter-press and in the figures of M. Gratiolet's invaluable ' 'Nat. Hint. Review,' July, 1861, p. 304. D