267 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. the centre of the parietal eminence and parallel to the line of the lambdoid suture, and behind by that line itself, may, with the zone to take this view at the present time. In the last edition indeed (1870, iii. 2, p. 454) of Cruveilhier's 'Anatomie Descriptive' I find tlie words 'C'est surces circonvolutions occipitales que porte principalement I'atrophie senile/ standing without note or com- ment or inference in connexion with them, and the reference to Neumann is omitted. But what is of much greater consequence is to find an authority with the vast experience which Dr. J. Crichton Browne possesses (see 'West Riding Lunatic Asj'lum Reports,' 1S76, vol. vi. p. •218) averring that the exemption which the occipital lobes on his showing enjoy from the lesions characteristic of the general paralysis of the insane, is 'as it were only part of a wider immunity from visible pathological change' which they enjoy ' in all varieties of chronic insanity,' inclusive (p. 178) of ' senile, simple, and consecutive dementia.' Dr. Fox in like manner in his ' Pathological Anatomy of the Nervous Centres,' 1874, p. 41, tells us that 'the posterior lobes are less often affected than the middle, and hemorrhage there seems to be of far leas serious import.' To these statements it may be well to add the following made by Professor Schroder van der Kolk (' Pathology and Theiapeutics of Mental Di.seases,' English translation by J. T. Rudall, Melbourne, 1869, p. 46), 'In insanity proper, in cases of confusion of ideas, and of haughty insanity, I have always found the anterior lobes of the brain suffering, but on tlie contrary in the melancholic and those wI)o condemned themselves with or without religious admixture, I have found the upper and posterior parts of the lobes diseased, and that in the latter cases the understanding often .showed no traces of disturbance, inasmuch as the individuals judged correctly and disputed acutely. The pathological aflfection limits itself then to the upper and hinder parts of the lobes, and in the fore parts nothing abnormal is seen in regard to colour, firmness, <md connexion with the pia mater. In those who at last finished with dementia I never found the anterior parts of the lobes intact.' Cf. also pp. 24, 41, 44, 59, 63, 93, I.e. Dr. Lelut, the author of a memoir ' Du ddveloppement du crS.ne dans ses rapports avec celui de I'intelligence,' published in the ' Gazette Medicale de Paris,' has been referred to by M. FovUle (' Systfeme Nerveux,' 1844, p. 649) and by Virchow (' Gesamm. Abhandlungen,' p. 916) as having shown that in the cases of idiots the greatest diminu- tion of the skuU takes place in the posterior part of its circumference. Neither of the authors who refer to M. Lelut accept this conclusion; and a reference to Professor Marshall's paper in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for 1864 (p. 543, pi. xxi, xxii, xxiii), ' On the Brain of a Bushwoman and on the Brains of two Idiots of European Descent,' will show that the facts upon which it is based may very readily be over- stated, the real state of the case as regards the brains of these idiots being that' whilst all parts have been more or less arrested, the frontal and occipital lobes have suffered more than the temporal or parietal.' The comparative anatomy of the brains of men and apes shows that the occipital lobes have a greater relative development in the lower than in the higher apes, and it has been maintained by Dr. A. Pansch ('De Sulcis et Gyris in Cerebris simiarum et horninum,' 1866, p. 25 ; ' Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' 1869, iii. p. 252) that the 'operculum' which bounds the parieto-occipital fissure posteriorly is to be considered an upgrowth which is sometimes much diminished in the Antliropomorpha, and which is only rarely to be seen, except rudimentarily represented, in man. In other words, the external perpendicular or occipito-parietal fissure is a valley formed not by depres- sion or excavation but by upheaval of cerebral substance, and this upheaval is less marked in the higher than in the lower Simiadae, and in Hominidae is usually entirely