LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. liii which no other purer rewards or pursuits can have. I see from my window Monaco with its Prince, its Jesuits and their schools, its nunneries, and its mediaeval castle lately underpinned and plastered up; and under it the modern Monte Carlo with its modern appliances of all kinds and its gambling Casino, and I feel that this latter place represents the Examination system with its excitement, its gambling, its power to dull aspiration of every better kind, and its all but entire monopoly of the activity of the place, albeit the bUnd Prince does walk about with one priest in ixont and another behind him, and has everybody pushed out of the way as he passes.' Though Dr. Kolleston had ceased to practise as a physician, his experience in past days of the life and sufferings of the poor was deeply imprinted in his mind. The sanitary work and improve- ment of labourers' dwellings which has come to the front as a duty of these modern days, was one chief business of his Oxford life. Showy philanthropy he had no liking for, and he would speak his mind about it plainly enough. Talking of some modern hospitals where much power for healing had been sacrificed for external decoration, he would say—'In such a place the Physician will fondly lead about My Lord Bishop of This and My Lord of That, and show them with much pride an interesting eruption on the hand of a delicate girl, surrounded with every conceivable comfort. / would take them to a house in the slums and show them a boy blown up with dropsy after scarlet fever—no nurse—children sprawling on the floor, and mother up to the elbows in soap-suds washing for her family, who are sickening of the disease and soon to be fresh centres of it—the father out of work or perhaps in gaol. These are the people one wants to help before spending money on Gothic buildings.' It was with these practical ends in view that he sat for years on the Oxford Local Board, working at drainage, water-supply, and sanitary regulation. The difiiculty of in- ducing the classes who sufi'ered most from unhealthy homes and exposure to contagion of course met him at every step. He used often to recall one of his experiences at the time of the