LIFE OF DK. EOLLESTON, xlvi are found, as if the new broad-skulled people had not exter- minated but mingled with their narrow-skulled predecessors. By what national names these races ought to be called is a question only answerable as yet in the vaguest way, and indeed not likely ever to be fully answered. But it will always have an attraction for historians and anthropologists, who will find it treated largely and soberly by Rolleston. The early skull-type of the long barrows he connects with the black-haired type still prevalent in the West of England, shorter in stature, feebler in development, and with a narrower skull than the men of the fair tint of skin and hair. To the old naiTow-headed population he inclines to give the name Silurian, after the well-known passage of Tacitus (Agr. ii) about the natives of Britain. He protests against the name Iberian, now often used with the implication that an early population of Britain came across from Spain. Such a name should not, he considered, be given without definite reasons, and he points his protest by a quotation from Professor Rhys that the tradition of an old connexion between Ireland and Spain may be nothing but an etymological myth founded on the similarity of the names Iberus and Hihernus. To the broad-skulled type of men who come in with the round burial-mounds he gives the name Cimbric, from likeness of skull between these bronze-using Britons and the Danes whose country was once known as the Cimbric peninsula. Among the less technical parts of the volume are studies of the civilisation of the ancient races of Britain. While the earliest known of these, the men of the palaeolithic period contemporaries of the mammoths, lived in England when its hills and plains had not yet their present contour, the later neolithic men whose remains are found in the long barrows belong to a time when the outline of the country had come much into its present shape, for their forts and burial-mounds stand on high places of view and vantage which show that their land abeady had its escarpments and river-courses much as at this day. These stone-age tribes of Britain were inferior to the stone-age lake-dwellers of Switzerland, whose communication with the Mediterranean