INTRODUCTION. 165 The 'extreme lenoth' has been taken neither from the fronto- nasal suture, as Professor Virchow takes it^ nor from the 'gla- 1)ella' strictly so called, i.e. from the interspace separating* or connecting, as the case may be, the two supraciliary ridges, but from a spot immediately above that area—just, in fact, where the upper part of the frontal begins to rise into it. This appears to be the most reasonable spot to take for an antero-posterior measure- ment of the brain-case, as the applied arm of the compasses comes there into neai'er relations with the cavity containing the cerebrum than at either of the two other points specified. The most posteriorly placed part of the skull, whatever it may be short of an exagger- atedly developed occipital spine, is the point to which the other arm of the compasses is applied for this measurement. This point will sometimes be found at the base and on the upper surface of the external occipital ' spine,' or ' protuberance,' or ' inion,' in cases in which the superior occipital squama is flat and takes a perpen- dicular direction: and here what may be called the ' fronto-inial' diameter is identical with the ' fronto-postremal' or extreme length of the skull. It is usually in brachycephalic skulls that this is the case; it is however by no means rare in the dolichocephalic forms. Sometimes, as in the more typical dolichocephalic skulls, the most posteriorly placed point of the skull is to be found upon the superior squama occipitis, which in these cases is as markedly convex as in the other class of cases it is markedly flat; and here a difference, which may amount to as much as half an inch, may exist between the 'fronto-inial' and the extreme length. This differ- ence has been considered to furnish a measure of ' occipital dolicho- cephaly 2/ or of the extent to which the posterior cerebral lobes overlap the cerebellum. It must be remarked; however, that in some skulls, where we find the occipital spine taking the form of a broad transversely running ridge, in which the lineae supremae^ of Merkel are fused with the lineae superiores nuehae, the slightness of the difference between the two cranial measurements in question may cause us to under-estimate the extent of the cerebral overlap, * ' Archiv fiir Anthropologie,' vol. iv. p. 59, 1S70. ' For 'Occipital dolichocephaly,' see Gratiolet, Bullet. Soc. Anth. Paris, ii. p. 254, 1861 ; Broca, ibid. iv. pp. ^9-56, 1863, or his collected M^moires, ii. p. 27, 1864; British Association Eeport for 1875, p. 152. * For explanation of these terms, see Dr. Fr. Merkel, ' Die Linea ruchae siiprema,' 1871.