UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 253 would add that whilst this very striking- difference is brought out by taking the average length of the two sets of femora, a simple inspection of the two sets of bones puts them into even sharper contrast. The longer femora very often are also the stronger in a most marked degree, and amongst them are to be seen bones with muscular ridges, and processes indicating the possession by their owners of strength far exceeding that usually observable in the skeletons of the earlier race. In like manner other bones indicate unmistakeably that the earlier was also the feebler folk as a whole, though humeri and femora are forthcoming from long barrows which show that men of great muscular power, even if not of great stature, were not wanting amongst the British tribes of the long- barrow period. In some cases the muscular ridges on the long- barrow bones are so well developed on comparatively ill-developed shafts as to suggest the idea of a poorly or only intermittently well-fed population which was constantly worked hardly. The large size of the deltoid ridge on some small humeri has suggested the perhaps fanciful hypothesis that the owners of such bones had been employed in lifting the stones of the huge barrows in which they were found entombed. The Knea aspera on the femora of the British long barrows examined by me never attains the enormous development which caused Professor Busk and Dr. Falconer to call the femora from the Genista Cave at Gibraltar ' carinate' (see 'Trans. Internat. Congress, Prehistoric Archaeology,' 1868, p. 160), and which has suggested the name ' f^mur a colonne' (Broca, 'Memoires sur les Ossemens des Eyzies,' pp. 14-21, Paris, 1868; Topinard, 'Anthropologic,' p. 334, 1876) for similar femora from early sepultures. In the absence of this peculiarity ^, as also of the barrows which have been examined in Yorkshire are those described in ' British Bar- rows' from Rudstone, Ebberston, and Kepwick. The great majority of the statements here made as to the characteristics of the dolichocephalic stock are based upon the examination of skeletons of an unmixed race from the pre-metallic tumuli of Gloucestershire. ' Topinard has remarked, I.e. p. 325 (if I am right in supposing that the word 'cranienne,' line 11 from top of page cited, stands by a misprint for the woid 'olto^nienne'), that the fluted femur is not found in the same collections of bones as the perforated olecranic fossa. No humerus with such perforation was found in the Genista Cave at Gibraltar, where so many carinate or fluted femora were found by Messrs. Buak and Falconer. I should be slow however to think, as M. Topinard does, that the presence or absence of one or other of these peculiarities indicates a difference of race. As I have said in a detailed account ('Joum. Anthrop. Instit Oct. 1875, P-149) of the Osteology of the long barrow at Nether Swell, I should agree