ON THE VAKI0U8 F0KM8 OF 158 it very often is, in well-developed skulls ('Med. Chir. Review,' April, 1863, p. 508). In well-developed human brains the poste- rior parts of the upper frontal ^ convolutions, as also the lobule of the second ascending parietal convolutions, are largely developed; whilst the first ascending convolution and the fissure of Rolando (Thurnam, 'Nat. Hist. Rev.' 1865, p. 267) remain as lines of indifference between them, along which no stimulus is propagated to the outer pericranium, and no absorption of the tabula vitrea inside excited. Both the posterior coronal furrow and the furrow at right angles to it in the posterior portion of the sagittal suture are present, though but faintly indicated, in the Dinnington cast I have spoken of. It is not beside the purpose to add here that Retzius (' Ethnolo- gische Schriften,' p. 108, 1864) distinguished these two varieties of Celtic crania from each other as emphatically as I have striven to do. After describing a long narrow and laterally compressed skull, which he says is specially found in England and France, and which obviously corresponds to the ordinary long barrow or Hohberg type, he says, ' Nevertheless this is not the common Celtic form, which is ordinarily somewhat broader and not so compressed, whilst the " Cimbric " Celtic form, which is here and there found in South Sweden and Denmark, is somewhat broader still. This form is very like the Scandinavian Gothic' Both these forms of ci-ania seem to me to be different from the Roman form of cranium which may be seen figured from Maggiorani in Von Baer's paper on the Rhaetians in the ' Bull. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersbourg,' i860, p. 58. This form of cranium however I am enabled to say, a specimen from the Towyn y Capel tumulus having been presented to the University Museum by the Hon. W. O. Stanley, coexisted with the River Bed type in this island, just as this latter coexisted and apparently peacefully with Retzius' 'Common Celtic' form in the Frilford cemetery, and with the 'Brachycephalic Celt' form of Dr. Thurnam in a barrow at Crawley. Finally, the platycephalic Roman form as figured and described by Maggiorani and Sandifort (Ecker, ' Crania Germaniae,' p. 86) is very precisely and abundantly represented in the series obtained by me from the barrow at Dinnington, where it coexisted with both the longer forms of Celtic crania. Of this barrow, as it is now so 1 See Marshall, 'Phil. Trans.' 1863, p. 513.