PREHISTORIC FA.UNA. 329 old river-courses, and the peat that grows all over,the slopes of moor- lands, high and low. The first is partly formed from drifted vegetable matter in the deeper parts, and from the decay of plants that grow on the spot all round the margin, which therefore encroaches rapidly. Here at the outset we meet with a source of error. The rate is very different in these two cases, the quantity of vegetable matter that drifts far in being generally veiy small. On the hill-sides the growth is to be re- ferred almost entirely to two or three species of moss, and in a smaller degi-ee to the heather and other plants. As the lower part of the mosses sphagnum and hypnum decay away and add to the layer of peat below, the upper part gi-ows on, and so a thick layer of vegetable matter is at length accumulated. Workmen tell us that when they have dug a trench into a peat-moss, if they leave it alone it fills up again, or, as they would say, the peat grows again. This happens when the peat is apt during some seasons to be full of water, so as to become a kind of slush or ooze. It is perfectly clear that the apparent rate of accumulation where such filling in occurs must often be deceptive. A good example of a similar thing happening on a large scale in nature is the case of the Solway Moss, and many other instances as recorded by Lyell. ' So we see that while the peat is being formed it is subject to all kinds of variations, and when it has been formed it is liable to be soaked with water and run, destroying the value of all evidence to be derived from any observation on its rate of growth elsewhere.' On the other hand, my own excavations in Roman rubbish-pits have furnished me with something of an argument to set against the reported discovery of hives under peat. When excavating in 1868 (' Archaeologia,' xlii. p. 476, Article XXXIV.) a very large pit of that kind at Frilford, I was much struck vrith the relatively great abundance amongst the various kinds of earthern vessels there represented by larger or smaller frag- ments of small, often nearly perfect, pots of hard black ware of about the size of a large swan's egg, with the smaller end truncated and flattened and the larger usually provided with a recurved lip for tying a cover over its contents. Now I have never found any of the various and well- known varieties of Roman funeral ware in a Roman rubbish-heap ; every article of daily life, of the coarsest and of the finest kind, whether in pottery or metal, may be found in such deposits; but within my expe- rience they never contain anything which was destined for the tomb or could bring to mind the ' invisas cupressos.' It is obvious however that such jars might be supposed to be intended for the cosmetic rather than the culinary needs of the luxurious Romaps. But for the purposes indicated by Horace (Od. iii. 29) and Persius (Sat. iv. 37), for the