ON THE PEOPLE OP THE LONG-BARBOW PERIOD. 379 it should be said, have been used for sepulchres in Scottish tumuli. But it is unprofitable to speculate further upon the real meaning- of this lost structure. We tread on much surer ground in dealing with the locality in which the eight more or less perfect skeletons were discovered. The way in which the skeletons, three in number, were found, in 1867, to be arranged within the chamber, itself a space which was reported to me as being but 3 feet square, and which was in all probability of even less size, was described to me with much precision as follows:—There were in the middle the bones of a child; all round the north side of the cist were coiled the bones of one of the two adults, with the vertebrae in situ, and the legs protruding through a hole in the cist to the outside of it; whilst in the south-east angle of the cist was the other adult, ' sitting up/ or, as it was otherwise expressed to me upon another occasion, ' squatting,' with the head resting on the ribs. The covering stones, the existence of which was not noted, as also some of the side stones, must have got displaced, and the chamber had got filled with rubble. From the chamber there came also to me, in 1867, the jaws of a very young pig, those of a cub-fox, and a part of the occipital bone of a sheep. Some other bones, of ox and of sheep, were sent with them, and may have their presence referred to the practice of feasting at graves. Bones of oxen and sheep were found in various parts of the barrow to the westward of the transverse ossiferous zone; and some of these bones, from being crumbly in consistence, and, like the human bones from the chamber and its neighbour- hoodj much stained with the manganic oxide, may be supposed to be of the same age. No other human bones besides those already specified were found in the barrow. Large quantities of ashes and charcoal were found here and there, both at the east and west end of the barrow. The structure, indeed, of the eastward end of the barrow, removed in 1867-1868, was reported to us as having been quite difierent from that of the west, and this mainly by virtue of a line of deposit of ashes along and on both sides of its centre line. This deposit was said to have consisted of heaps of ashes lying on stones, with stones again laid over them. The heaps of ashes were not in a continuous line, but were, as reported, separated by intervals of 10 feet or so. The ashes themselves were reported as being of a * pinkish, fleshy colour, not at all like the ashes from