LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. XXX of growth had begun. The extensive series of dissections made under Dr. Acland, out of which grew the present collections of Comparative Anatomy in the University Museum, had laid the foundations of its Biological department, and when his Reader- ship passed on to Dr. RoUeston, the almost extinct teaching had become a reality in the University. Rolleston carried on the work between two and three years, and a proof of his success in carrying his class with him may be found in the remark of Pro- fessor Bartholomew Price, that although the Pembroke students were now no longer bound to attend Professors' lectures, the number of the Lee's Reader's auditors increased instead of falling off. Rolleston began by the usual medical combination of private practice with teaching, and he seems to have been popular as a physician, but as time went on he came more and more to see that his work had to be done in the world rather as an instructor than as a practitioner. A letter he wrote to his sister on Dec. 24, 1859 (he was then living at No. 5, Broad Street, Oxford) is a good example of his manner, while its end- ing shows how his mind was settling on to its permanent lines. 'I have at this moment in my care a girl of 14, who has had a very bad fever with relapses . . . but is very likely to get sound and well. The people of this part of the world have very low wages in the country villages, and are in consequence as brutish as can be imagined. This child is half Pig and half Tiger-cat. The other day I was poking a stick of caustic into her throat to stop an uvula cough, when, as I withdrew the holder, she snapped at it like a dog snapping at a whip. She gripped the holder, set the caustic-stick free, and down her throat it went. By Jove, you should have seen her face as the burning stick went down. There was not a moment to be lost, and I got a salt-cellar full of salt and poured it down her throat to neutralise the nitrate of silver. As the salt got down the pain left her face, but I was in an awful fright. So was she, but the Tiger-cat soon awoke again as the pain ceased for the moment. But there was a good lot of nitrate of silver I knew as yet unneutralised, and getting a wooden peg I poured salt