124 ON THE HOMOLOGIES OP CERTAIN MUSCLES which, while it coincides in insertion, differs little in origin from the epicoraco-humeral of the crocodile, except in the possession of a small head from the middle point of the sternum. The essential relations held by the muscles lettered e h in each of the two figures 3 and 4, to the surrounding- parts, seem to be much the same in the intervals between their origin and insertions. The crocodilian muscle, however, receives a head from the visceral surface of the scapula, in compensation for the absence of the fibres which in the emu arise from the coraco-clavicular membrane and sternum, but which in the reptile appear to have been displaced by its great pectoral from its less-developed sternum. The pectoralis secundns of the sparrow-hawk, as already described, receives in a similar way an accession of fibres from the visceral surface of the coracoid and sternum. It is possible that the fascicle ei in the crocodile, if the homologue of a dislocated anterior segment of rectus abdominis, may foreshadow the sternal prolongation of the avian levator humeri. But though this muscle seems exceedingly ready to build up extraneous elements into its own mass, it is perhaps more easy, with our knowledge of this muscle, as it is to be described hereafter in the frog, to conceive the epicoraco-humeral as encroaching from its own area on to that of the sternum, than to conceive of it as fusing with a 'rectus thoracis,' even though the subclavius of the wombat does actually do this. Another point of difference is presented by the retention in the emu of a rudiment of the coracoidal pulley, which is not indicated in the crocodilian shoulder-girdle, either as a nascent or as a retrograding structure. The pectoralis secundus of birds does not by any means invariably receive fibres from the cora- coid ; it does receive such an accession in the sparrow-hawk, but it does not do so in the pigeon {Golumha livia) for example; it may (as seen in great simplicity in the emu and apteryx) have a mesoscapular factor actually joined to its tendon, and inserted so as to be one in function with it, and it may be considered, therefore, to be essentially a sterno-praecoraco-scapular muscle. The sternal factor is lost in the ostrich [Struthio camelus), and in the rhea [Rhea americam). Similarly the muscle figured at e h, fig. 3, from the crocodile, is simply a ' pi-aecoraco-scapularis,' with one head arising from the anterior surface of the expanse of bone constituted by the confluence of scapula and coracoid in