LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. liv Small Pox epidemic in 1871. A poor woman whom he had engaged as laundress in the Small Pox Hospital refused to be re-vaccinated. ' I almost went down on my knees to enti-eat her,' he said. 'No, she had a drunken husband, her family depended on her work, she could not afford to lie idle if her arm should become swollen and incapacitated after vaccination. So she had her way, caught small-pox, and died.' He used to say that he felt he had the guilt of that woman's death on his soul, for not having insisted on her being re-vaccinated. This outbreak of small-pox in Oxford engaged him in some of his hottest public controversies. News reached him on a journey abroad that some members of the Local Board thought it un- necessary to furnish and occupy the Small Pox Hospital which had been built outside the city on the Woodstock Road. He hurried home to press forward energetic measures to protect life by setting up field-tents and resorting to strict isolation of cases and other sanitary precautions. He used to work in visiting the sick and convalescent, keeping a coat for such visits, that he might not bring home infection. It was at this time that, in answer to his demands for instant action, some one replied that the disease was at present only among the children of the poor. The torrent of rebuke which Rolleston poured on him is not forgotten to this day. Scenes so exciting as this did not often happen, but, as is usual on such Boards, there was many a rough encounter. One of his demonstrators describes him coming home about 5 o'clock one afternoon after a stormy meeting. ' He came into my room and said, " After this meeting I shall take a walk round the Parks. I feel tii-ed." "I thought you enjoyed meetings," said I. " So I do," he replied, "and there was a rampage to-day, and where a rampage is (pointing to himself), there is he." I laughed, and he said," Yes, I know what you are laughing at—you think where he is, there is a rampage—and you are about right." ' Notwithstanding, he began to feel after a while that this strife was wearing him, and taking his time from his classes at the Museum, and he gave up the Local Board. It seems to have been in 1867 that Rolleston fii-st took a