PREHISTORIC FAUNA. 335 excavations of an earlier date in this country; tliougli it is difficult to think that neolithic man would have neglected it as an article of diet unless debarred by superstition from making use of it. The rabbit, Leims cuniculus, finds a place in several catalogues of British Prehistoric Mammalia; Mr. Pengelly, however, writing of the discovery of the cave man at Mentone (' Trans. Devon Association for the Advancement of Science,' vi. 1874, pp. 318, 801, 818, 840), says that the discovery of its bones in that deposit does ' not strengthen the evidence for its antiquity:' though there is of course no doubt that the remains of this animal, which still survives as a member of the fauna of North Africa, fonn an essential and not merely an accidental constituent in the quaternary deposits of Mediterranean caves (see Prof. Busk, 'Zool. Trans.' x. 2, p. 128), and though it is difficult to set aside the evidence of their holding a similar relation to some of our own caves. Professor Rogers, who in his ' History of Agriculture and Prices in Eng- land' has given us (vol. i. pp. 33, 65, 123, 340, 341, 583, vol. ii. 558-9 ^) records of the high prices paid for these animals in the middle * In Daniel's ' Rural Sports,' 1801, vol. i. p. 347, there is the following statement:— ' In an account of the prices of provisions, &c. at the installation feast of Ralph de Borne, abbot of St. Austin's, Canterbury, a.d. 1309 (contained in the fourth volume of Dr. Henry's valuable History of Great Britain), we have among others the fol- lowing articles:— £ 8. d. 600 rabbits 1500 Partridges, maUards, bitterns, larks . . 1800 200 pigs ....... 500 As partridges are here associated with other birds and no mention made of their number, their price in these times cannot be ascertained, but a rabbit appears to have been sold at the same price as a pig, viz. sixpence each. Their relative value has con- siderably altered in the interval between that day and this.' I should not agree with the view put forward (I.e. 341) by my friend and former tutor Professor Rogers, to the effect that rabbits when once introduced ' would spread very slowly over the country.' We have good natural history evidence, both direct and analogical, for liolding that starting even from a single centre, and as individuals ranging only for short distances, they would form a circle with a very rapidly widen- ing circuniference in the absence or paucity of natural enemies. Literary evidence in the same direction is furnished by the beautiful lines of our fourteenth-century poet, Chaucer, in the 'Romaunt of the Rose,' ed. Bell, 1855, vol. vii. p. 60 : ' Conies there were also playing That comen out of her claperes, Of sondry coloures and maneres, An'l maden many a tumeying Upon the freshe gras sprynging.' So also in the 'AsBembly of Foules,' vol. iv. p. 196, in a parallel passage of equal beauty we have the line 'The pretty conies to hir playe gan hie.' Whence it would appear that the animal in question was a familiar object to English