337 PREHISTOEIC FAUNA. great quantities in a barrow together with a few remains of the polecat, Mustela jnitoniis, which latter animal had used the place as a lair and probably nest for a considerable period. The upper and lower jaws of the water-rats had been left intact, their strong teeth, which should have prevented what I am well assured were similar remains in other barrows from being spoken of as rats' bones, having been found over-resistent by their destroyers, who had however, with the characteristic instinct of their genus, never spared the brain-containing calvariae. The dog has only rarely been met with in British interments either of the stone or of the bronze age, a circumstance worthy of note when we recollect how very commonly the dog has in all countries kept his master or mistress company in the tomb as faithfully as during life. One instance however of such an interment I noted and have described ('Journal Anth. Inst.,' v. p. 157; Article xviii.) in the neolithic bar- row at Eyford; the dog had undoubtedly been buried together with a woman, whose skeleton was, like that of the dog, still partly in situ. The characters of the dog's skeleton, like those of many other objects found even in interments most undoubtedly of the stone- and bone-age, are such as, irrespective of any reference to what we know of palaeo- lithic times, to impress upon us the conviction that the men even of those far-off days had yet been preceded by many generations who had made-weapons and domesticated animals. This dog bears no resem- blance to the wolf-like Esquimaux dog on the one side, nor to any such small terrier-like breed on the other, as might suggest that it represents a lately domesticated jackal. It may be conveniently spoken of, as Eutimeyer ('Fauna der Pfahlbauten,* p. 118) does speak of the dog, similarly rare in the relics from the Swiss lake-dwellings, as a ' middle- sized ' dog, ' einen Hund von mittlerer Grossea description which, however vague, is decisive as to its representing a long-domesticated breed. The lower jaw, the only part of the head which had been left undisturbed in situ, had the stoutness and was about the size of that bone as seen in some of the smaller English mastiffs ; its trunk bones are still incomplete, but may be supposed to have made up the framework of a body about the size of that of an ordinary shepherd's-dog ^. The * The dog was abundantly represented in the Norfolk flint mines known as 'Grimes Graves/and described by Canon Greenwell, 'Journal Ethnol. Soc' 1870, p. 431. I do not know the size of the animals to which these remains belonged, but the in- genious argument which Eutimeyer has drawn from the supposedly uniform in- feriority in size of the Htone-age dog for the singleness of race of his human masters is invalidated by tlie discovery in the very early lake-dwelling of Lusclierz by Dr. Studer of more than one race of dogs. See 'Bericht uber die Pfahlbauten des Bielersees,' 1875, p. 24. Z