UPON THK SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 241 of the bronze-period skulls with sloping foreheads are yet skulls of large capacity, and we have no reason for doubting that their owners may have been, as men with such foreheads often are now, persons at once of considerable intellectual and of consider- able physical power. It is not easy to understand why in some cases we should find brachycephalic skulls with fairly powerful lower jaws maintaining nevertheless the same or nearly the same verticality of forehead which characterised them in childhood and early boyhood. It is obvious however that in cases such as these \ the length of the base line of the skull remaining as it does practically the same, or differing by merely the tenth of an inch or so, and the length of the frontal, parietal, and occipital arcs, which make up the cranial vault resting on this base line, remaining also practically constant, the position of the true vertical line of the cranium must, as already mentioned (p. 163, note), change its position relatively to the coronal suture. And with this change there must have followed during life a some- what different mode of carriage of the head relatively to the horizon, a difference observable enough in living heads at the present day. As regards the characteristics of the facial skeleton, I find my observations upon the brachycephali of the East Riding of Yorkshire in entire accordance with those given picturesquely as well as scientifically of the facial characters of the brachy- cephali of the South-west of England by Dr. Thurnam in his papers in the Memoirs of the London Anthropological Society, vols, i and iii, 1865-1869. Distinctive as must have been the characteristics already pointed out of the living calvaria and its hairy scalp, the characteristics of the living face, from the supraciliary ridges to the chin and transversely from one cheek des scnlpteurs et des physionomistes. Telle est la rfegle: voyona las exceptions. Si beaucoup d'hommes ^minents, comme Gall, Cuvier, Bacoil, se distinguent par un cerveau tiha d^velopp^, un large front, une face petite et verticale, quelqires autres, comme Mirabeau, Buffon, ont le crane ^troit, le front fuyant, et les machoires trfes prononc^es. Au contraire, on voit assez souvent des individus remarquables par le d^veloppement du crane, par les proportions harmoniques et la beautd de la face, manifester n^anmoina une deplorable incapacite. Leurs traits immobiles ou niaise- ment expresaifs, leurs yeux mornes ou p^tLllants d'une joviale uullitil, concourent h d^mentir la noblesse du front. Peut-on attribuer rinf^riorit^ de ces hommes au vice de I'dducation, si celle-ci a 6t6 la mfime pour eux que pour les autres 1' ' See Aeby,' Schiidelformen,' p. 127.