GENERAL EEMARKS 266 in each variety of skull, and are not (see p. 235) distinctive of either. A zone therefore bounded in front by a line drawn over the peculiarities of the veins of this portion of the cerebrum confirm us in holding. One of the largest of the Pacchionian bodies is ordinarily found at the pohit where the veins of the occipital lobe enter the superior longitudinal sinus, this point being upon the line of the parieto-occipital fissure, and corresponding with what is usually the most posteriorly placed of the foveae glandulares in the skull. Now the bodies known as Pacchionian glands are growths which in their normal state are but mill, in size, and which owe the increase in size which makes them prominent to the eye and impresses them on the skuU to venous congestion. The very constant presence therefore of a largely hypertrophied Pacchionian body upon the embouchure of the occipital veins is a significant fact as regards the retardation of their current (Wilks and Moxon, in their ' Pathological Anatomy,' p. 208, compare these bodies to the papillose outgrowths sometimes seen on the surface of tlie liver in cases of extreme cardiac congestion). The amenability of the Pacchionian bodies to pathological change is recognised by Eokitansky, 'Pathological Anatomy,' English translation, 1850, vol. iii. p. 329, or 2nd German edition, 1856, vol. ii. p. 407; by Jones and Sieveking, in their 'Manual of Pathological Anatomy,' edited by Dr. J. Frank Payne, 1875, p. 237 ; by Wilhelm Krause, in his 'Handbuch der menschlichen Anatomic,' 3rd ed., 1876, p. 460 J and finally by Luschka, who was, as far as I know, the first to draw attention to the fact that in their earlier stages and smaller size these bodies could not be considered other than normal growths, in his ' Anatomie des Menschen,' 1865, Bd. iii. Abtheilung ii. p. 240. The histological inferiority of the occipital lobe is well known, and though Mr. Lockart Clarke may slightly overstate the case when he says (Maudsley, ' Physiology of Mind,' 3rd edition, 1876, pp. 112 and 114) that 'all the nerve-cells are small,' both Professor Turner ('Introduction to Human Anatomy,' part i. 1875, p. 283) and Pro- fessor Henle ('Handbuch der syst. Anatomie,' iii. 2, p. 276) would allow that 'the gi'eater number of the cells of the occipital lobe are small and nearly uniform in size,' and, what is of equal importance, that the superficial layer, which is everywhere poor in cell-elements, is of greater width in the occipital than in any other region of the brain. Meynert's words (' Strieker's Manual of Human and Comparative Histology,* English translation by Power, vol. ii. p. 391,1872) are eminently to the purpose: 'The brain of monkeys, which is distinguished by excessive development of the occipital lobes, contains thi.s type of tissue (the pyramidal cells) in much greater abundance than the human brain.' Dr. Herbert C. Major has given an instructive account of the histology of the brain of the Chacma Baboon in the 'Journal of Mental Science,' Jan. 1876, and refers therein to Meynert's memoir. I.e. As regards the connexion of the occipital lobes with mental functions, it is well known that Neumann (cit. Cruveilhier, 'Anat. Descript.' ed. 1836, iv. p. 668 ; Longet, •Systfeme Nerveux,' i. 691, and 'Traits de Physiologic,' 1869, iii. p. 444) was induced from his examination of the brains of some fifty insane persons to hold that intelligence had its seat in the occipital lobes; and Cruveilhier is also quoted as speaking in the same sense ('Anat. Descript.' I.e., and 2^^ ^d., Paris, 1845, torn. iv. p. 346) from having noticed that in senile dementia the occipital lobes are much more atrophied than the frontal. These arguments, like so many in the same sphere, are amenable to the ob- jection that the atrophy in question may be merely a concomitant change, correlated in the way of mal-nutrition with some other really causative change, without hemg itself the first term in the series of evils. It is however by no means necessary to Bhelter ourselves behind this suggestion, for few if any mental alienists would be found