LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON". xliii writing without having completely mastered everything that had been previously written upon the subject, and his memoirs bristle with quotations from, and references to, authors of all ages and all nations. The abundance with which these were supplied by his wonderful memory, and the readiness with which, both in speaking and writing, his thoughts clothed them- selves with appropriate words, sometimes made it difficult for ordinary minds to follow the train of his argument through long and voluminous sentences, often made up of parenthesis within parenthesis. The work which was most especially the outcome of his professorial duties is the " Forms of Animal Life," pub- lished at the Clarendon Press in 1870. Though written chiefl}'" with a view to the needs of the University students,, it is capable of application to more general purposes, and is one of the earliest and most complete examples of instruction by the study of a series of types, now becoming so general. As he says in the preface, " The distinctive character of the book consists in its attempting so to combine the concrete facts of zootomy with the outlines of systematic classification, as to enable the student to put them for himself into their natural relations of foundation and superstructure. The foundation may be wider, and the superstructure may have its outlines not only filled up, but even considerably altered by subsequent and more extensive labours ; but the mutual relations of the one as foundation and the other as superstructure which this book particularly a,ims at illustrating, must always remain the same."' Rolleston's desire that his professorship should be divided into more manageable departments was not fulfilled in his lifetime, but the University has since partly carried out his recommendations, his field of work being now occupied by the Linacre Professor of Human and Comparative Anatomy (Professor Moseley), the Waynflete Professor of Physiology (Professor Burdon-Sanderson), and the Header in Anthropology (Dr. E. B. Tylor). One of the latest tasks which Rolleston took up, the pressure of which indeed shortened his life, was to embody the new and ever- growing results of comparative anatomy in a fresh edition of his