GENERAL REMARKS 248 were skulls of women. One of these was the woman (see ' Jouvn. Anth. Inst.' vi. p. 36) found in one of the flint mines under the line of the fosse round the British fort at Cissbuiy, which were shown by Colonel Lane Fox ('Journ. Anth. Inst.' vol. v) to be of earlier date than that fort, itself of the stone age. The second of these was a woman's skull from the famous Rodmarton barrow, from the collection of the late Rev. Canon Lysons (see 'Proe. Soc. Antiq.' 1863 ; Thurnam,' Crania Britannica,' PI. 59); and the third of these was the skull of the single undisturbed skeleton found in the long baiTow 'Upper Swell, ccxxxii,' described by me at p. 529 of' British Barrows.' It is true that in many of the long-barrow skulls the loss of the anterior portion of the occipital bone renders it impossible to take the 'absolute' as opposed to the ' upright' height^, except approxi- matively; still I am well assured that the great majority of the long- barrow crania resemble in the favourable relation of their height to their length rather the South Sea Melanesian ' hypsistenocepbali' of Dr. Barnard Davis (' Natuurkundige Verhandelingen/ Haarlem 1866, and 'Thesaurus Craniorum,' p. 309) than the low-lying Tasmanian and Bushman skulls described by Professor Busk ('Journal Ethn. Soe. Lond.' Jan. 1871, p. 476). The conceptacula cerebelli lie horizontally in male and female skulls of the stone age both alike, differing herein markedly from the other type in which they are usually either globular and convex downwards or slope more or less obliquely upwards. In the norma occipitalis we often find given us the most characteristic peculiarities of the stone-period skull, and especially of the male skull. The sides of the pentagon de- scribed by the skull's contour are in such skulls (see 'Langton Wold, ii. I,' pp. 204, 205) either quite vertical or even converge a little from the level of the tubera parietalia downwards, whilst they slope upwards with well-marked obliquity to a mesial vertical carina along the sagittal line. The tubera parietalia in ' ill-filled' male skidls are relatively more prominent than in the better developed, in which their site may be only very faintly marked ; they are usually more distinct, whilst the mesial vertical carina is less distinct, its position indeed being only feebly indicated, in female skulls (see ' Sherburn Wold, vii. I,' pp. 208, 209 supra). It is in the norma occipitalis as well as in the norma verticalis that the premature obliteration of the sutures to which Dr. Thurnam drew ' See p. 166 supra.