Ixi LIFE OP DR. ROLLESTON. and renewed some of his old friendships. He saw Athens, which he had failed to visit in former years, and was angry that historians should have said Greek history was on a small scale, 'as if men were to be counted like pheasants at a battue.' All the classic in him comes out in a characteristic estimate of the surroundings of Athens, ' as much superior to those surrounding most English writers as Aristotle is to ' (naming a well- known Oxford metaphysician). It was eight years before he made another distant journey, when in 1879 he went with General Pitt-Kivers to Sweden. He was much struck with the manliness of Scandinavian life, the absence of the worst side of poverty, the provisions for public enjoyment, the behaviour of the upper classes contrasting advantageously with England, and the active influence of the Court for good. The object of their visit was to see Museums and Universities, and they were impressed, not indeed with any of these excelling what might be seen at home, so much as by the educational activity among a nation so much less in number and wealth than Great Britain. In a letter written next year to General Pitt-Rivers, Dr. Rolleston com- ments on ' this cheeseparing Government.' ' I should be in despair if it were not for what we saw done by people of the same flesh and blood as ourselves, but much poorer and less aristocratic, last summer. Recollect what sums are spent, and, as the enclosed cutting from the " Times " of yesterday shows, are going on being spent by democratic Scandinavians for Science.' Among the letters written to General Pitt-Rivers is one of earlier date, taking up the question how far it was well for the Anthro- pological Institute, when making an effort to increase public knowledge on the then popular subject of Turkey, to go into politics. ' It seems to me that it is well to avoid bringing science into collision or into connexion with moral, social, or political issues more than is inevitable. I always envy mathematicians who have nothing to do with these questions. Of course if you cannot avoid it, you must face it like other disagreeable neces- sities ; but then it is a very difficult thing to balance moral and scientific reasons against each other. In this case I don't see