89 AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. metrial and its free border ; and a reference to Reichert's plate 6, in his recently published and most valuable essay ' Beitrage zur Entwickelungsg-eschichte des Meerschweinchens,' will satisfy every one who may not have access to yet earlier specimens, that in all probability it never occupies any other position^. In a word, this developing uterus in the rat is moniliform, and is correctly so represented, for the most part, in Carus's plate; it is the uterus retrocedent post partum, which has ' special dilatations appended to it,' and thus presents in section a figure somewhat resembling a figure of 8 as ordinarily written, with its upper segment the larger of the two. The foetal membranes of the rat at earlier stages are especially instructive, and without a study of them the homologies of the adult envelopes are scarcely to be unravelled. When the foetus is five-eighths of an inch long, there are two structures in connexion with it, the relations, and proportions, and even the existence of which are much masked in the more advanced stages of its deve- lopment. These structures are, firstly, the decidua reflexa, which forms at this period a perfect capsule for the foetus, but which near full time is usually represented by the thickened rim at the periphery of the deciduous serotina alone, though a few shreds may still remain, and in the water-rat (Arvicola amphihici) often do remain, appended to this thickened rim, as if to indicate its real import. Kolliker's words (1. c. p. 154), ' Gibt es eine SteUe wo man den Uebergang von Zellen in Bindgewebsfasern deutlich demonstrireu kann, so ist es hier,' apply most accurately to this thickened rim, the remnant of decidua reflexa. The second structure, seen plainly in the early, and obscured or lost in the more advanced rat-embryo, is the primitive chorion. This membrane will be seen to pass from the point of attachment of the secondary chorion to the centre of the placenta outwards, to line the internal surface of the capsule of decidua reflexa. It is somewhat strange that Bischofi", who has figured what is nothing else than this primitive chorion (fig. 59, Meerschweinchen-Ei), should have yet fallen into the error * Von Baer's remarks upon this subject are much to the point: ' Alle Embryonen (mit Ausnahmen) der friihesten Zeit so liegen dass ihr Riicken in der grossen Curvatur des Fruchthalters und seiner Homer liegt.' Entwickelungsgeschichte, ii. p. 232. See alsoKeichert, I.e. pp. 130 and 131.