Iv LIFE OF DK. ROLLESTON. public part in the Temperance movement, at a meeting of the National League held in the Oxford Town Hall. In 1868 he became a Vice-President of the United Kingdom Alliance, and threw his force into the line of the Permissive Bill, in support of which he argued—' If I look out of my window, I see no public- house at every corner of my strip of garden, but I know that many a poor man sees that temptation constantly before him, and many a poor wife as constantly sees that temptation at the bottom of the alley she lives in, I claim for the poor man the same right which Providence has enabled me to purchase for myself.' He felt so strongly that nine-tenths of the misery and vice of England was ' attributable to drink and nothing else,' that at a Temperance Meeting in his own parish of Holywell in 1880, the last meeting he ever went to, when questioned about com- pensation to publicans he went so far as to answer, 'that if several persons suffered through the ill effects of one man's trade, it was hardly reasonable to expect that compensation would be offered to the few who caused much suffering to fall on the many/ As to the hygienic question of intoxicating liquors, he approved of abstinence on medical grounds, a favourite example being the wonderful power -and endurance he had witnessed among the poorer Turks,' too poor for drunkenness.' Always a most temperate man himself, he became eventually a total abstainer. His medical reputation gave weight to his speeches, which may be found reported in the Temperance journals, and especially noticed in the sketch of him by Mr. S. InsuU. Among the various letters written by Dr. Rolleston to the 'Times' is one of Sept. 18, 1879, where, on his return from a tour in Scandinavia, he gives the result of his examination of the ' Gothenburg system,-" under which the Municipality itself carries on the public-houses. The letter is too long to insert as a whole, but the following extract is a good example of Rolleston's argu- mentative humour :—' The information which I obtained in Gothenburg prevents me from denying that since 1876, the year in which the Gothenburg system came into full operation by the final disappearance of the outstanding independent licences,