191 RUDSTONE. down of that region as it follows after the retreating brain, but the braehycephalic form with retreating- and low forehead is recognis- able in quite young skulls both of early, as in the ease of the ' Hesler- ton Wold Hall Grave' skull already described, and of present times. Other senile changes are beginning to show themselves in this skull in the way of loss of compactness of tissue and consequently of gloss and smoothness on the external surface, in the very extensive obliteration of sutures even in the external table of the skull, a condition less frequently observed in braehycephalic than in dolichocephalic skulls, and in the wearing down of the teeth to an extent which, in an ill-nourished ^ individual, would have produced alveolar abscesses. The conceptacula cerebelli are larger relatively to the space occupied by the superior squama occipitis in this than in most skulls, and the occipital protuberance is very considerably developed and devoid of any traces of division into lineae superiores and lineae supremae, as. Von Baer ^ observes, is usually the case when and is found closely adherent, ns in infancy, to the dura mater. In such cases the grooves for the meningeal arteries appear to be deeply sunken into the substance of the skull, having been in reality converted into deeper channels, or even tubes, by the upgrowtli of bone .around them. This was the case in the body of a man supposed to be 106 years old examined by me, as recorded in the ' British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review,' p. 508, April 1863 (Article XII, p. 141 of this volume). A skull of a very aged person may under such circumstances attain a thickness of as much as 15 millimetres, forming thereby a striking contrast to equally senile skulls in which the cranial walls may have been reduced to paper-thinness or actual fenestration by atrophy. In a third class of cases the retreating brain is followed up by the skull-walls ; and especially in the frontal region is this concomitance of involution observable, both in the living subject and in the skull, as has been noted by Lavater and Froriep, cited by Cleland, ' Phil. Trans.' p. 136, 1870. In some of these cases the inner table of the skull will thicken simultaneously vrith the gradual sinking down of the cranial vault. In a ekvH of aii aged man, probably a Eoman oflBcer, eminently dolicho- cephalic, forwarded to me by the Rev. W. Lukis, F.S.A., from Wath, near Eipon, I find, coincidently with an extraordinary obliquity of the os frontis, two raised areae, covering a space of a little more than an inch square on each side, as though they were growing down into the space vacated by the atrophying frontal convolutions. Some of the appearances which have been dwelt upon as chiiracteristic of' NeandeF- thaloid' crania are, I am well assured, to be ascribed to these purely physiological, though senile, changes of form, and have absolutely no ethnological significance wh.atever, except in so far as the texture of braehycephalic crania is usually stouter and more rc-ristent to gravitation changes than is th;it of the dolichocephalic, amongst which most of tlie ftkulls just mentioned are to be classed, ' See J. Mummery, On the Relations of Dental Caries in Aboriginal Races. ' Trans. Odont. Soc.' Nov. 1869. * ' Crania Selecta,' Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St.Pdtersbourg, Ser. vi. tom. viii. 185. His words are, ' Cristain (transversam occipitis) in pluriinis hominibus in binos nrcus