125 CONNECTED AVITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. front of the g-lenoid cavity, and with a second which joins the first on its mesial border, as it passes round from the internal surface of the scapula, and is inserted into the outer tuberosity of the humerusj in close connexion with the upper edge of the great pectoral. In the descriptions given of this muscle, both in the crocodile and in the OmitJiorhynchus, it has been confounded with the deltoid. It is, however, shown by its innervation to be separate from it in nature; and its insertion lies between the insertions of the deltoid externally and that of the peetoralis major internally. This muscle has a single tendon in the sparrow-hawk, with three muscular heads converging upon it. In the Gallinaceous birds {Gallus galllnaceiis and PJiasianm colcJiicus) the levator-humeri apparatus consists of three muscles, distinct both in origin and insertion, and innervated from two distinct sources. The largest of the three levator muscles of the Gallinaceous humerus has a very extensive origin from the sternum; but, as is the case in the pigeon also, it has no distinct accession of fibres from the coracoid; but from the coracoid on its inner aspect, from the coraeo-clavicular membrane, and from a small portion of the sternum a lesser levator humeri arises, which is inserted, after passing through the coraco- scapular canal and over the coracoid pulley, together with the tendon of the greater levator, between the point of insertion of this muscle (which is a Kttle lower down, and more externally placed) and that of the great pectoral to its inner side. With the tendon of the greater pectoral depressor that of the lessor levator is very closely connected, as is that of the epicoraco-humeral of the croco- dile ; and it is only the presence of the pulley arrangement which converts cooperation into antagonism. Thirdly, the small muscle which has been described as passing to the single levator tendon of the sparrow-hawk from the mesoscapula of that bird, has in the Gallinae a larger size, a more extensive origin, and a separate insertion. It arises from the uppermost and inner- most scrap of the scapula, i. e. from the ' mesoscapula' of Parker, from the ligament which passes along the inner aspect of the coracosca- pular canal from the mesoscapula to the coracoid, and from the inner- most and uppermost scrap of the coracoid itself. Its tendon is in- serted externally to that of the smaller levator humeri, internally and proximally to that of the great levator. In the common goose this muscle, the 'deltoides externus' of Meckel, is fused with a