UPON THE SEETES OF PEEHISTORTO CRANIA. 275 fissures therefore deeper, and their aggregate square area of gray- matter much more extensive than those of the Australian brain; the Europeans specified being dolichocephali latiores, and the Australians dolichocephali angustiores. But the dolichocephalic ' Silurian' type which characterised the inhabitants of Great Britain and Ireland, and of a very great part of Europe also, in the stone age, included crania resembling the Australian in the points of which we are speaking, for the long-barrow-builders were not rarely * dolichocephali angustiores ' If Schroder van der Kolk's calculation as to tlie extent of that difiBcuUly measure- able area made up by the surface of the convolutions within and without the fissures from the fissure of Rolando to the front of the brain in men of various degrees of intelligence had been accepted and confirmed by other anatomists, another argument would have been available under this head. According to these calculations ('Pathology and Therapeutics of Mental Diseases,' Australian translation by J. T. Rudall, 1869, preface, p. vi), based upon measurements of the figures given by Rudolph Wagner in the first part of his ' Vorstudien zu einer wissenschaftlichen Morphologie und Physio- logic des menschlichen Gehims als Seelenorgan,' i860, the 'lobus anterior before the gyrus centralis' held to the ' lobus anterior behind the gyrus' the relation, in the mathematician Gauss . . of 88-5 : 100. in the mathematician Lejeune Dirichlet of 100 : 100. in the philologist Hermann . .of 75 • in the artisan Krebs . . . . of 69 : 100. Schroder van der Kolk in writing to this efi'ect, Nov. 21,1861, to Dr. Theile of Weimar, 1. c, remarks that 'it will be understood that this gives only a relative value and a relative accuracy, for I measure the plane and not the arched surface, but after all that occurs in a tolerably equal degree in all the measured brains. I am convinced it would lead to good results if comparisons were made, in this way between the brains of persona of talent and those of less mental capacity.' But Rudolph Wagner, to whom the actual brains were available, whilst Schroder van der Kolk's estimate was based merely upon Wagner's figures of them given in his 'Vorstudien' of 1862, repudiated ('Vorstudien,' 1862, ii. p. 21) the Dutch anatomist's conclusions. And Hermann Wagner, following up mathematically his father's researches in his ' Maas- bestimmungen der Oberflache des grossen Gehims,' 1864, p. 36, averred that the only difference which his more exact method of measurement, as applied to the difficultly measureable area in question, in four brains examined by him, including those of Gauss and Krebs, had enabled him to discover was that with the increase of intelligence the complexity of the convolutions increased in the frontal, but not demonstrably in the other lobes of the brain: 'Ein Bevorzugen eines einzelnen Lappens und zwar des Stimlappens gegeniiber dem ganzen Gehim hat sich fur die intelligenten Gehirne aber doch durch diese Messungen herausgesteUt; die Oberflache des Stimlappens derselben besetzt eine starkere Zerkliiftung als die iibrigen Lappen.' It is obvious, I may remark, that any argument which could be based upon mere mensuration of the square area made up by the convolutionary sheet of gray matter in various segments of the brain would be more amenable than any of the lines of argument given in the text to objections on the ground that such measurements took no account of possible variations in the thickness firstly, and in the quality secondly, of the sheet of gray matter, T 2