KUDSTONE. 211 RUDSTONE. [ccxxiv. 4. p. 501. J Tlie lower jaw which has been drawn with this skull was not found in connexion with it, but was lying, in the long barrow whence it came, at no very great distance from it. It may very well have be- longed to it, inasmuch aSj though its colouration is somewhat dif- ferent, it shows the same male characters; has a somewhat similar amount of wear upon the grinding surface of its teeth, which other- wise correspond in the way of co-adaptation to those of the upper jaw of the skull; and has been similarly channelled externally by rootlets. It has not been possible to say anything as to the long bones of the skeleton to which this skull belonged, but the skull taken by itself enables us to say positively that we have here to deal with the remains of a man ' past the middle period of life ' who was probably of considerable muscular strength. The skull is eminently long and lofty, and specially interesting as showing how ' occipital dolichocephaly,' as here measured by drawing a line at right angles to the line of extreme length so as to lie as a tangent to the anterior border of the auditory foramen, is really dependent more upon the length of the parietal than upon that of the occipital bone. This is plain enough upon simple inspection of the skull in its norma lateralis; and it is shown, secondly, by the very small difference, only amounting to j^ths of an inch, which subsists between the extreme length, 7.6", and the fronto-inial length, 7-4", taken to the commencement of the linea nuchae mediana; the measurements of the frontal, 5.2", parietal, 5-4", and occipital, 5-2" arcs, are not so clearly indicative. Professor Jeffries Wyman^ by a measurement of eleven normal crania obtained an average of 12^ mm. ( = 4-92''') for the frontal arc, 124 mm. (=4-88") for the parietal, and iiy mm. (=4-60") for the occipital; whilst three adult synostotic crania gave for the frontal, parietal, and occipital arcs respectively 129-2 mm. ( = 5"), 142 mm. ( = 5.59"), and 119 mm. (=4.68"}. Welcker^ similarly obtained, as against an average from normal crania for the sagittal suture or parietal arc of 126 mm. ( = 4-96), an average from eleven skulls with premature obliteration of the sagittal suture ' See 'Observations on Crania,' p. 32, Boston, 186S. ^ ' Wachsthum unci Bau des mentchlichen Schadels,' p. 15, 1862. P 2