431 NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CISSBUEY. this uppermost streak of red mud had washed out of it all the traces of lime and magnesia which were found in the lower streak when examined chemically in Oxford, Two more layers were visible above this red streak; the lower of them was made up of chalk blocks) forming- a structure of from t ^ feet to 2 feet thickness. These blocks may obviously be supposed to have been some of the blocks which had been taken out of the pit whilst it was being excavated, and which after a long sojourn out- side of it—long enough to allow of the formation of this second red streak—had finally, either by man's aid or that of some other motor force, been returned ' into the hole of the pit whence they were digged.' The upper of tlie two layers was made up of the black mould from vegetable debris which forms the bottom of so many of the cup-shaped depressions so characteristic of Cissbury. The 14 or 15 feet which intervened between the red streak, about 5 feet long, upon which the body had been laid, and the natural chalk at the bottom of the pit were occupied with large blocks of chalk and smaller debris^ which being of much the same character as the contents of the horizontal galleries in their neigh- bourhood may reasonably be supposed to have been left at the bottom of the pit to save the miners the trouble of carrying them up. They were much agglutinated by fine infiltrated chalk which had been deposited as the downward passing rain lost more and more of its carbonic acid. It was in this deeper portion of the shaft that the following animal remains were found: a horn of goat [Gapra Idrcus) which came from a level 23 feet from the surface ; some horns of red deer {Cervus elajphus) which came from a level 20 feet from the surface; and some others from the galleries which branched off from the bottom of the pit some 7 feet lower. In one of those galleries an ox's scapula was found, April 8th ^. Stone implements were found in considerable abundance in this portion as in the rest of the filling up of the shaft. Some of them were also of considerable beauty, as notably one found 6 feet from the bottom of the cave, April 6th. It is worthy of notice that four lumps of iron pyrites were found near the mouth of one of the galleries, and about 4 feet to 5 feet from the bottom of the pit; and near them were found from 300 to 400 flint chips in a heap. In * For uae of scapula of ox as a shovel, see Gen, Lane Fox, 1. c, p. 383. I