ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. 399 bones were so much intermixed, it was difficult to say with which body it was associated. Circumference .... 20-3 Vert, height . . . .5-7 Ext. length . . . .7-2 Ceph. ind 77 Ext. breadth . . . .5-6 Grlabello-inial length . . .6-8 Ant. post, index, 98 out of 183. This skull, though large, and notably possessed of large mastoids, is, nevertheless, all but unquestionably a female skull, as shown by the verticality of its forehead, the absence of large supraciliavy ridges, the prominence of its parietal tubera, and the smallness of its teeth. The highest point in the vertical antero-posterior arc lies a little behind the coronal suture. The parieto-occipital, like the frontal region, has the vertical dip characteristic of the female sex. The difference—four-tenths—between the glabello-postremal and the glabello-inial diameters depends to a considerable extent upon the thickness of the superior occipital squama. Viewed in the vertical aspect, the skull presents a smoothly rounded-off outline, which has its point of maximum width in the meridian of the mastoids, and tapers somewhat rapidly forwards, and more gradually backwards, from that level, 133 parts out of 183 being anterior to it, as in Swell vii. I, I. The tubera parietalia are prominent, and the lateral walls converge downwards from them, and, as in female skulls, there is no vertical carination. This skull has many of the characteristics of the ' Sion typus,' in contradistinction to those of the Hohberg; but they are referable, I think, to the difference of sex mostly, e.g. the forward position of the point of greatest width, the smoothly rounded outlines, and the absence of a vertical carina. An upper incisor and a canine are the only teeth lost during life. Swell vi. (2, 3).—'Just south of i and a came another body, 3, with fingers at head, but whether disturbed or not I cannot say' (note of Canon Greenwell). To this may, perhaps, be referred an occipital and part of a parietal, labelled Swell vi. 2, 4. This occi- pital resembles the one just described, and also that belonging to Swell vi. 2, 5, in its great thickness. Swell vi. (2, 4).—Immediately east of i and 2, another body, 4, on right side, head to E.S.E. At knees of 4, another body, 5. Portion of calvaria of, probably, woman in or past middle period