APPENDIX. 340 coins of Gaul and Britain ; on Koman civilisation being introduced, this national symbol was no longer a gaunt lean animal, as it appears on the shield, but a well-conditioned boar of a natural form and in a classical attitude \' The small Scottish Highland and Island breed of pigs described by Low ('Domesticated Animals of the British Islands,'Eng. ed. p. 429, Fr. ed. pi. iii) and by Youatt ('The Pig,' 1847, PP- 50-52) as having sharp-pointed suberect ears, remarkably strong muscular snouts, an arched back (the ' Carp' back of the Germans), and a forest of stiff bristles arising from it, may perhaps be taken as representing to us now what the ancient domesticated pig was. The old Welsh pig resembles the Scotch in various points characterising an unimproved breed, but its large ears, spoken of familiarly by breeders as being ' as large as newspapers,' indicate that it has been more thoroughly domesticated. Its colour also is more constantly and deeply dark than is that of northern form ^. But the size of the ears and the colouration are both ' The following passage from De Blainville's ' Osteographie,' 1847, fasc. xxii. p. 170, may be quoted as being a good instance of the folly of relying in these questions upon negative evidence, especially when the existence of that evidence is due simply to neglect of the three lines of enquiry available here, viz. the examination of bones ; the excavation or other discovery of coins and works of art; and, thirdly, the examina- tion of literature, Writing of Sus he says, ' Du temps de C^sar il paralt cependant qu'elle n'dtait pas encore parvenue dans les Gaules, car il n'est nullement question de cet animal dans ses Commentaires ; elle s'y est done propag^e depuis la conquete, d'oii elle a passde en Angleterre, qui ne possddait pas meme de sanglier dans ses forSts.' It is needless to refer to the innumerable discoveries of Sus, both wild and tame, in pre- Roman deposits in this country; and the unanimously accepted result of archaeological enquiry may be shortly summed up in the following words of M. Montellier's ' Md- moires sur les Bronzes Antiques' (Paris, 1865, p. 41), ' Le symbole sanglier dtait un symbole Celtique le plus ancien de tous les symboles adoptds dans les Gaules.' The evidence of literature tells even more strongly in the same direction. From Mr. Thomas Stephens's 'Literature of the Kymry' (second edition, 1876, pp. 236-270) I learn that this animal was taken by the Kymric poets as typifying the past and future fortunes of their race, and the number of odes translated in the pages referred to in which the persons addressed by those bards are apostrophised in its character is very great. Neither Mr. Stephens nor Mr. Davies can, I apprehend, be accused of want of sympathy with the race which they write of; but I note as regards this par- ticular point that the only diflTerence between them is that (pp. 237 and 270) whilst according to Mr. Davies in the Hoianau the pig is 'the symbol of Druidism,' it appears to Mr. Stephens that it ' allegorically represents the Kymry who inhabited the Principality.' " It is not safe to assume that any appearance of a black colour in a pig of this country shows it to be modem, as if this colour could only be due to some cross with the breed known as ' Neapolitan,' and called conveniently by Nathusius, on account of its distribution over the Mediterranean area occupied by Rome in her best days, the ' Roman' pig. For the colour of the Y>\g is not only exceedingly variable per sc, as stated above, and for reasons which we do not know; but it changes, as regards entire