LIFE OP DR. ROLLESTON. XX not too strongly of things, nor strongly at all, especially in the way of blame, of men. When you are called upon officially to express opinions, then praise or blame -with justice and modera- tion, till then only look, think, and obey cheerfully.' The position which Rolleston had taken was one peculiar enough to justify the counsels of Dr. Jeune. The Smyrna Civil Hospital, established at a time when the lessons of disaster were bringing about an improved military adminis- tration, is thus described by Kinglake ('Invasion of the Crimea,' vol. vi. p. 416): 'Amongst our Levantine hospitals, the one formed at Smyrna exhibited the success of a great inno- vation on which Mr. Sidney Herbert had ventured; for the medical officers to whom he entrusted, the wards were, all of them, civilians, and these, aided by a well-chosen band of ladies and salaried nurses, made the new institution a model of what can be'done for the care of troops sick or wounded.' Such an innovation naturally had its official difficulties. General Sir H. Lefroy, who made two visits to Smyrna in November, 1855, gives some account of Rolleston's position. Colonel (afterwards Sir Henry) Storks was then Commandant, and Dr. Meyer Medical Chief of the British Chief Hospital. On the Medical Staff there were four senior physicians, each in charge of a division. Dr. Meyer found these gentlemen of little use, too old to alter their habits. Many of the 5''oung assistants were fii'st- rate men, and conspicuous among them was Mr. Rolleston. The Seniors made endeavour to treat the Juniors as subordinates in a professional sense, to work as clinical clerks under them. This the young men would not submit to, and the good sense and firmness of Dr. Meyer put a veto upon it. He gave them the undivided care of cases, and looked to the Seniors for general assistance only. He found the junior surgeons, he told me, pretty good physicians, and the junior physicians pretty fair surgeons. The division into physicians and surgeons, but with no very rigid demarcation, was found to work well- Some of Rolleston's home letters have been kept, which show what his hospital life was to himself, and the recollections of