ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEBOW PEBTOD, 363 the other hand, it is not impossible that the arrangements noted in some long- barrows may indicate an approximation towards the practices characteristic of the round-barrow period, and may, con- sequently, be considered as denoting that these barrows belonged to a later age than others in which no such arrangements have been detected. The great and cardinal difference observable between long barrows lies in their containing burnt or buried bodies. The immense majority of the long barrows in the south of England were erected for inhumation, whilst exactly the reverse of this has been the rule in the Northern Counties. We will begin by asking whether there is any reason for sup- posing that the builders of these two kinds of barrows, separated thus in space, were also separated in point of time ? Some weight, though not much, may be laid upon the fact that cremation was, in Great Britain at least, the rule during the Bronze Age, as it is possible to suppose that the practice of cremation was borrowed by the people of the latter part of the Stone Age from the strangers who introduced them to the use of metal. A survey, however, of the records of the ' Steingraber' of Scandinavia, Denmark, Schles- wig-Holstein, and North Germany, such as is given by Weinhold in his ' Todten-Bestattung,' 1859; or in the 24th Bericht of the Schleswig-Holstein-Lauenburg ' Gesellschaft fiir Alterthiimer' for 1864, will not suggest that time rather than, or even in co-opera- tion with, severance in locality, has had anything to do, neces- sarily, with the causation of this difference. Dr. Anderson^, how- ever, appears to think that, in the long cairns of Caithness, burial may have preceded cremation; and it seems likely that the short cairns, whilst affined to the round barrows by this character of shortness, were at once later in date than, and yet genealogically connected with, the long cairns. And in the short cairns cremation was the rule. Some fragments of pottery, with a thong-pattern, closely similar to, or identical with, that so familiar to us from the round barrows, were found by me in a cremation long barrow near Market Weighton, in the East Biding of Yorkshire; and the same may be said of some pottery found with leaf-shaped arrow- heads, by Dr. Anderson, in a short cairn in Caithness. This may seem to give some stronger ground for supposing the cremation barrows to have been later in date than the other. Very similarly ^' Proc. Soc. Ant. Scot.,' June, 1868, p. 508.