349 SWISS LAKE-DWELLINGS. country; and the light hair combined with typically brachycephalic skull which so constantly meets the eye in Switzerland may incline us to favour this view. It may seem to be going out of the way to take up with this hj'pothesis when there is a characteristically brachycephalic stock occupying at the present day, as it has done no doubt uninter- ruptedly from prehistoric times, the conterminous region of the Grisons. The Eoumansch race, however, is dark-haired, whilst the Swiss brachy- cephali are, especially as compared with the French, light-haired; the relations between the E,haeti and the Helvetii was in historic times (see ' Crania Helvetica,' p. 33) ordinarily the reverse of amicable; and what appears to me the most convincing argument of all, rye, a cereal the place of origin of which is supposed by De CandoUe (' Geograph. Botan. Eaisonnee/ ii. 938-940) to be in the district to the east of the Alps, and which has been the staple food of the Grisons, has, like oats and spelt, never been found in the lake-dwellings. Eastern Switzerland is known, both from linguistic and from historical evidence, to owe a very large part of its population to the Alemannian invasion ; the physical characters however of this race were different firom those of the Cimbric probably, and certainly from those of the Eoumansch, and of the brachycephalic stock abundant in South Germany at the present day. From the phaenomena presented by the pottery, by the implements, by the cultivated plants and domesticated animals of jjrehistoric times in this and other countries, arguments have been drawn in favour of one or other of three theories, which may for the sake of brevity be spoken of as the theory of Immigration with more or less displacement of any population previously in occupation, the theory of Importation without immigration, and the theory called by its supporters the ' Autochthony' of these products. It may be well here to give references to authorities who have pronounced themselves in favour of one or other of each of these three views. In favour of the first theory we may cite Eiitimeyer, who (' Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' pp. 160-162, 1861) speaks of the introduction of bronze as being a ' Wendepunkt der moglicherweise mit dem Auftreten neuer Volkerstamrae in Verbindung stand;' and suggests that the appearance of a new race of domestic dogs at the commencement of that period indicates the setting up of intercourse with or replacement by a fresh race of men. In the same sense we find Prof. E. D6sor (' Le Bel Age du Bronze Lacustre,' p. 11, 1874) speaking of the weeds, such as Centaurea eyanus and Silene cretica, wliich accompany the cerealia of the lake- dwellings, as those of modern Switzerland, thus: ' Etraug^jres notre