303 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. exhibited more or less disease; and in forty-four other skulls rang-ed with the long-barrow series, some from Mr. Bateman's Derbyshire series and some from other sources, much wearing down of the teeth and nine eases of caries were noted ; but alveolar abscesses were comparatively rare. In the Park Cwm tumulus in the peninsula of Gower, South Wales, described by Sir John Lubbock ('Journal Ethn. Soc. London,' vol. ii. 1870, pp. 416-419), and of the same ' horned' character and possibly of the same race and time as the Gloucester tumuli next to be spoken of, amongst skeletal remains representing twenty-four individuals, twenty-one of whom were adults, Dr. D. M. Douglas found ' the teeth wonderfully preserved, very good and regular,' and ' only two that exhibited signs of decay during life.' In my examination of the entire series of bones, frag- mentary as well as perfect, from several chambers in long barrows in Gloucestershire, I find very much the same state of things which Mr. Mummery has described from the Wiltshire burials of the same period. Ten lower jaws, nine of which were from persons beyond the age of puberty, were recovered from a chamber in the long barrow described by Canon Greenwell, ' British Barrows,' pp. 514— 520, and by me in the ' Journal of the Anthrop. Instit.,' Oct. 1875, p. 160 (Article XVIII); and of them I write (I.e.), 'In none of these lower jaws had any teeth been lost before death, in only one is there any caries visible, and in one other (of an old woman) there is a cavity formed by an alveolar abscess in connection with a lower front molar worn down to the fangs and with its pulp cavities almost obliterated by osteodentine.' Similarly of the six lower jawsj all but one of which must have belonged to strong adult men, recovered from a chamber in the long barrow at Upper Swell described by Canon Greenwell in 'British Barrows,' p. 531, and by me in Article XVIII, I write, 'In every case but one the full number of teeth was retained up to the time of death, even though the teeth are very much worn in most cases, and in some even down to close upon the fangs. There was only one case of caries.' I should have added that some traces of an alveolar abscess are to be seen in the jaw which had lost teeth before death, an 1 that this jaw appears to have belonged to a man, whilst the jaw with caries belonged probably to a woman. On the other hand, of the teeth of three females, also already described by me and all undoubtedly from the stone and bone