313 UPON THE SERIES OF mEHISTORIC CRANIA. Saxoniscd and Danicised, as pointed out long ago (see p. 279 supra) by Professor Phillips, we have many reasons for holding to be the lineal descendants of our long-barrow people. In the north of England we find that the neolithic race amalgamated peacefully with the brachycephalic stock which taught them the use of bronze ; and in the early iron period (see p. 283 supra) the earlier race appears to have regained some of its numerical preponderance, the late Celts from the East Riding and elsewhere north of York- shire having been mostly dolichocephalic. The bronze-using race seems, in the southern parts of this country, to have more com- pletely absorbed or destroyed the dolichocephalic than it did in the north, resembling in this the dolmen-builders of France, whose pre- dominance brought about an almost entire disappearance of their neolithic and troglodytic predecessors (see Broca, ' Revue d'Anthro- pologic,' ii. pp. 49, 50, iv. p. 608). Still a race with many of the physical peculiarities of the long-barrow people is represented in great abundance in the cemeteries of the centuries during which this counti'y was divided into Roman latifundia and forest-land ; and whatever may have been their social or political status, the dolicho- cephali enjoy in such interments a great numerical superiority as compared with the brachycephali. The ' Saxon' or ' English' conquerors of this country have been shown (see 'Avchaeologia,' xlii. p. 460; 'Proceedings of the Royal Institution,' 1870, p. 118) from the examination of their burial-grounds, as well as of other evidence, to have displaced the population they found in occupation of it as entirely and completely^ as it has ever been found possible for in- vaders to do. The existence in the England of those days of large woods and forests and marshes, a point dwelt upon by Professor Pearson at pp. 4 and 24, and illustrated by several of his ' Historical Maps of England/ must have made the entire extirpation of the Romano-British population an impossibility^; and enables us to • In thia, which appears to have been a very thoroughly Teutonised district, the crania of the present agricultural population ajipear to me to be very closely similar to or indeed scarcely distinguishable from those of the Saxons of the times when they first discontinued cremation. ■•' Captain Thomas (• Proc. Soc. Ant. Scot.,' April, 1876, xi. part ii. p. 504) may be quite right as to his ' theory of the entire removal by slaughter or flight of the Celtic people' of the Hebrides ; but the evidence from ' place-names' is not by itself suffi- cient to support thia conclusion. The ' place-names' in many districts of England in which the so-called ' Black Celts' are still largely represented will be found to be exclusively Scandinavian or Saxon. Small islands of course which have neither dense