148 NOTES ON THE POST-MOETEM EXAMINATION OF A MAN mostly containing large oil-drops in their interior, were very plain, and numerous, and normal. There was much fluid in the right pleura; the lung was not adherent, but its lower lobe had a fringe of yellowish lymph along its edge, and the diaphragm had a coating of similar material, which presented the coarsely villous appearance assumed by lymph exuded between two opposed and moving sur- faces. The apex of the right lung had strata of lymi)h of different ages and vascularity capping it, and a mass of consolidated tissue of the size of the second joint of the thumb underlay this portion of the pleura. This mass was of a dead white colour, a little varie- gated by the black pigment which abounded in both lungs; shreds of it sank in water, it had a small cavity with ragged walls in its interior, and it presented under the microscope the characters found in pneumonic consolidation. The black matter consisted of small granules of about the 12,000th of an inch, which were aggregated here and there into large masses. The left lung was universally adherent, the bands of attachment being old ; there was a con- siderable amount of emphysema, as also in the right lung, along its anterior edge, but it was free from consolidation, and all, save pigmentary deposit. Tiie heart was much loaded with fat, which concealed the colour of the muscular tissue, over the entire surface of the right ventricle, and took the form of large bosses at the apex and round the base of the two ventricles. There was a considerable quantity of fluid in the pericardium, and some vascular injection upon the intra- pericardial part of the aorta, as if from commencing inflammation. Its circumference there was four inches. White spots of thickened serous membrane were visible upon the aorta and pulmonary artery, as \A ell as upon the usual places on the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and upon the back of the heai't. The valvula Thebesii in the right auricle and the remnant of the Eustachian valve were large and stout; and the difference between the colour of the two auricles was as sharp as usual. A linear aperture, guarded by a valvular flap, looked downwards from the fenestra ovalis into the right auricle; a moderate-sized probe passed easily through this into the left auricle, from under a flap of half-an-inch in length, attached at both ends, and looking downwards also. The cusp immediately next the conus arteriosus was considerably thickened; from the conus arteriosus, close to, but not connected