ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. 401 line of interval between praemolar 2 and molar i. The forehead is vertical up to the level of the frontal eminences; it then passes with an even curve backwards. The highest point of the vertical arc is an inch behind the coronal suture, the posterior halves of the parietals form an equable slope with superior occipital squama. The frontal sinuses are large. It is a good representative of the Hohberg or Cumbecephalic type of skull. With this skeleton were the humerus of a mole and a tooth of a fox. Note by Canon Greenwell.—'Just south of 5, another head, 6, whether disturbed or not cannot say. The whole looks as if bodies had been partly divested of flesh.' Swell vi. "{2, 7).—Under this label came two lower jaws, one certainly of a man of some considerable strength, and about thirty years of age; the other may have belonged to either a man or a woman, but in either case to an aged individual. Neither jaw had lost any teeth before death, though there is much horizontal wear of them in the older jaw. Note by Canon Greenwell.—' Close to the west end of cist, at north side, a skull, 7, on the right side, laid on hip bones and sacrum of another body. There is a connection with one femur at least The body, 7, must have been on right side. Under 7, and pelvic bones, a very rotten skull, 8.' Swell vi. (2, 8).—Boy or girl of about eleven or twelve years of age. Swell vi. (2, 9).—Skull of an aged person, probably a female; but under this label there are certainly parts of two bodies—one a strong man's, the other a woman's. The skull and the lower jaw I incline to think a woman's. With the skull came, in one paper, two vertebrae, two of the upper dorsal, with the following note: 'These belong to 9, and were placed i, 2, across the line of the others.' In another, seven of the lower dorsal came also in a paper by themselves. On the paper a note was written to the effect that they had all been found in connection. The dislocation of backbone of 9 was probably caused by the lower part, wliich was on a large stone, not having gone down while the upper part settled. Dd