GENERAL EEMARKS 258 of puberty by females than by males in our species, and the earlier consequent consignment of the females, in savage varieties of it, to the growth-arresting processes of child-bearing, and of hard work on a frequently poor and intermittent supply of food. It has often been stated that in savage races the cubic capacity of the skulls of the women makes a nearer approach to that of the men than it does in modern civilised nations, and there is no doubt that this has often been found to be so. But I have to repeat (see p. 565 of ' British Barrows') that this is by no means invariably the case, and that in the long barrows, alike of Gloucestershire and Yorkshire, I have found female adult crania which contrast with the male skulls by their disproportionate smallness, almost, or altogether as forcibly as do the clavicles or the long bones. Having taken up these diminu- tive skulls myself, I can point out that they were found together with emphasis on the hard life of the race which Vergil speaks of as 'assuetum malo Ligurem,' says that the wives take an equal share with their husbands in all their toils and endurances. The craniographer may object to the relevancy of these striking passages, on the ground that the Mongolian are a brachycephalic and the long-barrow folk, like the Basques, a dolichocephalic stock, To this the non-anatomical enquirer might reply that the question was not one of human osteology, but of human motives and behaviour; but writing as a craniographer I will answer, firstly, that I have received from Professor Eichwald a Tartar skull from Kazan with a cephalic index of 76, and a very close genei al resemblance to the Eskimo type; and secondly, that most ethnogra- phers are agreed, dolichocephaly notwithstanding, to consider this latter stock as un- niistakeably Mongolian. For the Australians, whom their mode of life and command or want of command of its comforts as well as some other peculiarities have caused to be compared with the stone-age inhabitants of this island, Dr. Barnard Davis gives an average male stature of 5' 6", and an average female stature of 4' 11-5",—measure- ments showing a disproportion nearly identical with that which I have pointed out as characterising the race we are here dealing with. The Amakosa KaflBrs of the Cape of Good Hope have, I was assured by the late Sir A. Smith, an average stature of 5' S-s" for the males, as against one of 5' 0-5" for the females. On the other hand, amongst the Eskimos, to whom, as to the Australians, these prehistoric races have been com- pared, I do not find that a similar disproportion exists in the stature of the two sexes, though Sir John Richardson ('Polar Regions,' 1861, p. 303) does speak of 'the dis- comforts which age entails in savage life, especially on the weaker sex,' as having made the old women ' frightfully ugly,' and ' the presence of a cheerful and pleasant- looking old woman' as ' rare indeed among them.' The stature of the male Eskimo as given by Peschel (' Volkerkunde,' p. 87), citing Beechey, is on an average 5' 5", and exceeds that of the female by only 4". I must express my regret that Dr. Emil Bessels should have been so unfortunate as to lose his measurements of the stature of the Eskimos, whose ethnology owes so much to his interesting paper in the 'Archiv fur Anthropologic,' viii. 1875, p. 109. The results of these measurements miglit perhaps have given us a different average from that just quoted. A few additional references to the significance of this disparity of stature in the sexes may be found in the ("Archaeologia,' xlii. 1870, p. 457, and 'Journal Anth. Inst. Lend.,' Oct. 1875, p. lai.