UPON THE SERIES OF PBEHISTORIC CRANIA. 251 other worked flints an arrow-head of the early leaf-shape, a dolicho- cephalic skull (cephalic index 76) was found, of which Dr. C. Carter Blake writes, loce. citt., ' The inferior maxilla is very large and massive, the chin being- excessively prominent; the inferior border is very thick and rounded, the posterior angle of the ascending ramus being rather obtuse. The sigmoid notch is not shallow.' And Virchow has (' Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' vi. p. 90, 1873) remarked of the numerous fragments of jaws recovered by Schmerling from the Engis Cave, that the upper jaws have usually a very wide, almost semicircular contour described by their alveolar processes, and have also their teeth very much worn away; and also that the lower jaws are strong, and their middle region much rounded out. Some of these cases may no doubt be considered to have been ' exceptional;' exceptional developments being by no means unknown in pure and pristine races ; but I incline to think that in the great majority of cases in which such jaws have been procured from interments of the stone and bone age the epithets ' thick' and ' heavy' rather than ' well-developed' and ' powerful' will be found to be applicable to them. The segment of the body of such jaws which corresponds to their molar series is very often strikingly strong and even tumid, a development which one is tempted to refer to the stimulation hard food throws upon the teeth firstly and the jaw secondly. The jaw when placed upon a horizontal surface will be found in many cases to touch it by this segment only, the angle and symphysis both lying above it. The chin however and the angle of such jaws are found to contrast greatly to disadvantage with the similar regions of the powerful jaws of male subjects of races such as the Anglo-Saxon; either the depth of the prehistoric jaw of the middle line in front may be found to be markedly short; or when it is, as is sometimes the case, the very reverse of this, this depth is due ruuch more to the alveolar part of the bone than to any increase in size of the triangular raised area of the mentum. A chin conformed in either of these two ways would have given an expression of feebleness to the face during life. In a really powerful jaw again the inter-angular diameter is wide, the angles approximate to right-angles, and in the region of these angles the jaw itself is flanged outwards, whereas the very reverse of this is usually the case in the jaws from the long barrows. A point less distinctly connected with the physiological development