ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE BKAIN 14 with certain others, considerable value, as showing the greater relative shortness of the corpus callosum. It was noticeable that the anterior pair of corpora quadrigeraina were less sharply marked off from the posterior than in man. The central notch of the cerebellum was much shallower relatively than in man, a point to be recollected in connexion with the rela- tions stated to exist between the transverse d and antero-posterior diameter c of the cerebellum. It is under our third head, that, namely, of the differences which M. Gratiolet's work has enabled us to describe, and we might almost say to discover, that the most important points of our comparison will be found. Under this head will fall the points which were mentioned in Professor Huxley's article^, as the second and third points of difference, absolutely distinguishing the brain of man from that of the ape ; and under it also may be ranged those which M. Gratiolet ^ lays stress upon, as indicating a relative inferiority in the African to the Asiatic ape. To begin v^dth ' the external perpendicular fissure.' This fissure, or a part of it, is visible in Fig. i, below a ; in Fig. iii, between a and a. It is well represented in most of the simious brains figured by M. Gratiolet; it may be seen in Fig. i, Fig. ii, Fig. iii, Fig. vi, at f in Tab. i of Tiedemann's Icones of the brain of the &imia nemestrina, Simia r/iestis, Simla saheea, and Cebus capiicmus. It will be seen a little later that it is not beside the purpose to remark that it may be better seen in Tiedemann's ^ figure of the brain of an orang on one side than it is on either side of his representation of the brain of a chimpanzee; and that it is very well marked on both sides, in a drawing of a brain of a young orang given by Professor Wagner, in a work * written with express and constant reference to M. Gratiolet^s labours. Lastly, this fissure is very well seen in the representation of the brain of the chimpanzee given by Professor Owen in his paper in the Liunaean Society's Proceedings, January 3T, 1857, Fig. iv, p. 19, and in his Reade Lecture, Fig. vii, p. 25. The inward prolongation of this fissure is never filled up, see 16, Fig. iv. It is upon the degree to which its outward prolongation is 1 'Nat. Hist. Review,' No. i, p. 83. ' ' Memoire,' pp. 51, 62. 3 Tiedemann, ap. Wagner, ' Icones Zoot.' Taf. viii. figs. 2 and 3. * 'Vorstudien zu einen wissenschaftlichen Morphologic und Physiologie des Menschlichen Gehims als Seelenorgan,' von Rudolph Wagner, Gottingen, i860.