410 ANIMAL EEMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. Mr. Tyndall's pit (see p. 364 of ' Journal of the Anthropological Institute,' Jan. 1876, fig. i, k, Plate xiv). I. Remains from Mr. TyndalVs Tit. 1. Distal end of left humerus of Bos primiffemus, with some marks of burning upon it. This fragment consists of the condyles and so much of the shaft as to bring it up to a length of 7-7 inches. Its large proportions are the first point which strikes the eye, bringing to mind Caesar's words as to the urus of his day, ' magni- tudine pauUo infra elephantos.' Its brightish, glazed appearance comes secondly under notice; and, thirdly, the sharp definition of its angles, and processes, and articular surfaces. Looking at it a little more closely, we see a beautiful polygonal reticulation standing out upon the bone, over the surface which gave origin to the lowest fibres of the brachialis anticus. Just such an appear- ance is presented by the neural arch of the third cervical vertebra of Bos primigenius figured by Riitimeyer, Tab. iii. fig. 3 of his 'Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' and commented upon by him at pp. 15 and 72 of the same work. They are to be seen, but only in a rudimentary form, in the humerus of a fine Chillingham bull lately presented to the Oxford University Museum by the Earl of Tanker- ville, immediately above what, in man, would be called the coronoid fossa. The thickness of the cylindrical wall of the humerus is 20 millimeters. The extreme width at the condyles is 120 milli- meters, as against 83 in the Chillingham bull. The circumference taken at a tangent to the apex of the facet for the head of the radius, is in the Cissbury bull 200 millimeters, as against 139 millimeters in the Chillingham bull. 2. The measurements of an ungual phalanx from a fore-foot of the Cissbury bull illustrate the axiom ex pecle Hercjilem, and will show any one who will construct a couple of triangles with the subjoined two sets of dimensions how greatly the ancient wild bull exceeded in size what Riitimeyer holds to be its modern repre- sentative Fore ungual pJtalanx, Cissbury Bos, Chillingham Bos. Extreme length along inferior edge Extreme length along upper edge Height Mill. Mill. 90 7? 70 53 64 48