435 NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CISSBUEY. the eHmbing- which must have formed a considerable part of the labour of the flint workers. Tlie femora in both have the same third-trochanter-like facets for the insertion of the gluteus maximus; in both the right femur has its linea aspera much more prominent than has the left, though the bones of the two opposite sides are in both of the same length; in both alike is the bone flattened or flanged out in the region of the insertion of the gluteus maximus. In both alike the tibiae are platycnemic; though by the much greater development in the male tibiae of the oblique 'soleal' or ' popliteal' line, and its prolongation on to the internal aspect of the bone which thus gives insertion or origin to more or less of three muscles, the soleus, the popliteus, and the flexor communis digitorum which do not encroach upon it in normal tibiae, this platycnemy is made much more striking. The platyenemy, it may be remarked, even of the gorilla, Troglodytes gorilla, never proceeds so far as this; though the tibialis posticus takes origin from the outer, the flexor takes origin from the posterior, not from the in- ternal aspect of the tibia. As regards the pathological peculiarities of the male skeleton, it is observable from the annexed measure- ments that the femora have not suffered at all from the right hemiplegia, which we may suppose to have been the cause of the diminution of size of the following left side bones; the left tibia and fibula being ^"^Q-ineh less in length, measured from astragalar articulating surface in contact with fibula, than the right; and the left humerus /^-inch, the left radius j^-inch shorter than the right. "With the exception of the shortening, the left limbs do not appear to be inferior in development to the right, in any degree exceeding that which is ordinarily observable in individuals who are, as savage races usually, and civilised very generally, right-handed. The difference which exists between the extent to which this short- ening has affected the lower and upper limbs respectively^ is an instructive commentary on the following generalisations which Sir Thomas Watson has based upon his experience and studies (' Prin- ciples of Medicine,' 5th edition, 1871, p. 469):— 'Supposing the patient to recover wholly or partially from the paralysis, it is the leg, in nine cases out of ten, aye, and in a much larger proportion than that, which recovers first and fastest; sooner and quicker than the arm, I mean. And another fact, quite analogous with this, is that when one of the extremities alone is affected with paralysis it is, in nineteen cases out of twenty, the arm that is so affected. In general hemiplegia from cerebral lesion the palsy of the leg is commonly less com- plete, and is.sooner recovered from than the paky of the arm.' F f 2