BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OB" CERTAIN ANIMALS. 29 brain marks off a claw-like ridge on the blunted lion-paw-like end of the structure. There might be, there often are, several such indentations, several such claw-like ridges, in the particular brain fiffured, as often in others there is but one. This is much the Ian- guage, by the way, which might be used of the hippocampus minor, not as to its claws, but as to its entire mass: the cases are parallel as to the literary history of the two structures also. For Professor Tiedemann, writing in 1821, at Heidelberg^, said of these claws that they were found in man, and in him only. ' Ho- mini peculiares esse videntur.' ' In cerebro Simiarum processus digitatos non vidi.' They enjoyed, however, but for a short time the pre-eminently important office of differentiating man from the ape. After a short reign of but five years, they were ruthlessly and for ever deposed from this exalted position by the same hand that had placed them in it. Tiedemann's son-in-law. Professor Fohmann, heard whilst at Leyden, in 1835) that among other natural history treasures amassed in Java by two naturalists, and sent home after their deaths in that deadly climate, there had arrived the brain of an orang-utang. His representations pre- vailed on Temminck and Sandifort to send this then all but unique specimen to Heidelberg. They were liberally minded and enlight- ened men, but his solicitations were, I suspect, somewhat urgent; I, at least, have not always found the managers of other museums so complaisant. An account of the dissection of this brain ap- peared shortly afterwards in the 'Zeitschrift fiir Physiologic' (the 'Natural History Review' for 1826), edited at Darmstadt by Tiede- mann and the two Trevirani, and on its twenty-fifth page I read as follows: ' Each cornu ammonis (or hippocampus major) had its medullary band (the taenia hippocampi), as in man, and showed claw-like or knotty masses, which I had not observed upon the cornu ammonis of other apes.' The turn of the third cornu had not yet come, so Tiedemann goes on to say: ' The great lateral ven- tricles consisted of three horns, an anterior, a middle or descending, and a posterior horn.' Tiedemann, amongst other errors, had taught, in 1821, that the small size of the orang-utang's brain accounted fully for the smallness of its faculties, as compared with man's, and those of his disciples who had been adequately impressed with this notion, and believed besides that ' peculiar mental powers were * 'Icones Cerebri Simiarum,' p. 90, Corollary xxi.