423 ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. she was left to lie as she fell and where she fell^ a circumstance which needs explanation. The skeleton found as ahove described^ in the skeleton shaft under the ditch of the British fort at Cissbury, was that of a woman of about twenty-five years of age, of low stature^ 4 feet 9 inches, with narrow shoulders and hips ; but with a large head of the low-lying or ' tapeinocephalic' type, not rarely to be found, as remarked ('Journal Ethn. Soc,,' Jan., 1871, p. 467) by Professor Busk, amongst ' priscan,' as also amongst modern Tasmanian and Bush- raan skulls. As regards the limbs and the limb girdles, it may be remarked that their characters are such as very completely to remove any suspicion as to the assignment of the skeleton to the female sex which the large cubic capacity of the skull might excite. The measurements given below will speak for themselves, but it may be well to state that, though each bone as a whole gives an expression of lightness, and slightness, and consequently of feebleness in its owner, there are some muscular ridges developed with remarkable distinctness. The right clavicle is much shorter and less curved than the left, but its muscular markings for the pectoralis major, as also the markings on the humerus for the insertion of that muscle and for that of the latissimus dorsi, when compared with the corresponding points on the left side, show that this woman was not left-handed. The two muscles named may have taken on their increased development from exercise in climbing up and down the shafts of the flint-mines. The development on each femur of a third trochanter to receive the uppermost insertions of the gluteus maximus admits, I think, of being explained by a reference to the same practice, though the femora of the most eminently arboreal of the lower animals do not bear out this suggestion as regards the lower in the same way that they do as regards the upper limbs. The linea aspera is replaced by a depression from below the level of this third trochanter down nearly to that of the foramen nutritium of the femur, and for the distance corresponding with this depression the femur is much flattened and flanged out. The lower part of the linea aspera is much larger on the right side than the left, as though this woman had used the right lower limb by preference, as well as the right upper one. The tibiae are formed anteriorly platycnemic. Traces only of the lines of junction between the epiphysis of the clavicle