88 ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENREO A person who, like myself, is not always able to compare the specimens in the Hunterian Collection with the descriptions given of them in the Catalogues which are accessible at a distance from Loudon, would from the description of Prep, 3466, vol. v. Physio- logical Series, be led to suppose, like myself, that the condition of parts there described is the same as that which I saw in the rat, and not that represented in fig. i. tab. 8 of C. G. Carus's 'Tabulae Anatomiam Comparativam Illustrantes.' I have, how- ever, since the appearance in Professor Huxley's ' Elements of Comparative Anatomy' (p. 107) of a sketch of the principal points of this paper, satisfied myself by an examination of the specimen No. 3466, Hunterian Museum, that I was wrong in supposing the preparation to have been wrongly described as ' a rat's uterus at an early stage of impregnation.' Preparation No. 3466 is, beyond doubt, a preparation of an organ in much the same condition as the organ figured by C. G. Carus in the plate just referred to. But I submit that the words which follow those which I have just quoted from the Hunterian Catalogue, viz. 'each of the embryos is contained in a special dilatation appended to the side of the uterine tube,' do not apply to the structures in that pre- paration. For, firstly, what is spoken of as a 'special dilatation appended to the side of the uterine tube' is in reality a conical projection with its wall curving continuously with those of the uterine tube, and not forming segments of another circle. And, what is of more consequence, the embryos are contained in the Titerine tube, and what is contained in the misnamed ' special dilatation appended' to it is merely serotinae and placenta. The embryo of the rat, when only a line in length, is contained in the uterine tube, and together with its envelopes, causes the calibre of that tube to bulge outwards on both sides between its meso- ^paisse et plus saillante dans cet endroit qu'ailleurs.' M. Robin says, in a note of a previous paper of his, treating of this point: ' J'admettais done, K tort, avec les autres que la serotine s'exfolie et s'^limine pendant la dur^e des lochies.' The appearance faith fully reproduced, but left without explanation, by M. Coste, which these views enable us to understand, wiU be found in pi. i a, fig. 3. In his description we read, ' Tache rougeatre que pr^sentait la muqueuse uterine, tout le reste de son ^tendue ^tant exsangue.' It is situated on the posterior wall, near the entrance of the left Fallopian tube of a uterus, 'd'une femme, mfere de plusieurs enfants, morte empoisonnd quelques jours aprfes la menstruation.' There can be little doubt, I apprehend, that this vascular areola indicates the gradually diminishing serotina of, probably, the last pregnancy.