ON THE CRANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN. 475 with Africa and Prussia will not be questioned, are to the following effect :— ' Die viel besprochene Hotfcentotten-Schurze ist fur Jemanden welcher fleissig die geburtshiilfliche Station oder den Secirsaal einer grosseren TJniversitat, z. B. Berlin besucht, auch Berber, Aegypter, und Nigritierfrauen ganz nackt gesehen hat, kein auszeiclmendes Kassenmerkmal mehr'.' The old view which ascribed a Mongolian origin to the Khoi- Klioin races is now pretty generally given up. A more important subject would, if I had space, be furnished me for discussion in the recent discoveries in Central Africa ^, which appear to point to the existence of kinship between the pigmy Akka and Obongo tribes and the Bushman. The main points which appeared to former writers to indicate Mongolian affinities are the yellow as opposed to the black colour of the skin, the prominence of the cheek-bones, and the supposed obliquity of the opening of the eyelids. This last peculiarity, as Fritsch ('Die Eingeborene Siid-Afrika's, p. 286) has shown^ is due simply to the disagreeable necessity of keeping the eyelids constantly half closed, owing to the glare and, as others have pointed out, the sandflies, to which these homeless savages are self-exposed. The Swiss Professor, Schiess-Gemuscus^ of Basle, has similarly explained the causation of snow-blindness (see 'Archiv fiir Ophthalmologie, xxv. 3, p. 173), by reference to the blepharo- spasmus and conjunctivitis produced by the dryness and the glare of the upland snowfield ; and I apprehend that the osseous structures underlying the organs protecting the eye may be reasonably supposed to undergo some modification in correlation with the increased demand for work, which ' blepharospasmus' expresses as being thrown upon the muscular structures which they support. Thus the prominent malar arch and the forwardly projecting outer seg- ments of the orbit, as seen alike in the Mongolian of the treeless steppe, in the Eskimo of the snow-desert, and the Bushman of the sun-burnt South African uplands, may receive a physiological as ' Many references to the older literature treating of the two peculiarities mentioned will be found in Waltz's 'Anthropologic,' th. i. pp. 120-122 ; J 859. An important note regarding the latter of the two is given by a man of science residing at the Cape of Good Hope in Professor Flower and Dr. Murie's 'Account of the Dissection of a Bush woman,' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, No. II. May, 1S67, p. 208. ' For this see Hartmann, 'Die Nigritier,' 1876, p. 492, who cites Sohweinfurth, 'Heart of Africa,' Eng. trans, vol. ii. chap, xvi., Du Chaillu, and the Rev. J. G.Wood, 'Natural History of Man,' Africa, p. 538,1868.