PBEHISTOEIC FAUNA. 339 Anth. Inst./ vol. vi. (Article six.), I have never met with its remains in any barrow, though the domesticated variety had been represented in several of both periods. Subsequently the tusk of a wild boar was found in the Nether Swell long barrow. The lower part of the hori- zontal ramus of the lower jaw of a wild boar found at Cissbury had been broken away, as has so often been noted in other instances, for the pur- pose of extracting the marrow; and the same practice had been put in force with the remains of two tame pigs found (' British Barrows,' p. 454) immediately behind the head of a female skeleton of the late Celtic period. The domestic British pig does not seem to me to diflfer in any important particulars from the races which we believe to be the descendants of the wild boar. Two bronze statuettes of the Gallo- Eoman period given me by Mr. John Evans, as also many antique Italian terra-cotta figures, show that the Eomans in Gaul knew both the long-snouted wild-boar-Uke bi'eed and the shorter-snouted better-bred race. The same contrast is shown in two plates (pi. iii. 4, pi. v. 5) of Sambon's 'Eecherches sur les Monmiies Antiques de I'ltalie,' Naples, 1870, the former of which gives us a pig with a very long and slender snout, whilst in the latter, which represents a sow suckling three young ones, we have, together with the pendent ears, so usually though not invariably characteristic of domestication, the short snout bent upwards so as to form, as in our best breeds, an angle with the plane of the sagittal suture along the roof of the skull. Columella may be cited in support of the same view, as he (lib. viii. cap. 9) says that pigs with such short and recurved snouts were preferred to those of a different frontal profile ; ' Quare in suillo pecore probandi sunt . . . rostri brevi- bus et resupinis.' But I have not found the skulls of this * Cultur- Eace' in British burial-places, and the tenacity with which very different races have maintained themselves in very many parts even of our less wild districts up to quite recent memory makes this the less remarkable. The figures of the boar upon coins and shields of the late Keltic period, i. e. from circa 200 B.C. to circa 80 A.D., might perhaps be taken as con- firming the conclusion which my examination of the osteological remains (given at length in the ' Trans. Linnaean Soc. Zool. Series,' vol. ii. 1877, Article xxx.) had led me to, had they been more frequently and more distinctively than they are, figures of domesticated as opposed to wild animals. Still, what Mr. Franks writes (' Horae Ferales,' p. 188, pi. xiv.) is to the purpose in this connection, especially if we compare the filate referred to by him with plates vi, viii, xii, and xiii of Mr. Evans's ' British Coins.' Mr, Franks's words (1. c.) are as follows :—' The boar as seen on the Witham shield appears only on the older or autonomous Z %