lix LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. meeting in that large hall. It was mainly of educated and more or less reserved men, but they showed an enthusiasm equal to that which a mob might have shown. If Gladstone had only known what he knows now when he was in the plenitude of his power, I believe we should have abolished the vile rule of the Osmanlis some years ago. However, I believe you will do it by yourselves, though we of the really Liberal way of thinking should have been glad to have done our share in company with you. Every day I am expecting to hear you have smashed up one or both of the armies of the savages you are fighting against.' Both as Professor of Physiology and as a Member of the Medical Council, Dr. Kolleston felt called on to take a leading part in the question of vivisection, or, to put it more accurately, experimentation on living animals. As early as 1863, at the British Association at Newcastle, he had taken up the subject in his Presidential Address to the Biological Section; and in 1871, when presiding over the same Section at Liverpool, he drafted the resolutions of a Conference which led to legislative action. \^Tien the Royal Commission was appointed in 1875, he was of course called to give evidence. He stated it as his opinion that for teaching purposes before large classes some few experiments may be useful and expedient, provided invariably that the animal be rendered insensible by anaesthetics and killed before returning to sensibility; it may thus be practically considered as dead, although for physiological purposes it is a living machine. He did not wish to prevent experiments on animals for bona fide scientific purposes, but if causing pain they should not be per- formed before more than an exceedingly limited number. How- ever, he thought such experimentation very liable to abuse, as likely to tempt a man into carelessness of the sight of sufiering, and specially as acting on the emotional nature in a way which he compared to the effect on the spectators of the ancient gladia- torial shows. Considering that the practice required to be specially guarded, he recommended that a register should be kept of all experiments, and that they should only be performed in authorised places open to an inspector. This was the gist of