GENEEAL EEMAEKS 312 transversely oblong' outline which their orbital border sometimes assumes, as in the skulls ' Heslerton Wold,' described and fio-ured at pp. 181-182, and ' Rudstone, Ixiii/ described and figured at pp. 190, e. s., is due to an excessive downgrowth of the supraciliary ridges, rather than to any curtailment of the distance between the actual roof of the orbit and its inferior or maxillary border. In other words, just as the prognathism of modern savages may depend simply upon increase in size of the anterior alveolar segment of the upper jaw, so a low orbital index may be and often is due to a downgrowth of the upper border of the orbit, which comes thus to lie in a plane much lower than that which the true roof of the orbit occupies. Professor Broca, in his account of the skulls from the Caverne de I'Homme Mort (' Rev. Anth.' 1. c. pp. 26-28), after enumerating the various points in which those nineteen crania contrast and agree severally with those of the earlier race represented at Les Eyzies on the one hand, and with those of later races on the other, declares himself of opinion that the race to which they belong, whilst affined to the palaeolithic man, has no longer any distinct representatives upon the area which it once, however imperfectly, occupied. It must be very difficult to attain to anything like perfect certainty upon such a point in view on the one side of the tenacity with which so-called ' indigenous' or ' autochthonous races retain, in whatever political or social status, a foothold in their 'aboriginal^ country; and, on the other, of the modifying influence which the introduction of agricultural and other improvements may have ex- ercised in the course of many centuries. Without going, however, further into this question, I will say that a comparison of the skulls here dealt with from the stone and bronze periods with those of the mediaeval and modern tenants of these islands, coupled with other considerations and carried on for a considerable number of years, has inclined me to hold that the two prehistoric races, though outnumbered greatly by Anglo-Saxons, are still represented in the population of Great Britain and Ireland. The short- statured, dark-haired, long-headed race which is found not only making up nearly the whole population of large ' Welsh '-speaking districts in Wales itself and in the Highlands of Scotland, but also mixed up, and in very large proportions, with the population oc- cupying midland-county districts usually held to have been entirely