OF THE ORANG UTA-NG. 17 lower varieties of man, the reverse condition obtains. The variability which we have seen to exist in the species chimpanzee is no inconsiderable proof of its hig-h relative rank in its own order. But there is a second connecting bridge passing between the occipital and the parietal lobes. This convolution is invariably present, and invariably superficially placed in man; it is as in- variably absent in both the anthropoid apes. In man it is always a large, easily recognisable structure; and in cases such as those which our fourth human brain may be taken to exemplify, or exaggerate, it will be often found to send a branch, as it were, in aid of the weakened superior bridge. The vacuity which in the apes corresponds to what is invariably a convolution of importance in man, may be seen in Fig. i, immediately posteriorly to 6 ; and in Fig. 3, immediately below a. But this convolution, the ' deuxieme pli de passage' of Gratiolet, absent without exception in the Old World apes, and present equally invariably in man, is found also in two New World monkeys, the Cedus cajmcinus^ possessing it without, the Ateles possessing it in company with its fellow ^. There is yet a third structure—' the lobule of the marginal con- volution '—to be treated of. In man it lies above the upper end of the fissure of Sylvius; and it may not unfairly be represented in our Fig. I, by the convolution which lies immediately to the spectator's left of 5. Of it M. Gratiolet speaks in the following language: 'Ce lobule est particulier a I'homme et ne se retrouve ni dans I'orang ni dans le chimpanze But I find nowhere in M. Gratiolet's work any repetition of this striking statement: indeed it loses a good deal of its force, when we find the qualifying words ' souvent assez grand ' applied to this peculiarly anthropic lobule in the sentence immediately preceding the one we have quoted. And in the coloured diagrams, which speak so plainly, by their various hues, of the varied relations in extent and arrangement which may obtain among different brains, I find no separate colour assigned to this peculiarly separable lobe. No such distinction is awarded to them as there is to the bridging ' plis de passage;' which, never- theless, are not asserted to be exclusively anthropic. These con- siderations make me suspect that more weight has been attached to M, Gratiolet's words, as above quoted, than he would have wished » Gratiolet, • M^moire,' 1854, p. 78. * Ibid. p. 76. » Ibid. p. 60. C