UPON THE SERIES OF PREHrSTORIC CRANIA. 271 zone of the hemisphere. In following up the distribution of the two terminal branches of the carotid we are impressed with the differentially favourable condition as regards vascular irrigation of the lower parts of the frontal lobes which receive supplies of blood from the anterior cerebral as well as from the middle cerebral arteries; the deep fissure of Rolando, though the convolutions bounding it may not be quite so advantageously supplied as the horizontal convolutions just spoken of, has nevertheless a double supply both from the middle and from the anterior cerebral artery; but it is from the middle cerebral artery alone that the area immediately posterior to and on the same level with the supra- marginal convolution, and this convolution itself, are supplied. "When we consider the length and the direction relatively to. the carotid of the fissure of Sylvius, the extent of the area to be supplied within it, and the tortuosities necessarily described by an artery pass- ing along it to emerge on to the convex surface of the brain, in the words of Duret, 1. c, the ' pli tres accuse dans le sillon profond qui separe le lobule de I'insula de la circonvolution marginale it is obvious to us that the current of the blood in the terminal arterial twigs supplying the part of the brain in question must be con- siderably slower than that in any portion of the brain situated anteriorly to it. This would be the case even vrith a system of tubes which were neither contractile nor elastic; that these properties of the arteries supplying this part of the brain may count for much is sometimes rendered strikingly plain to us by their embedding themselves in the substances of the cerebral cortex of brains pre- served in chloride of zinc and alcohol. Several authors^ have remarked upon the great variability of the cerebral convolutions in ' Bischoff, 'DieGrosshimwindungen des Menschen,'Abhandl. bayer. Akad.der Wiss., cl. ii. bd. X. abth. ii. p. 432, S. A. 42 ; Ecker, ' The Convolutions of the Human Brain,' English translation by J. C. Galton, p. 33. In support of the view that great differences in functional activity may depend upon hydraulic differences such as those described in the text I may refer to the now usually accepted explanation of the phenomenon of right-handedness, to wit, the advantage which the left side of the brain obtains in the matter of irrigation by virtue of the origin of its carotid directly from the arch of the aorta. I take this opportunity of observing that the right cerebral hemisphere is very frequently put at a second disadvantage by the fact that the basilar arlery gives it scarcely any supply at all, but distributes itself almost wholly to the left, leaving the carotid to give off the posterior cerebral artery of the opposite side. This arrangement I had noted previously to becoming acquainted with M. Buret's mention of it ('Archiv. de Phya.' 1874, p. 68). He does not connect it however with the hydi-aulic explanation of right-handedness.