356 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD. portion in the size of the entire body observable among- certain savages of either sex, do exist, they do not come into play ordinarily till after the age of fourteen, when the skull and its contents are incomparably nearer to their full size than the weight and size of the body are to their adult measurements; and it is obvious, therefore, that neither in civilised nor in savage life is there any a priori improbability that the brain and skulls of the two sexes should be at least sub-equal, however widely their entire body- weights may differ. The female skulls labelled ' Swell i. a,' and ' Swell vi. 2, a,' show, by their measurements given below, that some, at least, of the women of the Neolithic period, in Gloucestershire, stood in the same favourable relation of cranial capacity, as to the men of that time, as that which Broca has recorded on behalf of the women of the Caverne de I'Homme Mort, whilst the other bones from these barrows speak to the existence of opposite relations between the trunks and limbs of the two sexes. On the other hand, another female skull, 'Swell i. i, 32-9-1874,' presents an inferiority of size as compared with the male skulls and the other female skull found in the same barrow and in its immediate vicinity, which may be expressed more clearly than by its detailed measurements, by saying that, previously to the restoration of the larger female skull, * Swell i. a,' this smaller one could be got into its interior. This shows that as great diflPerences might exist in savage races between the skulls of the sexes as Huschke and Broca have noted as being usual in civilised times. These latter differences we may be allowed to ascribe to differences in education ; the former may, perhaps, be explained by the relatively smaller-sized crania of female savages having belonged to women who, during their early childhood, and whilst their brains were being built up, had been subject to the disadvantages of scanty diet. ' Savages,^ Mr. Bagehot has told us, ' are the poorest of the poor;' and in a stone age, devoid of cerealia, scarcity of game, or a murrain among domestic animals, would bring famine alike upon the families of the chief, with whom, I take it, we have here mainly to deal, and upon their serfs. The same privations, the subjection to which at and after the time of puberty, say fourteen years of age, we have suggested as the cause of the disproportionately short stature of the women, would, if they came into play upon the same subjects when at the age of fourteen