GENERAL REMARKS 236 attaching to the view, that as fixed a relation should subsist between particular parts of the cerebral hemispheres and the bony capsule thrown over them as every one knows to subsist between the various factors of the dental series and the maxillary and intermaxillary bones respectively of a marsupial or a placental mammal. The fact however, when demonstrated, gives a fresh interest to cranioscoj^y, and I shall revert to it further on, p, 265 et seqq. infra. The conceptacula cerebelli in the brachycephalic type are said by some authorities ^ to take a more vertical direction than they have in the dolichocephalic; and they are also supposed to be more^ globose externally in female than in male skulls. An examination of the strong naale skulls of the bronze period bears out neither of these views. It is true that such skulls may have the lower part of the occipital bone flat and semivertical, but they often have the convexity downwards of the inferior squama occipitis as marked as we sometimes see it to be in skulls of feebler texture in which it might be considered to be a ' deformation plastique and to be due to downward pressure of the superincumbent brain. And this convexity of the conceptacula cerebelli, when viewed in the light which Professor Cleland (1. c. pp. 136, 162) has thrown upon the extent to which ' gravitation changes' can remodel the cranium after adult life has been reached, may very reasonably be considered to be due, in some measure at least, even in this robust type, to the operation of the same downward pressure. Be this as it may, the convexity of the inferior occipital squama of the British brachycephali, a peculiarity which would not have been visible to the eye during life, is, if not correlated with, at any rate accompanied very often (see p. 201 supra) by another peculiarity, which must have been eminently striking in their living heads, to wit, their great relative height, which has been called ' hypselo- cephaly/ or ' acrocephaly,' and must have put them into sharp contrast with the ' tapeinocephalic *' or ^ow-lying' heads of at » Cleland, 'Pliil. Trans.' 1870, p. 147. Thurnam, 'Principal Forms,' p. 37. " Welcker, citing J. B. Davis, 'A. A.' i. 126, 1866, per contra Huschke, 1. c. p. 21, says:—' Die fossae cerebelli der Hinterhauptsschuppe beim Manne weit ausgegra- bener sind und daher ausserlich mehr hervorragen als die weiblichen welche, wie im Kinde, mehr horizontal liegen.' » The true 'd(5formation plastique' of Dr. B. Davis I have never seen in these series. * For the use of this word see Professor Busk, ' Journ. Ethn. Soc. Lond." vol. ii.