135 CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. Posisenj)i, Dec. ii, 1868. Several memoirs bearing more or less directly upon the sub- jects treated of in this paper have appeared, or at least come into my hands, subsequently to June 14th, 1868. First among" them I may mention the paper on ' Variations in Human Myology,' which was read June 18th, 1868, before the Royal Society, by John Wood, Esq., F.R.C.S. In this paper, as published in the Royal Society's Proceedings, vol. xvi. no. 104, will be found an excellent figure of that common modification of the pectoralis minor which converts it into a more or less perfect levator humeri, so far as function is concerned. But that it was not a morphological equi- valent of the pectoralis secundus of the bird would have been shown, I apprehend, first, by its relation to the costo-coracoid membrane, and, secondly, by its innervation. Meckel, in his ' Vergleichende Anatomic,' iii. p. 318, speculates as to whether the bird's ' pectoralis secundus' is to be regarded as a divarication of the great pectoral, or as a specialisation of a part of the deltoid. Now, as I hold that the pectoralis minor is essentially a part of the pectoralis major, I should say that Mr. Wood's figure shows that a levator humeri may be formed in the former of these two ways ; and that such a muscle may be formed in the second of these two ways also is shown by the history I have already given, pp. 125, 126, of the smaller levator humeri in the fowl. But that the ordinary levator humeri s. pectoralis secundus of birds, which coexists with the smaller levator in the fowl, corresponds, as a matter of fact, to the epicoraco-humeral of the reptile and the sub- clavius of the mammal, is shown by the history of its relations to surrounding parts, by its nerve-supply, and by the history of the development of the great pectoral. Nor does functional correspond- ence enable us to argue to morphological identity here more than anywhere else. Secondly, Professor Goodsir's ' Anatomical Memoirs' have, since last June, been published under the able editorship of his successor, Professor Turner ; and in the first volume, at p. 452, may be found an exposition of the views of the late great anatomist, alluded to at p. 128, as to the 'morphology of the muscles of the limbs.' With reference to these views, I would remark that it seems incorrect to class the obturator internus with the subscapularis, because in