422 ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. the rubble, in such a manner, that is to say, as to show that they had all come down together, that the human body must, in the singularly illustrative words of the Hebrew prophet, have ^ ' gone down to the stones of the pit,' with ' the carcases trodden under foot' of the lower animals above specified. I am not clear that any evidence is now procurable for deciding whether the woman ' went down alive into the pit' or not; there can be no doubt that her whole body, dead or alive, soft parts as well as bony, went down in its natural continuity. And it seems to me that the peculiarities of the collection of lower animal bones appear to necessitate the hypothesis of a rubbish heap having been accumulated close to the open mouth of this shaft, which rubbish heap must somehow or other have been precipitated simultaneously with a large quantity of rubble (from, possibly, shaft K, PI. xv.) and the human body into the 'skeleton shaft.' It is of course easy to suppose that this was done by violence, and was an act of foul play. But it is also possible that a rash step on a mass of rubbish and rubble in frosty weather may have caused an avalanche-like descent of the entire mass of half-eaten bones, of rubble, and the living woman. It may be objected, perhaps, that even a set of savages would scarcely have their dwelling-place and their rubbish so near so dangerous a thing as an open pit. To this it may be answered, firstly, that an examination of the pit showed that it had actually been allowed to stand open for some time at all events, a red seam of silting having had time to form itself at a lower level in the shaft than that at which the woman's skull was found, to say nothing of the snails, and of the weathering of the walls to which they were attached; and, secondly, that modern experience shows only too abundantly that very dangerous and life-destroying nuisances are often allowed to exist very near human dwelHng- places. I have, indeed, sometimes thought that the proximity of the pit may have been thought desirable by the formers of the rubbish heap, as it may have been used as a sort of protective pitfall, aflPording something of security against marauders. If the woman, whose skeleton I shall now proceed to describe, can be supposed to have fallen into the pit whilst prowling round the hut which the rubbish heap implies, we can understand how it was that * Isaiali xiv. ig'.