87 AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. uterine tube was covered with a corrugated mucous membrane : at its mesometrial border a funnel-sbaped depression, also covered with this corrugated mucous membrane, led down to the hernial protrusion, or globular dilatation, which was formed by the non- deciduous serotina and the circular muscular coat with which the utero-placental mucous membrane was more intimately connected in the rodents than in any of the three orders we have as yet spoken of, and in the interstices of which much mucous tissue was contained. A projecting process of corrugated non-placental mem- brane marked the line where a lamina of this tissue passed to be connected with the convex surface of the deciduous serotina, about an eighth of an inch from its free edge, i. e. the thickened peri- pheral rim already spoken of. The non-deciduous serotina resembled the homologous structure in the human uterus in histological cha- racters, but, so far as the naked eye is concerned, it differed widely from it, inasmuch as the deciduous serotina in the contracted human uterus formed a more or less elevated mass projecting into the cavity of the uterus, and not a laterally appended diverticular mass as in the rat. It is interesting to remark that the non- deciduous serotina in man does form a mass of such size as to have caused it to be mistaken ^ for a morbidly adherent placenta —an error involving serious consequences, but not likely to be committed by persons who by actual inspections, such as the one here recorded, of the changes undergone by the homologous struc- tures in lower animals have vividly present to their mind the fact, which is indeed enucleable a prion, that the non-deciduous serotina of an emptied and contracting uterus must have different positions, relations, and proportions from those which it occupied when spread over the utero-placental area of a gravid and yet distended organ 2. ' Cazeau,' Trait<$ des Accouchements,' 1856, p. 500. ^ The following words from M. Robin's Memoir (p. 137) are so important in tlaem- selves, and besides this they furnish such a valuable explanation of an appearance left unexplained in M. Coste's valuable ' Histoire du Ddveloppement des Corps Organis^es,' that I herewith append them: ' Enfin, la portion utero-placentaire de la muqueuse uterine qui n'est pas entraln^e par le placenta lors de raccouchement n'eat jamais cuduque, et c'est h, tort qu'on lui donne ce nom, en ajoutant comme ^pith^te lea adjectift serotine, int&ruUro-placentaire, etc. EUe persiste toujoure, et ne fait que diminuer peu-Ji-peu d'dpaisseur jusqu'h ce que son niveau ait atteint celni de la muqueuse qui de rdg^nfere. II est toutefois des femmes chez lesquelles la muqueuse reste, pendant plusieurs anndes aprJis raccouchement, plus