AND THOSE OF CEKTAIN OTHEB MAMMALIA. 95 erroneous; but what we have already said is sufficient as to this envelope. I should add that Virchow ^ has shown that the decidua vera, which was supposed to be deciduous in the human species and in no other, is occasionally not deciduous at all where its caducity has been laid such stress upon, whilst in the chimpanzee the rela- tions of the non-placental as of the placental deciduae seemed to me to be those more ordinarily described as met with in the human subject. A third difference has been stated to exist between the human and all other placentae, namely, that the foetal capillaries were in it, and in it alone, bathed in a sinus-system, not merely apposed to vessels of similar or of somewhat similar calibre. This distinc- tion was propounded by Weber in 1832, and indeed was known even earlier than that date 2. The existence of this sinus-system was questioned by Esehricht ^, as previously by Von Baer*, but with- out good reason. Since that time its existence has been nearly universally held to be distinctively anthropic ^. Robin ^, however, after saying— * La disposition de veines en forme de sinns ne Be voit pas que chez la Femme,' a?1ds, ' et peutetre chez ceux des Singes dont I'uterus a une paroi musculeuse ^paisse et rigide non intestiniforme.' I must also confess that I am unable, in a section of the placenta of the Macacus nemestrinus, to recognise any such apposition to the foetal arborescent villi of maternal vessels, as contradistinguished from maternal sinuses, as the usually held views would demand. Though the injection thrown into the maternal vessels has penetrated down to the chorionic floor of the placenta, it does not seem, under the microscope, to have mapped out for itself those vascular trees which are so easily distinguishable in other placentae in the like position, and, in this placenta, in the foetal villi. It is right, however, to add that the monkey-placenta which I have been de- scribing was injected, skilfully and successfully it is true, but still a considerable number of years before it came into my hands for examination; so that possibly less weight may be assigned to the results of a microscopic inspection of the relation of its maternal » Virchow, 'Gesatnm. Abliandlungen,' p. 782, 1856, cit. Dr. Matthews Duncan, ' Edin. Med. Joum.' Dec. 1857. » Froriep, ' Notizen,' p. go, no. 996. » ' De Organia,' p. 28. * ' Gefiissverbindung,' p. 25, 1828. ' Hunt. Cat. 3583 ; Kolliker, I.e. p. 170, * M^in. Acafl, M($d. Paria,' 1861, p. 133.