ON THE HOMOLOGIES OF CETITAIN MUSCLES 136 many birds there coexists, with a suhscapularis, a 'coraeo-bra- ohialis superior ' (no. xvii. Schoepss), which takes origin from the visceral surface of the coraeoid bone and from the same aspect of the coraco-clavicular membrane. The tendon of this muscle may fuse with that of the suhscapularis; and the bicipital muscle thus formed may receive its nerve-supply from a single nerve : but this nerve has never been observed by me to be the same as that which supplies the ' coraco-brachialis inferior' (no. xvi. Schoepss), any more than the nerve of the obturator internus is ever the same as that of the obturator externus. But it is plain that the coraco- brachialis superior must represent the obturator internus, and the suhscapularis the gluteal muscle, which, as mentioned at p. 130, is so closely united with that obturator. Neither can I coincide with the late Edinburgh Professor's com- parison of the teres minor and infraspinatus to the gluteus minimus and medius—first, because I cannot but think that the musculus iliacus internus minor (see p. 134) is homologous with the teres minor, and, secondly, because I cannot consider the innervation of these upper-limb muscles to be in any way homologous with that of the glutei. The spinati and glutei do, it is true, re- semble each other in attaining their greatest development in mammals; and the so-called 'gluteus maximus ' and medius' of the Crocodilidse (Dr. Hair, 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' Nov. 1867) may be seen, by their innervation from the anterior crural, not to correspond to the similarly named muscles of mam- mals. But concomitant vai'iation within the limits of a single class does not make two sets of muscles, with essentially different insertion and innervation, to be serially homologous. Few anatomists would now deny that the os pubis is the homo- logue, not of the clavicle, but of the praecoracoid ; but though I have myself accepted the comparison of the iliacus to the spinati, I should not so positively dissent from Professor Goodsir's com- parison of it to the deltoid as I do from his other comparisons here specified. But I may be permitted, perhaps, to say that the recti abdominis can scarcely be considered to form, as Professor Goodsir ranks them as forming, a class apart from the external and internal obliqni; for the arrangement of these muscles, as seen for example in the common fowl and the common pigeon severally, seems to me to