COWLAM. 187 of this period which belonged to owners of such strength as the powerful and well-defined lower jaw speaks to. The point of maxi- mum height when the skull is in its normal position lies a little way behind the coronal suture; and by the greatness of this height, both absolute and relative, and by its situation at this point, one of the most characteristic features of this type of skull is constituted. In this the ancient British brachycephali resemble the neolithic Danes, as pointed out by Professor Busk ^. The occipital squama occupies a plane a little posterior to that occupied by the posterior half of the parietals, as is the case in some of the brachycephali c skulls just referred to and others: the occipital protuberance having been lost, together with a large part of the occipital bone, it is not now possible to say with safety whether the fronto-inial line was or was not shorter than the fronto-postremal. The cerebral ovei'lap however has certainly been considerable, and the conceptacula cerebelli are more horizontal than is usual in skulls of this type. This however may be partly due to the commence- ment of senile gravitation^ changes. The posterior part of the parietals shows the normal brachycephalic perpendicularity, the small foramina emissaria, not seen in the drawing, being entirely on the posterior aspect of the skull. In spite of the very considerable frontal width the zygomatic arch still comes into view in the norma verticalis, and this width, together with that of the interangular diameter of the lower jaw, must have given the face a marked expression of strength during life. The sockets of the canine give a square outline to the front of the upper jaw. The norma occipitalis, like the norma verti- calis, is remarkable for the rounding oiF of its outstanding angles. Skulls strikingly similar to this, both in contour and measurements, are to be found in modern European races, e.g. in the Grisons^ amongst the E-oumansch-speaking populations, for a specimen of which see skull 768 in Oxford University Museum, obtained from the neighbourhood of Andeer by Dyce Duckworth, Esq., M.D., or amongst the Finns for a specimen of which see a skull ' e Diocesi ' See '.Journal of the Ethnological Society,' p. 468, Jan. 1871. ' See Clelanrl, 'Phil. Tians.,' 1870, pp. 136, 137. = For a memoir on the population of the Grisons, see V. Baor, 'Bull. Acad. Imp. des Sciences St. P^tersbourg,' p. 38 seqq., i860. * For the Ethnology of the Finns, see Virchow,' Archiv fiir Antliropologio,' vol. iv. p. 78 ; ' Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie,' vol. v. j). 320.