306 GENERAL REMARKS extent to which unhealthy conditions may, or indeed must have prevailed in the dwellings even of sparse populations in days so long- before the invention not merely of glass but of many other things in which in these days ' our basest beggars are superfluous.' It is obvious however upon the smallest consideration, even in the absence of any personal acquaintance with present savage life, that the dwellings of the races we are dealing with must have been dark and crowded to secure warmth, and that the female portion of the tribe would have a larger share of these as of other depressing influences to contend with than the males. And the effects of these influences would show themselves as surely and clearly in the teeth, a system most closely correlated with the general state of the whole organism, as in their feebler trunk and limb bones ^. The great frequency of the perforation in the olecranic fossa of female pre- historic humeri, noticed by Broca ('Memoires,' ii. p. 366, and ' Rev. d'Anthropologic,' 1873, ii. p. 15) and instanced by me ('Journ. Anth. Inst.' v. pp. 149-159, 161-169, Article XVIII) in four cases from the Swell long barrows, is to be similarly explained; and, conversely, its absence in the Cro-Magnon and Mentone skeletons, which belonged to the 'giants' of tradition. I have not, though constantly careful in looking for irregularities in dentition, found many in either of the prehistoric series which I have examined. Three of retardation of one or both bicuspids with retention of the second milk molar in persons of fourteen to fifteen years of age ('Jarrett, cxix,' p. 328, 'Money Hill, cxxi. 3,' p. 330, and ' Flixton, Ixxi. 1,'' British Barrows,' p. 275) may be men- ' The slovenly habits of savages, carnivorous as well as vegetarian, by allowing of the admixture of sand with their food, furnish a very efficient means for wearing down of the teeth. But the inland tribes, who, like the outcasts described in the book of Job (chap. XXX. ver. 3-8),' cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for their meat,' suffer more from the secondary consequences of such wear, which we have been speaking of as alveolar abscesses, than do the game-, fish-, or shellfish-eating races, such as the tribes represented by the Cro-Magnon and Mentone skeletons, or the Eskimos and Vancouver Island Eed Indians. For the action of unintentionally introduced sand, see Wilson, 'Canadian Journal,' Sept. 1862, p. 12, March, 1863, p. 151; Mummery, 1. c, pp. 35, 36 ; Pengelly, 'Trans. Devon As.sociation,' 1874, P- Z°7> com- pared with p. 302, where the cave earth of the Mentone Cave is described as being ' a perfectly dry, very fine, incoherent, greenish sand.' For the wear of the teeth in the Cro-Magnon skeletons, see Broca, 'M^nioires,' ii. pp. 166-168; for that of the skulls from the Caveriie de 1'Homme Mort, see ' Revue d'Anthropologie,' 1873, ii. p. 17. The similar sufferings of later races in possession of cerealia may be referred to the detritus of their querns and grain-crushers.