ON THE PEOPLE OP THE LONG-BAIIIIOW PERIOD. 384 portion of the mentum relatively larger than in modern races of Europe ; and in two lower jaws, one belonging to a male, the other to a female adult, the mental foramen is placed further back than is usual in European jaws. The tibia of four, if not of all the five adult skeletons procured from this barrow, are more or less what Professor Busk^ has called ' anteriorly platycnemic' Though the femora from this barrow were not markedly cariuate—which, indeed, we should not have expected to find them to be, as correlated with this variety of platycnemic tibiae—all the bones had their muscular ridges well pronounced and defined, as though their owners, if not of very great stature ^, nor, as is probable, of the very poorest grade amongst a savage tribe (all of whom, however, are always poor), were yet in the habit, whether from choice or necessity, of using consider- able muscular force. Several of the humeri, for example, had the deltoid ridge very strikingly developed, as though their owners had laboured at lifting the stones of the barrow which was one day to cover them. One of the humeri, it may here be noted, and that, as M, Broca has noted ^ to be usually the case, a female's, had an olecranic perforation. Two scapulae, with unanchylosed acromial processes, were observed here, a fact of small consequence by itself, but pointing, when taken in connection with others, to the pro- bability of blood-relationship having existed between the several occupants of the tumulus. In their texture, colour, and manganese discoloration, all these bones resemble each other pretty closely, and convey to the mind a strong impression of their antiquity. CraniograpJ/1/.—Swell i. (a).—Skull of woman, past middle period of life. To this skull pi-obably belong an upper and a lower jaw, and a femur, labelled accordingly, and giving a stature of 4 feet 9 inches ; as also a couple of very small clavicles, and a very slender radius. Ext. length, in inches . . 7-65 Circumference .... 22 Ext. breadth (approx.) . . 6-o Least frontal diameter . . 3-9 Ext. height (approx.) . . 6 Greatest frontal . . • ' See 'Journal Eth. Soc. London,' Jan. 1871, p. 459. ^ For the large size of the chiefs in savage tribes, see Whitmore, 'Contemp. Rev ,' 1873, p. 392 ; Brenchley, ' Cruise of the Cura9oa,' p. 137 ; Ersldne's 'West Pacific,^ pp. 155 and 240; Forster's 'Observations,'p. 229; Ellis's 'Polynesian Researches,' ii. 26. * ' M^moires,' ii. p. 366, 1874.