36 ON THE Af-PINITIES AND DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE existing- between the vertical radii of the orang and man severally. The frontal lobe was, however, in this respect, more markedly inferior in the African ape considerably than was his parietal; but for the explanation of these terms I must enter upon my third head, that, namely, of the differences which M. Gratiolet's analysis of the convolutions has enabled .us to discover and describe. As it will henceforth be an impertinence in any one to write or speak upon the science of language without a due acknowledgment of his obligations to the lectures delivered upon that subject in this place by Professor Max Miiller, so it would be an affront to the under- standing and information of any scientific audience to address them upon the subject of the brain and ignore M. Gratiolet's labours. His ' Memoire sur les Plis Cerebraux de I'Homme et des Primates/ published some eight years ago, is but a short treatise. Shoi*t treatises have, however, before now, revolutionised sciences. The convolutions into which the exterior of the brain is folded are of three orders, primary, secondary, and tertiary. They are divided from each other by correspondingly winding indentations. The primary convolutions may be compared to the great ridges which in a mountainous country, running more or less parallel to each other and forming blocks and masses of more or less divergent directions, give it its distinctive geogi'aphical character. The secondary convolutions may not inadequately be represented by the indentations which we find on the broader table-land summits of many, if not all, of such ranges. Finally, the spurs which run down and interlock with similar spurs from opposite ranges may be taken as representatives of the tertiary convolutions. That such details, as I shall have time to go into, may become possessed of meaning and interest sooner than without such a statement they would be, I will say, that the primary convolutions, the great typical lines and ridges, are the same in the brains of the apes and in our own. ' L'homme,' say the Dutch anatomists already referred to ('Nat. Hist. Eev.,' No. V. p. 117), ' n'a rien dans son encephale qui manque absolument aux singes.' The table-land summits may have their long backs but shallowly or not at all indented in the one class, while in the other they may be cleft down into as sheer and deep fissures as are the primary valleys themselves, but the general arrangement is the same in both iu spite of these merely quantitative differences. The case, however, is somewhat different