297 UPON THE SERIES OF PKEHISTORIC CRA.NIA. Catalogue of the Leyden Anatomical Museum^ has ten Plates (Taf. xxxviii-Taf. xlvii) devoted to this particular form of disease. Of the two specimens of this anchylosis which I have met with araong-st prehistoric skeletons, one came from the long- barrow at Upper Swell described by me (Article XVIII), and the other belonged to the skeleton ' Paulinus, iv. 2, cxiii. 5,' which came from a round barrow, and indeed may be taken as being a strikingly good representative of the skeletons of the bronze-period. The skull was noted by me as being 'typically brachycephalic both by contour and by measurement (cephalic index = -82), and as having belonged to a strong man, 5 ft. 9 in. in height, and past the middle period of life.' Three of the dorsal vertebrae are glued together by bony deposit on the anterior^ and to some extent on the lateral aspects of their centra. In this skeleton, as in two others, also of tall men, from the same neighbourhood and possibly the same clan, viz. ' Paulinus, viii. 2, xv. 2,' and ' Goodmanhara, xiv, ci,' it is noteworthy that the last lumbar vertebra has anchylosed with the first sacral, and must, as it enters by its lateral outgrowths con- tinuously into the mass of bone supporting the articular surface which abutted upon the ilium, have so anchylosed at an early period in development. The ensiform cartilage of this skeleton is also ^ ' Museum Anatomicum Academiae Lugduno-Batavae. Descriptum ab Edvardo Sandifort. 1793-1835. There can be no doubt that this morbid condition is the same as the one spoken of by Rokitansky ('Manual of Pathological Anatomy,' vol. iii. pp. 133, 134, and 247), and described by him as presenting an appearance as if the ' bony matter had been poured in a stream over larger surfaces of a bone and had then coagulated.' Rokitansky adds, ' We are quite ignorant of any general condition of the system to which this can be attributed.' In default of any suggestion of his, it may be well to add the following short account of the malady from a later writer, Genczig, who in an Inaugural Dissertation (' Ueber Exostosen und Osteophyten') read in 1846 speaks of the malady as follows, p. 14 : 'Exostosen der Wirbelknochen. Am kiiufigsten findet sich ein Osteophyt welches in der Form einer im Flusse erstarrten Masse dte vordere Flache der Wirbelkorper in geringerer oder grosserer Ausdehnung mit einander verbindet. Bisweilen findet sich dies Osteophyt ein hoheres Alter ohne anderweitige Krankheiten der WLrbelsaule, bisweilen aber auch bei Caries oder Tuberculose der Wirbelkorper.' I have myself observed this condition in the vertebral column of a Newfoundland dog and of a horse, which are preserved in tlie University Museum; it is said to be normally present in the dipodidae and dasypodidae, animals, it is right to add, of burrowing habits; but it is also present in many cetacea; and I find that its occurrence as an abnormality is so well known, as to have furnished commentatora with a not very sati.sfactory explanation of Aristotle's twice repeated statement as to the cervical region of the lion consisting of one single bone (see A.F.A.Wiegm.ann, 'ObservationesZoologicaeCriticae in Aristotelis Historiam Anima- liuffl,' Eerolini 1826; Arist. 'Hist. An.' i. i, ad fin.; ' De Part. An.' iv. 10).