346 APPENDIX. vast difference in size between the domestic buffalo of Hindostan, Bos huhalus, and the wild variety or Arnee\ is due, I apprehend, to the working of tliis agency upon the former as against the selective agency of the carnivora upon the latter; and the like causes must have pro- duced the like effects in former times. I take this opportunity of putting on record the points in which the collections of various objects from the Swiss lake-dwellings seen by me under the favourable conditions above specified (p. 342, note) differ from those procured from British prehistoric graves. The absence of any traces of cerealia in our neolithic barrows puts them at once into sharp contrast with the Swiss lake-dwellings even of the early stone age such as Moosseedorf and Wangen; and though the frequent occurrence of unthrashed-out ears in the specimens from these habitations shows, as Dr. H. Christ (1. c.) has observed, that their tenants were in a very primitive state, still the presence and botanical characters of these ' Kulturjjlanzen,' as also of the weeds accompanying them, prove that these men had at one time or other some direct or in- direct communication with Mediterranean regions. (See Prof. Heer in Keller's 'Lake Dwellings,' trans, Lee, p. 342 seqq.) The textile flax- fabrics so prominent in every series from the Swiss lake-dwellings, even from the very early one of Schaffis, are as completely wanting in British stone-age barrows as the cerealia. A second point of equally striking contrast is furnished to us by the great inferiority of all British pottery of the stone- and bone-periods to that at least of the later stone age in Switzerland. It is true that from such a very early lake-dwelling as that of Schaffis, pottery of the most primitive kind jiossible, imperfectly burnt, coarse alike in composition and contour, may, as the sei'ies in the University Museum obtained through the kindness of Herr E. von Fellenberg and the exertions of the * An anonymous but excellent naturalist in the 'Zoologist' (1858-1859, vol. xvi. P- 6554) writes thus as to the great difference in size existing between the wild and tame buffalo to the advantage of the former: ' We believe the main reason of it to be that the tame calves are deprived of their due supply of milk. The importance of an ample supply of suitable nourishment in early life, as bearing on the future develop- ment of any animal, cannot be over-estimated.' He also states on the authority of a friend that the Burmese domestic bulfalo is 'much larger than in Bengal, with splendid horns, and altogether a vastly superior animal, in fact, resembling the wild buffialo. The Burmese never milk them ; having the same strange prejudice to milk which the Chinese have, though otherwise both peoples are nearly omnivorous.' See Specimens 1350 and 1351, Oxford University Museum, the one from a wild, the other from a tame buffalo.