xlvii LIFE OF DK. ROLLESTON. nations had given them corn, unknown to our early hunters and fishers. It is pointed out how the honey of the rude ancients was got at first from the wild bees, till the device was hit upon of imitating the hollow trees where they built, by making artificial structui-es of bark to house them in. These earliest hives keep a record of their former use in the French word i-uche, from Latin rxisca, ' bark,' though it is now many ages since they were superseded by hives of basket-work. One of Rolleston's favourite objects of contemplation on his frequent journeys as he watched the varying landscape was the change brought about by man since the ages before history; how difierent the trees are from those the old Silurians looked upon, especially how the hedgerows are now marked by lines of elms which, though rarely seeding in this climate, have propagated themselves by suckers since Roman times. He worked this subject out in one of the Glasgow science lectures and in a paper read before the Geographical Society in 1879 (here re- printed, vol. ii. p. 769). Readers who follow the problem of tracing the periods at which our country was stocked with its domestic animals, or are interested in the serious practical harm which reckless cutting down of forests has done to the climates of such countries as Egypt, Greece, and India, will find it well worth while to peruse the multifarious information in-, this lecture. And though the addresses of presidents of sections of the British Association are apt to be forgotten when they have answered their temporary purpose, Rolleston's, of which several are printed in the present volumes, will still yield ideas. If there was one place more than another where he was in his element, it was at the British Association. It was not merely that like plenty of other speakers he had something informing to say on many subjects—he had the power of making his words send out as it were intellectual waves, succeeding one another till he had brought his whole audience into sympathetic vibration. When he presided, his powerful presence made him really master of the situation. A letter to the 'Times,' written by his friend Prebendary Buckle, gives no unfair idea of his excellence in this