ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAKEOW PEKIOD. 357 months, or earlier, be competent to stunt the growth of their brains in like ratio. It is, indeed, as the late Professor Phillips once re- marked, something to be wondered at, considering' the hardships and scanty dietary to which all, or nearly all, wild races of men are more or less subjected, that their skulls and brains should be as large as we find them to be. ' Ill-filled' skulls, consequently, to use the expressive epithet employed by Professor Cleland^ are not very rare in series taken from long barrows. By an 'ill-filled' skull, Professor Cleland tells us, he means a skull the exterior surface of which is marked by 'a mesial and two lateral ridges on the roof, with flatness of the adjacent surfaces,' and which has ' its position of greatest breadth high up upon the parietal bones.' The mesial carina may, I would add, be prolonged in such skulls over the frontal bone, and the frontal tubera may retain their-infant-like prominence. To these peculiarities I would further add the presence of two depressions on the exterior of the skull, corresponding to convexities on its interior surface, as com- pleting in many ancient and modern savage crania the character of ' ill-filledness.' One of these depressions is well known as the ' post-coronal furrow,' but inasmuch as the mesial vertical carina often developed in male skulls may be, and often is, continued along the line of the sagittal suture, so as to divide the so-called ' furrow' into two parts, this name is not a happy one. The second of these depressions corresponds to a part of the parietal bone which lies a little above its posterior inferior angle, and immediately, therefore, above the part of the bone which is furrowed internally for the lateral sinuses. As in the former case, an inward ingrowth cor- responds to the outwardly visible concavity, so that much such an appearance is produced as we can imagine would have resulted from pinching in the skull walls over this area, had they been plastic. I have been able to demonstrate the rationale of these depressions in the following manner:—By removing from a skull, with its brain in situ, the greater part of its roof, but leaving of this structure one antero-posteriorly-running arch of bone, corresponding to the sagittal, and two transversely-running half-arches, corresponding respectively to the half of the coronal and the half of the lambdoid sutures on one side, the exact position of all the main convolutions and fissures of the brain can be shown in their normal relations to these land- * ' Phil. Trans.,' 1870, vol. 160, p. 148.