xlii LIFE OF DR. R0LLE8T0N. of his intellectual faculties. The charm of his character, the beauty of his nature, was recognised by all. His heart was worthy of his head. It may go without saying that RoUeston was in a high degree a conscientious man, and he had the courage of his opinions. And who that knew him will forget his tender sympathy with the weak and suffering, his honest dislike of tortuous and secret ways, his manly scorn of all that is mean or ignoble, his delicate sensibility, his subtle humour, his refined taste, his keen appreciation of beauty and of the nobler side of things, his ardent love of truth and his reverence for the highest forms of it ? He was a noble man, in whom was mingled to the last much of the delightful nature of the boy. Few, very few, could be named who combined so much sweetness with so much light.' Most of Rolleston's research and writing was henceforth directly connected with his Professorship. The subjects he had to deal with may be best described by quoting from the Obituary notice of the Royal Society, of which he was elected Fellow in 1862, written by his friend Professor W. H. Flower:— 'The duties of the Linacre Professorship involved the teaching of a wide range of subjects included under the terms of physiology and anatomy, human and comparative, to which he added the hitherto neglected but important subject of anthropology, as well as the care of a great and ever-growing museum. In the present condition of scientific knowledge it requires a man of very ver- satile intellect and extensive powers of reading to maintain any- thing like an adequate acquaintance with the current literature of any one of these subjects, much more to undertake original observations on his own account. Even a man of Rolleston's powers felt the impossibility of any one person doing justice to the Chair as thus constituted, and strongly urged the necessity*of dividing it into three professorships, one of physiology, one of com- parative anatomy, and one of human anatomy and anthropology. The work which he did however contrive to find time to publish, and by which he will be chiefly known to posterity, is remark- able for its thoroughness. He never committed himself to