CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 121 posterior and inner edge of the coracoid at about the middle of the height of the bone, may be considered the homologue of the largo ' eoraeo-braehialis superior' of gallinaceous birds ^. A dense band of ligamentous tissue (homologous probably with the praeeoracoid of the lizards) stretches in the coraco-clavicular membrane from the sternal rostrum to the upper end of the clavicle; and from it a thin sheet of muscular fibres arises, which joins the tendon of the pectoralis secundus in the pulley, as does also a slender slip of muscle which passes from the mesoscapula. The main mass of the pectoralis secundus is of a deeper colour, especially in young birds, than these two latter muscles, which join its tendon; and it is to be remarked that the main mass, as well as the former of these accessory slips, takes origin from the fibrous band in the coraco- clavicular ligament. A ligament passes from the anterior external angle of the coracoid at its sternal articulation (the 'epicoracoid' of Parker) to be inserted on the sternum at a point about opposite the articula- tion of the third sternal rib. It limits the fibres of the pectoralis secundus mesially from those of the so-called ' subclavius' (No. xi. of Schoepss^) externally, at the point where these latter pass upwards and inwards to attach themselves to the base of the coracoid. Inasmuch, then, as the two layers of the * subclavius' of the bird are homologous serially with the two layers of the intercostals, this ligament may be considered homologous with the mesial attachment of the costo-coracoid membrane, which separates the 'subclavius' of the mammal from the insertion of the internal intercostals, the serial homologues of the deep layer of the sub- clavius of the bird. Secondly, the nerve which supplies the pectoralis secundus of the bird is obviously homologous with the nerve which supplies the subclavius of the mammal, and not with the nerves which supply the greater and lesser pectorals in that class. The nerve to the bird's pectoralis secundus comes, in the Accijnter nisus, from the anterior factors and lower aspect of the brachial plexus; ' The lower part of this latter muscle is aborted as far as its ordinary direction is concerned, its upper part being represented by a very slender slip which arises from the posterior aspect of the mesocoracoid region close to the glenoid, and, taking the usual course of a coraco-brachialis, is inserted with the subscapularis. ' ' Beschreibung der Flugelmuskeln der Vogel,' von C. G. Schoepss, Meckel's Archiv, 1829, p. 72.