aENERAL REMARKS 268 of brain which has been shown to underlie it, be taken as eminently distinctive, according to its lesser or greater width, of the brachy- cephalic and dolichocephalic types of skull respectively. As some difference is found in the statements of different writers as to the constancy, if not of the relations held by the supra- marginal lobule to the parietal tuberosity, still of those of the parieto-occipital fissure to the lambdoid suture, it is well to say here that I have examined these relations as existing between the skull and the brain while in situ, and have measured the width of the zone in question in many brains removed from the skull. The ordinary width of this zone in the brains of the almost exclusively, dolichocephalic population of this part of England is from 1-5'' to a''; in such a skull, with a breadth-length index of -76, having ascertained by boring that the centre of the supra-marginal lobule corresponded to the centre of the parietal eminence, I found that the distance from the former spot to the line of the parieto-occipital fissure was a"* on both sides. In the brain of a Malay (No. ' 950 absent. As Gratiolet summed the matter up in his ' M^moire sur les plis Cdr^braux de I'Homme et des Primates,' 1854, p. 97, ' Le lobe occipital atteint le maximum de son developpement dans les Cynoc^phales. Beaucoup moins ddveloppe dans les Macaques 11 diminue de plus en plus en passant des Guenons aux Semnopitheques, et de ceux-ci aux Gibbons et aux Orangs-Ajoutons, et il atteint son minimum dans I'espfece humaine.' As variability in a structure or organ is justly considered to be some sort of an indication that it is tending towards becoming rudimentary, the variability of the occipital portions of the skull and of the brain attains some significance. Of this variability I have already spoken, p. 246 supra. Since writing as above, a human brain has been added to the series in the University Museum (No. 950 g and h), the occipital lobes in which are remarkable for the extreme scantiness of their fissures and convolutions, the very reverse, extreme complexity, to wit, and sinuosity, being usually found in this part of the human brain, at least in Europeans, and being very ordinarily stated to be characteristic of it. See for example Cruveilhier's ' Anatomie Descriptive,' iii. 2. p. 454, ed. 4; Pansch, ' Abhandl. Naturwiss. Verein. Hamburg,' Altona 1876, p. 25; and Gratiolet's words applied to this lobe, 'Ses plis, d'iine extreme irregularity, semblent devoir dchapper k toute description' (Mdmoire, 1854, p. 61). Taking all these considerations together, that namely of the inferiority of the hydraulic character of the vascular supply of the occipital lobes, that of their histolo- gical inferiority, that of their lesser amenability to disease, a privilege which we do not find to be enjoyed by organs of great functional importance, and that finally of their great variability, and coupling them with a comparison of the homologous lobes in the Simiadae, I am inclined to consider the occipital lobes proper of the human brain as being semi-rudimentary structures. A parallel case appears to me to be furnished by the history of the fourth (the azygos or post-caval) lobe of the right lung in the Primates. This small lobe retains its independent vascular and bronchial supply till we reach the higher Anthropomorpha; it is lost in them and in us.