XXV LIFE OF DK. E0LLE8T0N. just on the point of complete diying, and malaria, consequently, just in the prime of its strength. In discussing the various nationalities" of Smyrna, Rolleston claims the Greeks there as genuine representatives and descendants of the ancient Hellenes. The characteristic bearing and expression of the old models of Greek art are, he says, constantly brought before our minds as we meet the modern Greek in the streets. The seafaring Greek seemed to him like the Odysseus of the ancient sculptors, not only in general expression, but in details of limb and feature, lips, nose, eyes, hair, and forehead. The Greeks of Asia Minor have been much less intermixed with foreign blood than those in Greece Proper, and kept their Komaic speech even when Albanian was spoken in Athens, and iiaa-a rj 'EWas iaKXaficiOt]. Nor have the Anatolian Greeks adopted the Albanian fustanella or kilt, as the modern Hellenes have done, but wear the loose blue calico breeches, the jacket, and the long loose red cap like the Phrygian. As to the national qualities of Greeks and Turks, so important a factor in the politics of the East, the report is scrupulously fair. This comes out clearly and also quaintly in an appendix on a Turkish industry, the making of hg-drums of bent wood. Of course the square shape is better for packing, but a remark is added that the shape of the box depends on the orders of the exporter, so that it is incorrect to ascribe the persistence of the round shape to the obstinate and irrational preference for that which is old, simply because it is old, which the Turk really does show in so many instances. Ptolleston had soon seen enough of the Turks to understand the hopelessness of turning them into a civilised Western nation. The declining glory of the East was everywhere plain to him. 'The war,' he used to say in after years, 'has killed the old reverence. How can it last? I saw a quite grand old ragged sheikh, a sort of Turkish Quixote, at the head of his little troop, come down to the beach on his mule just as some French and English sailors were going by, and one of the Frenchmen, egged on by one of our tars, went up to the old fellow and gave his beard a pull.' A letter, written as late as