304 GENERAL REMARKS period ('Journal Antli. Inst.,' vol. v. p. 152, and vol. vi. p. 34), a very- different history has to be given. Of the first of these, from the barrow 'Nether Swell, ccxxix,' I write, 'The lower jaw is feeble. The mental foramen corresponds to the interval between the second bicuspid and first molar. The teeth are very much worn down, and there are two or three alveolar-abscess cavities in the jaw. One very large one occupies a great part of the molar region of the left upper maxilla.' One of the male skulls from this barrow shows the cavity of a small alveolar abscess ; and in another several teeth had been lost before death. The second of these cases is that of the woman recorded in 'British Barrows,' p. 518, and ' Journ. Anth. Inst.' 1. c, p. 158, of whom in the latter place I say, 'The lower jaw of the old woman was feeblish as compared with some of the male jaws, but not with all, from these barrows. It had lost no teeth, from the half we recovered, during life, though the teeth were very much worn down, and the first molar, notably, down to its fangs; in connection with both of which there were alveolar abscesses.' Of the femur and other bones belonging to this skeleton I say that they ' give the idea of their owner having had hard work and poor food, viz. as they are slight, but with rough ridges.' The third instance is furnished by the history of the young woman found at Cissbury (' Journ. Anth. Inst.,' vol. vi. p. 34), in whom an alveolar abscess existed in relation with a lower pre- molar, which had had its pulp cavity exposed by being broken across midway between its grinding surface and its neck. Here the two anterior molars were very much worn down, though their owner was not more than twenty-five years of age, and the wisdom teeth were scarcely worn at all. Subsequently to these excavations two lower jaws afiected with alveolar abscesses, both of aged females, were found in the long barrow No. ccxxxii, Nether Swell (Article XVIII); another similarly aff'ected, but from a powerful old male subject, was found in the same barrow. A third as yet undescribed skull of an old woman of the stone period, with extensive traces of the same mischief, was presented to me by the late Rev. Canon Lysons, having been obtained by him from a lona: barrow in Gloucestershire; and three of the Rodmarton long-barrow skulls, also from the collection of that antiquary, one of an old man, one of the young man already referred to (p. 395 supra), and one of an old woman, have suffered similarly. Of eight lower