246 GENEKAL REMAEKS of slight build and feeble physique. They resemble even more closely in this point and some others the ' hypsistenocephali' of Dr. Barnard Davis. The one eminently distinctive and character- istic point of these dolichocephalic skulls is the forward position of the parietal tuberosities, and of the ear, with which is correlated even in female skulls (as for example ' Sherburn Wold, vii. i,' p. ao8) an oblique slope as opposed to a precipitous vertical dip in the parieto-occipital region. The temporal lines and the half of the lambdoid suture are seen laterally in nearly or quite their entire length. The forehead may be, and indeed often is, low as viewed in the norma lateralis and narrow as viewed in the norma verticalis, and may very well merit the description ^frons valde depressa' which Sir R. C. Hoare bestowed (Archaeologia, xix, p. 46) on some long-barrow skvills dug up by him ; but it rarely manifests that pronounced obliquity, ' le front fuyant/ so common in brachy- cephalic skulls, and shown so plainly in the figure of the skull ' Rudstone, Ixiii. 9,' p. 192 supra. In many, and especially in the weaker, dolichocephalic skulls the more strictly calvarial portion of the frontal bone rises from a plane considerably posterior to that of the supraciliary ridges, a peculiarity which, when the frontal rises nearly vertically to the level of its tubera, and when, as is very often the case in this variety of cranium, the supraciliary ridges are confluent across the middle line, gives a very characteristic aj)pear- ance to these skulls. Just as the line of the os frontis in these cases lies some way within the line which the contour of the supra- ciliary ridges would describe if produced, so the line of the posterior half of the parietals lies often well within the line which the produced contour of the upper occipital squama would give us. This peculiarity is ' die facettirte Absetzung des Hinterhaupts' spoken of as eminently characteristic of the Hohberg type of skull by Professors His and Rvitimeyer. It is however, though common, not by any means constant in otherwise typical dolichocephalic skulls of the stone age, as might have been expected, the occipital segments proper, both of brain and of skull, being exceedingly variable ^ in development; and the ' capsulares Hinterhaupt,' as * Aeby,' Schadelformen,' p. 12 ; Welcker,' Wachsthiim und Bau.'pp. 36,46, 65, 141; Huschke, I.e. pp. 19, 21, 94, 96, 98,' 152, 153, 156 ; B. Davis, 'Thesaurus Cran.' p. 351 ; 'Gall.Syat. Nerv.'iii. 160; Virchow,' Gesamm. Abhandl." p. 916 ; Cleland, 'Phil. Trans.' 1870, p. 132; Wundt, 'Physiolog. Psychologie,' 1873, p. 229, citing H. Wagnei'j