50 ON THE AFFINITIES AND DIFFEEENCES BETWEEN THE brain I have spoken of in the ^Natural History Review,'April, 1861, p. 208, as weighing but 26 oz. This weight I gave on the autho- rity of Huschke, who speaks of it in two places as 753 grammes ^ But Tiedemann's own weights would give this brain's weight as 29 oz. avoirdupois. And upon this 29 oz. I lay no stress, for most uncharitably I have come to suspect from Tiedemann's own history of this brain, procured for him, like the orang's, by his in- defatigable son-in-law, Fohmann, that he weighed this brain after it had been deprived of much of its watery and saline constituents, by the action of alcohol. Let the facts, then, stand thus: the maximum weight of the ape's brain is 14 oz., instanced in the chimpanzee—M. Gratiolet having shown us that the gorilla's brain is smaller than the orang's—the minimum human is 31 oz. This doubly, and more than doubly, greater weight, the doubly greater corpus callosum, that sub-quadrate lobule lettered a and in the diagram, those complexly convoluted frontal lobes i, 2, 3, are I believe the four great points in which the human brain as- serts its superiority over that of the ape. 'Praevalet in homine cerebrum,' we say with Tiedemann (' Icon.' Cor. xxxii. p. 54), His anatomy is as much more correct than that of Bossuet or Buffon, as I cannot but say theii* meta.physics seem to me than his materialism. "With a few words upon the philosophical, or to speak more strictly, the anthropological bearings of the entire subject, I will conclude. Some persons may not think it wholly clear that with our facul- ties, and with our data, as at present working, and as at present existing, and likely to exist, we can reasonably hope to solve the problem which in more or less definite shape has been flitting before us during this lecture. It is possible that in this question, as in so many others, there may be a state of doubt which is surer than cer- tainty, an ignorance which is wiser than knowledge. Such hesita- tion may be the truest wisdom; but to the instincts of most men at all times, and of all men at certain times, a philosophy of as- sertion is more satisfactory than a philosophy of suspense, so that I feel myself compelled to attempt something more positive as the conclusion of the whole matter, than the advice my last two sen- tences hint at. * ' Schiiclel, Hirn und Seele.' Huschke, Jena, 1854, pp. 71, 73.