LIFE OP DB. R0LLE8T0N. centres of creation enormously, and laying it down as an axiom that man was created at different centres of creation, just as they hold other animals to have been. This for the Northerns : of course the Slaveholders join in with great earnestness. The other day, a Black Prince came to my Museum, especially itp discover whether his brains were constructed on the same plan as those of the white races. Some Americans had told him the two things were quite different. Without being a Darwinite to the entu'e length he goes, I cannot avoid being one as far as man goes. ... As it seems to me, however. Archbishop Usher's chronology and the doctrine of the Human Race are non- consistent, and you must give up either St. Paul on Mars' Hill, or the Ai'chbishop as he wrote in Dublin. I am very full of Ethnology just now and am collecting human skulls from all parts.' The interest in the early history of Man thus awakened by the problem of his relation to lower animals as raised by Darwin, came before Rolleston's mind a few months later in a more intense and personal form, in the Zoological Section of the British Association, at a memorable meeting, which Professor Acland, who was present also, mentions twenty years after in his obituary notice of his friend. 'It so happened, that in i860 a circumstance took place which tended materially to con- centrate all the qualities of his nature on the highest biological questions, whether considered from the material or psychological point of view. The British Association met in Oxford, and the famous discussion on the hippocampus in the brain of man as compared with that of the higher apes took place between Professors Owen and Huxley. Bishop Wilberforce brought, as is well remembered by all scientific men, the forces of his ready wit and great reputation to bear against the sincere statements of the younger anatomist. Rolleston's indignation was fired, his sense of justice made him throw heart as well as head into the cause of what, at the moment, seemed the weaker man. It is not possible to say now to what extent that brief scene influenced the ardour and imagination of RoUeston. Be this as it may, all prejudice and even bias derived from the most c