116 ON THE HOMOLOGIES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES of origin the epicoracoid has coalesced with the vertehral rib. It passes up behind the osseo-cartilagino-fibrous bar made up of liga- ments, praecoracoid, clavicle, and mesoseapular segment (see Parker, 1. c.,pl. 24. fig. 6) and reaching from the apex of the anterior prolon- gation of the sternum to the acromion and coracoid. Some of its fibres are inserted into the coraco-clavicular ligament, and some, though fewer, into the clavicle itself. But from the clavicle it re- ceives a large accession of muscular fibres in return ; and these, joining with the fibres of the original muscle, pass on to be in- serted along the anterior edge of the acromion, and also to become continuous along the mesial or downward-looking edge of the metacromion with fibres of the deltoid, which take origin from the ligament prolonged inwards from the acromion to the clavicle. Thus, though the greater part of the fibres of the subclavius are arrested by a bony fixation into the acromion, which, it will be recollected, is, in these proportions at least, an exclusively mamma- lian development, it becomes, by the continuity of its innermost fibres with the soft tissues placed mesially to that process, more or less ph3'-siologically as well as morphologically equivalent to the pectoralis secundus or levator humeri of the bird. A larger muscle, the larger ' sternoscapular' of Mivart and Murie, arises from the mesosternum in the guinea-pig, and takes a similar course to that of the ' subclavius,' with which it interchanges fibres at the clavicle, to which they both have an attachment. It is inserted, however, along the upper vertebral border of the scapula ; and three-fifths of the entire length of the spine of that bone intervene between its insertion and that of the subclavius. If we consider that the ' sub- clavius ' here has an origin, as it has also in the crested agouti, Da- syprocta cristaia (Mivart and Murie, I. c. p. 398}, and in other mammals, from a sternal as well as from a costal element in immediate connection with the epicoracoid, and, indeed, also with the praecoracoid, we may think ourselves justified in regarding the muscle with these points of origin as the morphological equivalent, as to its origin at least, of the entire pectoralis secundus of the bird, independently of the ' greater sternoscapular ' muscle. But, inasmuch as the pectoralis secundus of the bird shows some tendency to self-multiplication, as seen in the sub-order Gallinae, it may be well to consider the two sternoscapular muscles as, either severally or fused, homologous with either two distinct pectorales secundi or