477 ON THE CRANIOLOGY OF TPIE BUSHMEN. the direction of musical performances. The same however may be said of other priscan races as well as of them and the Mong'olian and Kalmuck tribes^, and we cannot therefore lay any weight upon this point of similarity. The custom, however explained, which the Khoi-Khoin races have of cutting" off one or more joints of the little and ring- fing-ers might, but with no great amount of probability, be taken to point to the existence of an affinity to races as far dislocated in space as the inhabitants of certain islands in Oceania, both Papuan and Malay. The Papuans, according to Sir John Lubbock ('Prehistoric Times,' 1869, p. 445), cut off the end both of the little toe and the little finger as a sign of mourning. The Friendly Islanders (Cook's 'Voyages,' vol. i. 322; Williams's 'Missionary Enterprise,' 547, 548) cut off one or two joints of their little fingers, and the inhabitants of Tracy Island, which was colonised from Samoa, do the like ac- cording to the Rev. S. J. Whitwell (Petermann's 'Mittheilungen' for 187 I, p. 203). One form of the solemnisation of matrimony amongst the Australians consists in the biting off by a woman of a bit of the little finger of the left hand. I do not know that the fact, deposed to by F. Miiller in his contribution to the ' Memoirs on the Voyage of the Novara,' p. 6, to the effect that Caffre women, when a child is sick, or when they themselves become widows, have a piece of their little fingers cut off, need be taken as indicating anything more than the exceeding contagiousness of bad and foolish customs, of which the old anthropologist and zoologist Zimmermann (cit. ' Address to Biological Section of British Asso- ciation Meeting at Liverpool,' see Report for year 1871) spoke so caustically. Several instances of such adoption and borrowing, on the part of the Abantu tribes, from the conquered and persecuted Khoi-Khoin, might be adduced, and might be paralleled, at some distance, by the fact embodied in the two lines of Horace— 'Graecia capta ferum victorem cepit, et artes Intulit agresti Latio.' ' The point of similarity is not, I apprehend, in the character of the music so much as in the fa<--t that the compared peoples admire it such as it is. Of the Kalmuck music Pallas writes (and, as the work is little accessible, I quote) as follows, 'Samm- lungen Historischer Nachrichter iiber die Mongolischen Viilkerschalten,' i. p. 152 :— 'Die Melodic der Kalmiicken, besonilers ilire zartliche und verliebte Musik, hat solche langgezerte klagliche Tone und solche Dissonanzen dass sie ein gutgewohntes Ohr init noch last mehr Widerwillen als alte Franzosische Musik, anhiirt! *