ON THE PEOPLE OP THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. 360 anthropolog-ists of that type, whilst many of the male skulls, in which the smoothly-swelling- globose outlines and rounded-off contours of the female skulls are replaced by muscular ridges, vertical carinae, and foreheads sloping in correlation with heavy lower jaws, might be taken as fair, if not precisely accurate, repre- sentatives of the Hohberg type which is so closely allied to it. A few pathological and teratological peculiarities will be noticed in the detailed account to be given below. It is interesting to note, that in no case have the wisdom teeth been observed to have come th rough previously to the ossification of the spheno-occipital syn- chondrosis. This is the reverse of what has been observed in certain savage races, ancient and modern, by M. Broca^. Perhaps the pastoral habits of these tribes may account for their conformity in this particular to what is usual in civilised races, a diet of milk, cheese, and flesh causing less injury to the teeth, and being less likely to call the wisdom teeth prematurely into use than one in which vegetable food forms a large factor. The bones of animals found in these barrows were, it may be noted, and again contrary to expectation, those of domestic breeds almost, or quite in- variably ^. As regards the age of the long barrows, there is no doubt that, whatever other traces of the presence of man may be found in these islands, they are the earliest sepulchral evidence of his existence here. The huge cubical bulk of some of these tumuli is an a priori argument for their antiquity. Pristine or priscan man, like the modern savage, grudged no labour less than that which was spent on piling up a huge burial mound. My friend Mr. H. N. Moseley, naturalist on H.M.S. ' Challenger,' in recording his observations on the Kudang tribe of Australians living near Cape York, tells me that though they are destitute of almost everything in the way of property, having neither perforated stones to help them to dig roots—as have the Bushmen—nor boomerangs, nor tomahawks, nor any shaped stone implements, nor canoes; living, not on the available wallabies and phalangers, but on fish, reptiles, inverte- brata, and vegetables; having the scantiest clothing, and sometimes, even in the cases of adults, none at all; being, finally, below savagery, ^ 'Revue d'Anthrop.,' ii. i, p. ■21, 1873. ^ Per contra, in a pit within the British fort at Cissbury, Bos primigenitis and wild-boar bones were found.