GENERAL REMARKS 294. There would be no repugnance felt even by men most strongly- imbued with those feelings of exclusiveness which Professor Nilsson (' Early Inhabitants of Scandinavia,' ed. Lubbock, p. 167, note) assures us are eminently characteristic of savage life, for joint burial with an equal, a relative, a friend, a wife or a favourite. The words of the prophet of Bethel (i Kings xiii, 31}, ' Lay my bones beside his bones/ show us^ as do the repeated notices in the same history of successive monarchs coming or not coming into the tombs of their fathers, the Hebrew feeling on this point; (Tc^axOdaa avv- OdiTTeTat Tu avbpi are the words used by Herodotus (v. 5) in de- scribing the death and burial of the Scythian widow; Greek sentiment has usually a distinctive beauty of its own, but the prayer of Patroclus, 1\. xxiii. 83, 84, 91, Mij efxa a5)V airdvevOe TiOrifxevaL oare", 'AxiAXeu, 'AAA' Ojuof'j ws €Tpd(f)r}nev iv vixerepoLo-t bojjLOLcnv ... *f2s 6e Kai 6aT€a vS>lv 6fj.rj a-opos dix<l>iKaXvTTTOi, is not more Greek than it is Turanian or Semitic ; it expresses merely the feeling common to all humanity that they who were lovely and pleasant in their lives in their death should not be divided. It still remains for me to put on record the little which I have been able to note in the way of abnormalities, pathological and other, in these prehistoric skeletons and skulls. Of the non-pathological abnormalities observable in this series the persistence of the frontal suture is the only one which needs special notice. It is exceedingly rare for this suture to remain open in the earlier of the two series with which we have been dealing, whilst it is by no means uncommon to find it retaining its infantile patency after the coming of the brachycephalic race. Dr. Thurnam, writing in 1865 ('Nat. Hist. Review,' April, p. 245)^ said that of all the long-barrow skulls which he had examined, four only, one from the chambered-barrow at West Kennet, a second from the Rodmarton barrow (which has been frequently figured, e.g. ' Cran. Brit.,' pi. 59; ' Archaeologia,' xlii. pi. xiv ; ' Thesaurus Craniorum,' p. 8), and two from the Dinnington long barrow (described by me in the 'Journ, of Anat. and Phy,/iii. 1868, p. 254, Article XIII, p. 159), had been found possessing this peculiarity. To this very small number I have, from all the