308 GENERAL REMARKS significant fact, will be seen very plainly when I add that all the other lower jaws from every period, inclusively of the bronze down to the present day, and from almost every variety of our species available in the ethnological series of the Oxford Museum for this comparison, have only furnished to me seven specimens with simi- larly bifid canine-fangs, and that of these seven only one belonged to a modern civilised race. This one presented other anomalies in its dentition which should render it perhaps unnecessary to consider it here, a^nd the same may possibly be said of yet another of these seven, inasmuch as it belonged to the skull ' Rudstone, kiii, 4,' which has already been referred to (above, pp. 301-302) as fur- nishing some evidence for the existence of the disease rickets in the bronze period. Of the other five, one was found amongst more than a hundred Peruvian crania obtained from the collections made by Consul Hutchinson; two came to me from among six lower jaws collected for me in South Africa by the late Mr. Frank Oates of Christ Church, the small size, low coronoids, and feeble chins of which indicate that they probably belonged, as reported, to an outcast tribe, probably Bushman (Article XXV); a fourth belonged to a ' pure-blooded Gond,' as guaranteed by the donor, Captain H. A. Hammond, from Chindwara in Central India; the fifth, curiously enough and also suggestively, belonged to one of the South Welsh skeletons buried in the time of Charles I, as referred to above, p. 170, note. Pruner Bey (' Bull. Soe. Anth, Paris,' s^r, ii. tom. ii. p. 244,1867) has recorded the discovery of a similarly bifid canine from the famous cave-find of Naulette, in which, it may be added, evidence of a lower-jaw wisdom tooth with quinquefid fangs, and of extremely small incisors, was also found (ibid. tom. i. p. 587). The trans- versely placed sockets of these fangs are very frequently represented rudimentarily by raised ribs on the walls of undivided sockets, and the same may be said of the sockets of the lower premolars, which however I have never seen bifid, but which, judging from the position of these raised ridges, would have had such double fangs placed transversely to the jaw like those of the canines, not antero- posteriorly like those of the molars behind them, or of their homo- logues iu Simiadae. If the importance of the fact of the greater relative frequency of bifidity of the lower canine-fang in ' priscan' races and modern