30 ON THE AFFINITIES AND DIFFEEENCES BETWEEN THE associated with that highest form of brain/ which possessed pro- cessus digitatos upon its hippocampus major, must have had their convictions rudely shocked by this retractation. The twenty-sixth page of the same memoir but added to the uncomfortable feelings of their materialistic minds ; for it contains a specification of no less than five other points, in which the Asiatic anthropomorphous ape coincided with maUj and contrasted with inferior simiadae. It is possible, however, that the teaching of Bossuet was more familiar to that generation than it seems to be to the present, for it had, as M. Isidore St. Hilaire hints ^, been reproduced for them in the then standard work of Buffon 2. ' If,' says Bossuet (De la Con- naissance de Dieu et de Soi-meme, chap. 5, xii), ' organs are com- mon to man and brute, one is necessarily forced to the conclusion that intelligence is not attached to organs; that it depends upon another principle'—' et que Dieu sous les memes apparences a pu cacher divers tresors'—an argument, the cogency of which, as M. St. Hilaire remarks, increases as the number of organs common to the two subjects of comparison becomes more numerous and their resemblance more striking. To conclude the subject of the ventricular surface or internal cavity of the brains we are comparing : within the present month a drawing of the ventricular cavity of the orang-utang has been laid before the English public by two Dutch anatomists, Schroeder Van der Kolk and Vrolik. Nearly 150 years ago a very similar drawing of the human lateral ventricles, by the celebrated Eusta- chius, was given to the world in Lancisi's ^ edition of his but little more celebrated predecessor's plates. Those were the days of thorough-going anthropotomy, before attention to what the pre- sent Professor of Anatomy at Berlin calls mikroscojnsche Spielereien (Reichert, 'Bau des Menschlichen Gehirn,' ii. 22) had drawn men's minds away from dissection and description ; and a testimony from their writings may therefore seem to have more weight than those of more modern times. The cerebellum comes into view in the figures of the Dutch anatomists, as will be explained as we proceed, and in this point the two figures of this month and of a century 1 ' Hist. Nat.' torn. ii. p. 253. 2 'Hist. Nat.' xiv.p. 61. ' 'TabulEe Anatom. Bartholomaei Eustacliii,' ed. Jo. Maria Lancisius, Eomse, MDCCXiv. Tab. xvii. Tiga. 3, 4, and 5.