358 ON THE TEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD. marks in the vault of the skiiU. It will make the matter plainer, and at the same time facilitate the production of similar prepara- tions in other museums, to say that a brain, under such surroundings, presents something of the appearance in the skull which a living head does when subjected to measurement in such a cephalometer as that of M. Antelme ^. By means of such a preparation it is easy to show that the post-coronal depression in the roof of the skull does not correspond, as supposed by the late Dr. Thui*nam 2, to the fissure of Rolando, but to the deep, and often wide, fissure which divides the superior frontal convolution into two well-defined lobes, and abuts upon the ascending frontal convolution, by a terminal bifur- cation into two arms of considerable length. This fissure, as is well known, exists, and has often been described and figured in the brains of the anthropomorphous apes, in the crania of which animals the post-coronal depression is sometimes indicated when the sagittal carina is absent. Similarly, the second of the depressions which I have noted as commonly present in the postero-inferior part of the parietals of ' ill-filled' skulls, may be seen to correspond to a certain multiradiate fissure frequently noticeable on the posterior or convex aspect of the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution, but, as far as I know, not named by any of the numerous writers who have followed Gratiolet in describing the convolutions and fissures of the cerebrum. Professor Bischoff, however, in his well-known paper on ' Die Grosshirnwindungen des Menschen^,' speaks of certain fissures, without any well-defined character, which appear on the boundary between the parietal and occipital lobes, and says that they cor- respond to a ' fissura occipitalis externa' which appears in the human foetus, but is normally limited in duration to the seventh and eighth months of inta-a-uterine life. Though brachycephalie skulls have not, as yet, been proved to have been found in Great Britain in any primary interments in the barrows of which I am writing, and though brachycephalie skulls from the United King- dom, and, indeed, I am inclined to think, from European countries ' See ' M^m. Soc. Anthrop. de Paris,' torn. i. pi. vi. fig. 2. ^ 'Nat. Hist, Review,' April 1, 1865, p. 267. ' In the ' Abhandlungen der k. Bayer. Akademie der Wiss.' Class ii. Band x. Abtheil. ii., 1868, pp. 448, 450, 495 ; or ' Separat-Abdruck,' pp. 58, 60,105, and Taf. X. fig. 7.