LIFE OF DR. R0LLE8T0N. xxix St., Cavendish Square, where the now Dr. Rolleston had his name on a brass-plate on the door. But the prospect of a London physician's life was to change very soon to a different view. Before the end of 1857, the death of Dr. Ogle, Physician to the RadcUffe Infirmary at Oxford, brought Rolleston back there, armed with a pamphlet full of praises from medical authorities. The laudatory flavour of testimonials makes them, when their occasion is past, as hard reading as epitaphs, but there is a sentence in one of these from Dr. Jeune, which must be quoted as recording a notable moment in RoUeston^s earlier Oxford career: —' That on leaving Oxford, to follow his medical career in London, he took with him his vigorous application and quick perception, was proved by his Examination for the Degi*ee of Bachelor of Medicine; at the close of it, the three Examiners, all men of celebrity, rose and publicly thanked him in my presence for the Examination which he had passed—an unprecedented distinction.' It is not surprising that Rolleston's friend who was his one serious competitor retired, leaving the course free for him. The same year Dr. (now Sir Henry W.) Acland (one of the three examiners above mentioned) was made Regius Professor of Medicine, vacating the Lee's Readership in Anatomy at Christ Church, whereupon the Dean and Chapter appointed Dr. Rolleston his successor. This office is one of historical interest, as the germ out of which the Science School of Oxford has been largely developed. In 1765, Dr. Matthew Lee founded at Christ Church a Museum of Anatomy, in the building where now is the Chemical Laboratory. But it was not a flourishing foundation when Dr. Acland came back to Oxford to be installed as Reader, and found himself master of the gloomy musty room where a human skeleton hanging by the top of its head to an old brown cord was conspicuous at once as apparatus and ornament. Scarcely any one ever came into this old-world place to inspect the anatomical preparations which embodied the then most advanced Physiology. Dreary as was the outlook of Natural Science in those days, the new period