xlix LIFE OF DR. R0LLE8T0N. the use of iron belonged rather to the introduction of steel, as the old hunters and warriors had little motive to give up their bronze weapons for soft iron ones not practically superior to them. Both from this point of view, and in looking to Central Asia rather than to Britain or the Far East as the earliest source of bronze, this paper is of mark. Some interesting points as to the succession of iron, bronze, and stone weapons are raised by Dr. Rolleston in unpublished letters to his friend Mr. John Evans. In one he remarks on Professor Schaaffhausen's assertion that in some of the Mithra sculptm-es on the Rhine the bull is being slain, not with the ordinary ornamented metal sword, but with what ap- pears to be a stone hatchet. This clearly proved (which however it does not seem to have been) would be an interesting case of keeping up an ancient weapon for ceremonial purposes, as in the parallel case of the flint (silex saxum) with which the Roman ponti- fex slew the sacrificial ox. The same line is followed in another letter commenting on a heavy sword of one piece of bronze, with a bull-dog's head for the pommel of the hilt, in the Museum of Nismes. This, if a war-sword taken from a foe, would interfere with his opinion that' there is no evidence to show that the Romans ever crossed their own Iron swords in anger with Bronze ones in the hands of any enemy.' But if it was a sacrificial sword, then ' during the Bronze period. Bronze must be supposed to have displaced the Silex Saxum in Ritual, and to have retained its place there, when superseded by iron in other activities.' To turn from Rolleston's scientific work to the part he took in University afiairs, his colleagues on Delegacies and on the Heb- domadal Council remember the brilliant oratory with which he often enlivened their debates. His friend the President of Corpus Christi College, who had sat with him at many meetings, thus sketches him in this public capacity: ' The qualities which struck one in Rolleston were the directness of his language, his fearless- ness, and his withering contempt for anything he regarded as mean, or cowardly, or finessing. He had a genuine hatred for compromises, which sometimes perhaps made him unnecessarily hard on the proposals of others; but the presence of such an d