ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONa-BARROW PERIOD. 369 other nations, but of which the remains, as far as I have been able to juclge^ from British barrows do not furnish any proof. In my account of one of the long barrows (Swell vii.), I shall describe how a skeleton was found lying upon the remains of two others, which had undergone some disturbance when the first was put in; and there is no need to labour a proof of the statement that the wish^ of one man to be laid in the same tomb with another, his friend or his patron, is a vera causa for successive inter- ments. But if the arrangement of the bones, the existence of the passages or galleries, and the feelings of human affection, as em- bodied in literature, and detectable, also, in ourselves, all alike speak in favour of the practice of successive interments, evidence of an equally cogent character can be brought forward to show that bodies were stored as they fell in by the death of their owners, and then buried or burnt simultaneously. The description of the struc- ture of a cremation barrow proves the point of simultaneity, but till the theory of human sacrifice be disposed of, the acceptance of the ossuary theory cannot be held to be necessitated. Dr. Thurnam was the principal advocate of the theory^ which ac- counted for a multiplicity of skeletons, of different sexes and ages, being found aggregated together in these barrows, by supposing that the majority of them were the skeletons of slaves or captives, slain to keep the chief company on his journey to, and in his sojourn in, the other world. That such rites were practised by the ' Tliis wish was expressed by the prophet of Bethel in the simple injunction, ' Lay my bones beside his bones ' (i Kings xiii. 31), and is put into the mouth of Patroclus by Homer (Iliad, xxiii. 83, 84), in the beautiful lines^— Mi^ (fioL awv diravtvOe TiO-^fievai bart, 'AxiA^ev, 'AA.A.' onov, cur kTpacprjfKV kv i/ierfpoiai Sofiotci. The imagery of the 32nd chapter of Ezekiel is borrowed from his recollection of successive interments. " See ' Mem. Anthrop. Soc. Lend.,' vol. i., or pp. 28 and 68 of separate publication; 'Crania Britannica,' pi. v, 1, Iviii, lix; 'Archaeological Journal,' vol. xxii, June, 1865; ' Archaeologia,' xxxviii. p. 413, xlii. p. 25 seqq., 1869. In this latter place Dr. Thurnam has collected a large number of passages from ancient and modern writers, in illustration of the practice of immolating victims at funerals. To these passages I would add one from Tertullian, 'De Spectaculis,' xii:—' Glim, quoniam anim.as defunctorum humane sanguine propitiari creditum est, captives vel mali status servos mercati in exequiis immolabant. Postea placuit impietatem voluptati adum- brare. Itaque quos paraverant armis quibus tunc et qualiter poterant erudites tantum ut occidi discerent, mox edito die inferiarum apud tumulos erogabant. Ita mortem homicidiis consolabantur.' Bb