SWISS LAKE-DWELLINGS. 347 Rev. H. B. George shows, be obtained; and that speaking generally all the pottery of the Swiss-stone age is inferior in shape, paste, and size to that of the bronze age. Still with my recollection of the best specimens of British long-barrow pottery, such as those referred to (Article xviii.) as found by myself and others, I needed when at Morges a very definite assurance from that entirely indisputable authority Professor F. A. Forel, to make me believe, as I do, that certain pottery of a much higher degree of excellence had really belonged to the stone age. Thirdly, even in the very early lake-dwelling of Schaffis, barbed and tanged arrow-heads have been found, as indeed also in Danish and Breton stoue-age interments; whilst our long barrows have, as Dr. Thurnam remarked, never furnished, us with any arrow-heads perfected beyond the leaf-shape. Fourthly, the practice of boring, however roughly and by whatever process, the stone axe for the reception of the haft was not unknown even to the lake-dwellers of Schaffis (see Herr E. v. Fellenberg's ' Bericht iiber die Pfahlbauten des Bielersees,' 1875, p. 78), whilst, as Mr. John Evans ('Ancient Stone Implements of Great Britain,' p. 49) has re- marked, the stone axes of this period, at least in Britain, were rarely perforated. The similarly all but, if not entirely, complete absence of nephrit- and jadeit-implements from our British prehistoric series constitutes a fifth point of contrast between them and those procured from the Swiss lakes; and to the ' Ethnogi-aphisch-archaologische Bedeutung ' (to use the words of Prof. H. Fischer in his model monograph ' Nephrit und Jadeit,* 1875, p. I ; see also pp. 48, 49, 54, 355, 367, 377) of this negative fact, we must under all the circumstances of the case assign a very high place. Wild animals, sixthly, are but sparingly represented in early British graves, whilst in some at least of the earliest Swiss lake-dwellings they have a numerical preponderance over the domesticated breeds. It is right however to add that in the early British dwellings for the living and in early British excavations such as the flint mines at Cissbuiy, this numerical inferiority of the wild fauna is by no means so distinctly pro- nounced (see 'Jour. Anthrop. Inst.,' vol. vi. 1876, Article xix.). Seventhly, as regards the craniography of our own species, the skulls of the Swiss lake-dwellers of both stone- and bronze-periods alike belong to that ' massive and grandiose' variety of the dolichocephalic type which the Swiss ethnographers. His and Riitimeyer, have in their often- referred to ' Crania Helvetica' called the ' Sion Typus.' In other words, we have in Switzerland no such evidence for the immigration of a fresh