468 ON THE CBANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN. crania the alisphenoid is wide from before backwards, as thoug-h to furnish adequate lodg-ment for the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, which we know, alike from Gratiolet (' Memoire sur les Plis Cer^b raux,' p. 97) 3.nd Professor John Marshall (' Phil. Trans.' MDCCCLXIV, p. 510), to take a large development in the Bushman race ^. I have in the next place to draw attention to a striking qualita- tive or morphological peculiarity observable in no less than three out of my six Bushman crania; this being the presence either of a perfect, or of a rudimentary division of the malar bone into two distinct parts. The skull presented by Dr. Bleek presents us with a perfect rectangular suture, bilaterally symmeti'ical, as is usually the case with this suture both when it is and when it is, as here, not, rudimentary. In the two skulls 788e and 788^, collected by Mr. Frank Oates, the suture is rudimentary, being represented in each skull by a bilaterally symmetrical fissure running horizontally forwards from the zygomatico-malar articulation 2. When I add to these observations the fact that similar sutures have not within my knowledge and research been observed in other African crania of any of the varieties living on that continent, it will be seen that the presence of them in these skulls goes a considerable way, when coupled with other considerations, towards making it pretty certain that they were of Bushman nationality. Further investigation of the distribution and non-distribution of this most significant suture amongst the several typical races of men lends some ad- ditional force to this argument, and is besides not a little suggestive as to other views. In the Oxford University collection of crania I have not found any traces of it amongst forty-seven Australian, nor amongst our five Tasmanian crania, nor amongst our Stone-age ' For the relation of the alisphenoid, squamous, and frontal, seeBroca, 'Instructions Criiniologiques,' pp. 26, 27, 1875 ; and Gruber, 'Ueber die Verbindung der Schlafen- beinschuppe mit dem Stirnbein,' 'Mem. de I'Academie Imp^riale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg,' tom. xxi. no. 5, 1874. Hermann Scblocker, 'Ueber die Anomalieen des Pterion;' Inaugural-Dissertation zur Univ. Dorpat, 1879. It is right, however, to add that the skull of the Bushwoman whose brain Professor Marshall has described, I.e., had the squamous of the left side joined to the frontal, and that with obliteration of the suture; and that tliough Dr. Williamson has not recorded the presence of this junction in any of the three Bushman crania described by him in his 'Catalogue of the Army Medical Museum,' 1867, he has noted it iu two out of the seven skulls of the closely affined Hottentot race. Similarly rudimentary sutures are observable in several of the Bushman crania in the Royal College of Surgeons of London.