GENEBAL EEMARKS 254 fluting of the fibula and of the sabre-shape of the tibia which are found to accompany it, these skeletons contrast with many of the probably earlier skeletons described by the authors just re- ferred to. It has been stated above, p. 244, that many craniographers have found it difficult to distinguish between the crania of the Celtic and the Teutonic races^ or, in the words of the German antiquary, between the crania of the ' Steingraber \' the analogues of our long barrows, and the ' Reihen-graber' period. It is almost needless to say that the strength and length and other characteristics of the Anglo-Saxon skeletons found buried with such accompaniments ^ as to justify us in referring them to early periods in the Anglo- Saxon conquest of this island will enable any osteologist to distinguish them from the stone-period skeletons. A more detailed comparison of these two sets of skeletons with each other and with those of the bronze age brings out further points of diflFerence between them, and throws a most instructive light upon the social condition of the respective periods. One of these points is the great inferiority of size of the female skeletons belonging to the earlier period as compared with those of the later, or with the male skeletons of their own times. It is easy to under- stand ^ how the German women came to be almost equal to the men with. M. Broca in assigning such perforated humeri to female skeletons, and their presence there I should explain by what follows, pp. 257, 258 infra, as to the harder lot and slighter build of the females in savage tribes. * A very copious list of synonyms for graves of the stone period is given by Weinhold ('Sitzungsberichte d. k. Akad. der phil. hist. CI.,' Bd. xxix. Heft. 2, 1859, pp. 119, 121). His words are—'Sie heissen in Danemark Steendysser, in England Cromlechs, in Frankreich Pierres plates oder Grottes aux i6ea, in Deutschland gewohnlich Hiinengraber. Andere Namen sind Hiinenkeller, Hiinentritte, Hiinenberge, Riesen- betten, Riesenkeller, Zwerg- oder Quargberge, Teufelsbetten, Teufelsaltare, Teufels- kanzel, Teufelskiichen, Steinhauser, Steinofen, Carlsteine, Schluppsteine, Weinberge.' For the single variety of Steingraber which is known as Hunenbetten, and corre- sponds to our ' long barrows with peristaliths' (for which see Thumam,' Archaeologia,' xlii. 1869, p. 51), there exist the following German (I.e. p. 121) synonjrms: Hiinenhiigel, Hiinenstatt, Hiinenburg, Hiihnentritt, Hiihnenkirchoff, Riesenbetten, Riesenberg, Teufelsberg, Bulterbelt, Dausenstein, Danzelstein, Danzelberg, Steintanz, Sonnenstein, Wulfstein, Steinkirche, Steinkreis. This multitude of names is a proof of the age of these monuments, nearly as convincing as the presence of stone- and bone- and the absence of metallic implements. " For an account of these accompaniments see 'Archaeologia,' xlii. 1870; 'Excava- tions at Frilford,' p. 436 seqq. ' Dr. Leonard Schmidt, art. ' Gennania,' Smith's ' Dictionary of Greek and Roman Geography,' p. 995.