NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CISSBURY. 432 this collection we have an indication as to the place where the flints were worked up into weapons; and the marks of fire which have been supposed to have been found there may indicate that the presence of a fire was found desirable and secured by the workmen of those early days. I do not, however, lay much weight upon this latter suggestion, chiefly because I think that the marks of fire would have been more obvious and less ambiguous ^ than they are if the lighting of a fire had been a very common practice with the flint-miners. Part of the lower jaw of an ox [Bos longifrons) has come into my hands from those of Mr. Park Harrison, with the note ' i6 feet/ i.e. that of the level at which it lay in the pit, upon it; and a fragment of the femur of a tame pig {Siis scrofa, var, domestica) appears, though the labelling is a little indistinct, to have come from a higher level, viz. that of 11 feet. The further history of this shaft has been obtained from the postscript to Mr. Park Harrison's paper, ' Journ. Anthrop. Instit.' vol. vii. May 4th, 1878, p. 424 and pp. 431-433, and from additional information furnished to me by that gentleman and by Dr. Kelly. In following up the excavation of Shaft vi. (shown on the plan, PI. X, I.e.), the workmen came first at a little distance above the level of the skeleton, and, as was afterwards made out^ over its left shoulder, upon six flint implements of about 4 or 5 inches long, and subse- quently upon the cist round the skeleton, and then upon the skeleton itself. This skeleton is that of a man between twent}'-- five and thirty, who had suffered from hemiplegia when a child, but had sufficiently recovered to take an efficient share as a flint- miner in the labours of the surroundings in which his remains were found. His had been a formal, that of the female from Cissbury, already described by me ('Journ. Anth. Inst.' vi. 1876, Article xix), an accidental interment; but the bones of the two skeletons and the relics found in company with them show that their owners lived probably about the same time, were themselves of about the same age though not of the same sex, and followed the same avocations. I spoke (page 423) of the skeleton previously found in one of the * Some of the black deposits which in other shafts had been supposed to have been due to fire, turned out, wlien examined microscopically, to be of a vegetable nature, and to bo, possibly enough, identical with the Protococcus lugitbris of Professor Leidy, of Philadelphia.