AND THOSE OP CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 99 Fiilten des Eitheils so verwachsen sind dass sie bei der Geburt vom Uterus abgeris- sen werden.' ' The vascular cells or folds or otherwise shaped organs of the uterus from the connexion of the mother and foetus are so interblonded with the vascular villi and folds of the foetal parts of the membrane, that in parturition they are torn away from the uterus.' There are, however, it must be confessed, but few propositions which can be made of all unguiculate, or of all deciduate mammalia beyond those which the two names connote. These, however, by themselves are sufficient to justify us in retaining the binary division of Professor Weber, coinciding as it does so nearly with the class founded by Linnaeus on the peculiarities of a system so far removed from the reproductive as is the tegumentary. And to them we may add the defenceless condition in which the young of nearly all deciduate mammalia, except the elephant (and Hyrax ?), are brought into the world, and the general, though not universal co-existence in them of multifid Kvers and multifid lungs with simple stomachs. The value of the placentary system of classification is much better seen when we come to the sub- divisions of Weber's great class, when we see that of each of the well-established orders, Simiadae, Insectivora, Rodentia, and Car- nivora, a well-established and distinct aggregation of placental characters can be predicated. Of the Chiroptera I do not speak, as I have only been able to examine a single example from this order, and that but for a short time and at a comparatively early period of development. Of the placentae of the four other orders we may say, as perhaps of the entire sets of characters belonging to each of the orders themselves^ that those of the Carnivora are more distinctly marked off from each and all of the other three than is any one of the other three from any other of the three; and of these three the Insectivora possess, on the whole, a nearer aflinity to the Simiadae than do the Rodents. In each case the characters are those of the placenta at or near full time. In the Simiadae we find the ultimate ramifications of the um- bilical vessels confined to the placenta; and in it the foetal capil- laries are probably not merely apposed to similar maternal vessels, but plunged within a maternal sinus-system. The presence in them of structures known as decidua reflexa and deeidua vera show that all the aeration and all the nourishment which the foetus receives comes from the single or double placenta, and not at all from the extra-placental uterine mucous membrane. The de- H a