BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 27 alone, and not with the intra-cranial masses which they overlie, that we shall have to deal when contrasting- the human with the simious and other animals, for it is in them that we find more marked differences existing than elsewhere in the entirety of the softer parts of the compared organisms, and it is in them that we should anticipate the finding of such difi'erences from what we all know of the correlation subsisting between mental phenomena and the greater or less evolution of these structures. And, secondly^ though less attention has been paid to any differences which may exist between the rest of the intra-cranial nerve stem—between the spinal cord and the peripheral nerve-ramifications throughout the body in the two sets of organisms to be compared—that less atten- tion has nevertheless been sufiicient to show that these differences are of infinitely less moment than those which a comparison of the cerebral hemispheres enables us to elicit. We will commence with a description of the interior of the cavity included within the cerebral hemispheres which we shall have to compare, and proceed, in the second place, to contrast their external surfaces in their simple outlines and in their complex convolutions ; we will conclude by stating the differences which measures show to exist between the connecting floors, and weights show to obtain between the entire mass of the intra-cranial nerve-centres in the one and in the other set of organisms. The question as to the difference between the human ventricular cavity and that of the ape's may be thus stated,—Has the ape such a ventricular cavity tri-radiate, three-horned, as has the man? or has it a ventricular cavity bi-radiate and two-horned, as has the dog ? The two-horned ventricle of the dog is seen in figure i a, ex- posed in the interior of the right hemisphere. The ventricular cavity of the African vervet monkey is shown in figure i h; the ventricular cavity of the American marmoset in figure a. It is clear enough that the African monkey has that which the dog has not, that the former animal has a horn-shaped, finger- shaped creek, turning up into w^hat is in the dog a solid unindented mass. That horn, finger, creek-shaped cavity was in the monkey f in length, the entire length of its brain being little (tV") over 'x\ inches; the analogous, or homologous cavity in the human brain was \" in length, %" longer than the vervet's, albeit its hemispheres were 6f" as against %\". In the American monkey