LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. xiv Broad Church School, more sympathetic to him, relieved him in his scientific work from the pressure of theological restraint, while enlarging his tolerance of other men's views to the widest stretch. But from first to last he held for himself, beneath and almost untouched by theological or scientific discussion, the faith of his early youth, much as he had it from his father, the York- shire clergyman. It is well to get a clear idea of this at the beginning in following Rolleston's career, which cannot be understood without it. But it must also be understood that to him the good of theology consisted in its being the vehicle of morality. It was one thing to hear him argue with his friend Wickham Flower about Augustine's doctrine of the Fall of Man, but quite another thing if all at once he came on some live question of duty or honour, drawing from him solemn words in tones which showed where the inmost motives of his mind were enshrined. The memory of his early friends shows that in his college days it was already with him as in later years, when he had passed from taught to teacher. He had his great Homeric laugh at a sentimentalist, and his all but ferocious scorn of a charlatan. But let him have a right to enforce against selfish resistance, or a wrong to expose and punish, let him feel called on to attack the oppressor of the weak, or the perverter of righteous deaKng, then one might see his eyes kindle and his massive features harden into the attitude of combat, bringing even his shoulders and arms into the first suggestion of battle, truly signalling the mind within. In such real issues, rather than in abstract questions of doctrine, the man and his impulses are to be read. He was a born fighter, ever ready to do battle for truth and right, wherever he believed truth and right were to be found, and needed help from him. Among the records of Rolleston's Undergraduate days are letters written to his friend Miss Mary Beever, a lady whom he used to visit in her house on the side of Coniston, and who in an auntly manner encouraged him to corresporid with her in the old-fashioned serious way. Letters written in men's student days ought to be thus kept, showing as they do the growth and