CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDEU-JOINT. 137 show that the rectus abdominis may be considered to be a special- isation in one animal of one, and in another of the other of these muscles. Neither is evidence wanting to show that the recti abdominis should, instead of being- placed in a class by themselves, have the pectorales as well as the obliqui ranked with them ^. Thirdly, a copiously illustrated memoir on the subject of this paper, ' Die Muskeln der vorderen Extremitaten der Reptilien und Vogel,' by Dr. Riidinger, of Munich, has come into my hands quite recently. In it, however, I can find no views enunciated as to the homology of that most distinctively avian specialisation the pecto- ralis secundus. At p. 105, however, of this memoir I find a state- ment as to the muscles of saurians which confirms the view I had previously formed as to the homology of the muscular bellies which pass in certain animals (see p. 133) from the scapula to the forearm with the hamstring muscles of the lower limb. His words run thus :—' Nur erhebt sich zwischen dem lateralen Kopfe (des Triceps) und dem Deltoideus ein vom Schulterblatt hesonderer Idng- iicher Mjiskel, welcher da, wo gewohnlich das Ligamentum inter- musculare externum angebracht ist, nach unten gelangt, an der Beugeseite des Vorderarms Verstarkung erhalt, und, theilweise mit der Aponeurose der am untern Ende des Humerus entspringenden Muskeln zusammenhangend, seinen Ansatz mit einer diinnen runden Sehne an der Beugeseite des Radius findet.' Finally, I should add that I have strengthened the conclusions which I laid before the Linnean Society in June last by employing, as suggested to me at the meeting by Dr. Boycott, the evidence which may be drawn from the facts of innervation. But as this line of evidence has not, so far as I know, been touched upon in any other memoir upon this subject, I have not thought it neces- sary to keep the particular arguments which belong to it apart from the rest of the text. > See Mivart, 'Proc. Zool. Soc' June 27, 1867, p. 776; Meckel, 'Vergleich. Anatomie,' iii. pp. ijs, 197 ; Ecker, 'Anatom, Frosches,' p. 95. See also the descrip- tion of fig. 3, e i, on p. 138.