404 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAREOW PERIOD, in no way owing their disposition to the disintegration of the tumulus into talus. The horned east end, therefore, which, to us, when we had removed these masses of stones^ presented a magni- ficent and striking appearance, was not presented to the eyes of the early Britons, who erected it, nor, till 1874, had it been presented to those of any one else. The almost perfect state in which one skeleton found in the passage was recovered enhances the regret with which we have to think of the rifling of the 'chamber,' and the destruction, for craniological purposes, of the nine, or possibly more, bodies it con- tained. This skeleton was much contracted, lying on its left side, with the head at south-west by south, with the right hand up to the face, and the left at the elbow of the right arm. The two skeletons which lay beneath this one had been disturbed, probably, when its owner came to be buried. One of the two disturbed skeletons had belonged to a child about two or three years of age, and it lay under the lower part of the man's skeleton, having all its upper part in position, with its head to the north. Close to the child's head was the arm-bone of a woman from 18 to 20 years of age, of whose skeleton the lower vertebrae and pelvic bones were in situ, whilst the rest had been disturbed, and the skull was missing. The femur was recovered, however, and being 15-9 inches in length, gives a stature of 4 feet 10 inches; one disproportionately small, as compared with that of the male, which was 5 feet 5 inches. No record has been preserved, or, at least, has been recovered by us, as to how the nine bodies, or more, which the chamber contained had been packed away in its area of 7 feet by 4. Some further interest is given to this barrow by the fact that some secondary Saxon burials were discovered in it in the November of 1874. Two of the three bodies discovered upon this occasion had been disturbed; one was in the extended position, and still in situ from patellae to lower jaw, inclusive, but had suffered some displacement, owing, probably, to the exceeding shallowness (9 inches) of the grave in which it lay. With this skeleton were two buckles, one on each shoulder, a knife on the pelvis, an amber bead near the sternum, and a piece of red pottery (pseudo-Samian) at the feet. The bones show the skeleton to have been a woman's, of about thirty years of age, and the mode of burial shows the sex and nationality to be as above stated. The head was at the south, the hands upon the pelvis.