434 NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CISSBURY. the male may be supposed to have belonged to a somewhat younger individual. In the male skeleton, again, the manubrium sterni is not anchylosed to the body; but this anchylosis, as visible in the female skeleton, must be considered an abnormality, explicable, possibly, by some peculiarity of diet, as it does not usually super- vene till advanced life. That the owners of the two skeletons under comparison were really workers in the flint mines in which they were found, is rendered probable by the markings of their long bones, of which mention has already been made in the description of the female skeleton (page 423). The insertion of the deltoid, a muscle greatly employed in climbing, is very prominent in both humeri of the male skeleton, but especially in the right; the insertions of the greater pectoral and of the latissimus dorsi, which take such a large share in pulling the body after the upwardly extended and grasping arms, assume, as in the gorilla, the shape of long, roughly undulated, depressions; the anterior border of the bones, from the upper end of the insertion of the pectoral down to that of the deltoid, describes a curve convex forward to an extent which I have not noted in other human humeri, but which is very similar to that described by the anterior border of the platycnemic tibiae. The musculo- spiral grooves are poorly marked; but the flat lower part of the posterior surface shows much more signs of the implantation of muscular fibres than is usual even in much more powerful humeri. All the four ulnae of the two skeletons now before us resemble each other, in having the lesser sigmoid notch for the cylindrical head of the radius shallow and poorly defined, whilst the lower edge of the bone describes a much more marked carinated curve, extending over a distance of 2^ inches by 3^ inches, from the level of that notch forward, than is usual in human ulnae. These peculiarities are, according to M. Broca, noticeable in certain anthropoid apes (see his ' M6moires,' torn. ii. p. 181}; but like the somewhat similar tibial platycnemy, they are more pronounced in the human than the simian bones. Setting aside the sexual disparity, which is so often observable in an exas-o-erated deg-ree in the limb bones of uncivilised races (see ' British Barrows/ p. 659, and this volume, p. 257), the lower limb bones are, like the upper, curiously similar in the two skeletons, and may have their similarity explained in like manner by reference to