79 AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. wall and the umbilical vein, which is not rare in mammalia ^ was very plainly demonstrable. The placenta proper has assumed the 'flocculent' appearance which prolonged maceration, whether in weak spirits or in any other such menstruum, will confer on any placenta, however ' cellulo vascular ' or ' spongy,' in the normal condition. Still to the apices of its villus-bearing trees, shreds of the lamina are in several instances left adhering-, especially in the angle between the chorionic upgrowth and the uterine aspect of the placenta. The layer of tissue adherent to the utero-placental area possessed histological characters quite distinct from those of the muscular coat it overlay. The circular muscular coat is easily separable from the longitudinal. The lamina of tissue intermediate between the placenta and the utero-placental area I would propose (without any reference to the etymological meaning of the word 'serotina,' or to the now ex- ploded theory which the word was intended to bring before the mind) to call ' deciduous serotina ; the utero-placental mucous area I would call ^non-deciduous serotina-' and the spongy structure made up of villi and umbilical vessels, and, in all placental mam- mals (except Cetacea, Artiodactyles, and Perissodactyles, and possibly Bruta), of more or less maternal structure inextricably intermixed as well, I would call 'placenta.'' The word 'after-birth' includes ' placenta' and ' deciduous serotina/ both usually, though not in- variably, coming away together. Owing to errors of observation, the name ' decidua serotina' has been applied to the structure I would call ' non-deciduous serotina,' as well as to that to which Dr. Priestley^, like myself, would limit it. It is called 'parietal decidua' by Professor Goodsir^, and 'caduque utero-placentaire ' by M. Robin ^. And in an account of it given by Professor Kolliker, I find him speaking of it in the human subject as ' eine zusammenhangende Haut wenn er gut erhalten istV • It is sometimes called 'placenta materna;' but this phrase is applied to the maternal element of the ' placenta' also, ' Eathke and Coste, cit. Kolliker, ' Entwickelungsgeschiclite,' p. 420. ' ' On tbe Development of the Gravid Uterus,' pp. 22 and 48, i860. * 'Anatomical and Pathological Observations,' 1845, p. 60, pi. 3, fig. 6, * 'M^m. Acad. Imp. M&A. Paris,' i86i, tom. xxvi. pp. 131 and 141, where there is a di8<[ui.sition on its histology. See also C'azeau, 'Traitd des Accouchements,' 1856, pp. 192 and 202. M.c. pp. 145 and 158.