131 CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. infraspinatus differentiated from a supraspinatus in either birdj saurian, or crocodile. But both these latter classes possess the muscle whichj with the origin of the teres minor, has the insertion of the teres major, and is called ' subscapulo-humeral' by Macalister ('Proceedings Royal Irish Academy,' December 1867) and Wood ('Proceedings Royal Society,' May 23,1867, p. 534),' infraspinatus secundus' by Professor Haughton, 'teres major' by Stannius (' Zootomie,' ii. p. 128, and ed.), and^ finally,' teres minor' by many anatomists, though incorrectly, if the insertion is to determine the name and nature of a muscle rather than its origin. Meckel (' Ver- gleichend. Anatomic,' iii. p. 512) uses this last nomenclature, speak- ing of a muscle with the origin and insertion specified as a ' teres minor,' and stating that it is found in the horse, in ruminants, in the ai', and in the mole. A few birds possess this accessory teres major. In the common fowl it arises from the outer surface of the scapula, a little way anteriorly to the downward-growing process, so well marked in the gallinae and in the dodo, which receives the tendon of the anterior portion of the serratus anticus. It is inserted on the posterior lip of the pneumatic foramen, a point serially homologous with that of the insertion of the smaller glutei of human anatomy. This muscle is not possessed by the common pigeon, but it is found in the common buzzard and sparrow-hawk, and in the goose. The teres major proper is of very large size in ordinary birds ; it is present in the crocodile, but absent in saurians. It is not inserted with the latissimus dorsi in the sparrow-hawk, but passes to the anterior lip of the entrance to the pneumatic foramen, to a point just opposite to that of the insertion of the accessory teres major. In birds there is no praescapular region (Parker, 'Shoulder-Girdle,' p. 143), and consequently no supraspinatus. Indeed, as the supra- spinatus of Meckel, 1. c. p. 313 (no. xv. Schoepss), receives its nerve-supply from the circumflex, and must be looked upon as a part of the deltoid, birds would appear to have no ' suprascapular' muscles at all, unless we may consider the deeper fibres of the praeglenoid head of the levator humeri in the emu and apteryx to represent such a muscle; for there is such a muscle in the crocodile, underneath the epicoraco-humeral and the deltoid, and supplied by the same nerve as the former of these muscles. It takes orij?in from the triangular surface {ss, fig. i) intercepted between the K 2