386 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAREOW PERIOD. jaw, probably belonging to it, indicates age by the wear of its teeth and the loss of all its molars, except one on each side. The jaw is somewhat atrophied in consequence of this, and the ramus lies obliquely to the body of the bone. Ext. length in inches . 7.6 Occipital arc • 5-0 Ext. breadth • 5-4 Entire arc . i6-8 "Vert, height . 5-8 Ceph. index (approx.) • 70 Absol. height , • 5-7 Basilar angle • 30 Frontal arc . • 5-2 Ant. post, index 110: 192 Parietal arc . 5-6 Basi-cranial axis 4 The high basilar angle of this skull shows that if it had retained its maxillary bones and teeth it would, in all probability, have rested upon its occipital condyles and teeth when placed on a flat surface. Having a high figure for its vertical arc, coupled with the ordinary length of basi-cranial axis, its cranial vault has been rotated forward so as to throw the bregma far (viz. xV^hs of an inch) in front of a line drawn from the auditory foramen upwards at right angles to a horizontal line. The highest point in the vertical contour is 2'i posterior to the coronal suture, and from this highest point the parietals slope over, so as to form an equable incline with the superior occipital squama. There is a very large occipital spine which hinders the exterior surface of the skull from showing any great difference between the glabello-postremal and the glabello-inial diameters. The conceptaculum cerebelli, though sloping upwards, is yet far from approaching the vertical line as nearly as in typical braehycephalic skulls. The forehead slopes gently from the line of the largely-developed supraciliary ridges to that of the frontal eminences, after which it passes, with greater obliquity, into the upwardly-inclined plane of the anterior halves of the parietals. The frontal is markedly carinate, its mesial elevation passing continuously onwards into the still better marked parietal ridge, on either side of which a post-coronal depression is visible exteriorly, corresponding with an inwardly-looking convexity of the inner skull table. It presents a well-marked pentagonal outline when viewed in the occipital norma, the parietal tuberosity being nearly as well marked as the mesial vortical carina. Swell i. (c).—Netherswell, Dec. 1867.—Strong man, past middle period of life. To this cranium may probably be assigned the femur, measuring 18-4 inches, as also the bones found in situ, September 32nd, 1874, but without a head. The other two male