had finished, see Mr. Park Harrison's paper, ibidi, vi. PI. XXIV. p. 432, May 1S77. XX. NOTES ON A SECOND SKELETON FOUND AT CISSBUEY. At page 431 of vol. vii. of the 'Journal of the Anthropological Institute,' May^ 1878, will be found a short account by Mr. J. Park Harrison of the discovery of a second skeleton in the Cissbury Flint-works. This discovery was made at the end of March of that year, and having myself been engaged in the investigations eiirried on at Cissbury in 1875 (see 'Journal Anthrop. Inst.' vol. v. Jan. 1876, Article xix. General Lane Fox, 'Excavations in Cissbury Camp,' pp. 357 to 390, and vol. vi. 1876, pp. 20 to 36), I was suffi- ciently interested in Mr. Park Harrison's discovery to visit the scene of his operations on April 5, 1878. On arriving I found that the skeleton had been carefully removed and committed to the guardianship of Dr. C. Kelly, the Officer of Health for the District, and now Professor of Medical Jurispru- dence at King's College. To him, as to Mr, Park Harrison, my best thanks are due, for the information which they most kindly supplied me with as to the details of the 'find ;' and to Dr. Kelly's professional knowledge and supervision the almost perfect recovery of the bones is to be ascribed. The view which, partly from the data furnished to me by these! gentlemen, partly from my own observations on the spot, I have come to entertain as to the history of this interment may be briefly stated thus:—One of the ' cave-pits ' or shafts of the Cissbury flint mines ^ having been disused by the flint workers for some time, had got filled up to about one-half of its depth, just as several of these pits have got filled up since our opening of them, by the scaling ^ For a ground-plan showing the particuhar shaft in its relation to the other shafts in its immediate neighbourhood, see Mr. Park Harrison's paper 'Additional Dis- coveries at Cissbury' in ' Journ. Anthrop. Inst.,' vol. vi. PI. X. p. 413, May 187S, where it is numbered Shaft vi. For a figure of one of these shafts as they appear when cleared out of the rubble tvhich till recently filled them up, and as it may be supposed to have appeared, if we add by imagination a quantity of rubble to the bottom of it, when the flint workers