471 ON THE CEANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN. Professor Flower has phrased it at p. 255, I.e., the Bushman cranium is ' mesaticephalie,' 'orthognathous' (or, at least, mesognathous, my average being 98, which is ' mesognathous,' as against Professor Flower's 97-8, which is just below the limits of mesognathy), 'pla- tyrrhine,' ' microseme,' and ' microcephalic' By a comparison of my measurements, not with those of Professor Flower, but with my own records of the history of each skull, an even more surprising and more important fact, in the way, however, not of coincidence but of the reverse, is brought to light. The most aberrant of the six in the matter of measurements is the very skull about the authenticity of which there is the most perfect certainty. This is the skull presented by Mr. Fairclough, with which were sent the articles specified above, as characteristic of the Bushman race. But the skull itself is, in almost every important particular, different from the five other crania here measured with it. Its circumference and cubical capacity, its length, breadth, and height, and their indices, its orbital and nasal indices, are all alike aberrant from the average. It certainly would not have entered into the head of any craniographer to refer this skull to the Bushman variety of our species, unless he had been informed of the character of its accompaniments. A morphological point which might have served to indicate the character of its owner—I mean the feebleness of the nasal spine, a shortcoming more or less evident in all, or nearly all, Bushman crania—does not help us here; for we observe in this skull that the line of sym- physis of the two halves of the upper jaw rises here anteriorly, as it does sometimes in European jaws, into a raised double ridge, which, though it slopes gradually into the plane of the alveolar border, and does not rise into a sharply-defined angular spine, and so far falls short of the typical 'anterior nasal spine,' is yet a very different thing from the very feebly-developed bifid process of ordinary Bushmen, and many other African and other savage jaws. The question arises, how are we to interpret these facts ? "We may explain them by saying that the elasticity and plasticity of the type is such as to admit of the escape of an exceedingly aber- rant individual, and its homogeneity and plasticity nevertheless also such as to allow of its walls joining again, and restoring the perfect circumscription which is implied in our speaking of the