BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIJJ ANIMALS. 35 indeed bears evidence to tliis characteristic of the human brain ; we hear of a 'long-headed man' in common parlance, as of a dolicho-eephalic man in scientific, in contrast to a brachycephalic man and its trivial rendering-; but it is in scientific books alone that we hear of, or rather read of aepycephalic ^ (Huschke, p. loo) or aerocephalic ('Crania Britannica,'. Dec. ii. plate 12) men. The reason is simply this; men differ greatly as to the length of their heads, they differ little as to the height of them. It is obvious that it may be said that greater height means increase in quantity, implies greater force, more perfect function; but that it constitutes after all but a difference of degree, not of kind,—that the muscles of Milo of Crotona were not more truly muscles than those of the puniest of modern mortals because there was more of them; that, in a word, quantitative is not specific difference; and that, in French language, the greater altitude of the human brain is a difference of physiological, not of serial, value. To this, however, I would answer,—waiving for the moment my metaphysical objec- tions to the distinction which is so frequently drawn,—that the fact of the highest of the apes differing more widejy from the lowest of mankind in this very dimension of altitude than in either that of breadth or length, whilst the lowest of mankind differs less from the highest in this self-same dimension than in any other, does seem to me to confer something of a classificatory value upon it. It is possible, however, that I am laying, and have laid upon another occasion ^, more stress upon this point than a conscientious record of an extensive number of measurements of human crania of various races, the encephalon not being accessible, would show it to be able to bear. Measurements, on the one hand, of crania known to have been artificially deformed would be excluded from such a list; while, on the other hand, for the argument to remain valid, absolute certainty must somehow be obtained as to the impossibility of such artificially produced deformities ever becoming hereditarily transmissible. Mr. Marshall has shown that the chimpanzee's brain is most markedly inferior to the human brain in this very dimension of altitude, but it is fair to the subject to say that this discrepancy is less than what I found and recorded in the same periodical as ' Hochschjidler. * 'Nat. Hist. Review,' No. II., April, 1861, p. 209. D 2