ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONa-BARROW PERIOD. 365 interment in such barrows. Several instances, however, have been put on record in which there seems to be much reason for accepting the description of the existence of such cists so placed. The account of the exploration of the Littleton Drew Long- Barrow, successively by Sir Richard Colt Hoare and by G, P. Scrope, Esq., M.P,, given in the description of PI. 24 of the ' Crania Britannica;' and that of the exploration of the tumulus of Charlton Abbots, given by L. Winterbotham, Esq., in the ' Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries,' April 19, 1866, appear to me to give trustworthy histories of such discoveries ; and other examples may be found in Dr. Thurnam's paper on ' Long Barrows' in the ' Archaeologia' for 1869. Weinhold^ divides the Hiinenberge into two classes, accordingly as they contain 'cists,' or chambers with galleries^. In a long barrow, ' Swell vi.,' I found what appeared to me to have been a closed cist, containing a considerable number of human remains, and also the skeleton of a dog, as will be related at length further on. This receptacle had been much disturbed, and I shall not, therefore, lay any weight upon the presence, a short distance above it, of some fragments of finer thong-marked pottery than I have seen from any other long barrow; still, some traces of a passage or gallery leading to it would, I think, have been discovered if they had existed. The bones from this, as also from another somewhat similarly dilapidated sepulchre in the same barrow, had less of the manganic oxide discolouration than was observable upon bones from the galleried chambers in this district; and though this may be explained as being due to some chemical difference in the soil, it is also possible that it may indicate a lesser antiquity in the bones so affected, as compared with the others. On the whole, I am inclined to think that indications are not wanting which suggest to us that inhumation will ultimately be shown to have been the earliest mode of burial practised in these, as yet the earliest of known sepulchres ; that inhumation in galleried chambers was probably the earliest variety practised, at least where the necessary slabs for the construction of such chambers and ' L, c, p. 6. ' So Engelhardt, in his ' Catalogue of the Antiquities in the Copenhagen Museum,* speaking of the ' Grabkammer of the stone age,' says it' hat bimeilen eineu niedrigern bedeckten Steingang' (p. 9, ed. 1872).