70 ON THE BLOOD-COKPUSCLES OF THE TWO-TOED SLOTH. Since writing the abovCj I have, through the kindness of T. J. Moore, Esq., of the Liverpool Museum, had the opportunity of ex- amining the blood of an elephant, Elephas Lidicits, which had died a week previously in Mr. Mander's Menagerie. In this blood very many nucleated red blood-cells were visible; but in all observed, with perhaps one exception, t/ie coloured factor was iivternally placed, whilst the colourless formed the envelope. It is, of course, impossible to explain this arrangement as being a retention in a mammal of the condition usually met with in ovipara; for in these latter creatures it is the nucleus which is colourless, whilst the parts exteriorly to it are coloured. When the elephant's blood- cells turned over in the slide, they presented much the appear- ance which a figure of a blastodermic vesicle does when its area pellucida is dumb-bell shaped, the envelope holding, in many cases, almost as favourable a relation in point of size to the nucleus, if so it may be called, as the blastodermic vesicle does to its area pellucida. This appearance I have noted also in the blood of the horse, of the rabbit, and of the human subject. It is different enough from that described by Dr. Roberts in the Royal Society's ' Proceedings,' March 19th, 1863, as produced in mammalian blood-cells by the action of tannin ; but, on repeating his experiment, I satisfied my- self that the two sets of cases had this in common, viz. that they show that the homogeneous coloured mammalian blood-cells may be separated into two parts—one colourless and the other coloured— of which the latter shall occupy the smaller area. I am inclined to think that the elephant's blood, though not fresh, still gave better opportunities for judging of the real nature of the appearance of nucleation than dried slides, such as those of the sloth's corpuscles, could give. [Note.—The Editor may refer to some observations on the blood of Cholopus hoff- manni (Trans. Eoy. Soc. Edinb. xxvii. p. 8i), in which he describes, in a proportion of the corpuscles, the central part differentiated from the peripheral part of the cor- puscle by a sharp line, so as to give the appearance of a central nucleus.]