826 APPENDIX. indeed the yew, Taxus haccata, and the juniper, Juniperus communis, the only other reiDresentatives of the entire natural order Coniferae ^ In a round barrow at Kepwick examined by Canon Green well (see ' British Barrows/ p. 337) and myself the grave was found lined with the bark and branches of tlie birch; much as the Lapp graves, described in the ' Compte Rendu' of the Stockholm International Congress of An- thropology, 1876, tom. i. p. 181, or Mestorf's Report of it, 1874, p. 13, contained bodies entirely covered with several layers of birch bark sewed round them to protect them as much as possible. It is interesting to add that in these tombs, constructed of stones, and with much pains, 'on y a retrouv6 . . . des pointes de flfeche et des cuillers en bois de renne ainsi que des fragments de poterie . . .' and that 'quelques-uns des tom- beaux renfermaient une ou deux pieces de bronze et de fer.' Herr Victor Hehn has in two passages, I.e. pp. 11 and 425, laid so much weight upon the importance of the lime or linden tree (the ' lyndes faire' of Chaucer, Tilia euro2)aea, grandifolia, and parvifolia of botanists) to man in early stages of culture, at once for the manufacture of matting, an invention of older date than weaving, and for the supply of honey to bees, to say nothing of its other uses, that in view of the indigenous character of the tree being disputed it becomes of importance to note that De CandoUe (1. c. p. 658), with the arguments of Messrs. Leighton and Bromfield and with the philological evidence furnished by Davies (' Welsh Botany,' p. 53) before him, inclines to the aflSrmative side of the question. As regards the small-leaved lime-tree, Tilia parvifolia, • The Scotch fir, P. sylvestns, must have met Caesar's eyes in great abundance in the parts of Britain which he traversed. Still he, not being a botanist, may have failed to recognise it as an abies; and it may, in the other countries in which he might have seen it, have been, then as now, overgrown and obscured by its natural allies. Or indeed it may have been represented in those regions at that time only by that dwarf marsh-haunting variety which, following zoological analogies, I would call P. fylvestris, var. palustris. The Swiss spruce, P. dbies, on the other hand, which as much excels our English spruce in size and beauty as our Scotch fir excels the Swiss, may very easily have been confounded with the silver fir, P. picea, by Caesar, as when old it comes to resemble it both in general facies and in the colour of its bark. I have thought that the spruce may, like our common elm, have attained its present numerical preponderance in recent times and owing to man's help and its superior serviceability. And Dr. Uhlmann tells me it is less alnmdantly represented in the stone-period lake-dwelling of Miinchenbuchsee than the silver fir. Dr. H. Christ, on the other hand, says tlie reverse is the case in the station of Roben- hausen, which, according to Rutimeyer, ' Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' p. 161, bears other evidence of belonging to a later ' Kulturzustand.' For the geographical distribution of the Ahietineae, see De Candolle, 1. c, pp. iftS, 190, 192 ; Fischer, 'Flora von Bern,' 1863, pp. 227, 228; Heer in Keller, ed. Lee, p. 349 ; Dr. Christ in Rutimeyer, I.e., pp. 228, 229.