BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 31 and a-half ago differ; but so far as the ventricles go, the figures given in the current number of the 'Natural History Review^' might very easily be interchanged with that standing for human struc- tures in the drawing of the anatomists, who had never dreamt of contrasting these organs with those of the ape. And should any one retaining any lurking kindness for the posterior cornu, come thus warped, to decide which of the two figures was intended for the simiousj and which for the human brain, infallibly his judgment would be wrong. For the figure of the human ventricle drawn by the famous Eustachius, a name familiar to even the unlearned, and edited by the almost equally famous Lancisi, has one of its posterior cornua shortened and stunted and unsymmetrical, whereas the posterior cornua in the drawing of our celebrated Dutch con- temporaries are large and well-defined, exactly symmetrical cavities. I cannot say whether the elder anatomists purposely drew these cornua of unequal size; certain it is that they very often are in nature as Eustachius has drawn them in three of the figures in his seventeenth plate; his letter-press is silent upon the point, to which, however, the brothers Wenzel spoke ^ unambiguously many years later. The points wherein the human exterior surfaces and the simious brains coincide and those in which they differ can be arranged under two heads. Either they are such as the eye can judge of, even though its owner be not an anatomist ex professo, depending as they do upon outline and general configuration; or they are such as a deeply-going analysis of the complexity of the convolutions alone can elicit. For the power of describing this second class of differences at all we are indebted to M. Gratiolet, and by means of the lettered and numbered diagrams, which are taken from his work, I shall hope to make these differences and resemblances intelligible to you. To begin with the more easily intelligible class of distinctions, those which are based on general outline and con- figuration. Looking at a human and a simious cerebrum from above, it is easy to see that both being ovoid, the ape's brain is both more elegantly and more exactly egg-shaped. But elegance and exactness are here, as often elsewhere, purchased at the cost of strength and substance. The human ovoid is blunt because it is ' January, 1862, Plate IV. * 'De Cerebro Hominis et Brutorum,' Tubingen, 1812.