48 ON THE AFFINITIES AND DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE answer will be in the ncg-ative; the application of such an ad- mission to further argument I leave to suggest itself. The two cerebral hemispheres, with the internal and external anatomy of which we have so long been dealing, might well bear some other name than hemisphere, for, according to results of experiments performed pathologically, for us, either by accident or disease, they are not so much parts of one whole as two organs mutually supplementing each other's meanings, in the same manner as any of the numerous sets of paired organs in our bi-laterally symmetrical bodies. Still, as ' vis uniia foriior^ there is an appara- tus in the brain for enabling the two distinct organs which its hemispheres, or rather ovoids, make up, really to act as if they were halves of one whole. This apparatus consists of various longi- tudinal and transverse connecting bars and floors, between what would be in the adult animal, as in lower and developing organisms, easily divaricable, albeit apposed masses. The most important of these, in a physiological point of view, is the corpus callosum. It roofs over the ventricles; it is continuous with the fibres of the now familiar hippocampus minor; it binds together both the ovoids during life, as it prevents them utterly falling apart after death. (See Figs, i a, i b, 2.) It is all but, if not entirely, fibrous, inter-nunciant; it transmits ; it cannot originate; its in- crease of bulk may be supposed to depend considerably upon in- crease of use, for in the child it is but one-half (or less) the length of what it is in the adult, increasing, it may be, from as little as i-| to 4 inches. The relation of length in the monkey may be gathered from the diagram (Fig. i b). It is seen not to extend as far back as two shaded nodules; in the human brain it projects beyond. A more careful and searching examination' has shown that its sectional area, in relation to the ovoids it binds together, is in the ape but half of that of the same structure in the same relations in man. This, again, is but a difference of degree, but it is a real difference, albeit clearly of physiological rather than of serial importance. Our final enquiry will be, what is the weight of the entire nerve mass contained within the ape's brain-case, and what is the weight of the human encephalon ? This weight is either absolute, what the ^ ' Nat. Hist. Review,' July, i86i, 'On the Brain of a Young Chimpanzee,' by J. Marshall, Esq., F.R.S.