xxxviii LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. real and striking as it may be to personal experience, does not lend itself easily to description. Some accounts written down at different times of his life may give an idea of the memory of him which remains in the minds of the few who taught him and the many who learnt from him. One of his students writes:—'During the years 1868-9, when reading for the School of Natural Science at Oxford, I had the privilege of studying Physiology and Comparative Anatomy under the direction of Dr. EoUeston. . . . His lectures were always most thorough. With a profound knowledge of the subject on hand he combined a happy power of bringing that knowledge within our reach. His voice was peculiarly pleasant, his pro- nunciation so clear that I never missed a word, though the lecture-room was large and crowded. There was a deep earnest- ness about his manner, which could not fail to impart a.i-eflection of earnestness to his hearers. He encoui'aged us to take notes of his lectures, and was particularly careful to insist that we made a fair copy of those notes. This he would look over with considerable attention ; on referring to my note-books I am struck with the thoroughness of his scrutiny. Not only did he correct all mistakes, but often filled up omissions, inserting much valuable matter. Those note-books, containing copious additions from his honoured hand, cannot fail to be a lasting and valued memorial of him to all who are fortunate in their possession. He did not consider his duty towards us completed when the lecture was over and its notes corrected. If it was often hard for us to attend the Museum in the Summer afternoons, the hardness was always alleviated by the reflection that "the Doctor" was sure to be there. The Court of the Museum is fitted up with enclosures in which the student finds a table and chair. He draws the curtain and settles himself down to studying the various specimens arranged on shelves round his enclosure. The Book of explanations lay ready on the table, written in Dr. Rolleston's own hand ; he was perfectly familiar with the many thousand specimens that the Museum contains. He would often visit us in these hours of pi'ivate study, and ask if we had any difficulty,