129 CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOIKT. deltoid. Yet, as is seen by fig. 3, this muscle receives a head from 11 surface of the scapula as completely turned viscerad as the iliacal surface of the ilium ever is. The origin of the slender epicoraco- humeral of the ohamaeleon is limited to the external surface of its coracoid and praecoracoid ; but its supraspinatus, if we may so style the muscle which comes next in order from below upwards after the deltoid, does receive just such a factor from the visceral surface of the scapula as does the epicoraco-humeral of the crocodile. This muscular belly having the stem of the scapula placed exteriorly to it reminds one forcibly of the relation held by the os ilii to the iliacus; but the lesson which it teaches does not depend upon such resemblances as this, but upon the retention to some extent by the chamaeleon of the primitive rod-like character of the scapula, which makes it easier for us to see how it may rotate any one of its surfaces, when developed like the fluting' on a column, into several different bearings in different animals. It is easier for us to un- derstand how a muscle can wrap its origin round and about the various aspects of a cylindriform, than it is for us to conceive of similar indifferentism in the various surfaces of a many-facetted bone; and upon the conquering of this difficulty depends our power of homologising the spinati with the iliacus ^. A second argument in the same direction presents itself from another quarter, that of innervation. The homologies of the nerves of the two limbs are much masked by the iliopsoas having carried with it in front of the pubic arch the anterior crural nerve—as also by the separation from this nerve of the peroneal trunk, which is seen, by its distribution, to correspond mainly with those elements of the museulo-spiral nerve which are distributed in the distal seg- ments of the upper limb. But if we place side by side, with diagrams of the nerves of the two limbs, such as those given in plates iii. and iv. of Mr. Flower's ' Diagrams,' tables which give the spinal nerves to which the nerves of the limbs are ultimately traceable, we see that the suprascapular nerves correspond with the nerves to the iliacus, and the nerve to the subclavius with the branch ' The so-called ' third or deep head ' of the Iliopsoas (see Henle, 'Handbuch Anat. Mensch.' i. 3. 242), the musculus iliacus intemus minor of Luschka ('Anat. Mensch. ii. 2. 131) ia described by the latter anatomist as lying quite exteriorly to the pelvic cavity. It comes thus to correspond most instructively with a teres minor. Similai'ly helpful is the large size of the facet of origin of the teres major in such an animal aa Ur6U,» maritimug.