Iviii LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. Rolleston and his friend Professor T. H. Green, who were mainly instrumental in obtaining a Pax-liamentary Commis- sion to enquire into Corrupt Practices in the City of Oxford. This Commission had especially to deal with a class of voters who had brought disgrace on the constituency, which the enquiry resulted in depriving up to the present time of both its Members, by the suspension of the Parliamentary Writ. In 1872, when it was proposed to establish a Military Centre at Oxford, Professor Rolleston, anticipating from the scheme an increase of distraction and dissipation of student life, took a prominent part in the action of Convocation against it. The Vice-Chancellor was authorised to sign a memorial, and a Delegacy of six persons (of whom Dr. Rolleston was one) was appointed for the purpose of having an interview with the Secretary for War. This opposition, as well as the private influence which Rolleston exerted himself to bring to bear on Members of Parliament, was unavailing, as was another attempt in 1874. That the University should have opposed the establishment of barracks at Oxford is intelligible, but the apprehension proved quite unfounded that undergraduate life, would be made more luxurious, or indeed perceptibly affected at all, by the military element. On a larger matter of politics, Rolleston acted with greater effect, led by the conviction of the hopelessness of Turkish rule, derived (as has been already pointed out) from his Crimean expe- riences. He mentions this himself in a letter written from Lau- sanne, Oct. 7, 1877, to Baron de Bogushevski, thanking him for some Slavonic skulls and insisting on their entire distinctness from German skulls. ' I hope you may have noticed that I have been engaged in several Anti-Tui'k societies in the way of subscribing &c. I was one of the conveners of the St. James's Hall Meeting last autumn, which I rejoiced to see yesterday the official news- paper at Constantinople observed had shown them they would not get help from us. I wish you or any of your countrymen, who must find it hard to understand how the English can sympathise with those wi-etched Turks, could have seen that