UPON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 231 Morley, ' Eng-lish Writers,' 1867, vol. i. pt. i. p. 159) referred to as ao-reeinff in asserting that the Irish Gael came from Spain; and it is even added, as if the process had been actually observed in the Bay of Biscay, that ' by means of their small ships, slowly and in the course of years, the Spanish Gaels colonised Ireland and our western coasts.' It seems obvious enough that what is thus put forward as a consensus of evidence means merely that a number of inferior writers repeated, as is so often the case, with particular emphasis and increase of precision one of the very few rash sug- gestions which a really great writer may have made ^. The duality of type presented to us by the intermingling of dolichocephali and brachycephali in the interments of the bronze period has been continued down to the present day amongst the in- habitants of Wales and some other Celtic localities in forms which, however real, are yet happily compatible with their occupying the same area both in life and after death. The present Bishop of St, David's, in his book, 'Vestiges of the Gael in Gwynedd,' 1851, pp. 73, 73, whilst accepting the usual philological and physiological arguments against the singleness of origin for the entire British population of Wales, adds certain evidence, based upon the differing moral phenomena manifested at the present day by the inhabitants of the Principality in the form of mutual repulsion and dislike, which points in the same direction. For this the reader may be referred to his book. A similar history is given by Professor Broca * Prichard, ' Phys. Hist.' iii. 108, who speaks of Tacitus as having been ' under the mistake of supposing Spain to be opposite to South Wales,' and of ' xindue stress' having been laid by various writers, including Niebuhr, upon ' the idea of attributing an Iberian origin to the Silures,' seems to think that it was not his ' deliberate opinion that the Silures came from Spain.' A good deal depends upon the reading of the over-terse phraseology of the historian ; I incline to think that by the words ' proximi Gallia et similes sunt' Tacitus meant to indicate that a third division of the inhabi- tants of Great Britain, in opposition to the Caledonians and the Silures, was constituted by those inhabiting the south-east corner of the island, next to Gaul, of virhom Julius Caesar had spoken in a parallel passage, B. G. 5. 14. If this be the true meaning of those five words, the words which Prichard refers to as qualifying the suggestion as to the Silures,' in universum tamen aestimanti Gallos vicinam insulam occupasse credi- bile est,' would not really have any relation to them. Zeuss,' Die Deutschen,' p. 202, is as distinctly condemnatory of his suggestion as is Prichard : 'Mit eben so ungenilgenden Griinden wie die Vcilker von Caledonien von Germanien werden diese Silures von Tacitus von den Iberem abgeleitet.' As regards the Irish tradition of a conuexion between Ireland and Spain, Professor Rhys writes to me to the effect that it is not a genuine tradition at all but only an etymological one, all turning on (H)iberus and HibemuB or Gallicia and Gael.