152 NOTES ON THE POST-MOETEM EXAMINATION OF A MAN Sardinian lancet is employed with the same murderous impartiality against ecclesiastics, as we knew it to be against princes and statesmen. The case is to be found, somewhat abridged by Pro- fessor Kussmaul, in Canstatt's ' Jahresbericht' for 1857, Band ii, Allgemeine Pathologic, pp. 46, 47; and as, whether in the Italian original, or in the German report, it is not accessible to all English readers, there is the more reason for giving it in extenso. A. Melis, born 1753, at Gastegli, in Sardinia, lived for forty years as a minorite brother in Spain, till, in consequence of the political troubles there, he was expelled thence, with some other clergy, and returned to Sardinia. There he obtained a small bene- fice. He was of a very jovial temperament, and took pleasure in having his affairs go on after a fixed and settled plan. He was of middle size, strongly built, and of a good digestion; fond of the pleasures of the table and of good wine. Every now and then he complained of feeling himself full-blooded, languid [eingenommen), and of diminished appetite ; and upon such occasions he betook himself to purgatives and bleeding. In his lifetime he had sub- mitted himself to some hundreds of bleedings. He often made short journeys on foot or on horseback, and he loved hunting. Victor Emmanuel II. wished to see the old priest of 104. Melis made a journey of some days through Sardinia on horseback, then took ship for Genoa, and on arriving at Turin had an old woman of 107 introduced to him. He was much feted there, in spite of the old man's adage—'Young man, if thou goest so fast, thou wilt never grow old;' and he surfeited himself, laughing and boasting about his iron constitution, on cheese, tunny, and wine. He was attacked by pneumonia, and in spite of three bleedings, of which one amounted to nearly nine ounces (250 grammes), purgatives, and so forth, he died sixteen days after his admission into the hospital. The curly black hair of the head and the teeth were in perfect preservation ; the body was very muscular and very fat. There was slight rigidity of the limbs twenty-four hours after death. The bones of the thorax were very fragile, the costal cartilages quite ossified, the diploe and sutures of the cranial bones had disappeared. The dura mater was beset here and there with bony plates. The basilar and vertebral arteries were ossified, and there were incrusta- tions on the aortic valves, on the aorta itself, and on many of its