AFFINITIES, ETC. BETWEEN THE BEAIN OF MAN AND ANIMALS. 25 these complex structures in the two subjects of our comparison. Sheet III figures at a the brain of an European; at b, that of a Bushwomau, known as the ' Hottentot Venus.' Sheet IV gives, above, the brain of an orang; below, that of a chimpanzee. Sheet V, above, the brain of a mandrill; below, that of the American spider [Aleles belzebuth). Sheets VI and VII, though bor- rowed from M. Gratiolet, might have been taken from the external surface of the left cerebral hemisphere of the self-same vervet monkey, the right hemisphere of which is dissected and delineated in Sheet I. Its simple brain will be used as a clue to guide us through the tortuosities of its more complex fellows. Before entering upon the detail of the facts which these figures are intended to elucidate, or help in elucidating, it may be ex- pedient for me to pass in review the various sets of opinions or feelings which men may bring with them to such investigations. Some persons may be content to turn away from the consideration of any possible anthropological bearing which this subject will generally be held to have, to receive the facts simply as facts, and to abstain from employing them as premises to this or that con- clusion. To such persons I would say^ that all the results which recent investigations have elicited with reference to the points of agreement and difierence which are the subject of this evening's lecture, can refer for confirmation to the photographic process, the testimony of which is unimpeachable, as the sun has as few theories to support as the most thorough-going of positive philo- sophers, and could not mislead even if he would. But most men will come to a lecture such as this with the in- tention of reading its facts into the language of one or the other of two schools of modern physical speculation,—the Materialistic or the Idealistic,—and with the teaching of either one of these may be combined either view of the origin of species. Thus there may be four sets of opinions with which the phenomena of which I shall in a moment speak will have to be harmonised : materialism, to wit, coupled with a belief in the immutability and primordial distinctness of species; materialism coupled with a belief in the theory of development; idealism united with the tenets of special creative acts, both as to body and mind ; idealism, lastly, united with developmental views as to bodily structures. None of these four sets of views necessarily, or at all events actually, entail what