168 DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS, it fails thus to coincide with the vertical line chosen for placing- the skull in for the purpose of drawing, it does coincide very nearly with the line which might be drawn across the external surface of the cerebral hemisphere for limiting- posteriorly the area which is most favourably conditioned as to irrigation with arterialised blood. The segments therefore into which it divides the line of extreme length may be held to correspond respectively to more and to less favourably nourished and actively operating segments of the cerebral hemisphere, and the statement of their relative proportions as expressed in the ' Antero-posterior Index' assumes considerable importance. The indications as to prognathism and its absence furnished by the 'maxillary index' of Virchow and the 'gnathic index' of Busk ('Journal Anthrop. Instit.' London, Jan. 1874, p. 496) are both easily obtained by comparison of the three measurements, (a) of the basi-cranial axis taken from the middle of the anterior border of the occipital foramen, the 'basion' of Professor Broca, to the fronto-nasal suture; (b) of the ' basio-subnasal' line measured from the 'basion' to the base of the nasal spine; and (c) of the 'basio-alveolar line' measured from the 'basion' to the edge of the alveolar process of the upper jaw. A fourth facial measurement, that of the length from the fronto-nasal suture to the edge of the alveolar process of the upper jaw, which may be called the 'naso- alveolar' line, together with the three others just given, enables us to construct two ' facial triangles.' In some cases where the anterior margin of the foramen magnum has been wanting, the facial angles, with apices respectively at the base of the nasal spine and at the fore-edge of the alveolar border of the upper jaw, have been taken by Professor Broca's ' Nouveau Goniometre,' described and fiffured in the 'Bullet. Soc. Anth. Paris,' t. v. i'* Serie, 1861, pp. 943-946, or in his collected 'Memoires d'Anthropologie,' torn. i. pp. 106-109, 1871 ^ The stature has usually been calculated from an estimate of the length of the femur as being 27-5 to 100 of the entire length of the body. By another method, that of adding the lengths of the femur and tibia together, multiplying by two, and then adding an inch for the calcaneal integument, we obtain sometimes an ' For alveolar prognathism and its linear measurement, see Topinard, 'L'Anthropo- logie,' p. 303, 1876, and Sasse, ' Archiv ftir Antliropologie,' ix. p. 9, 1876.