ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTUEES OF THE TENREC 78 outer margin that it is attached along the line of demarcation be- tween the outer and inner regions of each utero-placental area. In other words, the utero-placental mucous membrane seems to split at this line into two laminae, between which a watch-shaped cavity is included, and each of which is sieve-like centrally from vascular perforations. The placenta is thinnest at its centre; at its periphery the chorion is prolonged upwards in the shape of a circular rim of a depth of a quarter of an inch. The umbilical vessels are very plainly seen to be prolonged into ramifications along this rim, and in it. The rim itself, or upgrowth, is continuous with the parapet, or down growth, of the uterine mucous membrane—an arrangement which, so far as I have been able to find, is unique. The umbilical cords of these foetuses are long : the foetuses being about an inch and a half long, the cord is in some instances of equal length with them; and the cavity of the amnios is large— sufiflciently capacious, indeed, to admit of the introduction of a second foetus. Resembling the human foetus more or less in these two points, the foetal membranes of the tenrec resemble those of the ruminants in the possession of numerous corpuscles studding the interior surface of the amnios. These corpuscles are in some cases attached to the inner surface of the amnios, but in most cases they have fallen away from it, in some cases they are filiform or even club- shaped, in most they are boat-shaped, or rather of the shape of a single valve of an ordinary bi-valve, and attached b}'^ the concave side to the amnios, whilst projecting with a smooth convex one into its cavity. And as to the naked eye, so under the miscroscope they resemble les jjlagnes de Vawnios cliez les ruminants, as described by Professor Claude Bernard ^. The longer of these corpuscles were as much as two millimetres long by one broad—much the same size in fact as the similarly-placed corpuscles of the elephant described by Professor Owen^: many, however, were of smaller dimensions. I could not discover any traces of yelk-sac, nor of allantois, nor of any membrane exterior to the amnios. Neither were any om- phalo-mesenteric vessels detectable within the cavity of the ab- domen. But the anastomosis between the veins of the abdominal ' Brown-Sdquard, 'Journal de Physlologie,' vol ii. p. 34, 1859. ' Phil. Trans.,' 1857, p. 348,