SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN ONE HUNDRED AND SIX YEAES OLD. 143 but less accessible, histories of the autopsies of persons whose more than centenarian term of years is very well nigh demonstrable, have been furnished to us by Dr. Luig-i Berruti\ in Italy; and in America by a committee of medical men, in the already cited ease of Dr. Holyoke. To the case recorded by Dr. Berruti I shall recur; the case of Dr. Holyoke deserves a few words in this place. Dr. Holyoke, the subject of a memoir drawn up by a committee of medical men, had been himself a physician; and in the year pre- ceding that in which he died, he twice appeared at public dinners, in his capacity of centenarian, in the town in which he had spent his life. In this town he had settled, at the age of twenty-one, in the year 1749, and from that time up to the time of his death, March 31st, 1829, he scarcely ever left it; and, in point of fact, never was further than fifty miles from it. With such a history as this, it is difficult to be sceptical as to Dr. Holyoke's age; and as he lived in possession of what are called the comforts of life, his case furnishes an answer to one of the most popular objections to the belief in centenarianism. This objection takes the following form. All the cases of supposed centenarians (such, indeed, are four of those I have instanced) are from the poorer classes, members of which often have a direct interest in making themselves out to be poorer than they really are. And it is exceedingly improbable, supposing such cases to be genuine, that the rich who die from the very same causes (climatic, epidemic, etc.) which the poor die from, should not furnish us with well-authenticated instances of such longevity as we are asked to believe is attained to by ill-clothed, ill-housed, hardly-fed labouring men. To this objection cases such as Dr. Holyoke's furnish a satisfactory reply, especially when we couple with them the consideration that the enormously larger numbers of the poor give Natural Selection an enormously larger chance of finding among them those ' vigorous frames which promise a long life.' The details of the five cases I have mentioned I have kept in view whilst putting on record those observed by myself in the case of John Pratt. Works on the diseases of age are by no means so numerous ' Luigi Berruti, 'Cenni istorici sopra Anastasio Melis di Gastegli in Sardegna, niorto in etJi di anni 104 nello Spedale Mauriziano di Torino ; con Osservazioni patlio- Ligiche e necroscopiche.' Gaz. Med. Ital. St. Sardi, No. 35, 36, 37.