238 GENEEAL EEMAEKS In dealing- with a series of modern skulls we are not so dealing- with the skulls of the upper classes only; but ordinarily just the reverse. This source of fallacy however does not vitiate the comparison to be instituted between the tenants of the long barrows and the more recent but still prehistoric tenants of the round ones. Indeed, as regards the point of social superiority, the larger cubical bulk of many of the long barrows relatively to the number of skeletons contained in them would seem to indicate that the owners of these skeletons had been during life, and indeed after it, in a position to command more of the labour of their fellow-men than the men of the bronze period. And there is no doubt that some of the earlier, or indeed, as the Les Eyzies skull, with a cubic capacity of lOo'', reminds us, earliest skulls can compare favour- ably with the very largest of the bronze or indeed of any other age. Dr. Thurnam's measurements gave him an average of 98 cub. in. for the British brachycephali as against 99 cub. in. for the older race ; and the largest prehistoric skull which I have been able to cube was a woman's from the stone-age excavations at Cissbury; see 'Journal of Anthrop. Institute,' vol. vi. p. 35, 1876. Nevertheless, with my unhappy knowledge of the very large number of skulls from all prehistoric tumuli which are not re- covered in a condition admitting of cubage, and for other reasons to be gathered from what has been said above, I feel that the result of the application of the method of averages to the question of the relative cranial capacity of the two prehistoric races under comparison is eminently unsatisfactory, as being eminently amenable to the question,' Ubi sunt illi qui perierint ?' And I must express it as my distinct conviction, that if we could have before us a more fairly representative series of each of the two varieties of pre- historic crania in question than their social habits and the wear and waste of many centuries of lying in stony graves have left of his character shown every day over his subjects and rivals.' Professor Daniel Wilson says ('Canadian Journal,' March, 1863, p. 151) : 'I assume the unimpaired intellect of the Nasqually chief from his rank.' For further evidence as to one or other of these lines of action see the Gottingen Eeport of ' Zusammenkunft einiger Anthro- pologen ' in 1861, at p. 21; in the ' British Association Report for 1875,' p. 150; Forster's ' Observations,' pp. 2 29, 410; Ellis,' Polynesian Researches,' i. 82, ii. 26; ' Tour through Hawaii,' p. 7 ; Erskine's ' West Pacific,' pp. 155, 240 ; Brenchley,' Cruise of the Cura- 50a,' 1873, p. 137; Whitmee, 'Contemporary Review,' Feb. 1873, p. 392; 'Journal Anthr. Institute,' vol. v. p. 127, Oct. 1875 ; H.N. Moseley, ibid. p. 36, May 1877.