LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. xxxix and invite a few of us to look round some case of specimens, and by a little practical demonstration contrive to throw a life and interest into the dead and dried preparations, where before all was dark and unintelligible.' Nor did his teaching cease with Term-time, for in the Long Vacation he used to organise a sea-side working party to dredge and to study the anatomy of marine animals, when the enthusiasm for biological investigation he could arouse in fellow-students and pupils is still admiringly remembered. The following reminiscences by Professor Louis C. Miall, of the Leeds College of Science, contain an accurate estimate of Dr. Kolleston's qualities as a teacher and lecturer :—' I well recollect my first introduction to Professor Rolleston, then on a visit to Bradford. He found me trying to explore the intricacies of Biology without direction. At that moment I was dissecting a chimpanzee. He took up the subject easily, and spent a great part of two days upon it. No pains were spared in demonstra- tion and explanation; the dry anatomical facts were insisted upon, but enlivened by plenty of discursive talk. To a mere beginner, ignorant and almost helpless, this instruction was memorable indeed, and after fifteen years I look back upon it with deep gratitude. When I had the good fortune to meet Professor Rolleston in after years, he was always full of friend- liness ; to tell him anything new, or to point out to him a new process, was a service overpaid by the kindest acknowledgments, A question, or merely that attention which it was a pleasure to give, would encourage him to talk on any point of anatomy or natural history, and always so pleasantly and with such mastery of his subject that the lesson was easily remembered. One little trick of manner often amused me. He would give his friend full credit and more for any bit of knowledge which he happened to possess, and would speak deferentially, as if subject to correction, to a man infinitely his inferior. " To you who have studied so- and-so," he would say, " these things are perfectly familiar, but I well remember the surprise with which I learned that," &c. It was useless to protest against this imputation of superior know-