Ix LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. Dr. Rolleston's recommendations, and he also entered into details of the gradual increase of sensibility in the public mind as to the infliction of pain and death, for which those interested should consult the Parliamentary Report itself. Indeed any who for serious purposes desii'e to examine the conflict of opinion on this subject, will do well to follow it rather in original docu- ments, such as this Blue-Book, than in passages selected for controversial ends. His own conclusion is briefly expressed in a letter where he says,' A good many scientific men are in the same position as I am. We think restrictions are called for, whilst total abolition is not.' The Vivisection Act of 1876 now in force, and which arose out of the Parliamentary Report, was highly satisfactory to him, as may be judged by the following passage from a letter written at the time: ' I am greatly delighted with Mr. Forster, who has made the Government accept an amendment, which I in my smaller sphere had made the Medical Council accept, whereby frogs are not to be left to the tender mercies of every would-be experimentor. The passing of this Cruelty to Animals Bill is a great step in the history of mankind. There is no country except England and the United States where it could have been passed.' Rolleston's part in this legislation was, however, far greater than is here suggested. Indeed it is obvious to any one who compares the extremely stringent provisions of the Act with the minutes of Dr. Rolleston's evidence, that the new law was in great measure framed on his recommendations, which it follows implicitly. Such is a brief inventory of work done by Rolleston in his twenty years of professorial life. He did not keep a regular record of the events and interests which diversified his course of labour, and such mentions mostly come up incidentally in letters. Midway in his Oxford career he escaped 'from daily toil and fret' by a return to the East in 1871. He had all the delight of the classically-bred Englishman in steaming round Cape Malea into the Egean, and testing the outlines of the hollow Spartan shore by the well-remembered epithets of Homer and Theokritos. He found the wood-covered hills of Smyrna as he had left them,