338 APPENDIX. dogs of the bronze period referred to, supra p. 334, are about the same size. In the same chamber with the bones of this dog a single bone of a fox, Ganis vuljpes, was found, which escaped notice when the contents of the chamber were first examined and described, 1. c. Its texture and weathering are so similar to those of the other bones, human and canine, found in the chamber, as to suggest that it must have been nearly or quite of the same age; and its slenderness and slightness, as compared with those of modern foxes, illustrate the principle that the bones of the carnivora of times when game-preserving was unknown, and when they had consequently more of their own congeners to compete with and fewer of their victims available to prey upon, are smaller than those of our days when these conditions are exactly reversed. The bones of the martens and polecats which I have found in various barrows bear out this view. Similar facts have been noted by Kiitimeyer in the ' Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' p. 231. As in the earlier pile-dwellings of Switzerland, so in the stone-age barrows of this country, the horse is less frequently found than from what we know of the discovery of its bones in cave-dwellings on the one hand, and in interments of later date than the stone age on the other, we should be inclined to expect \ I have never found the bones or teeth of a horse in a long barrow, and I would remark that, whilst such bones are very likely to be introduced into such barrows in the way of secondary interments, I have not met with any exact record as to the finding of them in surroundings which left no doubt as to their being con- temporaneous with the primary interments. The bones of the horse are both durable and conspicuous, and it is difiicult to think that if the neolithic man had used the animal either for purposes of food or for those of carriage, as his predecessors and successors did, we should not have come upon abundant and unambiguous evidence of such use. As regards the wild boar, Sus scrofa, var.ferus, I have to say that in this country, whatever has been the case elsewhere, it has been but rarely found in the barrows either of the bronze or of the stone period. Until indeed the discovery of it at Cissbury, as described in the ' J our. » For the history of the prehistoric horse, see Kutimeyer, ' Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' 1861, p. 122 ; ' Archiv fur Anthrop.,' 1873, vi. p. 60 ; 1875, viii. p. 125 ; ' Veriinder- ungen unserer Thierwelt,' 1876, pp. 69, 92 ; Nauniann. 'Archiv fiir Anthrop.,' 1875, viii. p. 12; Merk, ' Excavations at the Kesserloch,' translated by J. E. Lee, 1876, pp. 9, 47, with figure; Dupont, 'Congrfes Internat. Stockhohn,' C. R. 821; Kinberg, ibid., p. 830.