UPON THE SERIES OF PEEH1ST0HIG CRANIA. 307 tioned and compared with the similar cases given at p. 237 of the second edition of the ' System of Dental Surgery' by J. Tomes and C. S. Tomes. Another of the retention of a wisdom tooth, with its upper surface only just visible above the alveolus in an aged female skull, ' Cowlam, Ivii. 3,' 'British Barrows,' p. 216, may be mentioned as exemplifying another kind of retardation which is perhaps more common among women than men, as is also, I incline to think, the entire obsolescence of the wisdom teeth. The somewhat rare anomaly constituted by the presence of two roots to the lower canine has been noted by me in lower jaws from no less than five of the earlier interments treated of in this book; from, to wit, the long barrow ccxxix, at Nether Swell, described by me in the ' Journal of the Anth. Inst./ Oct. 1875, vol. v (Article XVIII); from the cremation long barrow at Ebberston (' British Barrows/ p. 484) ; from the chambered long barrow at Rodmarton (' Cran. Brit.' pi. 59); from the Dinnington ^ barrow, described by me in the 'Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,' 1868, vol. iii. p. 254 (Article XIIT); and, fifthly, from the Longberry Cave, near Tenby, ex- amined by Mr. Laws (see p. 305 supra). The importance of this, which may appear to some readers to be a curious rather than a ^ Some doubt may attach to the assignment of the Dinnington barrow to the long- barrow period. I was not an eyewitness of the examination of it, though I, subse- quently to the removal of it, made enquiries on the spot from persons concerned in that work, and recorded them 1. c. Eighteen more or less perfect skulls had been reinterred after the removal of the barrow; these, through the kindness of J. C. Athorpe, Esq., I recovered ; they are aU dolichocephalic, and measurements of them were taken by Dr. Thurnam and recorded in the ' Memoirs of the Anthropological Society of London,' vol. i, and ' Crania Britannica,' tab. ii. p. 242. Casts of one of these ."kulls have been taken and are referred to by Welcker, ' Archiv fiir Anthropo- logie,' i. I, p. 149, and by Ecker, ibid. i. 2, p. 283, as illustrating well the ' Eeihen- graber' form of the latter anthropologist; and Dr. Barnard Davis has described this cast in his ' Thesaurus Craniorum,' p. i o, as being ' very large, even enormous/ and ' Bubacaphoceplialic' I may mention in support of the view, which however I do not hold to be absolutely proved, that this barrow should take rank with those of the neolithic age, the fact that out of twelve lower jaws recovered, by me from the reinterment, no less than six combine the wide ramus, the short coronoid, and shallow sigmoid notch so characteristic of priscan jaws, with a rounded and slightly inverted angle ; whilst in three of the other six the same rounding of the angle of the jaw is present with the same inversion, sometimes considered peculiarly significant; and that whilst in many cases the chin has an eminently feeble, in none of them has it the powerful develop- ment 80 common in the lower jaws of the later occupants of this country. For other references to this Dinnington barrow, see ' Bulletin Soc. Anthrop. Paris,' s^r. i. vol. V. pp. 541, 578 ; 'Natural History Review,' April, 1865, p. 245; ' Archaeo- logia,' xlii. p. 171. X 2