430 NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CI8SBURY. Subsequently to the interment, the history of the filling" up of the pit must have been very much the same as has been the history of the filling up of the pits excavated and observed during- the last half-dozen years by ourselves. In a section of such of the contents or filling in of the pit as Mr. Park Harrison had left in the position which they had assumed in falling into it, two other red streaks, besides the one on which the skeleton had been placed, were visible. The first of these describes a somewhat conical contour with the apex of the cone reaching downwards to the level of the couple of feet of chalk which we suppose to have been heaped over the body as deposited, and with the base prolonged upwards to a place more than half-way from its apex to the surface of the ground. And we must suppose this red streak to have been formed simply by the deposition of the lowly soluble alum- and iron-silicates, the rain carrying away with it to lower levels the more soluble calcareous element of the chalk it fell upon. This red streak is, to the eye, just like the red layer found capping the natural surface of the Downs, and the two layers may therefore, with considerable probability, be considered to have been both formed in the same way. The former, however, of the two layers contained traces of lime and magnesia, and may have been deposited in a comparatively short time, as the square surface of chalk made up firstly by the walls of the pit, and secondly by the heaps of excavated rubble which no doubt surrounded its mouth, must have been compara- tively great. Within the boundary, constituted by this red streak, were contained alternately strata of fine chalk and of medium sized rubble, more or less interpenetrated and agglutinated by still finer water-deposited chalk. These contents of this upper crateriform cavity we may reason- ably suppose to have fallen into it under the influences of rain and frost acting upon the exposed chalk surfaces just mentioned. Above them a second red streak was to be seen at about the level of the natural surface stretching more or less horizontally across the section. It appears to have been continuous at the walls with the other downward dipping red streak, very much as the upper or anterior of the two conical sacs forming the surface net used for patching sea animals is continuous with the lower. The more thorough washing which its longer exposure had given