GENEEAL KEMABK8 286 of the practice of human sacrifice having persisted in this part of the world into perfectly historical times, 'paullo supra hanc memoriam,' as Julius phrases it, 'Bell. Gall.' vi. 19, I have to say that the bones found in the long barrows of England do not seem to me to bear the interpretation which Dr. Thurnam has put upon them. Two of the sets of bones from long barrows which Dr. Thurnam has described as furnishing evidence which would ' con- vince the most incredulous,' those, to wit, from the Ebberston and those from the Rodmarton long barrows, are now in the Oxford University Museum, and I have compared them with a considerable number of skulls about the ante mortem character of the lesions on which, whether recovered from or not, there is no doubt whatever. Amongst these latter skulls I may specify a number of dried and prepared New Zealand ' heads ' in the Oxford University Museum, and the skulls numbered 2880 A, 2880 B, 2880 C, and 2902 A in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. By the kindness of Professor Humphry I was allowed to examine Dr. Thurnam's collection in the Anatomical Museum at Cambridge. The first point in which the fractured portions of skulls known iron Toiv Vfoiv al yvvaiicts d<p'iffTaiVTO rwv avSpuv tj (papfW-Kiioifv aurovy, whicli how- ever does not appear a wholly improbable one; nor, though he refers, p. 296 note, to Professor Max Miiller's article, 'Zeitschrift der raorgenl. Gesellschaft,' bd. ix. 1855, does he specially mention the fact of the falsification of the Vedas. It is less ex- cusable that Grimm should have written of the practice of widow-burning, of which both Strabo and Diodorus had spoken with reprobation, in the following terms, P- 307 • Wie hat sich die oft gefiihUose Weichherzigkeit der neueren Luft gemacht gegen den herben Branch des Mitverbrennens der Frauen im Alterthum, und doch billigen wir, dass die Ehe, wenn sie ihres (Gesetzausdruckenden) Namens werth sei, ewig und unauflosbar heisze, und preisen als seltnes Gliick, dass hoch-bejahrte Ehleute auf den- selben Tag hingerafFt werden. Denn erhebend ist es wenn gesagt werden konnte '" Bis sex lustra tori nox mitis et ultima clausit, Arserunt uno funera bino rogo."' Martial, 10. 71- Further references may be found in the 'Antiquitates Danicae' of Thomas Bartho- linus, 1689, who says, p. 556, 'pleni sunt Historicorum libri, varias apud nationes, uxores maritis superstites simul cum defunctia crematos, vel super corpora eorum interfectas.' In a later work on Danish antiquities, Amkiel's ' Cimbrischen Heyden-Keligion,' 1702, four chapters, xv-xviii. pp. 97-135, are devoted to the four subjects of the burial of wives with their dead husbands, the burial of friends, the burial of captives, and the burial of slaves in honour of great men deceased. Professor H. SchaafFhausen's article, ' Die Menschenfresserei und das Menschen- opfer,' in the ' Archiv fur Anthropologie,' iv. 1870, p. 245, is the most recent and one of the most valuable memoirs upon this subject.