LIFE OF DR. R0LLE8T0N. xxxvi poses, which the schoolmen had expressed in the wider words ' Nxisquam magu quam in minimis tota est natnra,' and which we might express in plain English by saying that 'Small things speak plainly of great issues/ the general public had been right in clinging to such a structure as was the hippocampus minor as a mark and means for differentiating man from the apes. As, however, this nodule of neurine had been rent away from their hands, it was right that something should be supplied to take its place. The analysis of the brain's structure had established as difFerentiative between man and the ape four great diflfer- ences—two morphological, two quantitative. The two quantita- tive, which we can detect without having recourse to Gratiolet's method, are the great absolute weight and the great absolute height of the human brain. The two morphological are the multifidity, the great complexity and evolution of the frontal lobes corresponding to the forehead, usually, popularly, and as this analysis shows, correctly, taken as a fair exponent of man's intelligence—and the presence in the apes and absence in man of the deep cleft, ' the external perpendicular fissure,' in the posterior part of the hemispheres. No reference to these important matters of Gratiolet's analysis had been made by Professor Owen, and this omission could not fail to put the British Association's repute for acquaintance with the work of foreign fellow-labourers at great disadvantage in the eyes of such foreigners as might be ■present. Professor Rolleston concluded by saying that if he had •jexpressed himself with any unnecessary vehemence he was sorry for it, but he felt there were things less excusable than vehemence, and that the law of ethics and love of truth were things higher and better than were the rules of etiquette or decorous reticence. Among the notices of this speech of Rolleston's, which made considerable impression, is a mention of it in Kingsley's squib ' Speech of Lord Dundreary in Section D. on Friday last, on the Great Hippocampus Question.' This, which rather well represents the perplexity of the lay mind at an abstruse anatomical dispu- tation, is republished in Kingsley's ' Life,' chap, xix, and followed by a letter waitten to Rolleston by Kingsley (Oct. 12, 1862), who