Ivii LIFE OF DR. E0LLE8T0N. denombrement of all the circumstances of your case admits of, or rather calls for, more than one additional application in this investigation. When we come to deal with statistics of drunken- ness we come to deal in reality with statistics of police-courts, and therein with a set of exceedingly deceptive and not alto- gether pleasant" personal equations." Now, it has been observed by competent observers, that if part of the fine inflicted after conviction for drunkenness be awarded to the functionary who has brought such offenders to justice, such arrests are more frequent (in Sweden) than they are under a regime which trusts simply to that innate loathing for drunkenness and aversion to disorder which make up the ideal of the genuine policeman. But of late in Gothenburg, as I was informed, the former plan, vnth. its appeals to self-interest, has been laid aside; and a form of night and day blindness, undfescribed by oculists, has, as I was also informed, been observed to have fallen upon members of the force. It is right, however, to add that previously those functionaries may have been a little too Draconian in their arrests; and I was told of sailors, and especially of English sailors, who were arrested on charges of drunkenness on no better evidence than that of a hilarity little exceeding that which a Bishop sometimes shows in an after-dinner speech, and of an unsteadiness of gait which the accused avowed was but their ordinary nautical walk.' Rolleston's advocacy of the Permissive Bill brought him in several ways into contact with practical politics. When Bruce's Act for the early closing of public-houses came into operation it caused much excitement among the publicans, and led to some rioting and smashing the windows of prominent tee- totalers. The hostility of the liquor trade to the Liberal Party had much to do with the opposition to Sir W. Vernon-Harcourt's re-election when he vacated his seat on being made Home Secre- tary in 1880. At any rate Mr. Hall, who then ousted him, was an influential local brewer, and the Baihj News attributed the reversal of the former election to ' pot-boy politics,' so that a fair inference may be made as to the motives of Professor