UPON THE SEKIES OF PREHISTOEIC GRAN [A. 295 Silurian skulls exhumed since 1865, only been able to add the skull of one adult, this one being the skull of the single skeleton found undisturbed in the long- barrow at Upper Swell, as described by me (Article XVIII); and one skull of a child of about 7 or 8 years of age, being one of the children found in the chamber of the long barrow at Eyford, described in 'British Barrows,' p. 518, and ' Journ. Anth. Institute,' Oct. 1875, p. 158. Coupling these facts on one side with the well-known fact of the extreme rarity of the persistence of this frontal prolongation of the sagittal suture in the skulls of modern savag-es ^: on another side with the fact that this suture persists with comparative frequency in the skulls of brachy- oephali as observed by His and Riitimeyer in the skulls of their ' Disentis Typus' ('Cran. Helvetica,' p. 27), and by Dr. Thurnam and myself in the skulls of the bronze and later periods ; and oa a third with the fact that frontal bones with a persistent suture are all but invariably broader than allied skulls not bifid, we may feel ourselves justified in considering the extreme rarity of this suture in Silurian skulls as another indication of their inferiority ^ This suture persists in a skull of an Andaman Islander presented to the Oxford Museum by Professor Wood Mason of the Indian Museum, Calcutta ; it has been noted in an Abyssinian skull by Zuckerkandl, 1. c. p. 65 ; it is seen in the figure of a skull given by Professor Busk (' Natural History Review,' April, 1861, pi. v. p. 174) of a Red Indian from an aucient burial-place iu Tennessee, in which skull, Professor Busk iuforms us, 'the supra-orbital prominence is most marked of all the crania in our possession and fourthly, it is seen in the figure of the skull treated of by Professor Broca in his paper (in the ' Bulletin de la Society d'Anthropologie de Paris,'Aodt, 1871), 'Sur la De- formation Toulousaine du Crane,' of which we find it recorded that ' I'os frontal est trfea- petit dans toutes ses dimensions.' But tliough small frontal bones may occasionally retain this sutiae, there is no doubt that it is much more usually found in broad fore- heads, and that the rationale of its formation lies in the early widening of the frontal lobes of the brain, of the segments, that is, of that organ which are most indubitably shown (see p. 275 supra) to increase in complexity and extent with increase of intel- ligence. This principle was laid down in the year 1740, by Hunauld in the ' M^moirea de I'Acad^mie royale de Paris,' p. 371; it has been reaffirmed by Dr. Theodor Simon, to whom I owe the foregoing reference, in an excellent though short paper in ' Virchow'a Archiv,' tom. 58, 1873 ; by Virchow himself, 1. c, tom. 13, 1858 ; 'Abhand- lungen Akad. Wiss. Berlin,' 1876, 'Uebereinige Merkmale niederer Menschen-Rassen am iSchadel,' p. 112, ibique citata ; and by Hyrtl, ' Lehrbuch der Anatomic des Menschen,' 8th ed. 1863, p. 245. Welcker's views (given in his 'Wachsthum und Bau des menschlichen Schiidels,' p. 99) as to the hereditary transmission of this peculiarity are confirmed by the presence of it iu four out of the sixteen skulls recovered by me from the Dinnington tumulus. In two of these not mentioned by Dr. Thurnam the traces of the suture are only rudimentary ; and in none of the four does it reach the inner table, which it does however in the RodmarLon and in the Upper Swell crania, both also in this Museum.