361 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD. as understood by a good judge of it^—Professor Nillson—in having no chiefs; they nevertheless take great pains with the burial of their dead, marking out and adorning the graves with posts, and decorating them with the bones of the dugong. It is true that the long-barrow people can be proved to have been in a higher state of civilisation than are these miserable Kudangs, by the purely quantitative considerations—firstly, that their barrows are so large as they are, and, secondly, that they contain so few skeletons. But when a small number of individuals can get large structures erected for their lodgment, either when dead or alive, the society in which they have lived, or are living, has attained some elevation, however low, in the road leading upwards from sheer barbarism. On the other hand, the poet of a civilised age, catching, as a poet sometimes does^, the essential features of early times with a sin- gular, or even a scientific, accuracy, writes of a prehistoric funeral thus— Ergo instauramus Polydoro funus, et ingem Aggeritur tumulo tellus '— whilst, at the same time, his friend Horace, and their common patron Maecenas*, could utter their injunctions, and sympathise with the wishes expressed in the lines— Absint inani funere neniae, Luctusque turpes et querimoniae ; Compesce clamorem, ac sepulcri Mitte supervacuos honores ^. Considerations of less generality, but not, perhaps, less convincing as regards the earl}'^ date of the long-barrows, are drawn from the facts, that in none of them in Great Britain has any metal imple- ment been found, at least in connexion with a primary interment; that tanged and barbed arrow-heads are similarly wanting in these ' NilLson's 'Early Inhabitants of Scandinavia,' ed. Lubbock, p. 167. * See, in illustration of this, Wordsworth's lines, near the end of the eleventh book of the ' Prelude;' or Tennyson's lines describing the condition of Britain in the interval between the evacuation of it by the Romans and the establishment of a new order of things (' Tdylls of the King. The Coming of Arthur,' line 6, seqq.)- * Vergil's ' Aeneid,' iii. 62. * The line, ' Nec tumulum euro, sepelit natura relictos,' ascribed to Maecenas by Seneca, Ep. 92, justifies us in thinking that Horace, in the lines quoted in the text, waa not merely reproducing the epitaph of Ennius— ' Nemo me lacrymis decoret nec funera fletu Faxit. Cur ? volito vivu' per ora virum.' * Hor. Od, n. XX. 21-24.