334 APPENDIX. the one hand as regards literature, that poetical writers would have omitted to use for illustration the habits and bearing and peculiarities of a creature which all later poets, gnomic and other, have so constantly and multifariously alluded to; and on the other as regards excavations, that an animal which Captain Cook found in occupation of Polynesia, from Tahiti to the Sandwich Islands, and which has since been adopted every- where, even by the non-progressive Indians of the Amazons (see Bates, 1. c, ii. 193), and 'by remote tribes on rivers rarely visited by white men,' would have been missing in them if it had existed on the spots at the period concerned. There is of course no question that the common fowl was known to if not used by the Britons when Caesar made his short acquaintance with them and found that ' Leporem et gallinam et anserem gustare fas non putant; haec tamen alunt animi voluptatisque oaussa.' (See 'De Bello Gallico,' v. 12.) Nor, on the other hand, does the discovery of the bones of Gallus as described by Alphonse Milne Edwards ('Eeliquiae Aquitanicae, p. 241) in association with ' those of Ursus spelaeus, Ehinoceros, and large Felis' in the caves tenanted by palaeolithic man make it at all more likely that the bird has, any more than the mammals, been continuously repre- sented upon that area since those times down to those of Caesar and ours. The struggle for existence with rival animals, to say nothing of that to be waged against inorganic forces, may well have exiled and exterminated during the neolithic age animals which the men of the bronze and iron have found it their pleasure or their interest to intro- duce again, or which may themselves have succeeded in reoccupying their lost territories. The history of the fallow deer, and possibly those of the rabbit and horse, might, if we could read them out of the records in the soil, illustrate this principle, just as the recent history of the capercailzie, Tetrao urogallus, does. On the other hand, though M. Alphonse Milne Edwards (1. c, pp. 243-247) appears to think otherwise, I should incline to think that the Crane, Grus cinereus, may have occupied this country continuously from palaeolithic down to the comparatively recent period of its extinction here. Difference merely of size is not suflBcieut in this case to establish a specific dilference. The bones of more than one specimen of this bird were found by two of my former pupils, Mr. W. Bruce Clarke and Mr. Randal Johnson of Pembroke College, in a rubbish-pit at Wytham, near Oxford, mixed up with the skeletons of three dogs, with bones of ox, pig, roe, horse, teal and wild-swan, and with coarse culinaiy nail-marked and other British pottery, by which the date of this ' find' is fixed to the bronze age. I have not met with any remains of this bird in any