ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE ^RA.IN 23 13. Corpus striatum. M. Gratiolet in his invaluable ' Memoire sur les Plis Cerebraux de I'Homme et des Primates,' so often referred to. Fig. I is a lateral view of the brain of the orang. It shows the following points :— i. The even curve described by the superior boundary line of the hemispheres. ii. The vertical direction of the fissure of Sylvius, F. iii. The failure of the posterior lobes to cover the cerebellum entirely. iv. The diminished downward growth of the posterior lobes, as shown by the obliquity of a line drawn along their surface where it lies upon the cerebellum, C. V. The presence of the outer part of the lateral vertical fissure, which outer part is always filled up in man, even when the inner may not be so, as the inner is in the orang. Fig. 2 is a basal view of the same brain. It shows the following points :— i. The great relative thickness of the nerves to the mass of the brain. (See Gratiolet, 'Bull. Soc. Anth.' iv. 1861, p. 252.) ii. The absence of any marked excavation of the orbital lobes. iii. The lateral and posterior development of the cerebellar hemispheres. Fig. 3 represents the brain of the orang as seen from above. It shows the following points :— i. The greater extent to which the cerebellum has come into view on the left side than on the right. ii. The want of symmetry between the two sides of the cerebellum. The longi- tudinal fissure seems on the left to be bounded by a continuous vertically unindented table-land, on the right by a table-land indented at two points. The posterior of these two points corresponds to the external vertical fissure, the first or superior pli de passage a a being partially concealed under the operculum, and aUqwing us thus to mark off the occipital from the principal lobes nearly as sharply as in the chimpanzee. The three frontal convolutions, i, 2, 3, the two ascending parietals, 4, 5, and the lobule of the second ascending convolution, 5', are asymmetrical on the two sides of the brain. iii. The absence of the second pli de passage is well seen on both sides of the brain; and the wave-like anterior edge of the occipital lobes constituting the ' oper- culum ' is especially well marked on the right side. Fig. 4. Brain of orang dissected, so as to show the lateral ventricle of the right side, its three cornua, and the hippocampus minor, 19. It shows, besides, the different relations which the bourrelet of the corpus callosum holds in the ape and in man :— i. To the commencement of the third comu, 18. ii. To the internal perpendicular fissure, 16. iii. To the hemispheres which it connects. 1. Inferior frontal convolution.—' fitage frontal inf^rieur' of Gratiolet. 2. Middle frontal.—■' ^itage frontal moyen.' 3. Superior frontal.—' ^}tage frontal sup^rieur.' 4. First ascending parietal.—' Deuxifeme pli ascendant.' 5. Lobule of second ascending parietal.—' Lobule du deuxifeme pli ascendant.' 6 and 6'. Convolution running below, and parallel with the lower lip of the Sylvian fissure.—' Pli courbe.' 7. Lower lip of Sylvian fissure.—' Pli marginal inf^rieur.' 10. Superior occipital convolution.— ' t^tage sup^rieur du lobe occipital.' 11. Middle occipital convolution.—'6tage moyen.' 12. Inferior occipital convolution.—'^tage infdrieur.'