BKAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 43 lobe 2 and 3. They are very generally present in human brains, ami in hig'hly convoluted brains they often are especially highly convoluted also. Their classificatory importance I should not rank so highly, partly because one or other of them, or both, may be possessed by apes, and the mass lettered a and /3 may come out to the surface in them, forming, it is true, an hourglass-shaped lobe, not a sub-quadrate one, as in man, but coming up to the surface for all that, partly because they are not invariably present in such full development as M. Gratiolet's words would imply, and partly because they are, in a morphological point of view, tertiary convolutions, latest to be developed, and most liable to variation (Reichert, ' Gehirn,' p. 89, ii. Abtheilung). The history of these convolutions amongst certain of the lower apes becomes exceedingly instructive. The arrangement and relative development of them differ most widely in two of the commonest American monkeys, which are so closely related as to have been confounded together by certain zoologists. I mean the Brown Sagow, or Weeper Monkey (Cehus apella)^ and the Cehus cajjiicinus, Fatuellus, or Horned Monkey. Will anybody pretend that any difference can be detected in the psychical phenomena, the mental manifestations, of these creatures, at all in correspondence or concomitant variation with their difference of cerebral conformation ? Why Linnteus named the Cebiis capucimis ' Cebus fatuellus^ I know not; if it were really for fatuity, that fatuity existed in connexion with a brain which, so far as I can see, was superior to that of its rival, the Cebus apella. Lastly, the fissure in which these conditions exist, either filling it up level with either edge, or winding down into its depths and up its declivities, has an internal aspect, and this internal aspect may present the chasm appearance, or it may be filled up. In man it is always a chasm, it is never filled up. Two convolutions, the internal connecting bridges, are as invariably, and more invariably, if so I may say, atrophied and concealed in this place in man, than the external are in apes. In many of .the monkeys, and they too not often highest in their class, this internal chasm is filled up. In the diagrams these facts are shown, though I must own somewhat indistinctly. In the monkey's brain (Fig. 1 b, I.) this internal fissure is irregularly seamed, and not smooth as in the human brain. Now the irregular seaming is due to the transverse section of an