403 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAKEOW PERIOD. ness about i foot 6 inches. Its west end was quadrangular. Its long axis ran very nearly due east and west, as was shown in a ground-plan and sections, which, like a plan and section of ' Swell vi.,' was taken by Sir H. Dryden, Bart. The point of special interest in this barrow was the presence in it, at 24 feet from its west end, of a chamber 7 feet by 4 in size, which had long ago, though within the memory of man, been rifled, but which still contained, in September, 1874, evidence of having furnished lodgment to no less than nine human bodies. To this chamber a passage led, the limit between chamber and passage being marked by the presence of a sort of doorway, across which a large flagstone crossed, at a distance of i foot 3 inches from the ground, and helped to support the roof. The floor of the passage was flagged, whilst that of the chamber was not, and just outside the doorway opening into the ' chamber' lay parts of two more or less disturbed skeletons, one of a woman, one of a child, overlaid by an almost or entirely undisturbed male skeleton. As regards this arrangement of the stones of which the barrow was made up, it is well to state that between the north and south walls the largest stones were found in the middle line, and were thus often placed upright with the more outwardly placed stones sloping towards them, and resting upon them for some distance, and then assuming a more horizontal arrangement. The first three feet from the ground were occupied by larger stones; the upper three of the entire number of six, the average height of the barrow, were occupied by smaller and less regularly placed stones. It was here, owing to the size of the barrow, and notably its height, that we observed that the workmen, in removing the stones in the various exploratory incisions, came constantly to arrange the stones which, they displaced, in horizontal layers, for the sake of security from down- falls. Thus an appearance just like that of the transverse 'walling,' often observed in the undisturbed parts of the barrow, was frequently produced, and it is obvious that the two similar arrangements, how- ever different in date, must, in all likelihood, have been due to the same cause, viz. the consideration by the labourers concerned of their own convenience. The concavity of the horns at the east end was filled up for a space of 2 feet in depth with fine, small stones, outside of which again came larger stones, all evidently arranged intentionally, and B d 2