GENERAL REMARKS 230 bronze period again, thoiigli its term of duration in these islands was no doubt almost infinitely shorter than that of the stone and bone age, or rather ages, was yet long enough, as the antiquary may assure the philologist, to admit of quite as great a differentia- tion in any single language as that which exists between Gaelic and Cymric at present, or to allow of the importation of more than one already differentiated dialect in more than one not recorded invasion. But if the bronze age may have been of very long duration, and if the stone and bone age as represented to us in the long barrows may have been of very much longer, the anti- quary who may have explored one of these latter tumuli on a hill, the sides and bottom of which may contain in their gravels the implements, if not the bones, of still earlier races, knows and feels that in dealing even with human phylogeny, he has to keep con- stantly in mind in all his speculations that the permutations and combinations of races possible in such lengths of time are conceiv- ably and even practically infinite. The consideration of distance in space, when we are dealing with a question of geographical distribu- tion, is inseparably connected with the consideration of length of time, and the great interval of space which separates Spain from Great Britain should make us careful as to borrowing a name from tbe tribes of one of those countries, and imposing it upon a tribe in another, without the most definite historical or archaeological reasons. Without going into the arguments which the Rev. Wentworth Webster has (see ' Journal Anth. Inst. London/ v. p. 5, July, 1875) brought forward against the view which would identify the Basques with the earlier dark-haired dolichocephali of Great Britain, it may be well to state the history of the opinion which connects certain Welsh and Irish inhabitants of Wales and Ireland with the Iberian inhabitants of Spain. This, so far as I have been able to make it out, is as follows. Tacitus, in the eleventh chapter of his Agricola, says with reference to the Silures that their ' colorati vultus' and ' torti crines,' ' et posita contra Hispania, Hiberos veteres traje- cisse easque sedes habitasse fidem faciunt.' The boldness of this suggestion contrasts strongly with the caution of the opening sentence of the same chapter ' Ceterum Britanniarum qui mortales initio coluerint indigenae an advecti, ut inter barbaros, parum cora- pertum \' nevertheless, Jornandes, as quoted p. 226, and Irish and Spanish histories and traditions are constantly (see, e. g., Professor