LIFE OF DTI. ROLLESTON. xix day's work in the wards, to turn a few yards out of his way on to Blackfriars Bridge, where, standing in one of the recesses, he would face the wind for half-an-hour and then go home to dinner. The robust appetite that had been gathering since breakfast had then to be satisfied, the ' Times' to be read, then an hour's heavy sleep, followed by a huge basin of strong tea to wake him well up for bookwork till 12 or 1. Such a diet, unlightened by the ordinary idleness and pleasures of the medical student, probably accounts for a good deal of the dis- ordered constitution of later years. Sometimes he visited his friends ; for instance, there is a mention in the ' Diary of Henry Crabb Eobinson' that in 1852 KoUeston came to breakfast with him to meet ' Nineveh' Layard. But amusement seemed hardly even to occur to him. The only change in the week's hard round was on Sunday, when at this particular time he gave his thoughts a new turn by reading through Gibbon, storing his memory with sonorous passages which he could recite verbatim to the end of his life. In the afternoon the two friends would often go down the river and walk in Greenwich Park. Any- thing less like the received idea of the medical student away from the wards and dissecting-room, it is not easy to imagine. Rolleston's was a grimly serious career, and he left the Hospital with the reputation of one of its hardest workers. Never trying for prizes or distinctions, nor attempting any original research, he simply worked for knowledge and experience of medicine. The practical knowledge he had gained under Sir George Burrows, whose clinical clerk he was for some time, stood him in good stead when almost immediately his opportunity came of carrying it into practice. In 1855, toward the end of the Crimean War, he was appointed one of the physicians to the British Civil Hospital at Smyrna. The Master of Pembroke wrote him a letter of good advice, very characteristic of the writer. ' You have profit and employment in what would other- wise be the dead time in your career, possibly an avenue to something great and permanent . . . You will now be under ofiicial trammels. Pray be discreet as to your words. Speak b 2