320 GENEBAL REMARKS ON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC CRANIA, often inwardly bent angle ; the outcome of the investigation may- be summed up by saying that though lower jaws combining all these marks of degradation may be found amongst such races as the Bushman, the Tasmanian, and the Melanesian, it is only amongst the Eskimos that we find such jaws combined with the widely open orbit and vertically elongated nasal cavity so charac- teristic of the long-barrow race. And there are many reasons for supposing that the Eskimos are a race which still retains and preserves for us in the structure and gi-ammatical peculiarities of its language, its life-history, and physical peculiarities, the very closest likeness to what we believe some of the earliest races of mankind must have been. The disproportion which I have dwelt upon (p. 356 et seqq. supra) as existing between the male and female limb- and trunk-bones from the long barrows is a striking feature in the comparison of that series with any other from later interments in this country. This however is a skeletal character reproduced in and reproducible by modern savagery. But the ' platycnemy' or peculiar flattening out of the shin-bones, which we know from the researches of Professors Busk and Broca and others to have characterised other early and earlier races of men, has stronger claims to be considered a note of antiquity; it is possible that such tibiae may be hereafter found amongst modern savages; but they will not, I anticipate, be found amongst such races in the numerical proportion to normal bones which I have found them to possess in neolithic skeletons. avTuiv, KaOavtp koi tovj Kai/rdjSpous (paai Kol rovs o/xSpovi avrois. The words Iv Sf^a/ifvais ■na\aiovix(vc[i are explained by the information that the ' liquor is kept in tubs in the porches of their huts for use in dressing the deer- and seal-skins.' It is clear from Catullus's use of the word 'mane ' (xxxvii) that he did not understand the rationale of the process he refers to, and that he was inaccurate as well as otherwise offeusive.