76 ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTUEES OF THE TENREC of inanimae and the numbGr of foetuses are by no means always in exact correspondence in the class Mammalia. From the neighbourhood of the ovary a stout fibrous band passes upwards to lose itself in the peritoneum, lying exteriorly to the kidney, and in relation with the diaphragm. This structure is to be seen in most female mammalia ; and a band, with homologous connexions, exists in many male mammalia, both of ' testicondous' and of other orders. It has been seen by me in the tamandua {Myr- mecoj)haga tetradactyld) and in the Pteropjis, and also in the foetus at full time of the pigtailed monkey {Macacus nemestrinus), and in the human subject at the age of fifteen months, in each case attached to the caput magus epididymis. It is, no doubt, the remnant of the ligamentum diajohragmaticum, figured by KoUiker (fig. 215, ' Entwickelungsgeschichte,' 1861}, as connecting the Wolffian body and the generative gland of the early embryo with the structures in relation with the diaphragm. There is no ligamentum roiuwlum in the tenrec; and indeed we should not expect to find such a structure in a species the male members of which have the testes permanently lodged in the position in which they are primarily developed The rudiment, however, of the ligamentum, diaphragmaticum, is often found co- existing with the ligamentum rotundum, as, for example, in the hedgehog {Erinaceus europaeus), and consequently it cannot be, as has been asserted 2, the homologue of it. In the tenrec, the ligamentum diaphragmaticum is continued on- wards from the region of the ovary on to the uterine cornu, con- stituting thus a ligamentum ovarii of anthropotomy. Upon the compound cord thus constituted the ovary is not quite sessile ^, but is connected with it by a short cord which meets it at right angles. The peritoneal capsule of the ovary is large and loose, opening by a small orifice into the general cavity of the peritoneum. The ovary itself has, from the small quantity of its stroma, the granu- lated appearance so well marked in the shrew and hedgehog. ^ C. G. Carus, 1. c, tab. ix. fig. 2. 'Phil. Trans.,' 1850, 516. 3 The ovary of the sow is somewhat similarly pedunculate (see 'Hunterian Cata- logue,' iv. 2782), and so also is that of other animals, as the rat.