465 ON THE CRANIOLOaY OF THE BUSHMEN. these bones, tell in the same direction, but do not prove feebleness of mind. For purposes of comparison with these three presumably Bush- man crania, I have had three other crania at hand from the University Museum, of the genuineness of which there can be little doubt. One of these was presented to the University Museum by the late and much-lamented Dr. W. H. J. Bleek, to whose labours^ in elucidating the language and rescuing the folklore of the Bush- man tribe from perishing we owe so much. This skull, which was brought to England by Mr. Alfred Hughes of St. Asaph, bears a label, ' Eland's Been, nr. Schietfontein 2, Bushman's skull,' and was handed over to me by that gentleman at the desire of Dr. Bleek. A second skull came into my hands through the kindness of "W. G. Marshall, Esq., of Colney Hatch, having been entrusted to Lim by George Dunsterville, Esq., of Port Elizabeth, Algoa Bay, S. Africa, who was for some years surgeon to the hospital at Port Elizabeth. This skull, which, like the preceding, belonged to an exceedingly old man, carries the following labels :—' From the Transvaal, S. African Republic ;' 'Of an original Bosjesman, a tribe of small Hottentots, now nearly extinct; over age; height, 4 ft. 4in.'^ The evidence for the authenticity of the third Bushman cranium, which was in the University Museum previously to the arrival of Mr. Oates's consignment, is even more irrefragable. This cranium was procured for the University through the kindness of H. N. Moseley, Esq., F.E.S., from Mr. Fairclough of Cape Town, and with the cranium came a knife, a poison-pot, a quiver, a poisoned arrow, and an ivory wrist-protector which had belonged to the owner of the skull. This skull belonged to a man past the middle period of life, and is remarkable for its absolute height, no ' See his two Reports concerning his Researches into the Bushman Language and Customs and Folklore, presented to both Houses of Parliament of the Cape of Good Hope, by command of his Excellency the Governor, 1873 and 1875, and 'Journal of the Anthropological Institute,' 1871. * [The name of the locality from which this skull came had been misread in the original article. Mr. C. G. Gates suggested to me that it was perhaps Eland's Been, near Schietfontein, in the District of Carnarvon, Cape Colony. The accuracy of this suggestion has been confirmed by Mr. W. Hatchett Jackson, who has kindly re- examined the label. I have accordingly corrected it in the text.—Editor.] ^ [Mr. Hatchett Jackson informs nie that the skull presented by Mr. Dunsterville was marked 'female' on the label and that it is the counterpart of the skull presented by Dr. Bleek, whilst the skull given by Mr. Fairclough was known to be male.—Editor.] H h