ON THE HOMOLOGIES OF CEETATN MUSCLES 120 insertion. The second shows that they are or are not supplied by the same nerve or nerves. The third shows that either in their adult condition or in the condition of development they are in- dependent or connate. A comparison of the pectoralis minor of the mammal with the pectoralis secundus of the bird furnishes us, under each of these three heads, with an arg-ument for their non- identity. Under the first head I would observe, as Prof. Pag-en- stecher has already been quoted as doing, that the pectoralis minor of the mammal lies to the outer side of the costocoracoid mem- brane, to the inner side of the homological representative of which structure, viz. the coracoid, the pectoralis secundus of the bird passes. I do not mean to deny, nor yet to affirm, that the pecto- ralis minor of the mammal may not be one of the same series of muscular fasciculi as its subclavius ; what I do affirm is, that there is a certain landmark between these two muscles enabling- us to separate them into two sets, and that there is a similar separation recognisable in the bird, of similar muscles by means of a similar landmark. Under the second head I shall show that the sub- clavius of the mammal is supplied by a nerve homologous with the nerve which supplies the pectoralis secundus of the bird, and that the pectoralis minor is not supplied by that nerve, but by the same nerve as that which in the bird supplies the great pectoral. And, thirdly, I shall show that in the developing bird it is possible to see that the pectoralis major is really the equivalent of both pectorals of the mammal. The facts of the anatomical arrange- ments in any single bird will give my arguments in their most intelligible form; and I will proceed to give them in an account of the structures in question^ as seen in the common sparrow-hawk (^Accij)iter nisus). The pectoralis secundus s. levator humeri has a much smaller area of origin from the sternum and its keel in the sparrow-hawk (Accijnter nisus) than in the common fowl. It receives, however, an accession of fibres, first from the anterior inferior angle of the coracoid, and secondly from a large head which, arising from the posterior or upper surface of the coracoid groove in the sternum, from the lateral aspect of the sternal rostrum, from the upper surface of the inner angle of the coracoid itself, and^ finally, from the upper surface of a fibrous band which passes from the posterior lip of the coracoid groove in the sternum to fix itself to the