NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT CISSBURY. 429 off and tumbling- down of the more loosely compacted strata of the chalk forming its wall on to such rubble as its excavators had left on its bottom to save trouble. When this process had been ar- rested, owing" to the less firmly compacted and coherent parts of the walls having been all removed, under the influence of frost and rain, sufliciently long" to allow of the formation of a layer, half mortar half red mud, at the bottom of the downward pointing- conical depression which the desquamation of these debris had formed, we may, with the aid of a heliotype taken from a photo- graph by Messrs. Russell, of Worthing-, under the superintendence of Mr. Park Harrison and Dr. Kelly, reproduce in imagination, the flint workers in the act of depositing on the smooth surface thus formed the dead body which the skeleton represents. The corpse was laid upon its right side, with its face to the East, with its knees within less than half a foot from its chin, with its lower legs bent back upon the upper, and with its forcrarms similarly at right angles to the long axis of its trunk ; in one word, that is, in the ' contracted' position. In front of its knees a large flint hatchet of oval contour ^ was placed, and the body was then sur- rounded by blocks of chalk and some large unworked flints ranged in greatest prominence round the back aspect of the trunk, head, and limbs, but forming also a less conspicuously marked fence in front of the dead body. Some eight shells of Helix nemoralis and a fire-marked pebble appear to have been placed with the body, and after this had been done, the flint workers must have piled chalk rubble over their deceased comrade to a height of about a couple of feet, and having thrown or put in some half-dozen flint im- plements a little above and behind the spot occupied by the shoulders of the corpse and just outside the line occupied by the line of chalk blocks, they must, so far as the relics left to our inspection, can show us, be supposed to have considered the interment completed. • The implement is the one spoken of by Mr. Park Harrison, 1. c, p. 431, as lying 'near the head in front.' There was only an interval of seven inches between the patellae and the skull. Some few worked flints were found, as was also reported to me by Dr. Kelly, around and on a level with the skeleton. [From a letter written Oct. 1878, by Professor Rolleston to Mr. Park Harrison, which the latter gentleman ham given me the opportunity to read, it would appear that Dr. RoUeston had modi- fied the view expressed in the text, and was disposed to agree witli Mr. Hariison that the level surface on which the body lay was prepared for it entirely by man's hands and not by a dribbling down of earth before the place was chosen for the deposit of the body.—Editor,]