173 INTRODUCTION. head in the horizontal position, as pointed out by Professor Cleland, 'Phil. Trans.' 1870, p. 161. Of the several normae, the norma lateralis or profile view of a skull is the most important, giving as it does, firstly, the most character- istic view of the upper and lower jaw, secondly, the relation of height to length, and, thirdly, the picturesque peculiarities of the antero-posterior curve of the cranial vault 1. The upper contour line, in fact, of a brachycephalic skull viewed in profile, dipping away, as it does, more or less abruptly downwards in a plane but a little posterior to that of the parietal tubera, distinguishes such a skull from dolichocephalic forms as sharply as the proportion seen, in its vertical norma, to be borne by its transverse to its longitu- dinal diameter. The possession in fact of such a contour line may justify us in considering a skull to belong to the brachycephalic division and in speaking of it as ' brachycephalic by contour,' even though its extreme breadth may bear a less favourable ratio than that of 80 to 100 of its extreme length. It may be well to state here that the 'precipitous sinking' away of this contour line is very frequently due to an abrupt curvatui-e of the parietal bones exclusively; and that, contrary to what has some- times been laid down, the superior occipital squama may be ' full and globular' in a brachycephalic skull, standing out in a plane posterior to that occupied by the posterior portion of the parietals, and constituting thus what has been called a ' eapsulares Hinter- haupt -.' Further, if it is incorrect to speak of flatness of the superior squama occipitis as being characteristic of brachycephalic crania, it is equally incorrect to say the like of the inferior squama forming the conceptacula cerebelli, or to say that tumidity of this region is characteristic of female skulls. For male brachycephalic skulls very frequently have their conceptacula cerebelli prominently convex outwardly, as the great relative and absolute height of such skulls and the great downward pressure of their cerebral hemispheres would have led us to expect. ' Cleland, 'Phil. Trans. 1870,' p. 145, and Retzius, ' Ethnolog. Schriften,' pp. 118- 121, cit. in loco. ' Virchow, ' Archiv fiir Anthropologie,' iv. 84, and note to p. 177 infra.