301 UPON THE SERIES OF TEEHISTOEIC CRANIA. II. Rickets. I am inclined to believe that we have an example of the working of what has been called an ' Eng-lish disease,' viz. Rickets, in one skull of the bronze period, ' RudstonCj Ixiii. 4,' ' British Barrows,' p. 248. The calvaria of this cranium is so large relatively to its small facial skeleton and lower jaw, and has so distinctly the subquadrate out- lines which we have learnt ^ to recognise as indicative of that false cerebral hypertrophy the essence of which consists in an increase, not of the nerve cells, but the interstitial neuroglia, that we are probably justified in considering it to have taken this shape and size in accommodation to a rickety brain. The skull appears, from its small mastoids and small teeth and jaws, to have belonged to a woman, and somewhat difficult though the size and weight of the entire skull and the considerable de- velopment of the supraciliary ridges may make it to believe this, the existence of a considerable quantity of stalagmite-like exostosis on the interior of the frontal bone lends some additional probability to this view as to its sex, as does also the comparative verticality of the forehead and of the posterior part of the parietals. As rickets may appear, as Sir W. Jenner (1. e. p. 466) has shown, in any child whose mother may have been in a depressed condition during the period of gestation, no matter whether the father may have been in ' robust health and the hygienic conditions most favourable,' there is no need for wondering at its appearance in a semi-civilised community, where early childbearing and hard labour would usually be the lot of the females. In the present case the malady had been outlived, and the subject of it, to judge from the great wear of the teeth and the obliteration of the skull sutures, had reached old age. The teeth are small in size, and only three molars appear to have been implanted in the jaws, two on the left, one on the right side. The measurements of this skull are as follows :— Extreme length . . , 7.4" j_ ^ ^ Interzygomatic width . . 4.7" Extreme breadth . . . 5.7" Vertical height . . , 5.8" Circumference . . . 21-4" Length of face from fronto- nasal suture to edge of alveolar process. . . 2-5" o ^ Interangularwidlh of lower jaw 3-2" g;'^ J Depth of symphysis . . 0-9" " S V Width of ramus , 1-2' Cephalic index . . . .76 Weight of skull with lower jaw but with loss of basicranial bones = i lb. Ik oz- * VVeat, ' Diseases of Children,' Lectures X and XLI, pp. 134 and 729, 5th edition,