GENERAL REMARKS 350 and France, nor, according to His and Eiitimeyer \ from those of Switzerland; nor, according to Virchow (^Archiv fiir Auth,' vi. pp. 92, 93)^ f^'oi^ t^^ose of Belgium. The dolichocephalic skulls with which we are now dealing contrast in no point more markedly with the Anglo-Saxon skulls to which so many authors have stated that they bear a very close resemblance, than they do in their com- paratively slight and orthognathic upper jaw. And it may be emphatically asserted that in the after all not so very common cases in which the early British calvariae do closely resemble the Anglo-Saxon, the upper and lower jaws will almost invariably be found to furnish means for distinguishing them. The lower jaws procured from long barrows, as from other interments, very ordinarily far outnumber the calvariae which have been recovered in such a condition as to admit of reconstruction, and there is never • ■ the slightest difficulty in distinguishing such a series viewed as a whole from a similar series from an Anglo-Saxon cemetery simply by a reference to the more powerful development of the latter series. It is true that occasionally powerful lower jaws have been found belonging to prehistoric dolichocephalic crania. The exist- ence of a ' frons valde depressa ' (a conformation not usual in such skulls) noted by Sir R. C. Hoare ('Archaeologia,' xix. p. 46, i8ai) as present in a skull from a long barrow at Stony Littleton may suggest the presence in that skull of a heavy jaw, to counterbalance which the brain-case may have been rotated backwards (see pp. 214 and 222 supra). In the eminently dolichocephalic (cephalic index 69) Ben-Djemma skull, rendered famous by the history given (' Types of Mankind,' p, xl) of its presentation by the Oriental scholar Fresnel to the American anthropologist Morton, a strikingly retreating forehead is correlated, Dr. Daniel Wilson informs us ('Edinburgh Philosophical Journal,' xviii. i, July, 1863, p. 61), with a lower jaw which is 'large and massive, but with less of the prognathous development than in the superior maxillary.' In the Horned Cairn of Get, Caithness, which though not one of the oldest of those cairns did yet contain, as described by Mr. J. Anderson ('Mem. Soc. Anth. Lond.' iii. p. 220; ' Proc. Soc. Ant. Scot.' June 1868, p. 500), no metallic implements, but on the other hand with ^ Herr Mandach, writing of an anoient skull in the Museum at Zurich, says, 'Rathselhaft aber bleibt immerhin das Auftrcten dieses fast negerariigeu Kopfes inmitten der sonst orthognathen alfcen Helvetier.' ' Crania Helvetica,' p. 63.