215 HELPERTHORPE. HELPERTHORPE. [xli. 3. p. 191.] The skull ' Helperthorpe, xli. 3,' is one which, except for a certain asymmetry in its parieto-oceipital region and a certain wall-sidedness in its lateral temporal regions, might have passed, if we were not acquainted with its archaeological surroundings, for a modern skull. The curve described by its mesial antero-posterior contour from the moderately developed supraciliaiy ridges to the middle of the superior squama occipitis is much more equable than is usual even in dolichocephalic skulls; and the comparatively small development of the frontal sinuses and supraciliary ridges makes us hesitate in ascribing any of the retreating of the frontal region to the commencement of senile gravitation-changes. The difference between the fronto-postremal length and the fronto-inial lenffth, measured in this case to the commencement of the linea nuchae mediana, which is distinguishable from the external occipital protuberance, is only -^q" ; and the dolichocephaly of the skull depends upon the length of the parietal bones ; the length of the parietal arc, 5'5") being more than half an inch over the average, whilst that of the occipital, 4-6''', is identical with it. The mastoids are large, the jaws orthognathous, the lower jaw well formed, lying evenly on a horizontal plane, with a bifid mentum, a long coronoid, and a square angle. The nasals are saddle-shaped, the nose in life may have been, judging from the rise of these bones distally, a ' Roman ' one ; but at any rate it must have differed from the all but Grecian profile given to the Celtic face in the jEs grave^ of Rimini, a work of art of probably the fifth century b.c. In the norma verticalis this skull presents ,a bluntly oval contour, remarkable for very considerable asymmetry ^ on the right half of the pai-ieto-oecipital region, due probably to the mode of carriage ' See Frontispiece to ' Ethnogdnie Gauloise, par Eoget Biiron de Belloguet/ 1S61 ; Sambon,' Eecherclies eiir les Monnaies antiques de I'ltalie,' 1870, p. 71. The backward j>OHition of the ear in this figure is nearly as clear an indication of its having been intended for a representation of a brachyceplialic head as the tore round the neck is of its having been intended for a Gaul of early Roman history. ' For a discussion upon the mode of production of such asymmetry, see note, pp. 176, 177, supra ibiqne citata.