THE BLOOD-COKPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. 491 words, which state a positive fact, do not bear out Professor Lan- kester's suggestion of the negative conclusion proverbially, and here so specially, hard to prove. For, as regards the blood-vascular system of the leeches generally, Leuckart, who includes under them Branchiobdella, says (1. c. p. 670):—' The blood of the HiriuUneae contains exceedingly few blood corpuscles, and these, it should be noted, do not, as it appears, even circulate in every part of the vascular apparatus.' Leuckart then proceeds to describe the various bodies which go by the name of blood-corpuscles in the leeches, with which animals he always classes Branchiobdella, and of the vascular system of which animals he takes Brancliiohdella as a type a few pages back. Similarly Leydig, who repeatedly refers to the histology oi BrancUoMella (e.g. 'Archiv fiir Mikros. Anatomic,' i. p. 274, 1865; ' Tafeln zur Vergleich. Anatomic, pi. ii. fig. 6), and must repeatedly have had it, with its faintly-coloured blood, under the microscope, as he tells us (' Zeitsch. Wiss. Zool.' i. p. 117,1849) he has had Piscicola, so like it in this respect, writes of the blood- corpuscles of leeches without ever hinting that Branchiobdella (which he, like Leuckart, considers to be one of the Hirudineae) differed fi-om them in this same cardinal point of the absence of corpuscles from its vascular fluid. Both, then, of these excellent observers consider Branchiobdella to be a leech; both repeatedly treat of its histology; both describe the blood-corpuscles of the Hirudineae; neither ever suggests that these corpuscles are wanting to Branchiob- della, though one of them, viz. Leydig ('Archiv Mikro. Anat.' I.e. p. 281), does assert this of Chaetogaster, an animal, the somewhat authorities, into numerous small round non-nucleate bodies, wMch individually are scarcely half the size of the nucleus of the cells, is the source of many, but not of all, the smaller bodies visible in the blood of these animals. Retrograde, however, as well as other changes, count for much of the ' Komchenbildung' of the blood as usually examined, and good figures of such changes are given by Barry (' Phil. Trans.' 1840, pi. xxix. fig. 6) and by Gulliver (Gerber's 'Anatomy,' fig. 268). The formation of lymph corpuscles by proliferation of the peritoneal endothelium was demonstrated by Schweigger-Seidel and Ludwig, in 1866, in Ludwig's 'Arbeiten' (i. 180). Kolliker ('Gewebelehre,' p. 618, 1867) suggests that the like process may take place in the smaller lymphatic vessels. Remak ('Untersuchungen uber Entwickelung,' p. 22) made the same suggestion, in 1855, as to the blood-vessels, and Leydig, in 1857, in his 'Histologic' (p. 447), has the following words :—'Das sog. Gefassepithel scheint ebenfalls durcli Zellenwucherung die Zahl der Blutkiigelchen vergrbssern oder die etwas untergegangenen ersetzen zu kcinnen.' (See also ' Bau des Thierischen Korpers,' 1864, p. 67.) Dr. Beale, in his 'Microscope in Medicine' (1878, p. 252), pronounces hiiaself to the same effect.