GENERAL REMARKS 302 A second skull, to which the foregoing description as to age, sex, contour and other characters, with a slight alteration as to the supraciliary ridges being smaller, would apply almost word for word, was obtained by Canon Greenwell from a cave at Eyhope in the county of Durham. With this skull and lower jaw there came to the University Museum from this cave a second lower jaw, which had belonged to a strong man, and resembles in many particulars the lower jaws of the earlier British prehistoric race ; and the lower jaw of the skull, altered by cerebral hypertrophy, has its angles inverted in a manner frequently noticeable in lower jaws of early races. These points have some importance, as some doubt exists as to the date of this ' cave-find.' The measurements of this Ryhope skull are as follows:— Extreme length . 7-4" Interzygomatic breadth 4-7" Extreme breadth . 5-6" Interangular width of lower jaw 3-1" Vertical height • 5-3" Width of ramus 1-3" Absolute height . 5-0" Depth of symphysis . 0.9" Circumference . . 20-8" Weight of skull i lb. 5 oz. 70 grs. Length of face. . 2-3" III. Diseases and irregxdaniy of teeth, in PreJiistoric Series. Mr. Mummery in a valuable paper published firstly in the 'Trans- actions of the Odontological Society of Great Britain,' vol. ii. p. i, Nov. 1869, and subsequently (1870) in a separate form with addi- tional notes, has given at considerable length, and also tabulated, the results of his observation upon dental disease as existing in pre- historic races, having examined for this purpose a large proportion of the series in the Oxford Museum and also several other col- lections. In the same paper he has also recorded the results of his investigation of dental disease in various existing savage tribes, such as the Australians, the Eskimos, the Negroes, and the Red Indians. Mr. Mummery has pointed out that amongst as many as sixty-eight Wiltshire skulls of the long-barrow period in Dr. Thur- nam's collection he could find only two cases of decay, whilst amongst thirty-two skulls in the same collection from the round- barrow period there were seven cases. In sixty Yorkshire dolicho- cephali, however, Mr. Mummery says no less than twenty-four 1865; Jenner, Lectures on Rickets, 'Med. Times and Gazette,' i860; Virchow, ' Untersuchungen ftber die Entwickelung des Schadelgrundes,' Berlin 1857, pp. 99- 102, ibique citata.