APPENDIX. 336 ages, declares himself of opinion that ' rabbits were introduced into England in or just before the thirteenth century.' I have never found the remains of tlie rabbit in any surroundings earlier than those of Saxon times; but difficult as it may be to prove the positive fact of the contemporaneity of a burrowing animal with a deposit into which it is possible it may have burrowed, it is more difficult still to prove the negative fact of its absence from an entire country at any one particular period. Further, the comparatively small size of the rabbit makes the matter still more difficult than it is as regards the fallow deer, or the elm and vine and chestnut, which we may speak of as having been probably introduced or reintroduced by the Romans. And, thirdly, as a much larger portion of Britain was occu- pied in earlier than in later times by woodland which would furnish protection and harbour to the Mustelidae, the martens, weasel, stoat, and polecat, the natural enemies and most eflfectual destroyers of the rabbit, we can understand how this latter animal has escaped the ordinary fate of ferae naturae and become more abundant in this country concomi- tantly with the increase of its human occupants, and the curtailment of its woods and foi'ests ^. The relations of the Mustelidae to the Jiodentia generally are expressed accurately in the ' Batrachomyomachia,' 51- 52 :— 7r\f7(TTOV Si) yoKerjv ntpiSfiBia fjris dpltrrrj "H Koi rpcoyXoBvvovTa Kara TpajyXrjv (ptdvd. The bones of water-rats, Arvicola amphibius, I have found lying in eyes in those days. I take this opportunity of remarking that an acquaintance with the line next but one to that just quoted, 'The dredeful roe, the buck, the h.art, the hind,' would have made the suggestion that the fallow deer was introduced into England no earlier than the time of James I. an impossibility. For the introduction of the fallow deer into Britain, see Professor Boyd Dawkins, ' Proc. Geol. Soc. Lond.,'June 17, 1868, p. 515; 'Nature,' Dec. 10, 1874, Jan. 21, 1875; Jeitteles, ibid., Nov. 26, 1874; Sir V. Brooke, ibid., Jan. 14, 1875. ^ From British coins the rabbit is as entirely absent as is the beehive ; see p. 331 Bupra. Of Spanish coins, on the other hand, Spanheim (' De Praestantia et Usu,' vol. i. p. 179), in a passage pointed out to me by Mr. Evans, says it may be taken ' index velut ac tessfera,'much as the dolphin is of Italian seaports and the owl of Athens and her colonies. Dr. Whitaker however, in his ' History of Manchester,' may over- strain the words of Varro (iii. 12), ' Et quod in Hispania annis ita fuisti multis ut inde te cuniculos persecutes credam,' by supposing them to show that the writer held that all rabbits in Italy had been imported from Spain. For a disquisition on the history of the rabbit, see Houghton, 'Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.,' 1869, iv. Ser., vol. XV. p. 179. For one on that of the martens, see 'Journal of Anatomy and Phy- siology,' 1868, pp. 47, 62, 437, 438 (also Article XXVIII.), where the historical relations of these animals to the rabbit, and also to the Felis oatus, are considered,