THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. 485 that of the presence of their hosts. (See Professor Klebs, ' Vortrao- iiber die Umgestaltung der Medicinischen Anschauungen,' 1878, pp. 52-53, as regards Lepra.) It finds no place in the ' British Museum Catalogue of Worms,' by Dr. Geoge Johnston, 1865, nor in Mr. Edward Parfitt's 'Catalogue of the Annelides of Devon,' published in 1878 ('Trans. Devon Assoc. Science, Literature, and Art'). Mr. W. H. Jackson, Demonstrator of Anatomy in the Oxford University Museum, has often looked for it upon the numerous Astaci which are dissected here every term under his guidance, but in vain. I myself, and others elsewhere, have been equally unsuccessful; and though our examinations of the gills have been often rewarded by the sight of the beautiful Cothurnia Astaci, I doubt whether it has been the good-fortune of other investigators to meet with this animal, apparently so common on the Continent, within our four seas, or at any rate in these southern counties. Hence I have been obliged to content myself with the plates and descriptions given by Odier and Henle (loc. eit.); by Keferstein. ('Archiv Anat. und Phys.' 1863, p. 509); by Dr. Dorner (loc, cit.); and, above all, with the statements of Leuckart and Leydig re- lating to it, the omission of the two latter of which names from a list of the authorities upon this subject appearing to me to be about as singular a proceeding as would be the omission of the names of Podalirius and Machaon from a list of the doctors in the Iliad. Inaccessible though the animal has been to me in the fresh state, and though the difficulties besetting much of its anatomy are such as to make it more than ordinarily hard to prove a posi- tive, not to say a negative, conclusion respecting it, the animal nevertheless possesses very considerable claims upon the attentive consideration of the classificatory zootomist, being, as it is, an an- nectent form between the Hirudineae and the Oligochaeta. And as the peculiarities of its structural arrangements are specially interesting to those who, like myself (see note, p. 138, ' Forms of Animal Life'), would unite the two families together with the Polycliaeta under the common term 'Annelides,' as a class name'^, a glance at ' The question as to the propriety of ranging the Hirudineae or Discophora in the Rame dwn even with the Chaetophora has been perpetually raised even down to entirely recent times. Grube, in his excellent memoir on ' Die Fainilien des Anneliden' (Wiegmann's 'Archiv,' 1850, S.A. p. i), writes thus :—'Ein jeder, der von Anneliden bandelt, eine Erklarung schuldig, ob er sie in dem Sinne von Cuvier, von Milne