382 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BABROW PERIOD. a considerable part of a headless male skeleton lying on its right side—as there are indications to prove, from the wear of the bones (irrespective of notes taken or not taken at the time), that nearly all the skeletons from this chamber, and its neighbourhood, were laid. The head of this skeleton, if it was not buried in the headless condition in which we found it, must have lain or been propped against the eastward wall of the zone or trench. The very cramped position which it would thus have occupied may seem to favour the notion of its having been thus headless when first deposited, a notion which the discovery of heads buried separately in other barrows ^ might, in the absence of other considerations, serve to confirm. The patella, tibia, and fibula were in situ, as well as the clavicle, first rib, and the upper end of the humerus of the right side, and some of the dorsal vertebrae; but much breakage had taken place, and parts of a fibula and tibia of the left side, found in relation with these bones by us in 1874, were found to be parts of bones taken up by Mr. Royce in 1867, and given by him to me, showing that much disturbance had taken place then, and render it unsafe to suppose that any of the dislocations of the trunk bones, or indeed the separation of the head, may have dated from the time when the body was first put into the barrow. With what was actually seen by us in 1874 must be coupled what was reported to us from 1867, and this went to the effect that two headless bodies were found in this transverse strip of the barrow, west of the central walling, and that one of these lay about the centre of the barrow, and the other further to the south-west; whilst all the skulls, five in number, discovered in 1867 were in, or in the immediate neighbourhood of, the cist. The cist or chamber itself contained three bodies in 1867 undisturbed—at least to any recognisable extent. The fact that some of the entire number of eight bodies were found at a considerable distance from the skeleton-containing chamber, and that they were found -udthout any of the upright flagging with which those of the other skeletons were placed; and the fact that two skulls, which may be supposed to have belonged to the two headless skeletons, were found placed close to the chamber, one on its north, the other on its south side, seem, when taken together, to indicate that the three skeletons in the chamber were interred at one time, but that time one subsequent » See Prof. Unger, 'Gotting. Anth. Verein,' i., 1874, pp. 32-33.