476 ON THE CKANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN'. opposed to a morpholog-ieal explanation. But, when we come further to consider the structure and composition of the various segments of the orbital ring in these races, we find combined with this physiologically explicable similarity a very considerable mor- phological difference. This is constituted by the conformation of the nasals, which in the Bushman form invariably an all but level plane between the nasal processes of the maxillaries, and contribute, being narrow, but a small factor to the interocular spaee, which, when the soft parts are in situ, appears disproportionately wide as compared with the same area in other races. In Mongols, Eskimos, and Australians the nasals very ordinarily form a more or less elevated arch, and they are not by any means so narrow as they are almost always in the Bushman race. In this latter these bones not rarely lose not only their characteristic arch-shape but also their individuality, and anchylose with each other mesially. It is, liov^rever, right to add that nasals of the Bushman type are not rarely, though by no means invariably, to be found in Negro and Caff re crania. As regards the yellow hue of the skin, the likeness to the Mongolian races proper is perhaps less disputable, but with the skin we are bound to consider the hair, the peculiarities of which, as seen in the Bushman, are as different from those seen in the Mongolian variety of mankind as it is possible for two varieties of human hair from the same area to be. 'The thinnest and flattest hair is that of the Bosjesmans, Papuans, and Negroes; the most cylin- drical being that of Polynesians, Malays, Siamese, Japanese and Americans. Europeans are between the two.' Such are the micro- scopic characters of the hair in the several great divisions of our species according to Topinard (''Anthropology;' translated in * Library of Contemporary Science' by Dr. Bartley), and it is needless to contrast the spirally contorted and tufted dark hair of the Hottentot or Bushman with the coarse wire-drawn straight black hair of the Mongolian or Eskimo. It is curious, however, if indeed not otherwise significant, that the Central African ' Bush- men,' if so we may call them, of Ashango, occasionally bury their dead in a temporarily diverted stream-course, much was done in the case of Attila, and, according to Mr. Wood, 1. c, ' in various parts of the world from the earliest known time.' The Bushman race, as is well known, have strong proclivities in