138 ON THE HOMOLOGIES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 3. Fig. I. Scapulo-coracoid arch of Crocodile {Crocodilus vulgaris), sc. Scapula. cr. Coracoid. gl. Glenoid cavity. be. Facet of origin of biceps. Eound this portion of the coracoid the head of the ' epicoraco-humeral' muscle which comes from the inner surface of the scapula winds. per. Praecoracoid. The surface whence the coracoid head of the ' epicoraco-humeral' muscle arises extends from the point lettered per up to the line of fissure between scapula and coracoid, and a little beyond it. d. Ridge on scapula, giving origin to deltoid. tc. Facet of origin of triceps. SB. Surface of origin of supraspinatus, erf. Coracoid foramen. Fig. 2. Scapulo-coracoid arch of Emu {Dromaius novae hollandiae). Adult. so. Scapula. cr. Coracoid. gl. Glenoid. per. Praecoracoid. cla. Line of clavicular abutment on scapula. Between the points per and gl, and below ela, lies the praeglenoid expanse, made up by factors both from scapula and coracoid. From this expanse the coracoid head of the epicoraco-humeral muscle takes origin. The deltoid takes origin from the scapula immediately above and behind the line ela. Fig. 3. Muscles in connexion with the scapulo-coracoid arch and upper extremity of Crocodile {Crocodilas liporeatus). The same arrangement has been noted in A lligator lucius, with scarcely any differences. pm. Pectoralis major. The muscle has been divided, and its origin from the sternum and interclavicle turned mesially, and its tendon of insertion into the greater tuberosity of the humerus turned outwards, p m', tendon of pectoralis major. di. 'Epicoraco-humeral' of Mivart ('Trans. Linn. Soc' vol. xxv. 1866, p. 383), a bicipital muscle ; its inner head winds round the coracoid face of the praeglenoid expanse, to take origin from the visceral surface of the scapula; its outer head arises from the praecoracoid, and, to a small extent, from the praescapular portion of the praeglenoid expanse, where it is in close relation with the deltoid. The inner of these two heads is intimately connected at its insertion with that of the pectoralis major, and, together with the tendon from the other head, occupies on the humerus a position between that of the tendon of the deltoid externally and inferiorly and that of the pectoralis major internally and inferiorly. The in- sertion of the omohyoid corresponds with the origin of the praeglenoid head of the epicoraco humeral; and the fibres of the two muscles are, to some slight extent, continuous with each other, at least in young specimens. e i. Muscular fascicle which arises from second sternocostal cartilage in the same series as the external oblique and intercostals, but which may also be looked upon as homologous with an anterior seguient of the ' rectus abdominis,' which is often not distinguishable from the former of these muscles. It ends in a delicate tendon, which loses itself, along the coracoid groove, in the sternum and the origin of the pectoralis major. The rectus abdominis in many ordinary mammals has an insertion into the first rib (see Professor Turner, 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' May 1868, p. 393), from which the ordinary mam- malian subclavius arises; and in the order Mouotremata it has, in both species of Echidna and in the Ornithorhynchus, an insertion into the coracoid at no great distance from the area of origin of their epicoraco-humeral, which I hold to be