LIFE OF DR. EOLLESTON. XXXV and of expressing thought in articulate speech. Professor Huxley answered that he had controverted the assertions made for years by Professor Owen as to the differences in brain between man and the highest apes; he called upon Professors Rolleston, Flower, and Vrolik, to say whether the universal voice of Continental and British anatomists had not entirely borne out his statements, and refuted those of Professor Owen. Professor Rolleston on this went into the whole question on its merits, in a speech which, putting together the newspaper reports and his own notes, seems to have been somewhat as follows :—He said that the facts stated by Professor Huxley were supported by the evidence of the photographic process, referring to the ' Natural History Eeview' for April and July 1861, and to his own Royal Institution lecture above mentioned. He would try to supply the members of the Association with the points of positive difference between the human and the ape's brain. For doing this we had been abundantly shown that the hippocampus minor and the posterior lobe were insufficient. Without employing that analysis of the brain's convolutions which we owe to Gratiolet, it is impossible to differentiate the brains of man and the apes fully and fairly. Professor Owen had himself spoken of the determination of the difference between Homo and Pithecus as being ' the anatomist's difficulty.' It was plain, therefore, that the differentiation of the human from the simious encephalon was not such an easy matter as many persons might suppose, and it was but recently that the means for effecting this differentiation had been discovered. What Gra- tiolet had done for the anatomy of the brain might be compared with the work of Adams in astronomy, and of Max Miiller in language, and without a reference to his writings it was im- possible for a lecturer on this subject to treat either it or his audience fairly. This analysis had enabled us to point out great differences, and widely-swerving characteristics, which the rough and empirical methods of ordinary brain anatomy were wholly incompetent to reveal to us. On Mr. Darwin's principle of the great importance of rudimentary organs for classificatory pur- c 2