265 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. in ] 854 examined the relation of brains and skulls iji situ without any kuowledg-e of his precedence, but with the result of confirming his statements. Of these there are two which are of eminent im- portance for our present purpose, the one namely which allocates the supra-marginal convolution of the brain to the parietal eminence in the skull (see Huschke, ' Schadel^ Hirn, und Seele,' p. 142) ; and a second, according to which the internal perpendicular or parieto- occipital fissure ^ holds a similar relation to the lambdoid suture (Huschke, I.e. pp. 62, 142). For as I have already said (p. 234), of all the peculiarities distinguishing the brachycephalic from the dolichocephalic skull, at least in European races, there is none more important and more striking, even from a merely craniological point of view, than the difference existing between them as to the distance intervening between the plane of the parietal eminences and that of the back of the skull. When however we come to look into this difference a little more closely, we find that if we take for our posterior limit, not the posterior aspect of the skull but the plane of the lambdoid suture, the two varieties of skull are just as clearly differentiated as before. For the relative proportions of that portion of the cerebral cranium which is constituted by the superior squama occipitis and lodges the occipital lobe proper, and the relative proportions of that lobe itself, are exceedingly variable^ investigation; an account of their labours is given by Professor Broca in his memoir 'Sur la TopographieCranio-c^r^brale,' published in the 'Revue d'Anthropologie,' torn, v. No. 2, 1876. ' Professor Turner ('Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' Series ii. No. xiii. Nov. 1873, p. 145) says that the 'exact distance of the parieto-occipital fissure from the apex of the lambdoidal suture varies, partly from variations in the brain itself, and partly from the not infrequent variations in the mode of ossification of the upper squamous part of the occipital bone. About 0-7 or 0-8 of an inch will express its average distance from the apex of that suture.' In this Professor Turner differs from Ecker, 'Arch, fiir Anth.' ix. 1876, pp. 72 and 76 ; and from Broca and Bischoff, citt. in loco. Broca, in the 'Revue d'Anthropologie,' tom..v. No. 2, 1876, says : 'La scissure occipitale externa correspond assez ordinairement chez les adultes de notre race b, la suture lanibdoide, h, quelques millimetres prfes; toutefois elle peut s'en ecarter davantage, soit en dessus, soit en dessous.' These statements are mainly of importance as bearing upon the variability of the occipital lobes, to which reference has been made above and will be also in the next note. ^ The occipital lobe is supplied exclusively by the posterior cerebral artery, which, on account of the angle which it makes with the main trunk whence it arises, the bafdlar, namely, or, on the right side, very frequently the internal carotid, as alsf) on account of its great lenjcth, must work at very considerable hydraulic disadvantage. What the peculiar course of the artery would lead us to anticipate,