130 ON THE HOMOLOaiES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES of the obturator to the inner head of the pectineus. The branch from the anterior crural, or from its internal cutaneous division, to the outer head of the pectineus answers to the circumflex, whilst the muscle, by having- these two sources of nerve-supply, corresponds, even curiously, with the two levatores humeri of the fowl, and the glutei nerves and muscles are then left as homologues of the sub- scapular, teres major, and latissimus dorsi. Thirdly, there can be little doubt that the coraco-brachiales, superior and inferior, of Meckel (no. xvi. and xvii. of Schoepss), in the bird correspond, not only to the adductores in the lower limb, but also to the obturator internus and externus, arising as they do, the former from the visceral, and the latter from the external surface of the parts homologous with the points of origin of the two obturatores. Now, close as is the relation between the tendons of the smaller glutei and the obturatores at the external or larger trochanter of the human femur, it is not at all more intimate than that which subsists between the tendons of the coraco-brachiales and those of the subscapularis and teres major on the lesser tube- rosity, as represented by the crateriform rim of the pneumatic foramen. If the superior coraco-brachialis, the origin of which is described in my account of the muscles of the sparrow-hawk, be the homologue of the obturator internus, it is difficult to deny the homology of the subscapularis (with the tendon of which its tendon fuses) with the gluteus medius, which holds so much the same relation by its tendon to the obturator internus. Leaving now the subject of the homology of the subscapularis and teres major with the glutei, I may refer to the nerve-supply of the teres minor from the same nerve, the circumflex, which sup- plies the deltoid, as showing that this muscle is really but a divari- cation of the deltoid posteriorly, as a similar line of argument shows the tensor fasciae femoris to be of the gluteus medius. The diffi- culty, therefore, as to the nomenclature of the muscle, which in Saurians and the monotrematous Echidna (see Mivart, 'Trans. Linn. Soc' vol. XXV. p. 384, and 'Proc. Zool. Soc' June 1867, p. 778; Stannius, 'Handbuch der Zootomie,' ii. p. 126) has been sometimes called ' teres minor' and sometimes ' a second part of the deltoid,' may be met by saying that the posterior factor of the ' deltoid' is not, in these lower animals, diflferentiated into a superficially placed ' deltoid' and a deeper lying 'teres minor.' There is ordinarily no