GENERAL REMARKS 298 ossified, and other bones besides those already specified are similarly hyperostotic. Some of the skeletal bones on the other hand, and notably the scapulae, show signs of senile atrophy and thinning, a point of importance to note, as regards both the cause and the time of the production of the vertebral and other hyperostoses. A skeleton of a Little Andaman Islander described by Dr. Barnard Davis, 'Supplement to Thesaurus Craniorum,' 1875, p. 95, appears to have exemplified almost every possible form of exostosis and synostosis, except the important form of bony anchylosis which consists in the more or less complete coalescence of the first cervical vertebra with the occipital bone. On this Professor Virehow has written at some length in his recently issued volume, ' Beitrage,' pp. 340-345. Professor Virehow puts on record five cases of this variety, three of which have come under his own observation, whilst the other two have been described by Bogstra in conjunction with Boogaard and Friedlowsky. A somewhat larger number are described in the already cited ' Catalogue of the Leyden Anatomical Museum' (vol. i. pp. 143, 144; vol. ii. Taf. xiv, Taf. XV; vol. iv. pp. 31, 46, Taf. clviii. fig. i, 2, 3), with the remark that ' ex descriptis speciminibus diversimode cranium cum atlante concrescere constat.' There are two specimens of this anchylosis in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of London; one being an artificially distorted skull from Vancouver's Island, No. 5412 A, and the other, the existence of which was notified to me by Professor Flower, being the partly-burnt skull, No. 59°3^ "which was supposed, but probably erroneously, to have belonged to a native of Van Diemen's Land. We have five specimens of this very interesting pathological deformation in the Oxford University Museum, three in the Pathological Museum, and two in the Ethnological Series. Of the three in the Pathological Museum, one, No. 157, belonged to a man who died at the age of 73, and the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae are anchylosed to each other just as the atlas is anchylosed to the occipital. In this case, as in Friedlowsky's, the posterior arch of the atlas is left incomplete, an interval of two millimetres separating it into two halves. The second belonged to a boy who, after suffering from various scrofulous affections, died with cough, purulent expectora- tion, hectic, and vomicae in the right lung, as well as extensive paralysis from, no doubt, encroachment effected by the odontoid