xlv LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. trated his experience by a story he had heard of a famous row in the Dublin Theatre. A man in the gallery had got another in his arms and was in the act of pitching him over, when a voice from below was heard to cry, 'Don't waste the man, kill a fiddler wid him.' ' So I never throw away a fact,' the Professor moralised, ' it is sure to have its use somewhere.' One practical good gained by many-sided sympathies and tastes was in the effect he had in stimulating those who came to see him at the Museum ; they would go away with new interests implanted in them, and often, especially when they were stationed or travel- ling in distant countries, they would do useful scientific work. All over the world he had friends eagerly collecting specimens for him. His sympathy with missionaries stood him in good stead in this way, and much friendly intercourse arose, as for instance with Mr. Whitmee the missionary and philologist, who became acquainted with him through a specimen of the Didun- cuhis strigirostris, the nearest living relative of the Dodo, and which now inhabits the same case with the skeleton of that famous bird. In the line of Anthropology, his chief publication was his part of Greenwell and Rolleston's 'British Barrows^.' The two friends had spent many delightful days on the Yorkshire wolds, searching the burial-mounds of ancient chiefs on the wild moors and ferny hill-sides where they have as yet escaped destruction at the hands of the ditcher and the ploughman. Canon Greenwell devoted himself especially to the ai'chagological objects found, and Dr. Rolleston to the human remains. He considered the collection of skulls figured in the volume to confirm the easily remembered rule that the long barrows of the stone age were the graves of a long-skulled people then dwelling in the land. In burial-mounds of later times, generally round, remains of men of both narrow and wide type of skull ' British Barrows : a Record of the Examination of Sepulchral Mounds in varioust parts of England, by William Greenwell, M.A., F.S.A.; together >vith De- scription of Figures of Skulls, General Remarks on Prehistoric Crania, and an Appendix, i^y George Rolleston, M.D., FJK.S. Oxford (Clarendon Press), 1877.