ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE BRAIN 20 measure of the position' of the third cornu^; indeed, when we find Tiedemann speaking of the ' pedes hippocampi minores' as ' pro- cessus'^ duo medullares qui a posteriore corporis callosi marg'ine proficiscuntui*,' it is easy to understand how he came to overlook their existence altogether, ' in cerebro Simiarum desunt,' being so far in error as to their relations to neighbouring parts. The relation of the posterior edge of the corpus callosum to the commencement of the third cornu is of importance, not merely as a guide to the discovery of that fissure, but also as, when coupled with the relations which the corpus callosum holds to the internal occipital fissure, i6, laterally, and to the corpora quadrigemina posteriorly, speaking unambiguously of great diminution of the antero posterior diameter of the simious corpus callosum. The hippocampus major presents several well-marked corrugations on the expanded lower extremity,' quae huic parti tanquam figuram digitorum pedis tribuunt^;' but as they are on its posterior, not on its anterior edge, we are not compelled to conti-adict Tiedemann's twenty-first corollary, which relates to the hippocampus major, in the same way as our figures compel us to differ from his twenty- second, quoted above, with reference to the hippocampus minor. It is for the sake of illustrating yet further the important principle, that variability of arrangement is to be expected, rather than wondered at, in organisms as high as those of these apes, that I add the following observations as to the convolutions on the internal aspect of the hemispheres. There is scarcely any indica- tion of a lobulus quadratus*, the structure representing it resembles but little the figure of it as given by M. Gratiolet in his third plate, whilst, as if in compensation, the superior marginal convolu- tion, spoken of by him as 'tr^s simple et k peu pres lisse dans I'orang' (page 49 in his Memoire), presents, in our specimen, abun- dant and rich convolutions. ^ ' Nat. Hist. Keview,' 1. c, p. 79. * 'Icones,' p. 51. 3 ' Icones,' p. 51. But in a work or paper published 1826, Tiedemann acknowledges tte existence of the digitiform process in the orang. Cf. St. Hilaire, ' Hist. Nat.' ii. p. i2\. * This quadrilateral lobule is spoken of in the ' Anatomie Compar^e,' Tom. ii. 1857, p. J15, as ' un petit lobule quadrilateral, que de petites incisures subdivisent.' This I had not seen when I wrote as above. P. 45, ' H n'existe jamais dans les singes et ne se voit pas toujours dans I'homme.' Cp. Wagner, ' Vorstud.' ii. pp. 32, 33, where it is said to be present' bei der Mehrzahl der Menschen.'