269 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTOKIC CRANIA. i and j' in the Oxford University Museum), tlie skull belonging- to which has not been accessible to me, but which may be supposed to have been brachycephalic, and from the measurements here given to have been sinistrally flattened (see p. i77 supra) in the parieto-occipital region, I find the width of this zone to be 0-95" on the left and 1-7" on the right side. In Negroes, who are usually spoken of as being ' occipitally dolichocephalic,' but in whom the position of the parietal tubera is more variable than in any other race of men with which I am acquainted, I have found the width of this zone to vary correspondingly. In one Negro brain I found it to be 1" on both sides; in the cast of another, presented by E. Garner, Esq., F.L.S., to the University Museum, I find the width to be 2-3" on the right side and \'(^" on the left; in another, in which the posterior cerebral arteries on both sides were very largely contri- buted to by the carotids and the convolutions generally broad and coarse, I found the width of this belt of brain to be O'/^' on the right and i-i" on the left side. It is rarer to find great diflierences in the width of this zone in dolichocephalic than in brachycephalic brains, which indeed the most superficial examination of the skulls would lead us to expect would be the case. When, however, we have gained the knowledge that particular sets of convolutions in the brain underlie particular areas of the surface of the skull, and correspond generally in extent and limits with them, we have gained after all but little unless we can go further and show that j^articular functions, or at least that a greater power for activity in functions generally, can be assigned to the portions of brain thus localised. To attain either of these ends we must enter upon the following lines of enquiry. We must ask, firstly, whether any portions of the brain-surface have such a dif- ferentially advantageous blood-supply as to render it but reasonable to suppose that they have either difierentially important functions, or a difierentially greater amount of functions generally, to under- take. Secondly, we must discover whether the microscopical structure and connections of the several convolutions can be shown to differ in such a way and to such an extent as to justify us in conjecturing that important differences of function, either quali- tative or quantitative, must be correlated with such differences of structure. Thirdly, we may learn much from observations as to the sequence of certain mental upon certain cerebral changes produced