UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 279 the two prehistoric races with which we are dealing, most im- portantly, we have in this country dolichoce.phaly combined with low statui-e and with dark complexion in a very considerable number of our population, even in districts such as the Midland Counties, where the names of the towns and villages show that the Saxon and Danish conquerors occupied it in for the time entii-ely overwhelming numbers. The fact of the existence of this stock, or, we may perhaps say, of its survival and its re- assertion of its own distinctive character in the districts of Derby, Stamford, Leicester, and Loughborough, was pointed out in the year 1848 by the late Professor Phillips, at a meeting of the British Association at Swansea (see Report, p. 99). More extended observations, but to the same effect, are put on record by Dr. Beddoe ('Mem. Soc. Anth. London,' ii. p. 350) in the following words : ' Of twenty-five Englishmen having black or brownish- black hair, the average index of head-breadth is so small as 7'5*5> which is the lowest I have met with in any set of men. Eight "Welshmen having black hair yielded the same modulus to a fraction as thirty-eight who had hair of other colours, though I must concede that eight black-haired Kerrymen had heads broader by i per cent, than twenty-four others. The observations of my friend Mr. Hector Maclean on the islanders of Islay and Colonsay bear me out on this point very strongly, his black-haired men^ twenty in number, yielding a modulus of seventy-six, or 3 per cent, less than that of their lighter-haired neighbours. Mr. Mac- learis measurements and my own both indicate that a notable, though not very great inferiority in stature and bulk, does, on the average, characterise the black-haired type.' The tall, powerfully-made brachycephalous Briton of the round- barrow period all but certainly presented much the same combina- tion of physical peculiarities as the modern Finn and Dane, whilst of the feebler folk of the long-barrow times we may say with nearly equal probability that they possessed, like the modern English, Irish, Scotch, and Italian of similarly low stature, the ' colorati vultus' ascribed by Tacitus to the Silures, and supposed by him to furnish some ground for connecting them with the Spanish. think almost all the swarthy men were small. Many were very swarthy. Many of the middle class not Bretons are ludicrously brachyeephalic, and their necks often thicker than most English besides.'