311 UPON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC CRA.NIA. feriority, that, namely, which is constituted by diminution of the height of the skull, absolutely as well as relatively to its long- and transverse diameters, is not usually noticeable, except in the female skulls of the dolichocephalic long-barrow race. To this may be added that in the series from the Caverne de I'Homme Mort, belonging to an early period of the neolithic age, Professor Broca found the height of the female actually exceeding that of the male skulls in the proportion of 132 millimetres to 131. If we miss in these neolithic crania the diminution of the height of the skull which Professor Busk has, under the name of ' tapeino- eephaly,' noted in certain modern savages, we look almost equally in vain amongst them for a fourth point of degradation, the elonga- tion, to wit, of the basicranial axis; a peculiarity which Professor Cleland has rightly insisted upon ('Phil. Trans.' 1870, p. 124) as being sti-ikingly and remarkably characteristic of uncivilised nations as distinct ethnographically as the Esquimaux, the Kafirs, and the Caribs. I have already (p. 236^) noted that the basis cranii in these ancient crania has never been found by me to have suffered from that pathological degradation which is known as the ' plastic de- formation ' of Dr. Barnard Davis, the ' basilar impression' of Vir- chow, the ' impressio baseos cranii' of other authors. The nasal index, which fails to separate the Eskimo from the civilised races, fails equally with the long-barrow skulls, and, as has been pointed out by Professor Broca (' Rev. Anth,,'' 1873, ii. p. 19), with other prehistoric European skulls. On the other hand, the orbital index, which does put the prehistoric crania from Cro- Magnon and the Caverne de I'Homme into a position of similarity to skulls such as those of the Tasmanian, Australian, and Melanesian races, puts the neolithic skulls of British barrows into a position of superiority as compared, not merely with the modern savages just mentioned, but even with the skulls of the bronze period. As regards these latter skulls however, it should be remarked that the ' The references made by me elsewhere (pp. 289-298 supra) to this interesting pathological change were made merely for the sake of illustration. Dr. Barnard Ddvis's paper was read before the Anthropological Society of Paris, June 5, 1862, and may be found in ' M^m. Soc. Anthrop. de Paris,' torn. i. p. 380. Subsequently a memoir upon the subject was published by Dr. Boogaard in the ' Nederland Tijdsclirift voor Geneeakunde,' 1865, 2. p. 81, an analysis of which by Dr. W. D. Moore appeared in the 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' Nov. 1866, p. 179.