100 ON THE PLACENTAL 8TBUCTUEE8 OF THE TENREC ciduous serotina is ordinarily separable from the uterine surface of the placenta in a coherent sheet, whilst in the surface of the placenta, besides other maternal elements, there are the processes known as ' Decidua-Fortsatze' mixed up inextricably like them, but, unlike them, distinguishable by the naked eye. The Insectivora have the umbilical vessels confined to the pla- centa, but their ultimate capillaries are apposed to similar maternal vessels not immersed in maternal sinuses. Their decidua reflexa is more or less incomplete. The placental site may be anywhere in the circumference of the uterine tube. The tenrec's maternal and foetal structures are exceedingly aberrant. The upgrowth of the chorion, the absence of any envelope exteriorly to the amnios, and the distinction of the utero-placental region into two areae, clothed with distinct kinds of mucous tissue, are unique points in this animal. By its amniotic corpuscles it resembles the elephant among deciduate, and several orders among the non-deciduate mammals. In the Bodent placenta the ramifications of the umbilical vessels have the same relations as in the Insectivora; but the chorion is supplied with blood-vessels from the omphalo-mesenterie system in its non-placental parts, which consequently take a share in the nourishment and I'espiration of the foetus. The decidua reflexa is, when not rudimentary from the beginning, fragmentary at the end of gestation. The deciduous serotina is always distinct from the placenta, and separable from it (even when not separated) at par- turition. The placentae are always attached to the mesoraetrial border of the uterine cornu. In the Carnivora the umbilical ramifications spread over the entire chorion, not merely in its placental zone, absorbing nutri- ment consequently from, and interchanging products with, the secretions of the non-placental uterine mucous membrane. The allantnis is here always a perfect sac, separating the exterior of the amnios from the interior surface of the chorion. They have no decidua reflexa properly so called. The omphalo-mesenterie vessels are to be found persistent within the cavity of the abdomen, as in the Rodents, for some time after birth; but they never reach the chorion, as in that class. There is an approximation made, by the colossal maternal capillaries of certain of this class, to the sinus- system of the Siraiadae.