ON THE CRANIOLOaY OF THE BUSHMEN. 473 which corresponds very usually to a wide receptacle for the frontal lobes of the brain, observable. On the other hand, the zygomata do not come into view, when the skull is held out so as to present its norma verticalis at arm's length to one eye of the observer, with the invariabihty which might have been expected. In two only of these six skulls are both zygomata seen at the same time when the skull is held in this position ; in three the zygoma of the left side only is seen ; and in one neither zygoma comes into view. But these skulls, as is often the case in skulls of flesh-eating savage races, are of considerable density, and a greater thickness of walls as well as a greater development of the contents of a skull may prevent it from being phaenozygous. One other condition indeed, that of considerable development of the malar arch, which produces phaenozygy, is present in the Bushmen, as in the skulls of other races exposed to the sun and glare, and other irritants of the eyes; but its working is countervailed by that of thickness of the cranial walls. All the Bushman skulls examined by Dr. Fritsch were broad in the sphenoparietal diameter (see his 'Die Eingeborene Siid-Afrika's,' 1872, p. 413). With two exceptions, those consti- tuted by the skull procured by Mr. Fairclough and that presented by Dr. Bleek, the supraciliary ridges and glabellae are compara- tively feebly developed. The parietal tubera, or the spots on the external surface of the cranium corresponding to them, are placed far back in all these crania, and what I have elsewhere spoken of at some length ^ as the antero-posterior index is consequently high. The same remark, however, may be made of Zulu and other Abantu crania. It has often been stated that the ears in Bushmen are huge, misshapen, and outstanding. According, however, to trustworthy accounts of Professors Marshall and Flower, and Dr. Murie and Professor Wyman (' Proc. Boston Nat. History Sec' ix. 1862, p. 56), the small size of the lobule appears to be the only constant character of this organ which is distinctive. (See Fritsch, 1. c. p. 410.) Much that has been written on the peculiarity known as ' steatopyga' in our own species might have been spared if what the great naturalist Pallas had written on the similar development called by the same name in one of the most widely spread varieties of the sheep had been studied in the wonderful eleventh Fascicle of '■ 'Britiah Barrows,' pp. 563 and 677, and Article XV, pp. 168, 277.