26 ON THE A.FFINITIES AND DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE the French speak of as ' consequences desastreuses, funestes pour la morale.' The susceptibilities of no one, therefore, need be offended by his being told that he must necessarily take up for himself one or other of these four sets of dog-mas, unless he be con- tent to put himself into the somewhat inert position of passively receiving the facts, and drawing no deductions from them. I must add, that I cannot see that the holding of any one of these four sets of opinions is necessarily incompatible with a belief in the details I shall have to lay before you. Stubborn as are facts, especially when photographed, they are nevertheless elastic enough to bear being compressed within any one of these four formulae without losing their own distinctive character, or destroying the framework employed for their colligation. That these four theories are all true together, of course I do not mean to assert; three of them must, in the very nature of things, be erroneous; but I do think that, to be assailed successively, they must be attacked with other weapons than any which anatomy, whether human, simious, or canine, can furnish. The cerebro-spinal system of the vertebrate animal consists of a central stem and of peripheral ramifications. Of the peripheral ramifications we are not about to speak, and of its central stem we shall only compare that part in each of the subjects of our com- parison which is contained within the cranial walls. This part of the cerebro-spinal centre, like the other part contained within the canal constituted by the spinal column, is essentially—that is to say, morphologically and developmentally—as well as actually in the adult state, but a hollow tube with walls of nerve matter. These walls are variously thickened, have larger and smaller nodules of nerve substance developed in, around, and upon them, and finally, their exterior surface becomes more or less completely corrugated into convolutions. Still the essential nature of the nervous centre remains within the skull, the same as within the column of ver- tebrae, viz. a nervous tube. The difference between the intra- cranial and the intra-spinal nerve tube is, that the intra-cranial effloresces or buds out at its upper or anterior extremity into two out-growths, which are folded back upon it as they grow out, and expand into the nerve masses which, under the name of Cerebral Hemispheres, fill by far the larger part of the skull cavity. It is with these terminal dilatations of the hollow central nerve stem