235 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTOEIC CRANIA. towards the squama occipitis. This latter portion of the posterior aspect of the skull is not, as usually stated, by any means in- variably flat; it is, on the other hand, very frequently markedly convex, the more markedly so, of course, on account of the flatten- ing of the parietals to form the dip into the back aspect of the skull. As above pointed out in the description of the skull 'Cowlam^ (lix. 3, p. 226), p. 189, note, the occipital squama may so project as to constitute what has been called a ' capsulares Hinter- haupt' in typically brachycephalic crania. In casts of such skulls the parts of the brain which were lodged in the fossae of the superior squama occipitis may be seen to project as well-defined mammillary out-growths beyond the plane of the curve of the upper part of the posterior aspect of the cerebral lobes, and to overlap the cerebellum proportionately ^. Now it was shown long ago by Huschke (in his 'Schadel^ Hirn und Seele/ 1854, p. 142), and has been repeatedly confirmed since by other investigators of the relations of the brain to the brain-case, that the parietal eminence covers a particular lobule in the brain beneath it, the lobule, to wit, which is called by Gratiolet in his better known^ 'Memoire sur les Plis Cer^braux,' p. 60, the ' lobule of the marginal convolution;' and which is called by Huschke, 1. c, the ' lobulus tuberis.' Similarly Huschke (pp. 62 and 142) pointed out that a particular part of the brain was limited in front by a line corresponding to the upper part of the lambdoid suture, and, similarly, subsequent writers have coincided with his observations. There is of course no greater a priori improbability ^ See p. 177, note, supra, and compare figure of skull from Wetton Hill Barrow, 'Cran. Brit.' xiv. pi. 12, and pi. 16 and 27: and in 'Crania Helvetica,' E. xvi. and xvii. ^ Huschke, owing to certain faults of style and arrangement, and also to his investi- gations of facts being very largely interlarded with questionable philosophy, has not obtained all the credit which his laboriousness merited. Besides allocating the lobulus tuberis, and the occipital lobes proper, to particular parts of the skull, he also defined the true position of the fissure of Eolando relatively to the coronal suture, p. 139, and that of the superior frontal gyrus relatively to the frontal tubera, p. 154, in tlie some year in which Gratiolet, 1. c. p. 101, wrote as follows: ' La bolte cranienne forme one vaste et libre cavit<$. C'est une vottte sous laquelle les plis et lobes cer(a)raux a'avancent, se reculent, s'cJtalent, se resserrent, s'ecartent, se refoulent; ces mouve- ments n'ayant aucune relation absolue avec les dldments dont cette voftte se compose!' Huschke's own countrymen, to whom his writings must be easier reading than they are to rea<lers of other nationalities, have not always rendered him full justice. Pro- fessor Meynert however forma an exception to this rule; see his pajier on Die Windungen der convexen Oberflache des Vorderhims,' ArcMv fiir Psychiatric,' bd. vii. hft. 2.