ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENREC relative^ to it which he has done, and to which, as entailing yet another error, we shall have to revert. In both the early and advanced embryo, the non-placental uterine mucous memljrane becomes continuous with the saucer-shaped deciduous serotina on its convex aspect, about the eighth of an inch within a line corresponding with the periphery of the after- birth, or, in other words, along a line concentric with, but an eighth of an inch within the thickened band of the late embryo. The circular parapet by which the persistent and deciduous uterine structures are connected is but a slight lamina, and gives way upon very little traction. The blood vessels and cellular tissue within its periphery serve to keep the after-birth in continuity with the persistent non-deciduous serotina. Indeed, in the agouti the blood vessels form the only bond of union, and the after-birth becomes ' pedunculate,' at least if we may trust an observation put on record by BischoflF^ as made by Dr. Franz Miiller. On the otlier hand, the guinea-pig's deciduous serotina is connected with the uterine non-placental mucous surface by a series of tags or fimbriae, developed at its periphery, as well as with the non-deeiduous serotina by an abundance of vessels. These peripheral tags are most distinctly continuous with the uterine walls, and are injectible from the uterine vessels, whence it is much to be wondered at that Bischoff (1. c. p. 42) should have spoken of them as the remnants of the perfect decidua reflexa of earlier days. These tags are to be seen in a foetal rat, in Prep. 3467, Hunterian Museum, and they are described as follows : ' The folds or processes of the lining membrane of the uterus which converge to be attached to the maternal portion of the placenta, are here shown.^ Their office is described to be that of ' supporters of the embryo, and con- ductors of the vessels of the maternal placenta.' With this de- scription my own of the homologous growths in the guinea-pig will be seen to agree; but I should be inclined to say that in the preparation in question there is besides the system of radiating peripheral tags, also the uterine circular parapet, usually found alone in the rat, co-existing with them, though I have not been able to satisfy myself of the co-existence of these two connecting ^ Kolliker, Lc. pp. 160, 161, 172. 2 ' Meerschweiiichen-Ei,' p. 6; Miiller, 'Wiener Zeitschrift,' 1851; Schmidt, Jahrbiiclier,' bd. Ixi. p. 329.