28 ON THE AFFINITIES AND DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE that the same parts exist as in the vervet and in man is plain enough, in all three, alike is there a triply-divided ventricular cavity, but relatively the posterior compartment is enormously larger in the American monkey, and the now notorious hippocampus minor it contains is enormously larger also than the homologous structures in either of the two brains between which it stands. The third cornu or horn in the marmoset is a bay in comparison with the other two cornua, and they are in relation to it but creeks and inlets ; the relations of the three compartments are entirely reversed. The hippocampus minor is a huge island; the hippo- campus major but a boomerang-shaped reef; the relations of the contained parts are entirely reversed also. As the. facts, then, of comparative anatomy stand, the semi-simious marmoset has, rela- tively to its size, a larger hippocampus and a larger posterior division of its ventricular cavity than has the true Simiada, Cerco- pithecus lalanclii; the Cercojoithecus lalandii has a larger hippocampus minor and a larger posterior cornu than has man himself. So much for what is called the serial or classificatory value of these structures as differentiating us from the lower animals. Two words upon their physiological importance. The dog is gentle and docile, capable of education and of forming attachments, yet he lacks obviously what the ape as obviously possesses. Secondly, a glance at a rabbit's^ brain (similarly dissected) will show, when compared with that of the dog's, that the ventricular cavity has encroached upon and eaten away what in its canine enemy is a solid mass of nerve matter. A large cavity is correlated with little neurine, but the neurine, and not the ventricular cavity, is what the mind works with. Basing one's hopes and trust upon neurine and hippocampi is basing them upon something solid, even though it be but sand; basing them upon a ventricle's creek is but basing them upon the sea. The hippocampi have always been dangerous ground for the anatomist, the hippocampus major in days gone by, as the hippo- campus minor in our own. The boomerang-shaped body so visible and so vertical in the dog's brain, plain, but not so plain, because more horizontal in the simious and human encephala, is the hippo- campus major; an indentation in the drawing from the human » My attention was drawn to this point by Chai-les Kobertson, Esq., of the University Museum.