LANQTON WOLD. 207 effected 'novo succo osseo affluente et annitente ut vulnus claudat' takes only ' paucos menses,' and in one case {2394} only two months. Yet this process is one requiring more time than the process of absorptive smoothing which is all we have signs of here. The unclosed vacuities in the diploe show that the wound was never healed, unless we are to suppose that the rootlets above mentioned have removed away cleanly and entirely that glaze of bone which in skulls so wounded is deposited over the injured area. The death of the man therefore, though occurring within a comparatively short time from the receiving of this wound, must have been due to some other cause than tbe mere wound itself. In the occipital norma the wall-sidedness of the lateral boundaries of the pentagon described by the contour lines in this aspect and the vertical carination characteristic of male skulls of this type are eminently noteworthy ^. ^ A female skull, ' Langton Wold ii,' very closely resembling the one just described, has been obtained from the same barrow. It belonged however to a very much older individual, and some of the characteristics of its sex, which was established mainly by an examination of its trunk and limb bones, have been, as female cranial cha- racters sometimes are, masked by the inroads of senile changes. It is interesting to note that the femora of this aged woman resembled those of this young male subject and those of tlie young woman next to be describeil, in having the spiral line joining the linea aspera and the anterior intertrochanteric line well marked. The aged female skull, ' Langton, ii. 2,' differs from both the others with which it has been compared in retaining the prominence of the parietal tubera so commonly observable in skulls up to the time when, with the evolution of the second set of teeth, the lower part of the skull widens out with the widening of the jaws. The absence of prominence of the region of the parietal tuberosities is one of the characters given by His and Rutimeyer as characteristic of the Hohberg type, an undoubtedly old form of skull; the presence of such prominence, on the other hand, is given by Schaafhausen (' Die Urform des menschlicben Schadels,' p. 7) as characteristic of priscan skulls. A consideration of these three skulls, taken together with that of some of the facts of skull-development, will show how these statements may be reconciled. The parietal tuberosities are as distinctively characteristic of the human cr.^nium as is the lobule of the marginal convolution called 'lobulus tuberis' by Huschke ('Schaedel, Him, und Seele,' p. 142, 1854); the full distance between them (135 milL) however, within some three millimeters, is attained to as early as ten years of age. See Weleker, ' Wachsthum und Ban,' p. 127. They are prominent in the skulls of quite young human subjects even of savage races, as e.g. the Australians and Indian Coles (see skulls mentioned in note on p. 214 infra), whilst on tlie other hand they are only very faintly indicated in the skulls even of the anthropo- morphou.H apes. Further, it is, as might have been expected, a fact (see Weisbach, 'Archivfiir Anthropologic,'iii. p. 71) that the intertuberal diameter is identical for the two sexes, or nearly so. It is now easy to see how female skulls which fail to attain the ' rounding out of the sides of the skull which occurs from the latest expansion of the brain' (see Cleland,' Phil. Trans.' 1870, p. 149), and which retain in this particular