THE BL00D-C0BPUSCLE8 OF THE ANNELIDES. 490 homologues of lymphatic or of blood-vessels, these vessels have recently been shown by Professor Hoffmann (' Niederland Archiv fiir Zoologie,' Bd. iv. i, p. 9, 1877) to possess small round stomata in their walls. It is to be hoped that the question may shortly be set at rest by some anatomist to whom Branchiobdella is available in the fresh state, a state in which it is not very easy to transport it to any great distance. Professor Lankester says:—'A glance at Dorner's excellent memoir on BrancJdobclella would, however, suffice to satisfy a con- scientious bookmaker that the vascular fluid of Brancldohdella has not yet been shown to contain corpuscles.' I was not acquainted with Dr. Dorner's memoir till Professor Lankester drew my atten- tion to it in this article ; since that I have not merely glanced at it, but studied it carefully. My study, however, of this memoir, combined with that of others treating of the same subject, has not sufficed to satisfy me that the blood of Branchiohdella does not con- tain corpuscles. Indeed the one single passage relating to the interior calibre of the blood-vessels which I have been able to find in this memoir appears to me to point at least to the exactly oppo- site conclusion. This passage runs thus (p. 499):—' Eigenthiimlich fiir das Gefass-system ist noch eine Anzahl hinter einander liegender Korner, welche der Innenwand anliegen.' For the presence of such granular bodies in such a situation is, to me at least, intelligible only on the hypothesis of their forming blood, and, from the analogy of such Annelides as Cirratuhis, corpusculated blood for the contents of the vessel which they bestud^ Anyhow, Dorner's ^ Keferstein (Miiller's 'Archiv,' 1863, p. 509) speaks of three stripes of finely granular pigment as lying upon the inner wall of the dorsal vessel of Branchiobdella, such as many other Annelides, e. g. Cirratulm filiformis, previously described by him ('Zeitsch. Wiss. Zool.' 1862, p. 123), possess. Similar stripes are figured by Claparfede (pi. xxiii. fig. 3. B, p. 268),' Les Annelides Chdtopodes du Golfe de Naples,' from Audouinia filigera, and are stated by him (p. 265) to exist similarly placed either between the muscular coat of the vessels and the tunica intuna, or in the substance of this last in Cirratulus chrysoderma. Both these animals have corpusculated blood, and it is difficult to think that the suspended granules, which, according to Selenka ('Niederland Arch, fur Zoologie,' Bd. ii. 1874-75, p. 34), give the blood of Aphrodite aculeata its yellow tinge, do not come from some similar source. ' Blutbereitende organe' of a very different morphology, but from homologous situations, are figured for us by Kupflfer as the so-called ' valves' in the dorsal vessel of Piscicola ('Zeit- schrift fiir Wiss. Zool.' xiv. pi. xxix. A, fig. 3, p. 342), and by Leydig, from the homologous locality in the oligochaetous Phreorycies menkeanus (' Archiv fiir Mikro- Bcop. Anatom.' i. 1865). The proliferation of the large cells, figured by these two