ON THE CBANIOLOCtY OF THE BUSHMEN. 463 this I have already commented in 'British Barrows,' pp. 7o5, note i, 707, 716 \ ihiqtte citata, comparing- these lower jaws with the jaws of certain other confessedly 'priscan' races, which differ from them in little but in being- larger in size. It is, or should be, a common- place among craniographers that, whilst the lower jaw is a more important bone for their purposes than any other single bone of the skeleton, and even than the pelvis itself, it is often more dis- tinctive, if not more valuable, than at least the entire ealvaria. Certainly this is the case with African skulls ; for though it is possible enough, as was long ago pointed out by Professor Owen (see ' Osteological Catalogue^ Royal College of Surgeons of England,' 5385, p. 838, 1853; and, for a contradictory statement, Retzius, 'Ethnol. Schriften,' 1864, p. 149), and has recently been reaffirmed by Dr. Hamy in Paris, to find brachycephalic skulls among those of undoubted Negro races, and though, as I can aver from my know- ledge of the collections in the Oxford University Museum, it is by no means always possible to distinguish either such brachycephalic Negi'o skulls^ or certain other Negro skulls of the dolichocephalic type more usual amongst such skulls^ from Bushman skulls of the respective proportions, both of which are represented in this latter series, it is within my knowledge always possible to do this if the skulls under comparison are in possession of the lower jaws belong- ing to them. The Negro's lower jaw may or may not have the poorly-developed chin so constant in the lower jaws of the Bush- man, and but rarely seen in the lower jaws of higher races; it may or may not have its anterior teeth sloping forwards in correlation with a prognathic upper jaw; it may or may not, I apprehend, though I have not met with such cases, be as a whole as small and feeble as the jaws of the Bushman have^ to my knowledge, in- variably been; but it never has shown, so far as I know, the low coronoid process, the shallow sigmoid notch, and the wide ramus so very commonly, or indeed all but invariably, found amongst not only the Bushman but the Eskimo race. The existence of this peculiarity not only in these two races so widely separated in space, though so nearly on a level in certain linguistic as well as certain other points of degradation, but also in so many of the lower jaws of the earliest representatives of our species, gives it a great mor- phological importance; and this morphological importance is not * See Article XVI. pp. 308 et seq. of this volume.