LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. XXXVU found in some remark of Kolleston's a support to his own belief that' the soul of each living being, clown to the lowest, secretes the body thereof, as a snail secretes its shell.' There seems how- ever to have been no more ground for supposing Rolleston inclined toward this mediaeval doctrine, than he was to the idea which Kingsley asks him in the same letter to reconsider, that the gorilla and baboon brain are degraded forms (apparentl}^ from the human). A few days after this, RoUeston writes an elaborate letter to the ' Medical Times and Gazette' (published Oct. 18, 1862), giving particulars of his own late speech, con- tinuing the argument on brain-classification, and ending with the following paragraph as to the bearing of his scientific re- search on his religious belief:—'I may say, in conclusion, that it has always been clear to me that the true relation of man's body to his soul, to the world in which he lives, and to the Governor of it, can never be fully elucidated either by physiological or psychological researches, nor yet by both combined. The saying of Favorinus, viz.:— ' ' On earth there is nothing great but man; In man there is nothing great but mind'— may be taken as an adequate expression of the results in which such researches by themselves would land and leave us. Nor need we, when writing as men of science, add anything to this dictum of a .pagan philosopher. But, thinking in our privacy as Christian men, we feel that this expression no longer covers all the facts within our knowledge, and that events, now nineteen centuries old, necessitate some modifications of it.' In 1861 Dr. Rolleston married Grace, daughter of Dr. John Davy, and niece of Sir Humphry Davy. For the first years of their married life their home was 15 New Inn Hall Street, a well-preserved seventeenth-century house, said to have been built by Vanbrugh; and in 1866 they moved to a house they had built in South Parks Road, close to the Museum, where the labour of his life went on. Rolleston had now found his way to a position giving full scope to the teaching power by which he mainly made his mark in the world. This kind of power,