AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 81 The prolongation of clecitlua serotina, or, in otlier words, the de- cidua rcflexa, does not entirely encapsulate the ovum, as we shall see that it does in certain rodents, but falls short of doing- so by an interval homologous with the non-vascular umbilicus-like spot observable in the decidua reflexa of the human subject^. The entire structure inter-utero-placentally and extra-ovularly placed is bell-shaped, as compared with its wafer-shaped homologue in the tenrec, or its closed sac-like homologue in the early embryo of the rat. The decidua reflexa is sometimes spoken of as being an out- growth of the decidua serotina^, sometimes as being continuous rather with the decidua vera in the human subject ^. What is of importance to bear in mind is, that the non-placental mucous membrane becomes continuous at the periphery of the placental area with both non-deciduous and deciduous serotina ; and that from the point of its junction with this latter structure a more or less extensive envelope grows outwards over the chorion to which the name ' decidua reflexa' is given. The placenta at this period in. the hedgehog is a much smaller structure than the deciduous serotina it underlies; it is itself underlain by a purse-shaped allantois like that of the rabbit, which moors the amniotic sac and the foetus it contains to one pole, whilst the yelk-sac moors it to the other pole of the chorion. As in the early foetus of the dog, so in that of the hedgehog at this period, it is possible by macera- tion to separate entirely, or nearly so, the foetal villi growing on the allantoic area of the chorion from the maternal elements, which shortly after become inextricably interfused with them to form the ' placenta.' In a shrew [Sorex sp. ?) the foetus being at an early stage of development, and only three-eighths of an inch long, the deciduous serotina was, as in the hedgehog, about three times the size of the placenta proper. I did not satisfy myself that it was prolonged into a decidua reflexa; that it was so is rendered improbable by the fact that the other membranes were drawn out at either end into slender tubular processes of an eighth of an inch in length, beyond the sub-globular space occupied in the uterine cornu by the foetus. Its structure was coarsely columnar; that of the placenta presented a villous appearance. The placentae were attached to the free border of the uterine cornu. ' Kolliker, 1. c. pp. 178 and i8i. ' Ibid. p. 142. ' Kobin, I. c. p. 131. O