ON THE CBANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN. 472 race as possessing well-defined limits. Or lovers of logical con- sistency, who may not be extensively acquainted with the width over which variability may extend itself, may prefer to suggest that some kind of error may attach or have been attached to the identification of this particular cranium. It is possible, I suppose, that a runaway Caffre, or even an outcast white man, may have betaken himself to some horde of Bushmen, and identified himself with their manners and customs, and adopted their dress and equipment. Such voluntary degradations are known to have taken place, with the consequence of the refugee becoming not merely * half a savage,' but rather, as shown by the place and precedence given to him, 'a savage and a half;' or, finally, the owner of this skull may really have been a cross between a white man and a female of the Bushman stock. To this last explanation I myself incline. As regards the condition of the teeth, the skull presented by Mr. Fairclough, though referred by me to a man in the middle period of life, has only some seven or eight teeth, comparatively little worn, left Mi situ ; the rest having been lost, and traces of two or three large alveolar abscesses and great absorption elsewhere of the alveolar processes are very evident. Alveolar abscesses have simi- larly left their traces in the skull presented by Dr. Bleek, in which, however, the teeth have been very much worn down, though only one or two have been lost during life. The skull presented by Mr. Dunsterville had lost all its teeth, save the two central incisors, during life, and the alveolar processes have sulTered a very large amount of absorption in this senile skull. Of the entire series, as the figures giving the length of the circumference and the cubic capacity show most plainly, we can predicate smallness; the average of the latter measurement being but 1285 as against 1485 cub. cent, obtained by Professor Flower for the cubage of seven Cafires and Zulus, and, indeed, as against 1330 from his measurement of his available Bushman crania. With this small capacity is combined, which is by no means always the case in crania of races low in the scale of human life, a short basi-cranial axis, with an average length of no more than 93 millimetres. In none of these six skulls is the patency of the frontal suture,