LIFE OF DR. ROLT.ESTON. lii instances in which a man whose talents and even genius had been found by the world at large to be far superior not merely to those of the average First Class-man, but to those of mankind generally, has been placed in a Second or Third Class in an Oxford Examination, and so far as such a verdict could go, stamped with a badge of inferiority, or a false mint mark. Of course thereby more or less injury was done to the man himself, and the public were more or less deceived.' From Genoa, Jan. 13, 1881, he writes to Professor Max Mliller:—' I have sent off an extract from a memorandum of mine against our Examination system. The more I think of it, the surer I am that with our system of gambling and cramming for classes we shall never succeed in making the pursuit of knowledge a real end in the University. The largest fact I know about it is that the Scotch Universities Commission, with our plan of a trifid or tetrafid Class List before them, deliberately recommend that there should be only two divisions allowed, viz. Class-men and Pass-men. I wish you would think of it, and if you agree with the view that a multi- plicity of Classes I, II, III, and IV intensifies the gambling element, and also produces more cases of injustice and injury than the other plan of one Honour Class and one Pass, do ventilate the plan.' Then follow names of men whose later careers had conspicuously reversed the verdict of the Examiners, including (what is not to be found in the more public Me- morandum) a little list of First Class-men whom the world has not thought much of afterwards. How char-ged Kolleston's mind was with this subject is seen by his following this letter by another, written within a month, from Bordighiera:—' I hear that the University Commission is likely to ask for another year wherein to finish their work, and I suppose therefore, though I am not very sanguine, that we have some more hope of getting them on to lines with a somewhat broader gauge than they are upon at present. The reform of all others which is the most important is the reform of the Examination system. It really rules everything almost which Oxford has in the way of activity; by virtue of its gambling element it possesses an attractiveness