372 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PEIUOD. in a small village several old people may be sometimes reported to us as all lying- dead within its precincts at one time. If this is the case in modern England, what must have been the case in neolithic Britain ? and in the presence of severe frost, and possibly deep snow, how was such a population as a tribe of the long- barrow period to get rid of its dead out of its sight ? I owe a reference which throws much light on these questions to Dr. Joseph Anderson's paper in the ' Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland,' May 13, 1872, p. 526. This reference is to a passage in King Alfred's version of Orosius, where we read that it was the custom of the Esthonians to keep the body of any one who died one month, or even two months, or, in the case of kings, even half a year, before burning it. In following up this line of illustration, I came upon the follow- ing lines relating to the manners and customs of the Russians, and addressed, from Moscow, to Spenser, by a lesser poet, one G. Turber- ville. They may be verified by a reference to ' Hakluyt's Voyages,' vol. i., ed. 1809, p. 433. Speaking of a Russian winter, Turberville says:— ' The bodies eke that die unhuried lie they then Laid up in csoflSns made of firre, as well the poorest men As those of greater state. The cause is lightly found, For that in winter time they cannot come to break the ground.' Returning from comparative civilisation to a consideration of what would be likely to happen in still earlier days, we may say that, out of a number of bodies stored up till it should be possible or convenient to deposit them finally in a tumulus, some would become more, some less, some perhaps entirely disjointed; for the practice of stacking or storing the dead, though originated probably by the necessities of cold weather, would be continued, as well- recognised principles would lead us to expect, irrespectively of times and seasons, when it was once well established. Thus the partial retention and partial loss of the natural connections of the bones observed in these barrows would both alike receive an explanation, and be seen to depend upon the greater or less resistance which their ligaments had offered to the attacks of putrefaction ^. * M. Arthur de la Borderie, Depute k I'Assemblde Nationale de France, in his work, *Les Bretons In.sulaires et les Anglo-Saxons du v. au vii. Sifecle,' when gi\iug