228 GENEKAL REMARKS that the tribes who brought bronze into England, with the fashion of burning or burial in round as opposed to long barrows, may very Inhabitants of Scandinavia,' ed. Lubbock, pp. 252-259, in Maack's ' Das urgeschicht- lich Schleswig-Holstein Lande,' Berlin, i860, also in Koner's 'Zeitschrift fur Erdkunde;' in Pallmann's ' Die Cinibern und Teutonen,' Berlin, 1870, pp. 27, 28, 32, and Duncker's 'Origines Germanicae,' 1840, p. 99. It may be well here to give the exact words of Ammianus Marcellinus, which, as he is not referred to by Sir Charles Lyell, are not so well known to English readers as they deserve to be. Writing of the Gauls he says, XV. 9. 4, p. 56, ed. Eyssenhardt, Berlin, 1871, ' Drasidae memorant re vera fuisse populi partem indigenam, sed alios quoque ab insulis extimis confluxisse et tractibus transrhenanis, crebritate beUorum et adluvione fervidi maris sedibus suis expulsos.' Miinch supposes that two waves of population passed over into Britain from the Continent in prehistoric times, and that the Gael were the earlier and the Cymry were the later in order of invasion. This view, or one closely approximating to it, is the one usually taken by writers on this subject, as for example by the present Bishop of St. David's ('Vestiges of the Gael in Gwynedd,' p. 48, 1851), and by Niebuhr (' History of Rome,' vol. ii. Eng. Trans., p. 522 seqq.), Thierry (' History of the Norman Conquest,' book i), E. Lluyd, and to some extent by Prichard ('Phys. Hist.' iii. ed. 3, p. 150), cit. in loco ; and O'Brien (Preface to Irish Dictionary), referred to by Prichard. Many writers have laid much weight upon the similarity of the names Cimbri and Kymry as an argument for the conclusion that the Kytnry came from the Danish peninsula. Miinch, for example, 1. c, says, ' Der Name Cimbern oder Cimren fiir die altere Hauptbevolkerung der jutischen Halbinsel bezeichnet diese Mnldnglick als kymrisch; * and Prichard, whose other arguments do seem to me to deserve the epithet ' Mnldnglick' adds to them, 1. c. p. 104, ' the name of Cimbri, corresponding and nearly identical with that of the Cymru or Cumri of Britain.' This latter name he, further on, p. 168, says on the authority of Adelung, ' Mithridates,' ii. 157, is not altogether forgotten by the present Bretons. Professor Rhys, however, informs me that ' the words " Cimbri" and " Kymry" are not related at all; if "Kymry" were translated into Caesar's time, it would assume the form " Combroges," to be analysed like " Allobroges," and meaning probably Compatriots. The word is unknown to the Bretons, nor can it be traced on the other side of the Bristol Channel: so I am inclined to think it was only adopted by the Welsh as their national name while under English pressure. I do not mean by this to offer any opinion whatever on the question whether the people called " Cimbri " were nearly related to the ancestors of the Welsh or not.' At the meeting of the British Association already referred to, thinking it might be of some consequence towards settling the much-vexed question of the Germanic or Celtic origin of the Cimbri as known to us from the time of Marius, I gave references in parallel columns to the various more or less nearly contemporai-y writers who had spoken of them as Germans or Celts respectively. These references I may reproduce here. For the Celtic origin of the Cimbn, see For the German origin of the Cimbri, see Cicero, De Oratore, ii. 266. Horace, Epod. xvi. 7. Sallust, Jugurtha, 114. Inscript. Ancyran. Tab. v. 16. Florus, iii. 3. Strabo, vii. i. 3. Appian, De Bell. 111. 4. Caesar, De Bell. Gall. i. 40. „ Bell. Civ. i. 29. Velleius Paterculus, ii. 12. iv. 2. „ ii- 19. Diodorus, v. 3. 2. Tacitus, Germania, 37. „ xiv. 114. Hist. iv. 73.