305 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. jaws, of all ages and both sexes, discovered by Edward Laws, Esq., in a cave near Tenby (see ' Journ. Anthrop. Institute,' July, 1877), to the early date of which their possession of the 'priscan' pecu- liarities specified above (pp. 243-249) speaks as decisively as their archaeological surroundings, one only, a lower jaw of a man, had been affected by alveolar abscess. From the Westow long-barrow series ('British Barrows,' p. 494) no lower jaw thus affected has been recovered ; from the Rudstone long barrow (Ibid. p. 497) only one (the one described above, p. 311, as) of a man; from the Ebberston long barrow (' British Barrows,' p. 484) only one, of a woman ^. Fui-ther investigations may possibly reverse this relation of numerical superiority on the side of the female sex in the matter of alveolar abscesses. I am inclined however to connect it with the harder life and scantier fare which are the lot of women in most savage races, upon which I have here (p. 258 supra) and elsewhere^ insisted as accounting for the greater inferiority in stature and in bulk which existed and exists between men and women in many ancient and in many modern savage races. Feeble general physique is correlated, as Mr. Mummery's exam- ination of modern savage races (pp. 47, 51-54, 60, 63) in Africa, China, Australia, and elsewhere has shown us, with deterioration of the state of the teeth, and this, howsoever^ whether by too small a proportion of animal to vegetable food in their dietary, by frequent privation of food altogether, or by general anti-hygienic conditions, this feebleness may have been produced. To realise the working of the two former of these causes among the prehistoric inhabitants of these islands, and especially the women, there is little need of imagination; I think however that from our present familiarity with the production of anti-hygienic conditions by the crowding of a superabundant population within solid walls, from our lack of familiarity with tent life and savage life, we may underrate the ' In none of these cases have I seen any traces of the simple but relief-producing operation of extraction, or of other evidence to show that in this, any more than in any other sphere, ' the former days were better than these.' The same lesson may be gathered analogically from observations made upon the remains of modem savages, Mr. Mummery informing us (1. c, p. 47) that he has 'met in Australian jaws with every form of dental disease with which we are familiar amongst the English race.' * 'Journal Anth. Inst,,' Oct. 1875, p. 121 note; ' British Association Report,' 1875,- p. 153 ; ' Archaeologia,' xlii. 1870, p. 457. X