UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTOEIC CEANIA. 289 Surgeons of England, and will be found described at p, 64 of Mr. Heath's Jaeksonian Prize Essay for 1867, published 1872. The instantaneous tension of the explosion may be seen in this case to have produced a great number of fragments with their broken sur- faces even and vertical; but what such violent expansion produces momentarily on a tough skull, that, compression or other strain due to the settling of the soil, or indeed shock from disturbance in secondary burial, may very readily be understood to be competent to produce on a skull rendered fragile by the lapse of centuries. The Ebberston barrow and the Market Weighton barrow, in which these fractures have been noted, were both of them cremation- barrows, and the action of fire, even when as at Ebberston im- perfect, would be distinctly in favour of making the bones more brittle; and in these and in the other barrows the great age of the interments, which are undoubtedly of premetallic times, may be taken in part-explauation of the loss of resistance testified to by these fractures. It is remarkable that Dr. Thurnam Cran. Brit.,' pi. 59) should have observed that 'the perfect skulls from these barrows, inferred to be those of chiefs, are of considerably more elongate type than those which are cleft,' and should have put on record the fact that two of his supposed cleft skulls should have had the frontal suture persistent and have possessed thus a broader and less dolichocephalic form, i.e. have been better filled and larger skulls 'than the rest.' For, as is well known^ and may be readily verified, better filled and larger skulls differ from smaller ones in having thinner walls and being more fragile; and to this, and not to any such cause as their having been the skulls of ' serfs of less pure blood than their lords,' a view contra-indicated by their size (p. 237), we may reasonably refer the fact of a large proportion of the broken skulls being broader than the unbroken. I have further to remark that fractured surfaces such as those described by Dr. Thurnam, and interpreted by him as indicating slaughter of victims at the funeral of a chief, may be and often are found in skulls of skeletons buried singly and in skulls buried with relics^, provided that they have been subjected to pressure from the * See Weisbach, ' Schadelfonn der Rumanen,' pp. 8, 12, 30. ' For example, the skull already spoken of at p. 196 as 'RuJstone, Ixvlii. 7,' had been broken into a very large number of fragments with even and vertical edgod, and this though ita walla were of great thickneiis. But with it the following relics U