105 AND THOSE OP CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA, On the other hand, numbers of rough granulations exist between the layers of the chorion, and project into the sac of the allantois of this animal at full time; and these structures must find their homologues in the similarly placed outgrowths described by Pro- fessor Owen in the membranes of the elephant, and possibly also in the ' hippomanes' of Solipeds^ I have observed those growths in the membranes of an embryonic pig of 5 inches in length ; and also in the appendices allantoidis of the ruminants. From an examination of the membranes of an embryonic cetacean of 7 inches in lengthj I am inclined to say they exist there also. But a fresh or well-preserved specimen is necessary to decide this point ^. Finally, the cornual ends of the cetacean membranes just alluded to are bare and glabrous as compared with the villous characters of the rest of the chorion. It is possible that this appearance may have been produced by the treatment to which the membranes were subjected before they came into my hands ; but it is also possible that it may be another point of resemblance between the placenta of the cetacean and of the artiodactyla as described and figured by Von Baer ^. The condition of the cetacean membranes which I have been able to examine has not been such as to enable me to make out the relations of the allantois either to the circum- ference of the amnios within, or to that of the villous membrane exteriorly. It would be highly interesting and important to have as accurate records of the relations of these parts in the Mutica as we have already of those of the same structures in the Ungulates. In the meanwhile it may be anticipated that no such differences will be discovered as the very great ones which distinguish the carnivorous membranes from those of the other three classes of deciduate mammals of which we have been speaking. Professor Kolliker (1. c. p. i6()), whilst adopting Weber's class of deciduate Mammalia, has divided his non-deciduate class into two, the first ' ' Hunterian Catalogue,' vol. v. 3558, A. ' Such a specimen would be further valuable, as it would enable one to discover whether the Cetacea possess that peculiar vascular aiTangement which Von Baer and Eschricht have described in the membranes of the Artiodactyles, and which we may call a ' placental portal circulation.' Eschricht, p. 36; Von Baer, ' Die Gefassver- bindung,' p. 10. ' Entwickelungsgeschichte,' 252, 254, tab. v. fig. 5; 'Gefiissverbindung,' p. 14. fig. I. [The presence of spots on the chorion free from villi both at the poles and at the surface next the os uteri has been described by the Editor both in Orca gladiator and in theNarwhal. ' Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinb.' 1871, and 'Proc' 1876.]