370 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONQ-BARROW PERIOD. ancients, that even in the time of Homer they were looked upon as repugnant to the moral sense of mankind^, but that they re- tained vitality enough to give birth to the even worse atrocity of gladiatorial shows, we have evidence in abundance to prove. But we have no evidence to show that the bones of the slaughtered victims were allowed a place in the same cist, chamber, or urn, with those of the great man in whose honour they had been massacred. Achilles, indeed, gives precise injunctions ^ as to keep- ing the bones of Patroclus separate and apart from those of the twelve Trojan youths, the two dogs, and the four horses, slain and burnt with his body. Sometimes we find human bones scattered here and there, not only on the surface, but deep down in the mass of barrows, and I have thought that such bones, when this presence cannot be accounted for by any secondary or shallower interment, or any disturbance of a primary one, might perhaps have been parts of the skeletons of such victims. There is, however, a wide difference between leaving the remains of slaughtered victims lying about on the surface of the ground, and placing them inside a sepulchre, and the former of these modes of treatment is, I submit, the more natural one, and the more likely to have been adopted, for many reasons. The bones of a wife or concubine, who may voluntarily or half voluntarily ^ have given up her life at her master's funeral, may have been allowed to lie with his ; but this supposition would not explain the facts of the numbers, and of the presence of both men and women in varying proportions in these interments. Dr. Thui-nam, however, based his support of the human sacrifice theory, not merely upon literary evidence, but also upon the appear- ances which the bones themselves from those barrows presented. Some of these bones are in the Oxford University Museum, viz. those from Ebberston referred to as being calculated to 'convince the most incredulous;' and others in the Cambridge University 1 See Iliad xxiii. 176. ^ 'OarSa XlarpoKKoio tilfvoiTtahao Xiyai/xev, e5 SiayiyvwaicovTes, dpt((>paS(a 5< TtrvKrai' 'Ei/ jJiiaari yap tKUTo trvpy, toI 5' aWot av(v9(v 'Eaxari^ Kaiovr itriiu^, iititoi t( ml avSpes' Kai rd. /xiv kv xp^oiri (pi&Xig Koi S'lnXaKi SrjftS Qdofitv.—Iliad xxiii. 239 sqq. ^ See Anderson, 'Proc. Soc. Ant. Scot.,' May 13, 1872, p. 524. * ' Mem. Soc. Anth. London,' I. c.