BUDSTONE. 213 I. Measurements of Calvaria. Extreme length . Fronto-inial length Extreme breiidth . Upright height Circumference Frontal arc . 7.6" 7-4" 5-4" 6" 20" 5-2" Parietal arc Occipital arc . Least frontal width . Greatest fi-ontal width Greatest occipital width II. Measurements of Face. Length of face Depth of lower jaw at symphysis Width of ramus Height of orbit Width of orbit Length of nose Width of nose 3" 1.7" 1-5" 1-45" 1.6" 2" 09" 5-4" 4.2" 3- 9" 4- 7" 4.1" III. Indices. Cephalic index 7^ Antero-posterior index ....... 40-9 Facial angle at nasal spine ...... 68 Facial angle at alveolar border 61 normal. As its sagittal suture is closed along- the inner table of the skull, though it is complexly denticulated externally, a condition of things observable in two other very closely similar skulls from the same locality, 'Rudstone, ccxxiv. i' and ' Rudstone, Ixi. 3,' it is not possible to say whether here an elongation of the cerebral lobes produced the elongation of tlie brain case, or a premature sagittal synostosis produced an elongation of the brain in the way of compensatory outgrowth. An examination however of other similarly elongated calvariae from long and other barrows, as well as from interments of modern dolichocephalic savage races, puts it beyond a doubt that the elongation of the brain is the first term in the series, and that the synostosis observable in such skulls as these is not a cause but a consequence merely, the sutures closing because the brain does not grow in the direction at right angles to their long axis ^. ' A cdvaria from the long barrow at Upper Swell, mentioned at p. 528 of'British Barrows,' as found under the skull' No. 2, Upper Swell,' has a parietal arc of 5.9", being one inch longer than the nonnal length of this arc, with a frontal of 5-1" and an occi- pital of 4-9", with both frontal and sagittal sutures open both internally and externally and for their entire lengths. The sex of the owner of this calvaria cannot be spoken to positively; the age however must have been somewhere between sixteen and twenty, and probably nearer the latter than the former of those yearsj the sphenoidal sinuses being largely developed, and the spheno-basilar synchondrosis entirely closed. In this Litter particular this skull is a more striking example in illustration of the view given