467 ON THE CRANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN. has a cephalic index of -Si, being equal to that of the Negro girl just mentioned in the College of Surgeons' Museum; and though one of the six has. but -70 for its cephalic index, still the average of the six is as much as -75, and Professor Flower's six give us an avei-age of -768 as against one of '731 for the circumambient' Zulus and Kaffirs/ and against one of -736 for 'African Negroes of various tribes.' The altitudinal index is as significant as, if not more significant than, the latitudinal; and the tapeinocephalic or platycephalic character of the Bushman as compared with the two other as- semblages of Africans just mentioned, is expressed by the figures •716, as against altitudinal indices for them of -741 and -735 re- spectively. The average of the altitudinal indices of my six Bush- man crania is -72, the height exceeding the breadth in two cases only, and in each of them by one-tenth of an inch only. As important a question to ask about a skull as either of the two relating to the two indices just mentioned, is^ to my thinking, the question, does the cranium when resting, in the absence of its lower jaw, with the grinding surfaces of its teeth on a flat surface, touch that surface posteriorly with its occipital condyles, or with its inferior occipital squamae ? Accordingly as the former or the latter portions of the occipital bone give support posteriorly to a skull so placed, is the cranial curvature lesser or greater, and with it the antero-posterior arc described by the brain it contains. Tried by this test, first suggested by Prof. Ecker [' Archiv fiir Anthrop.' iv. 1870, p. 288), the six Bushman crania in the museum whence I write have four of their number resting on the occipital squamae, as opposed to two which show the lesser curvature. I incline to think that this is a higher average than West Coast Negro^ crania would show, but Abantu skulls are very frequently so well developed as to have a considerable interval left between their occi- pital condyles and a flat surface, touching anteriorly the grinding surface of their teeth, and posteriorly their conceptacula cerebelli. Another important point given us in that most instructive of normae, the norma lateralis, is that of the junction or non-junction of the squamous to the frontal. This question is easily answered, as in no single one of my six Bushman crania does the squamous approxi- mate itself at all more closely to the frontal than it would do in an equal number of European craniar Indeed, in all but one of these H h 2