380 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARBOW PERIOD. turf-burning, and as having no grit in them, as field ashes usually have, but feeling soft and greasy when taken between the thumb and finger.' Blacker ashes were also found to the north of the central deposit; and in a deposit from 8 to lo feet to the north of the central axis were found two serrated flint flakes, stones reddened and calcined, and a splinter of glass. The presence of such an article as this last shows that the eastward end of the barrow must have been subjected to some comparatively recent disturbance—at all eventSj of a kind which would favour the descent of a fragment of such a modern substance as glass. As far as I could judge from excavations made in 1874, the structure of the barrow was, with, the exception of the ossiferous zone, and disregarding accidental disturbances made possibly at very diflTerent times, essentially one and the same from one end to the other; the mass of the barrow consisting of slates and rubble arranged in a slant from north and south outer walls respectively, so as to meet in the middle line—as one of the labourers, employed in 1868 in carting them away, expressed it, ' like the roof of a house.' The slanting stones were supported externally by the boundary walls, similar walling being intercalated here and there internally for the same purpose. The converging slopes of flags and rubble had been broken into here and there in the westward half of the barrow; and in exploring one such interruption of its continuity, about 20 feet to the westward of the skeleton-containing chamber, I came upon a few bones of ox, of ancient date, mixed up with a good deal of blackish earth, amongst the rubble. Mr. Royce found a considerable number of such interruptions of the line of the barrow in its westward half, ashes, and bones of lower ani- mals, being found in them. Some of these interruptions of, or alterations in, the arrangement of the component elements of the barrow, may have been coeval with it; those at the east end may have been later—I am inclined to think very much later—than that period. In this matter Mr. Royce does not agree with me. There was found in this barrow a considerable quantity of pottery, some of a coarse blackish kind, resembling that obtained by me in considerable quantity from a long barrow at Market Weighton, and like that, also, in having been intended for domestic uses ; and some of the same black and red past«, but cigar-shaped,