284 GENERAL REMARKS Dr. Thurnam has in several memoirs ^ argued from the appear- ances presented by the breakages observable in the skulls from long barrows to the existence of the practice of human sacrifice upon the occasion of the interment of the chiefs in the stone age. We have a large mass of literary evidence in favour of the con- tinuation of this practice into historical times amongst the Gauls and other foreign races, with whom the Romans and Greeks came into contact. The story of the funeral of Patroclus preserves for us a tradition of its existence amongst the Greeks themselves; and from Virgil's allusions Aeneid,' x. 518-520, xi. 81, 82} and Ter- tullian's suggestion (' De SpectacuHs/ xii) as to the origination of ' As regards the literature of the supposed discovery of skulls cleft ante mortem, the following references may be given :— Mr. Cunnington in 1801 ('Ancient Wilts,' Sir R. C. Hoare, i. 87, cit. Thurnam, • Archaeologia,' xxxviii. p. 420) found in a long barrow near Heytesbury, called Bowl's Barrow, a number of skeletons crowded together at the east end, the skull of one of which appeared to have been cut in two by a sword. Sir E. C. Hoare writing in 1817, ' Archaeologia,' xix. p. 48, says, ' Only one or two instances have occurred where we have found any defect or pressure on the skull, indicating a mortal wound: but in one of the barrows near Stonehenge, we dug up a skull which appeared to have been cut in two by some very sharp instrument, and as nicely as any instrument of Savigny could have effected. This skull was reiuterred in the same barrow.' A Round Barrow, Tumulus 36, 'Ancient Wilts,' p. 163. Dr. Thurnam, writing in 1855 in the 'Crania Britannica,' pi. 24, Littleton Drew, says (p. 3) of the fragments of a skull, that ' the fractured edges were very sharp, suggesting the idea of having been cleft during life.' Writing in the ' Archaeologia,' xxxviii. 18^:0, of the long barrow at West Kennet, Wiltshire, Dr. Thurnam dwelt at greater length upon this subject, saying that the occurrence of such cleft skulls was curious and had ' an important bearing on the estimate to be formed of the general grade of civilisation of those who must be regarded as our remote ancestors.' His views were still further developed in the ' Memoirs of the London Anthropological Society,' 1865, as also in the 'Journal of the Archaeological Institute' of the same year, vol. xxii. p. 107, in which he describes the appearances presented by the Ebberston skulls now in the Museum of this University. In the ' Crania Britannica,' pi. 59, Dr. Thurnam, in his account of the skulls from the chambered long barrow at Rodmarton in Gloucestershire, examined by Canon Lysons in 1863 (see ' Proc. Soc. Ant.,' N. S. ii. p. 275, or his work, 'Our British Ancestors,' p. 137, 1865), describes and figures from that barrow a skull now in this Museum as an example of a skull cleft ante mortem; remarking (p. 4, note) that another of these supposed cleft skulls, from West Kennet, was like the Rodmarton specimen in having the frontal suture open, whilst the un- injured skulls were of a considerably more elongate type. Finally, in the 'Archaeologia' for 1869, vol. 42, pp. 185-188, we have the evidence as to human sacrifices restated with m;iny references, and we have also appended to it the allied subject of anthro- pophagism; at p. 227 we have the Rodmarton skull, now before me as I write, figured; and the author states that the chambered barrows of Nympsfield and Charlton Abbots are the only instances of Such barrows examined by him in which traces of violent cleavage of cranial bones had not been found.