DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS. 170 of the bones of the trunk and limbs, to pronounce as to the sex of a skull, and it is much more unsafe, as the disputes relative to the Engis skull show, to pronounce positively in cases where the lower jaw and even the base of the skull with the mastoids and the facial bones are wanting also. When such cases have occurred amongst the skulls submitted to me, I have spoken of the sex as ' uncertain ;' this uncertainty however does not seem to me to attach to any of the figured skulls or calvariae. The skulls which have been selected for figuring will put into contrast not only the peculiarities of male and female crania, but also those due to differences in years; special regard having been had in their arrangement to the importance of distinguishing between ethnical characters and those dependent upon age by ranking the skulls of each type in the order of their seniority. vol. i. p. 127, 1866), the cases where ambiguity arises are cases in which female skulls have assumed, or mu.st be supposed to have assumed, male characters; it is only very rarely that we are in any danger of supposing a skull to be female which is really male. On the other hand, the words of His ('Crania Helvetica,' p. 9, 1864), 'Die Geschlectsbestimmung nach dem blossen Ansehen fiibrt allzuleicht zu Willkuhrlich- keiten als dass man sich darauf verlassen konnte,' seem to me to rate the value of an unassisted cranioscopy in the question of sex a little lower than it really deserves. And the argument by which he supports this view, drawn from the fact that skulls which had been classed by competent observers as undoubtedly female could never- theless be proved to have come from an interment on a battlefield, is by no means convincing. The German woman was told (see Tacitus, 'Germania,' p. 18), on the occasion of her marriage, by tangible symbols as well as by mere words, ' venire se laborum periculorumque sociam, idem in pace, idem in praelio passumm ati^uramque.^ The same community of risks, we are told by numerous ancient writers, e.g. Diodorus', Strabo^, Plutarch', and others, was run by both sexes amongst Celtic tribes; and I find it recorded of a Celtic invasion*, which took place little more than 200 years ago and ended much as the one just referred to as recorded by Plutarch, that ' amongst the Welsh were found many women which had knives near half a yard long to effect some notable massacres with them.' Mr. W. P. Price has enabled me to prove the truth of this statement by an examination of tlie skeletons of these invaders. ' Diodorus, v. 32. At 5^ yvvaiKts rwv TaKarwv ov fiovov roh /xfyiOfffi vapa-nX-qam Tois dv5p6.ffiv elaiv olWol kuI rats aKKois eva/xiWoi. - Strabo, vii. 2. 3. "EBos 5e ti twv Kifi^poov Sirjyovvrat toiovtov on rais jwaifiv avTuiv avaTparfvovcaCs iraprjKoKovOovv TTpo/xavreis. 3 Plutarch, Marius, 27. The details of the slaughters of Aquae Sextiae and Vercellae are too well known to need quoting: ' nec minus cum uxoribus eorum pugna quam cum ipsis fuit,' says Florus, iii. 3. See also Ammianus Marcellinus, xv. c. 12. * 'The Kingdome's Weekly Intelligencer,' Friday, March 31, 1643; a Parlia- mentarian newspaper, quoted in a 'Letter on the Discovery of the Skeletons at Barber's Bridge,' by W. H. Price, Esq., M.P. Gloucester, 1868.