SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN ONE HUNDRED AND SIX YEARS OLD. 145 Notes op Post-mortem Examination. September T2th, 1863, 4.0 p.m., thirty-two hours after death; weather clear, not close :— The rigor mortis was tolerably well developed, the fing-ers being bent in upon the palmar surface. There was no hair in either axilla, there was darkish coloured hair in no great abundance upon the mons martis, and gray hairs were thinly scattered over the scalp generally. The beard seemed to me the day after the post- mortem examination to have grown some little. Tongue was generally dry and slightly furfuraceous; some ecchymoses, like the blotches of scorbutus, were to be seen upon the back of the right hand. There was only one tooth in the jaws, the right upper canine. The scalp separated easily, and the pericranium was like- wise easily detached from the subjacent cranial bones in the form of a dry, little vascular, coherent membrane. The cranial bones had a smooth and somewhat glistening surface. Well-nigh con- tinuous tracings on the skull marked the position of the coronal and sagittal sutures. A broad and shallow depression, such as is often seen in well-developed crania, not such as Virchow has given the name of sattelTcopfe to, crossed the skull in the line of the coronal suture. There was no exposure of Bresehet's sinuses. There was an exostosis on the line of insertion of the temporal muscle upon the frontal bone. The skull bones were easy to be sawn through, the incisions being made, one parallel with and just in front of the coronal suture, and the other carried horizontally through the occipital protuberance^ so as to meet the former just above, or in, the great ala of the sphenoid. There was much difficulty in re- moving the skull-cap, on account of the close adhesion of the dura mater; and in the process of removing them both, bone and mem- brane together, a considerable quantity of yellowish fluid escaped. The double cap thus removed brought away with it a portion of the pia mater, exposing a deep fissure between two convolutions; the convolutions were rounded, not flattened. Some little force was necessary to separate the dura mater from the cranial vault, which, however, was smooth internally, and presented only two or three small Pacchionian pits along its middle line. The canals for the middle meningeal artenes had had deep banks deposited on either side of them, and in places they were all but arched over, L