209 SHERBURN WOLD. I. Measurements of Calvaria. Extreme length . Fronto-inial length Extreme breadth Vertic<al height , Circuiuferenoe Frontal arc . 7-1" 6.6" 4- 9'' 5- 6" iQ-5" 5" Parietal arc Occipital ai'c . Minimum frontal width . Maximum frontal width , Maximum occipital width 4.8" 4.8" 3-3" f II. Measurements of Face. Length of face 2-8" Height of orbit • • i-5 Width of orbit . . i-6|' Length of nose ........ 2-2 Width of nose ........ 1 Lower jaw, interangular diameter 3-3" Lower jaw, depth at symphysis 1-3" Lower jaw, width of ramus on level of grinding surface.of molar teeth ......... i'3 III. Indices. Length-breadth index : ' cephalic index'. ... 68 Antero-posterior index ....... 46 Facial angle to nasal spine ...... 63 Facial angle to alveolar edge 60 The condition of the femora and pelvis and of the teeth enables us to say with certainty that we have in ' Sherburn "Wold, vii. i' the skeleton of a woman who was of about the same age as, or perhaps a little older than, the man to whom the preceding ' skeleton (' Langton, ii. i') belonged, i. e. about thirty or thirty- five years of age, and who was 4' 8" in stature. The femora are much slighter and much more curved, as well as much shorter, than those of ' Langton Wold, ii. i they resemble them however in the curious point of having the inner of the two upper lips of the linea aspera prolonged spirally round into the anterior intertrochanteric line. The pelvis and sacrum are completed; the wisdom teeth however are comparatively little worn. The verticality of the forehead and the absence of large supra- ciliary ridges are feminine characters, as are also the comparative feebleness of the lower jaw and the smaller size of the mastoids, seen in the profile view. The parieto-occipital slope however is a little more oblique than is usual in women's skulls. The pterygoids are perfectly vertical. In almost all its measurements this skull is smaller than the male skull with which it is compared; the more important, however, of the proportions which subsist between these dimensions are the same for both. The point of maximum width P