REPORT ON EXCAVATION AT SIGWELL. 442 southernmost of the two halves of the twin-barrow, driving a ti-ench 15 feet wide from east to west, beginning- along a line 30 feet south of the line of the centre picket, but some little way from the actual southern boundary of the barrow. Some excavation had been made, either for the sake of investigation or for digging out rabbits, fox, or badger, on the south-east side of the barrow; the earth disturbed by this operation had been partly thrown out east- wards, partly filled in again; through the westward part of the disturbed soil we dug, and found that the diggers had not gone very far down and had left a ' steel' for striking a light and a piece of glazed pottery in their ' fiUing-in.' We came upon the natural surface at a depth of 9 feet 10 inches, as in the northern barrow, the ground and the mound being of the same distinctive character as regards each other. A piece of British pottery (labelled 'Sigwell ii a') was found 15 feet 6 inches to the south-west of the centre picket, and 9 feet 10 inches below the surface. It had been aj^parently the bottom of a jar or urn, and may possibly indicate that an urn burial had taken place in this barrow before the one we had to deal with. The distal half of the metacarpal or metatarsal of a sheep or goat was found about 5 feet down in the barrow near to the centre picket. It was a good deal decayed, but one of the phalanges was found in relation with it. 3 feet 8 inches to the west of the centre picket we found a grave I foot 6 inches deep in the natural soil, 10 feet long, 5 feet wide at the north, 4 feet wide at the south end, its long axis due magnetic north and south, that of the tumulus itself being about north 5° east. The eastern end of the grave was 7 feet to west of the centre picket, 3 feet 10 inches of the length of the grave being to the south of the centre, and the remaining 6 feet 2 inches to the north. In this grave was contained a bark cofiin, inside of which was a bronze dagger, and a quantity of very thoroughly burnt small fragments of human bones. The longest diameter of the largest of these fragments being only -g inches, it is difficult to say more than that this fragment, being apparently a part of that portion of the occipital bone which is known as the Torcular Herophili (the very same portion of bone as that which was found in the deposit of La Tini^re, and one which possesses a singular power of resisting various destructive agencies), probably belonged to a young male