331 PREHISTORIC FAUNA. Saxon word "beo-cist" (bee-chest) and the Latin "alvearia" (bee-hives) usually substituted for " rusca," from which it may be inferred that these rough constructions were superseded by regular hives.' Hehn ('Cultur-Pflanzen und Hausthiere,' p. 425 ed. i, p. 505 ed. ii), referring to an ' erschbpfend' article by Pott in Kuhn and Schleicher's 'Beitriige,' ii. 265, in which the Slavonic word for hive is stated to be idei and the Lithuanian aivilys (as according to Grimm (1819) the Bohemian word is aul and the Polish ul), suggests that these words may be loan words modelled from the Latin alveus, and mediaeval Latin apile. The "Welsh scholars in Oxford, the late Principal of Jesus College and Professor Rhys, inform me that the common Welsh word for bee-hive is cwch-gwenyn, literally boat of bees, and that these are not loan words. If the words are not borrowed words, the idea which they express is borrowed, and shows that the employers of the metaphor used boats before hives. If the boats to which they compared the beehives were the North Welsh coracles with ' subspheroidal' rather than so- called 'scaphoid' outlines, this may further indicate that the earliest form of beehive with which the Welsh were acquainted was one which was late to be attained to in the development of the invention ^. If we are right in holding, on the authority of Logan, 1. c, that the Cornish word for hive is kauelh, which in Welsh means a large basket, this would go some way to show that the Cornish were not acquainted with, or at least did not adopt the hive until it had been developed beyond the stage of ' rusca,' ' corticibus suta cavatis,' into that of the ' lento alvearia vimine texta' of Virgil. I have, finally, the authority of Professor Rhys for the possibility of the Welsh word for wax, viz. cwyr, being a loan word from the Latin. I searched, as I had expected, in vain, for any figure of a hive in Mr. Evans's^ 'Coins of the Ancient Britons,' 1864. * I learn from Professor Westwood that according to Spinola our domestic species Apis mellifiea rarely occurs in Liguria; and he suggests that this shows either that the Ligures were not the colonisers of Wales, as has been affirmed, or that they did not bring their bee, AjAa ligustica, with them. ^ In answer to an enquiry of mine as to the existence of a figure of a hive on any ancient coin whatever, Mr. Evans informs me that he does not know of any such coin which has certainly a hive upon it. The figures upon two coins of Dyrrachium given by Beger ('Tbesaur. Brandenberg. Select.' vol. i. p. 459) and by Goltz (ed. Nonnius, 1620, pi. i. fig. 7, p. 4) amongst the coins of Greece, the Islands, and Asia Minor, though described locc. citt. as 'apiaria' and 'alvearia,' Mr. Evans thinks may be merely the caps of the Dioscuri. And to me these figures, as given in the latter of the hooka referred to, appear with their pendent strings to suggest the 'mitrae' with 'redimicula' of the ^neid, ix. 616, rather than the 'alvearia' of the Georgios. Professor Westwood haa furuiahed me with certain references from hagiological