488 THE BLO0D-C0EPUSCLE8 OP THE ANNELIDES, ' Am einfachsten verhalt sich Branchioldella mit einem contractilen RCckengefass und einem in vordern Koi perstiick durcli Schlingeu mit dem erstern in Verbindung Btehendem Bauchgefasse. Dieses scheint mit der weiten Leibeshohle zu communiciren und aus derselben das Blut zu beziehen welches durch seine contractile Wandung nach voni getrieben wird.' This statement is exactly reproduced at p. 398 of the third edition of Professor Claus's work, which appeared in 1876. Similarly, Professor Pagenstecher, at p. 373 of his 'Allgemeine Zoologie,' Zweites Theil, 1877, writes :— ' Leuckart meint es mbge der Ruckenstamm, welcher schon 1719, Dillenius bei den Blutegel beschrieb, mit der bei Branchiobdella unter den Hirudineen besonders weiter Leibeshohle in ofifener Verbindung stehen, seinen Inhalt aus letzterer beziehen, die in der Leibeshohle auf und abtreibende Fliissigkeit schon Blut sein.' As against all these authorities, Professor Lankester himself having made it a question of authorities by his using, ad augendam invidiam, the word ' notoriously/ we have to set his statement, unsupported by any record of independent investigation by himself of the struc- tures themselves, to the effect that the vascular system of Branchiob- della ' notoriously differs ' from that of true leeches, ' in that it most certainly does not communicate with the perivisceral cavity so as to form a lacunar circulation.' I have fastened upon Professor Lankester's employment of the word ' notoriously,' and I think that what I have said will' suffice to satisfy a conscientious bookmaker,' or book-reader, as to the value of the word as thus employed. The question of fact is very readily stated, and if not very easily settled is yet capable of settlement by persons to whom Branchiob- dellae are available in the fresh state. It may be put thus: Does the simple unicavitary large perivisceral space of BrancJiiohdella, the homologue of the lymphatic system in general, and of that parti- cular vasiform tritruncate modification of it which is found in so many leeches, differ from the lymphatic system or its homologue in nearly all other animals, if not all, with the exception of the Chaetopho- rous Vermes, by not communicating with the blood-vascular system ? I never thought that in the Hirudineae, provided, as is' notoriously' the case in Ilirudo sanguisuga (Gratiolet, ' Ann. Sci. Nat.' xvii. p. 199, 1862) and in Piscicola (see Budge in 'Verhand. Nat. Verein. Preuss-Rheinland,' vi. p. 112, and fig. 24, 1840, and Leuckart, I.e. p. 669), with a system either of smaller or larger tubes^ bringing these vasiform specialisations of the perivisceral cavity continuously