103 ON THE PLACENTAL 8TKUCTURES OF THE TENREC any of their structures^ either interfered with or superposed upon th em ; and for the entire class the term ' non-deciduate' is pro- posed by Professor Huxley. The first question which arises is: What number of general propositions can we make as to the entirety of this class, to a certain similarity existing- between the least mutually resembling members of which testimony is borne by the trivial names of 'sea-cow' and 'sea-camel' as applied to certain of the herbivorous, and ' Meerschwein' to certain of the carnivorous Cetaeea? There is a considerable number of such propositions; but it is not always easy to say whether certain of them are not correlated, either in the way of nutrition with the large size which distinguishes this division of placenta as a whole, or in the way of function with their peculiar modes of life, and are therefore of little classificatory value. It is as functional correlations perhaps, that we should note the absence of clavicles and the faculty of self-help which the young of all non-deciduate mammals possess from their first entrance into the world; and I should incline to consider as a correlation of growth the posses- sion of complexly convoluted brains by these animals, since in the class to which they and their deciduate allies both belong, the complexity of the convolutions varies very commonly in a direct ratio with the increase of bulk. Neither of these explanations, however, will account for the fact that in all the non-deciduate Mammalia we find one superior cava, and one only, and that in the whole class, so few of the members of which are multiparous, the uterus still retains a bifid character, its cornua greatly predomi- nating over the corpus uteri. In antithesis to the deciduate mammals, we find in the non-deciduate a general, though not a universal co-existence of comparatively simple livers and simple lungs with complex stomachs. I am not aware that anal glands have been observed in any non-deciduate mammal. It is well known that the generative organs of both sexes in the Artiodactyles and the Cetaeea proper are 'almost exactly similar^,' only that the testicles are not external, and there are no external parts in the females of the latter order. The great abundance of blood and the great relative abundance of blood-cells are points common to the pig and to the porpoise; and * Hunter's 'Essays and Observations,' ed. Owen, vol. ii. p. 105; and ' Hunterian Catalogue,' vol. iv. 2527.