AND THOSE OF CEETAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 91 media in any placenta, as that of the g-uinea-pig, which I have been able to manipulate. Neither have I been so fortunate as to find this system of tags in the common rat [Mus decumanus); and but that the homologous structures, two only in number, which are to be seen in the rabbit [Lejms cimiculus), are far from being invariable in their appearance, I should suggest that the foetal rat in question was of the black rat (Mns mttus) species. The persistent or non-deciduous serotina in the guinea-pig is inseparable, save to the eye aided by the microscope, from the circular muscular coat. Bischoff ^ says of the decidua serotina, that it separates from the regenerating mucous coat immediately after the separation of the placenta, and is either discharged or, as he thinks, in many cases quickly absorbed ; and Reichert ^ believes that certain structures found not rarely in the uteri of pregnant guinea-pigs may be the remnants of the placenta uterina and decidua reflexa of previous pregnancies. I have no observations of my own with reference to what takes place in the natural order of things, but in the after- births of guinea-pigs killed at full time I have found the deciduous serotina in some cases so firmly cohering with the placenta and with the upgrowth of it as to make it difficult to believe that it does not occasionally come away with it in parturition, as by actual observation we know it does in the rat. Variations may occur in the case of the former animal. The guinea-pig and rat resemble each other in having, in early stages of development, a perfect decidua, in having their chorion attached to the centre of a unilobed placenta, and in having the sac of the allantois early obliterated ; and in all these points they differ from the Leporidae. The circlet of vascular villi lying exteriorly to the placental area, and supplied exclusively by the omphalo-mesenteric system, is said by Bischoff^ to spring up only in the latter part of foetal life. In those rodents in which, as in the Muridae, and in the guinea- pig, the chorion is attached by an apex, as it were, to the centre point of the floor of the placenta, we see, on making a transverse section of a uterine dilatation containing an advanced foetus, that a considerable interval exists on either side of the attachment of » 'Meerechweinchen-E!,' p. 44. a < Beitiiige,' p. 131. ' ' Meerschweinchen-Ei,' pp. 43 and 44.