332 APPENDIX. The currently, and as I believe correctly, accepted view that the common fowl, Gallus gallinaceus, is never mentioned by, and may with some considerable likelihood be supposed to have been unknown to the Old Testament writers and to Homer and Hesiod also, is confirmed by the negative evidence of the neolithic interments in this country\ literature which bear on the question of the recent date of the domestication of the bee in these islands. In the Life of St. Cadoc (Bibl. Cotton. Vesp. A. xiv.) it is stated that he chose a solitary place for his monastery, having seen 'aprum sub arbore jacen- tem, apes venientes et intrantes in cavam arborem.' In the first Life of St. David we read that his father- was told by an angel that he would find gifts by the river Teivy; a certain stag; ' apumque examen in arbore positum,' &c. And in the second Life of the same saint there is a curious legend of a swarm of bees settling on a ship going to Ireland, the bees following St. David from place to place; and it is added that ' Hibernia in qua nunquam usque ad illud tempus apes vivere poterant mellis fertilitate ditatur.' See also Lanigan, ' Eccl. Hist.,' iii. 82-84 ; ' Life of St. Molaga," cap. 22 ; ' Notes on Irish Architecture,' by the Earl of Dunraven, i. pp. 63, 64. »It is a little diflBcult to reconcile tlie passages which stand in our authorised version of the Old Testament (i Kings x. 22 ; 2 Chron. ix. 21), to the effect that a navy of Tarshish brought ' once in three years gold and silver, ivory, and apes and peacocks' to king Solomon, with the view held, I should suppose, by most modern Hebraists, as by Bochart (' Hierozoicon,' ed. 1682, lib. i. cap. xvi. p. ill), that when the Latin 'in- terpretes multa prophetarum loca ad galliuaceum genus referunt,' it is, in the words of the writer just cited, ' conjecturis non satis certis.' For the servants of Hiram and Solomon would have found it at least as easy and profitable to import Gallus bankiva and indeed Sus indicus as apes and peacocks. But as against this utilitarian considera- tion we may suggest that the words of Caesar quoted in the text render it not wholly improbable that to the Tj^ian sailors the fowl may have been a forbidden food, as it was to many other races ; and as, in fact, Sus was to their Hebrew comrades on those ships of Tarshish. Antiquaries who hold that it was from intercourse with Phoenician rather than with Etruscan traders that the Britons learnt certain other things will think this an argument in their favour. A long sea-voyage however, as the absence of the fowl from New Zealand in the time of Captain Cook shows us, made the intro- duction of domestic animals very difficult to such navigators. And the history of the words makes me suspect that it was by the way of Babylon rather than that of the Ked Sea that the peacock itself, to say nothing of the common fowl, the trtpaiKbs opvts, found its main route of immigration into Palestine and Greece. For, duiing the Babylonish captivity the word tukhi-im, the Hebrew representative of the Malabar name for the peacock, had become obsolete, and, like many other Hebrew words, was nearly forgotten in the time of the LXX, who have given what the Targum, using a word, tavass, almost identical with Taws, holds to be its true meaning, only once and in a various reading (Cod. Alex.), «ai rawveuv. And Minayeff (cit. Caldwell, ' Dra- vidian Grammar,' ed. 1875, p. 92) has discovered in the Buddhistical writings that the ancient Indian merchants took peacocks to Babylon. Probably the fowl was carried with them. As regards the absence of any mention of the common fowl in the Homeric poems, I have been told that an eminent and voluminous writer upon this subject is of opinion that in the line, II. vi. 513, Ttvxecri vapKpatvojv, Sis r iiXiKToip, fPt0r]K(i, we have Paris, in his ill-supported character of warrior, compared to this bird. A somewhat similar passage in the Proverbs of Solomon (xxx. 31) has been similarly