205 LANGTON WOLD. I. Meosiirements of Calvaria. Extreme length . Fronto-inial length Extreme breadth Vertical height . Absolute height . Basi-cranial axis from an- terior margin of foramen magnum to naso-frontil 7.8" 7.6" 5-25" 5.8" 5-4" suture, approximatively 4.4" Circumference 21-2' Frontal arc . 5" Parietal arc . . . . Occipital arc . . . . 5-o" Minimum fi-ontal width . 3.8" Maximum frontal width . 4-7" Maximum occipital width 4-5" II. Measurements of Face. Length of face : ' naso-alveolar'line Breadth of face : ' interzygomatic' line . ' Basio-subnasal' line, approximatively . 'Basio-alveolar' line, approximatively Height of orbit Width of orbit Length of nose Lower jaw, width of ramus on level of grinding surface of molar teeth ......... 3 5-06" 4-05" 4-o.s" 1.4" i.6e;" 2.3" Length-breadth index : Antero-posterior index Facial angle to nasal spine Facial angle to alveolar process III. Indices. ' cephalic index' 1.7" 68 45 67 63 been effected here. This bone appears to have been more powerfully developed tbau is usually the case in skulls of this type, its angle having been square and everted and its coronoid having reached above the level of its zygoma. The mastoids are of an extra- ordinary length. There is a broad but shallow undulation on either side of a raised sagittal carina posteriorly to the coronal suture. Viewed in the norma verticalis, the skull is remarkable for the very gradual way in which it grows narrower along the long straight lateral boundaries from the barely recognisable region of the parietal tubera up to the external orbital processes of the frontal. This contour has been supposed^ to characterise the Anglo-Saxon rather than the Celtic type of head; there is however no room for doubting that this cranium belonged to an inhabitant of this country in the Bronze Period. The skull is phaenozygous. The sagittal and coronal sutures are both obliterated internally, aod ' See Professor Daniel Wilson,' Canadian Journal,' New Series, vol. liv. Nov. 1864; or' Anthropological Eeview,' vol. iii. Feb. 1865, London. The skuU described on p. 175, under the name of Weaverthorpe, Smith, iii. 3, is of the type which, while equally long with the one described above, is distinguished by a sudden tapering in ixont of the parietal tubera, and is supposed by the writer just cited to be characteristic of the 'Insular Celt.' There is however no reason for holding that it belongs to a period anterior to that of the skull Langton i.