FROM THE A.NATOMY OF A PORPOISE. 59 of their encapsulation in an external coat of fibro-cellular tissue, and their want of such supporting elements within their parenchyma There can at all events be no doubt that they were developed from the general formative mass of blastema, which surrounds the aorta in the foetus, as described by Professor Goodsir ^; and that therefore they were morphologically as well as physiologically to be classed with the thymusThis gland, as well as the thyroid, was largely developed in this specimen, and the arrangement of the two glands coincided very exactly with the description given of them by my friend Mr. Turner *. The lymphatic glands generally throughout the body were largely developed ; so largely, in fact, at either jaw angle, as to simulate the appearance of a large submaxillary gland. The spleen was, as has been so often described, curiously multifid. All of these ductless, all of these lymphatic glands were richly supplied with blood vessels ; all, alike and jointly, laboured at the elaboration of the constituent elements of the vast mass of this cetacean's blood. They enabled it thus to support a high standard of temperature in an excellent conducting medium, and they sup- plied all the calls for rich and refined aliment which a brain equalling in this case one-sixtieth of the weight of the entire body made upon the nutritive fluids. They may be taken as illustrations of ' tauto- geneous growths ' of the first of our two classes. Many of Mr. Paget's instances of complemental nutrition Mr. Darwin would explain as the results^ of hereditary transmission, with modification, and there can be little doubt that of the two hypotheses the latter will to many minds seem to suit the better with such instances as the four rudiments of nails on the fins of the manatee, or the equally rudimentary teeth in the ruminant's • Though my dissection enables me to confirm the views put forth by Mr. Turner, ii compels me to dissent from those anatomists who say there is nothing in the Cetacean economy to represent either the Vena Azygos or the Cowper's Glands of Human Anatomy. » 'Phil. Trans.' 1846, p. 638. ' In the common .shrew, however, two bodies are to be found, floating loosely in the abdominal cavity, but anchored each by a process of mesentery which is attached just where these bodies in the porpoise lie fixed; and that they are connected witli the lymphatic, or rather with the lacteal system, an examination of a shrew, which has died whilst digesting, will leave no doubt. * 'Transact. Eoyal Soc. Edinburgh,' vol. xxii. part ii. ' 'Origin of Species,' pp. 453-454. 'st edit.; pp. 486-487, 3rd edit.