DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS. 166 and that, except in those rare cases in which the ' fronto-inial' diameter can be taken to a ' tubereulum linearum' as disting-uished from a ' protuberantia occipitalis externa/ it is always necessary to compare the internal with the external surface of the skull. The extreme breadth has in these skulls been taken upon the parietal bones, either in 'well-filled' skulls at some point abutting- upon the posterior edge of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, or in 'ill-filled' skulls at the tuberosities. The squamous por- tion of the temporal has very frequently in old skulls become separated a little from the parietal, and it is rendered consequently unfit to be taken as a surface to measure from. The extreme breadth therefore being- always the extreme parietal breadth, it has been unnecessary to have a separate entry for this as for the corresponding- frontal and occipital diameters. The anterior margin of the occipital foramen has been frequently so much injured in these ancient skulls as to I'ender it impossible to take their actual or ' absolute' height from the plane of the fora- men magnum. In these cases the so-called 'upright' height of Professors von Baer ^, His^, and Ecker^, taken by placing one arm of the beam-compasses upon the posterior border of the occipital foramen and at right angles to a vertical line passing from the middle of the auditory foramen to the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures, and the other upon the most distant part of the cranial vault, becomes of especial importance. This measurement is, of course, somewhat greater than that of the 'actual' or 'abso- lute' height as usually taken from the plane of the foramen magnum ■—a point to be borne in mind when we compare the height and breadth of these skulls with those dimensions in other series. The imperfect state of the skulls has similarly rendered it im- possible in many cases to take the measurements of the basi- cranial axis, or of the cubical capacity. The minimum frontal width has been taken from a spot imme- diately behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, and below the temporal ridge on one side, to the corresponding spot on the other. The maximum has been taken between two points below the temporal ridge at the coronal suture. ' ' Zusammenkunft einiger Anthropologen,' p. 50, Leipzig, 1861. ^ 'Crania Helvetica,' p. 7, 1864. ' ' Crania Germaniae Meridional. Occident.' p. 3, 1865.