DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS, 223 that it belonged to a woman. As regards the age of its owner, there is also room for doubting whether the full term of sixty years assigned by Dr. Thurnam had really been attained to. All the sutures are ' ossified and nearly effaced ' in some dolicho- cephalic skulls from long barrows and of this period, e. g. ' Rudstone, ccxxiv. i,' a skull from the same long barrow as ' Rudstone, ccxxiv. 4' described above, whose owners had certainly not attained half that age. Comparatively little however need or ought in this case to be staked upon a determination of these two points of sex and age. The denticulationsof the posterior fifth of the sagittal suture can be seen, in spite of the closure of the suture, to have been long and complex, as they often are in these synostotic skulls; in the penultimate fifth the suture is entirely obliterated, and its course is partly occupied by a nodular exostosis, to the left of which a large foramen emissarium is to be seen ; the rest of the suture is barely traceable. The squamosal suture however and its additamentum have escaped anchylosis ; and the coronal suture is complexly denticulated on both sides. The frontal bone is slightly carinate over the segment corre- sponding with the junction of its ' facies frontalis' with its vertical aspect. The sites of its tubera are scarcely identifiable, though those of the parietal can still be recognised. The ectorbital process which is preserved is strong, the frontal sinuses are only moderately developed. Among the fragmentary bones from the Ebberston long barrow there came into my hands a portion of a lower jaw which combined, as jaws from these barrows not rarely do, great thickness in the molar region together with ^ a feebly developed chin. If this jaw, or one equally weighty, belonged to this skull, as it may very possibly have done, we may then explain the fact of the low and retreating forehead by a reference to the principle of balance already (p. 190) referred to; a very low basis cvanii may also have contri- buted to its formation. It may have been to skulls like this that Sir Richard Colt Hoare ^ referred when speaking of crania from a long barrow at Stoney Littleton in the county of Somerset as being ' fronte valde depressa.' * Also a canine with socket bifid for a doubly fanged tooth. " ' Archaeologia,' vol. xix. p. 46, 1821.