ILDEKTON. 185 I. Measuremants of Calvaria. Extreme length . Fronto-inial length Extreme breadth Vertical height . Absolute height . Basi-cranial axis . Circumference •3 I 4-05" 21" Cubical capacity Frontal arc Parietal arc Occipital arc . Minimum frontal width Maximum frontal w'dth Maximum occipital width II. Measurements of Face. Length of face : naso-alveolar line . Breadth of face : ' iiiterzygomatic' line ' Basio-subnasal' line ' Basio-alveolar' line Height of orbit Width of orbit Length of nose Width of nose Lower jaw, interangular diameter . Lower jaw, depth at symphysis Luwer jaw, width of ramus ' . III. Indices. Length-breadth index : ' cephalic index ' Antero-posterior index . . . . Basilar angle ...... Facial angle to nasal spine Facial angle to alveolar edge . 9 6" 6" .8" 1" 4 0 82 54 14 6.5 61 95' 4.9" 4- 8" 5- 2" 4.4" 5-5" 4.9" heavy lower jaw, the downward gravitation ^ of which has been counterbalanced by a backward rotation of the brain and its con- taining case. The fronto-inial and fronto-postremal diameters are identical, so are the maximum height and the maximum width; the point for the latter measurement lies low down on the parietal bones, on a level with the posterior superior angle of the squamous part of the temporal bone, and in a plane which would touch the anterior edge of the faintly marked tubera parietalia. There is a considerable downgrowth of the occipital condyles, as is often observed to be the case in skulls with heavy lower jaws, especially in the later half of life ; the skull however is supported by the con- ceptacula cerebelli and the grinding edge of the molar teeth when it is placed upon a flat surface without its lower jaw. The extent of its cranial curvature is spoken to by this last fact, as also by the lowness of its basilar angle, 14, as obtained by the occipital gonio- meter of Prof. Broca. In the occipital and vertical normae this skull shows the rounded outlines characteristic of well-filled skulls. In the latter of these normae it shows the characteristic proportions, ' See Cleland, 'Phil, Trans.' 1870, pp. 136, 163.