176 DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OP SKULLS. I have noted it in skeletons of dolichocephalic individuals who could not have been of any very great muscular development, ex- cept possibly as regards the particular muscle named. The cristae ilii and the ischial epiphyses are not yet perfectly anchylosed, though they still adhere to the os innominatum. One wisdom tooth only has come into actual use, the other three being still in their alveoli. The basi-cranial bones are lost, and nothing therefore can he said as to the closure of the spheno-basilar suture. Viewed in the norma lateralis, the dip in the parieto-occipital region, though more abrupt than it would be even in a female specimen of the dolichocephalic type, is yet a little more oblique, not only than are female, but also than we shall find the more mature brachycephalic males to be. The forehead has the obliquity so frequent in strong male skulls of every type, and, contrary to what is usuallj'^ laid down^ as to young skulls, the frontal sinuses are already largely developed, and, as is usual in this type, separated from each other by a broad and shallow glabellar furrow. The lower jaw contrasts by the height of its coronoid relatively to the zygomatic arch, and by the form of its chin as well as by the measurements given above, with the female skull, Flixton, iii, 6, next to be described, illustrating herein the principle that sexual as well as other characters are often as distinctly recognisable in the lower jaw as anywhere else in the skeleton. The larger size of the mastoids is well seen in the skull on the side not shown in the drawing ; the large size of its air-cells is, however, well shown on the injured side figured. There appears to have been some right parieto-occipital flattening, due probably to the carrying of the owner of this skull when an infant with the head supported on the right side ; and this distortion ^ aj^pears to have been increased by ' Broca, ' Memoires d'AntLropologie,' vol. i. p. 76. Mr. Prescott Hewett, ' Medical Times and Gazette,' p. 106, Aug. 4, 1855, says these cavities do not begin to develops till the fourteenth or fifteenth year. In some of tliese early skidls, however, I have seen them lai'gely developed as early as when the first true molar has only just come into use. 2 The following observations made by Vesalius in 1543 ('De Corporis Humani Fabrica,' lib. i. cap. 5. p. 16, torn. i. Opera Omnia, Leyden, 1725) as to the production of artificial though unintentional cranial deformation bear on this point and some others raised at the present moment: ' Germani vero compresso plerumque occipitio, et lato capite spectantur, quod pueri in cunis dorso semper incumbant ac manibus fere citra fasciarum usum, cunarum lateribus utrinque alHgentur, Belgis oblongiora caeteris pro- pemodum reservantur permanentve capita, quod matres suos puerulos fasciis involutes in latere et temporibus potissimum dormire sinant.' The American ethnologist, Morton, in his' Crania Americana,' p. 115, 1839, refers to the production of the parieto-occipital