CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDEB-JOINT. 115 junction to the subclavius of another muscle, which, as arising- ordinarily from the sternum, may be called a 'sternoclavicular' muscle S and may be thoug-ht, by virtue of this its point of origin, to supply to the human subclavius the sternal factor which it requires to make its origin co-extensive with that of an avian pec- toralis secundiis. The prolongation of the subclavius to the acromion and scapula, so very common in quadruped mammals, is rare in the human subject, its fibres appearing' to be, as it were, arrested by the largely developed distal end of the clavicle. One instance of such an arrangement is given as follows by Mr. Wood in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society,' June 1865, p. 384:— 'In a tMn female subject of low stature was found, on the right side only, the remarkable muscle given in fig. 4. It consisted of a roundish fusiform slip («), arising tendinous from the first cartilage below the subclavius, close to the manubrium stemi, passing across the subclavian vessels and nerves, quite distinct from the last-named muscle, and inserted into the upper border of the scapula and suprascapular ligament, where it was connected, to some extent, with the origin of the omo-hyoideus (e). From this point of insertion another slip of muscular fibres passed forwards, upwards, and outwards, to be inserted, with the subclavius, into the outer third of the clavicle. ' This muscle seems to be the same as that given in the author's iirst series under the name of a double subclavius, with the addition of a connecting slip to the clavicle. It seems to the author to represent pretty closely the sternoscapular muscle, while contributing to support the thorax in the Pachyderms and Ilimiinants, in which animals it is continued as far as the manubrium.' It is singular that in the crocodile some of the fibres of the omohyoid are, in young specimens at least, continuous with fibres of the epicoraco-humeral; and it is obvious that if, in the case just quoted from Mr. Wood's paper, the fibres thus continuous with the omohyoid had been prolonged a little, so as to become continuous with those of the deltoid or supraspinatus, we should have had here a muscle corresponding- both in origin and in in- sertion very closely with the pectoralis secundus s. levator humeri of the bird. Now, as the following account of a dissection from the guinea-pig will show, just such a muscle exists in that animal:— In the guinea-pig [Cavia aperia) the subclavius muscle, the smaller ' sternoscapular' of Mivart and Murie ('Proe. Zool. Soc' June 1866, p. 398), arises from a small surface on the praesternal proosteon and from the cartilage of the first rib, exteriorly to which latter point * For instances of this ' second subclavius' see Wood, ' Proc. Eoy. Soc' June 1864, p. 300, .June 1865, p. 384, and June 1866, p. 238 ; Macalister,' Proc. Eoy. Irish Acad. Dec. 1867. I %