WEAVERTHOEPE. 175 I. Measurements of Calvaria. Extreme length . Fronto-inial length Extreme breadth . Vertical height Circumference 7.2" 7" 5-8" 6" 20.S" Frontal arc Parietal arc Occipital arc . Minimum frontal width Maximum frontal width S 5" 4.9" 3- 9" 4- 7" II. Measurements of Face. Length efface: ' naso-alveolar' line Breadth of face : ' interzygomatic' line Facial angle to nasal spine Facial angle to alveolar border Height of orbit .... Width of orbit .... Length of nose .... Width of nose .... Lower jaw, interangular diameter . Lower jaw, depth at symphysis Lower jaw, width at r;imus III. Indices. Length-breadth index : 'cephalic index' Antero-posterior index, approxirnatively 2.6" 5-2" 77 73 1-3" 1-5" 1.9" i.o" 3-6" 1-3" 1-5" 80 51 This skull and the one next to be described (Flixton Wold, Ixxi. 5^) belong respectively to a young man and a young woman of the brachycephalic type, and of about the same age, viz. from twenty to twenty-four years of age, the age and the sex both, having been determined by an examination of the trunk and limbs as well as of the cranial bones. They may be taken therefore as good illustra- tions of the form of the brachycephalic type in early maturity, as the skull Heslerton Wold, p. 181, may be taken to illustrate this type in the earlier portion of middle life ; the skulls ' Ilderton,' ' Cowlam, lix. 3,' and ' Rudstone, Ixiii. 9/ its form in the later periods of middle age ; and ' Castle Carroek, ecxiii. 1/ its pecu- liarities as modified by senile changes. The owner of this skull must have been a young man of very great muscular strength, the femur being flanged out into a large flat process anteriorly to the upper part of the insertion of the glutaeus maximuSj and the linea aspera attaining similarly large proportions, though traces of the anchyloses of its head and epi- physes are still visible. It may be remarked that Dr. Holder, in his description ^ of the brachycephalic type at present existing in Wurtemberg, and called by him the ' Ligurian,' says that in them the upper third of the femur is flattened from before backwards, but it may be doubted whether this peculiarity has any morphological value. ' [The Roman numerals here and elsewhere in this description refer to the number of the barrow in ' British Barrows.'—Editor.] " ' Archiv ftir Anthropologic,' ii. p. 54, 1867.