84 ON THE PLACENTAL STKUCTUEES OF THE TENREC coating on the utero-placental zone, Bojanus (1. c. p. 143) speaks of it in comparison with the non-placental mucous membrane, as 'crassiorem, floccosam, leviter spongiosam, et cellulis distinctam hiantibus ubi primum foetus suis velamentis ab utero distrahitur.' Next to it we find a membrane separate alike from placenta below and non-deciduous serotina exteriorly, presenting the appearance of a circular honeycomb work, the depth of the more or less regu- larly polygonal cells being from the fifth to the eighth of an inch in depth, and of about the same diameter. This membrane readily peels away from the placenta proper, at all events from a specimen which has been for some time in spirit; and the surface of this latter envelope is now seen to be also obscurely mapped out into polygonal spaces. These spaces, however, are not empty, as are the honeycomb membranes just described, but their periphery is filled up with cellular elements belonging to the maternal organism, whilst in the centre of each is to be seen the summit of the mushroom-shaped upgrowths from the chorion. These two ele- ments may, as already remarked in the case of the hedgehog, be separated from each other with some little trouble ^; at a later period they not only become inextricably fused with each other, but, growing upward and into the honeycomb layer of decidua serotina, they cohere inextricably with it also, and bring it away with them at parturition, as already described. It is perhaps remarkable that the decidua serotina should retain its distinctness in the cat; its alveolar character, however, is not of the same coarseness as that of the homologous membrane in the dog, and the greater relative abundance of all the other elements, and the smaller consequent size of the honeycomb vacuoles, may account for the maintenance by it of an independent existence up to the time of parturition. It exists, however, in the eat at full time rather as a separable than as a coherent layer. In the dog it is neither coherent nor separable from the placenta ^. It is difficult to see how, with the honeycomb-like decidua serotina of the foetal dog before one, placed in relation with the mucous membrane of the unimpregnated and unenlarged uterus 1 Bischoff, 'Hunde Ei,' p. 114. ' It would seem from Barkow's description of the foetal membranes of a seal (Phoca vitulina), that the decidua serotina possesses both these characters in that animal (Zootomische Bemerkungen, 1851, p. 7).