LIFE OF DR. R0LLE8T0N. xxvi Dec. 22, 1877, to his friend the Russian ai'chseologist, Baron de Bogushevski, describes the change of political ideas which experience of the East brought about in his mind: ' Well, Plevna has not delighted you more than it has me; I have read all the accounts which I have been able to read with as much pleasure as I ever read any account of any English victory. It is a most grievous thing for any wholesome mind to regard with sympathy incarnate cruelty and lust, which sympathy with Turkey represents; and it is a very painful thing for any patriotic mind to know that a party sympathising with such lower forms of life as Turkey and her social institutions and traditions can be found among his own countrymen. But I ought to say that 1 was once nearly as great a savage as these my countrymen are now. I was a " Civil Doctor," i. e. a Doctor sent out to the General Hospitals, as you have been told, during the Crimean war-time, and I recollect an older and a wiser man saying to me, that it was wholly wrong of us English to be fighting for the Turks, Christians as we were, against you. At that time, it was early in my experience of Turkey, I was quite surprised and shocked at this view, which however I came to see was right, after seeing more of the filthy barbarians than I had then done. I was set to write a Report, which was printed, though not published, by our War Ofiice, upon the whole of what I had seen during the whole time I was in Government pay, and in that what I thought and said of the Turks was much what I should say now after visiting Turkey again in 1871. Most Englishmen however, as a rule, know nothing whatever of the Turks, their principal ideas being drawn from the pictures they see on pickle-pots of a fellow in a turban and loose breeches swallowing a fish whole! Indeed they are in much the same Stygian darkness that I was in myself till I saw them for myself. I am sending you through your agents a number of the " Contemporary Review," in which there is an article by my great idol, Goldwin Smith, on our state of mind as to this business, and you will see that the same men who were on the side of slavery and brutishness, and the lower