34 ON THE AFFINITIES AND DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE work, published in 1854 (see page 1 of his 'Memoire' and figures 2MSSW1), we always meet with 'un lobe posterieur recouvrant completement le ecrvelet;' but in a most striking paper of his, published in one of the April numbers of the 'Comptes llendus' for t86o, p. 803, we find him allowing that the cerebellum is un- covered laterally by the cerebral hemispheres in no less an ape than the gorilla, now so familiar to our ears and eyes. This admission however of M. Gratiolet's—it is not an admission on his part, for he is not arguing, but stating what he has observed—does but little invalidate our reasoning, for in that paper we have such a description given of the brain of this would-be King of the Simiadae as—if brain structure is to be considered of any importance at all— justifies the describer in speaking of the gorilla as ' the last, the most degraded of all the anthropomorphous ape^s.' In the world of science; as in that of politics, France and England have oc- casionally diifered as to their choice between rival candidates for royalty. In. M. Gratiolet's paper we have his case laid before the world in a manner which other state papers might do well to imitate. If either hereditary claims or personal merits affect at all the right of succession, beyond a question the gorilla is but a pretender, and one or other of the two candidates the true prince. There is a graceful as well as an ungraceful way of withdrawing from a false position, and the British public .will adopt the graceful course by accepting forthwith and henceforth the French candidate, and by endorsing M. Gratiolet's proposal for speaking of the gorilla as but a baboon, of the chimpanzee as a macaque, and of the orang as a gibbon. Before leaving this subject, which has something of the nature of a digression, it is perhaps worth while to remark that nearly ten years before M. Gratiolet came into the possession of the brain of the gorilla he had, from the consideration of the form of casts of its cranial cavity, been led to predict what the brain would be found to be whensoever it came to be examined. It is impos- sible to bring stronger proof of the accuracy and value of his method —the aim of seeing in science being that we may foresee. One point of yet greater difference can be detected by the un- instructed eye as existing between the brains of men and the apes, from looking at the organs themselves, though not from looking at the figures of them, which are all drawn of nearly equal size. This point is the greater height of the human brain. Common language