PREHISTORIC FAUNA. 333 Negative evidence is perhaps stronger in this case than in most of the othtrs in which I have had to refer to it. For it is difficult to think on misconceived of; and it is true that we do find this comparison used by ^schylus ('Agamemnon,' 1671) for a man with a character not wholly unlike that of Paris. This however proves nothing. I have not enquired what the balance of commen- tatorial authority may be upon this point; for I cannot understand how any unpre- judiced pei-son who will compare the passage abeady referred to, H. vi. 504-514, with the ten lines II. xxii. 22-32, describing the armed Achilles, can doubt that the two passages are the work of one poet; that he uses in them two metaphors in illus- tration of one phenomenon ; and that in neither of these metaphors is the bird in question alluded to. Theognis (fl. 540 B.C.) is the earliest Western writer, so far as I know, in whom any indisputable allusion to this bird has been found; and to him the cock crowing appears to have become already a familiar mark of the passing of time. We have also Payne Knight's authority ('Prolegomena,' ed. 1820, Paris and Sti-asburg, p. 3) for saying that in the same sixth century B.C. the coins of Himera and Siimothrace bore evidence of its establishment in Mediterranean countries. See for coins, Goltz and Nonnius, 'Graecia, Insulae et Asia Minor;' Carystus, tab. xi. et xii ; Massieu, p. 500 ; Easche, 'Lex Num.' ii. 2. p. 311. Whilst upon the subject of the importation of animals from the East Indies, I would draw attention to the fact that the area of the world's surface which M. Mortillet (in his most suggestive paper, 'Sur I'Originede Bronze,' in the 'Eevue d'Anthropologic,' 1875, iv. p. 653) has pointed out as the region in which the largest and most readily available deposits of tin were and are to be found side by side with copper, the region namely which extends from ' La Birmanie Anglaise' to the Sunda Straits, lies entirely within the area of distribution of the Gallas hanliiva (see Sclater, ' Proc. Zool. Soc.,' April 21, 1863, p. 122), the undoubted parent stock of the common fowl. This coin- cidence appears to me to add something to the force of M. Mortillet's argument in favour of the East Indian origin of bronze ; but it must be added, on the other side, that if the domesticated bird followed bronze westwards, this order of events was reversed in the easterly and south-easterly direction, the introduction of the bird having preceded all importation of metal into Polynesia. So much has of late been written upon the Indian or African origin of our domestic animals, mammalian and avian, that it may be well to add in this connection that too much weight may in this question be given to the principle laid down by Link in his usually excellent though now old treatise, 'Die Urwelt,' 1821, i. p. 201, to the effect that the domestication of birds indicates a higher condition of civilisation than the domestication of mammals. The Indians described by Mr. Bates (1. c. supra) domes- ticate not only the common fowl which wUl, but curassows which will not breed in captivity; and the same authority is referred to by Mr. Francis Galton (' Trans. Ethn. Soc.,' 1865, New Series, vol. iii. p. 125) as having given him a list of birds tamed by the same tribes which is more extensive than the list of quadrupeds tamed by them, though that list contains twenty-one species. And this they do, at the same time that they ' do not show themselves so sensible of the advantages derivable from the ox, sheep, and hog, all of which have been introduced into their country.' Few Englishmen will be found to agree in Guizot's comparison ('Hist. Civ. Franc.,' lect. vii. tom. i, cit. Merivale, 'Conversion of the Northern Nations,' p. 185) of their Anglo-Saxon forefathers' condition, social and political, to that of the modem Red Indians; still as against Link's principle quoted above it is worth while to recollect that they, in the words of Mr. Thrupp (1. c. p. 17 2), ' kept as pets and probably attempted to domesticate' ravens, rooks, cranes, and peacocks.