ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. 387 skulls are either too old or too young to have these bones assigned to them; the stature of this man would, therefore, have been 5 feet 6 inches. Glabello-inial length . • 7-9 Parietal . . 5-1 Ext. length . 8.2 Occipital . . 5-2 Ext. breadth • 5-3- Cepli. index . . 64 Vert, height • 5-7 Ant. post, index . 115:210 Least frontal • 4-1 Circumference (approx.) . 22.3 Frontal arc . 5-2 Basilar angle (approx.) . 32 Typically dolichocephalic skull—Orthognathous,—Large supra- ciliary ridges, from which forehead slopes only slightly. The highest part of vertical contour is at coronal, when the head is held with the vertical line joining coronal suture and auditory meatus. The parietals slope very gradually to the occipital squama, which possesses a considerable length, looking vertically. In the norma lateralis nearly the whole of the parieto-occipital suture of that side comes into view. In the vertical view this skull is typically elongato-oval; there is some slight constriction imme- diately behind the region of the coronal suture; the broadest part of the skull is below and a little in front of the parietal tubera. The skull walls are compressed from side to side below the level of those eminences, and taper rapidly to the occipital squama. The sagittal suture is partially obliterated. Viewed from behind, the roof of the skull falls rapidly from the middle line to the region of the parietal tubera, and its walls converge again in the region of the squamosal. The orbital and supraciliary ridges occupy a plane anterior to that occupied by the commencement of the brain-case. The mastoids and temporal ridges are well developed. The palate is narrow, deep, elliptical; the teeth much worn, in a slanting, not a horizontal direction. To this skull may, with much probability, be assigned a lower jaw, with teeth similarly worn. Its angle is well defined and flanged outwards, and the body of the bone is emarginated anteriorly to it. The mental prominence is well marked, and, though narrow, is divided into two processes, one on either side. The alveolar part of the front of the jaw is deep. The mental foramen is further back than is usual in European skulls, being in the plane of the second pre- molar, c c 2