114 ON THE HOMOLOGIES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES inner aspect of the coracoid and the inferior surface of the coraco- elavicular membrane, from both of which structures it may receive an accession of muscular fibres, it winds over a pulley formed for it by the bone just mentioned, to be inserted between the insertion of the great pectoral on the radial tuberosity of the humerus, internally, and the tendon of the deltoid as it passes down to its attachment on the outer aspect of the bone, externally. The tendon of the levator humeri holding thus an intermediate position between the tendons of the deltoid and the great pectoral, may receive an accession of muscular fibres from the mesoscapular portion of the scapula; or these fibres, which may have a separate nerve-supply, may have also a separate insertion, from that of the levator, on the humerus. But the pulley arrangement furnished by the coracoid enables the levator in its simplest form to act as a powerful levator of the humerus. The ' subclavius' of anthropotomy arises from the cartilage of the first rib, a region into the constitution or near neighbourhood of which Mr. Parker has shown the epicoracoid to enter in several mammals ^. Under cover of a dense fascia (the ' costocoracoid mem- brane,' which may be taken to represent in fibrous tissue^ an aborted large-celled cartilaginous band, which reached in the embryo from the acromion to the prsesternum), the subclavius of man passes up to be inserted into the costal surface of the outer half of the clavicle. The relation held by this fascia to the muscle furnishes, as I shall here- after strive to show, a most important means for differentiating the pectoralis minor of the mammal from its subclavius. The variations which the subclavius presents in anthropotomy cast light, as such variations sometimes do, upon its homological representatives in the lower animals. One of the most important of these variations is the * See ' Shoulder-Girdle,' pi. 26, fig. 10, Mm decumanm ; fig. 5, Mas minutus; figs. I and 2, Mus musculiis; fig. 5, Mus sylvaticm ^ For the representation in fibrous tissue by adult structures of what was cartilage in the embryo, see Parker, loc. cit. pp. 182, 184, 197, 198. For the existence of the cartilaginous band, above mentioned, see Gegenbaur, ' Untersuohungen zur ver- gleichenden Anatomie,' 1865, voL ii. pp. 15-17, cited Parker, loc. cit. p. 223. Prof. Pagenstecher, who however does not mention Prof. Gegenbaur's discovery, speaks, in the descrijition of the dissection of a driU, Mandrilla leucophcsa ('Zool. Gart.' April 1867, p. 128), of a very fine but strong elastic band, which ran along the upper or anterior border of the pectoralis minor from the coracoid to the anterior end of the second rib, as being the homologue probably of the coracoid of mouotremes, birds, and reptiles.