179 FLIXTON WOLD. Extreme length Fronto-inial length Extreme breadth Upright height Absolute height Basi-cranial axis Circumference I. Measurements of Calvaria 6.8' 6.7" f 20" Cubical capacity Frontal arc Parietal arc Occipital arc . Minimum frontal width Maximum frontal width Maximum occipital width 90-5" 5-2" 5-1" 4.2" 3.8" 4.8" 4-5" II. Measurements of Face. Length of face . . Width of face Basio-subnasal line • • Basio-alveolar line . . Interangular diameter of lower jaw . . . . Depth of lower jaw at symphysis Width of ramus of lower jaw on level with grinding sur- face of molars Height of orbit Width of orbit Length of nose ........ Width of nose ........ III. Indices. Cephalic (length-breadth) index Antero-posterior index Basilar angle of Broca Facial angle at nasal spine 2.Oft if 1-3" I-3" 1.4" 1.6" 1-8" 1-95" 83 49 26 70 Facial angle at alveolar edge 65 The form, size, and the condition of development of the skeletal taken together with the cranial bones enable us to say that their owner was a woman between twenty and twenty-four years of ag-e. The femur and tibia, which are respectively i6-8" and 13-4" in length, have their proximal and distal epiphyses anchylosed, with faint traces of the lines of jvmetion still remaining ; the epiphyses are adherent in the cases of the fibulae, but the traces of their lines of junction are very evident, as is also the case with the proximal end of the humerus, which however has its olecranic fossa perforated, and with the distal epiphysis of the radius. The sacrum is not complete, nor the os innominatum, nor the clavicle, but the basi- sphenoid suture is perfectly closed, though the wisdom teeth are not yet quite come into actual use. This skull contrasts with the first-described in points charac- teristic of sex, as also in its state of more perfect preservation, in which point indeed it differs from most other skulls in this series, as it does also in its alveolar prognathism. The supraciliary ridges are smaller, the frontal and the parieto-occipital regions more vertical, the height, though considerable, less, and the lower jaw N 2