299 UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. upon the medulla oblongata. Of these two cases the first re- sembles one of the two recorded by Virchow from the Berlin Museum, in that death took place at an advanced age and without any recorded symptoms of disease connected with the lesion in question; the second resembles the second of those cases, in that long disease was the cause of death. The third specimen from the Oxford Pathological Department, No. 261, is the skull of a lunatic, purchased with the Collection of Schroder van der Kolk, the calvarial bones of which present, according to the Catalogue, 'a rugous wormeaten appearance, a consequence either of syphilis or tinea.' Our fourth specimen was obtained from a Roman cemetery at York, in which large numbers of skeletons were found buried in putei with very little regard to any consideration, except that of making the largest possible amount of room for the largest possible amount of bodies to be interred. No clue to its nationality, there- fore, except in the political sense of subjectdom, is available. The specimen however is of interest with reference to the question of the foetal or congenital origin of the anchylosis, as not only the spheno- basilar synchondrosis would appear never to have been closed, but also the basilar portion of the occipital bone would appear to have been entirely absorbed, and the arch of the atlas to have coalesced all but perfectly with the occipital, two circular orifices only remaining for the outlets of the first spinal nerves. It is of interest further, as combining with this anchylosis, firstly the 'plastic deformation' of Di*. Barnard Davis, the 'basilar impression' of Virchow (1. c.); and secondly, a flattening and widening out of the cranial vault, the height from the edge of the anterior arch of the atlas next to the base of the brain up to the vertex being only 4" as against a maximum width of 6-a", so as to give the skull what Dr. Barnard Davis calls a ' discoid,' and Virchow (1. c.) a ' molen- fdrmig' appearance. Our fifth skull belonged to a man (Cowlam, Ivii. 3) of from twenty-five to thirty years of age, whose shortness of stature (5' 1") and ill-filledness of skull (with cephalic index of 76) would point to his having belonged to the stone age, a supposition which his archaeological surroundings do not, I apprehend, con- tradict ('British Barrows,' pp. 215-6). In this skull a considerable part of the occipital bone has been lost, but on the left side its condyle has been left with the articular process of the atlas anchy- losed to it without any trace of recent discontinuity.