458 EXCAVATION OP A CRANNOG AT One nearly perfect skull of a sheep of the variety which is known as hrachpira'^, from having a short tail, but which also has the horns of the goat, set on, it is true, with their long axis at a different angle from that which they have in the true goat, but still in themselves of very much the same shape. One lower jaw in this series has the concave posterior boundary, and the sinuosity anterior to its angle which goats usually, and sheep only sometimes possess. It belonged however to an immature individual, the posterior molar not having been evolved, and it cannot be considered to positively prove the presence here of Capra Jiirciis. The red deer {Cervus elaphis) is very abundantly represented in this series, especially by fragments of horns, some of which bear marks of having themselves been cut and sawn by other imple- ments, whilst one or two may possibly have been used, as the tynes of red deer so often were by the early British flint-miners, as borers. The roe deer [Cervus capreolus) is only scantily, though un- ambiguously, represented in the collection from Lochlee. The horse {Eqims caballus) is represented by but a single shoulder blade; it is of small dimensions relatively to most or all domestic breeds with which I am acquainted ; this applies however to all the domestic animal remains found here. Rein-deer [Cervus tarmidus).—There are two more or less frag- mentary portions of horns which, after a good deal of comparison wath other rein-deer horns, and with fragments of red-deer horns, I incline to set down as indicating the presence of the former animal in this collection. It is easy to separate rein-deer horns from red-deer horns when you have the entire antler before you, or even when you have the brow antler only, in most cases; and it is usually easy to sepa- rate even a fragment, if the fragment is fresh, because the surfaces of these two horns are different. But here the two fragmentary horns in question have no brow antler left, and their surfaces have been macerated so long as to have desquamated, or, to change from a medical to a geological metaphor, have been denuded a good deal. Still, one fragment is, I think, too tabular, and the other is too tabular also, and that just below the origin of what ^ For reference to the history of this variety of Sheep, see 'British Barrows,' p. 740; also Article XVII. p. 341.