xliv LIFE OF DK. ROLLESTON. own book. Though he did not live to complete this under- taking, it has not been neglected; his plans are being carried out by his former pupil and demonstrator Mr. W. Hatchett Jackson, who looks to completing the work in its new form in 1885, and who in the meantime has contributed several characteristic touches to the present memoir. Of Kolleston's style as a medical writer, no more characteristic specimen can be seen than the Harveian Oration which he was called upon by the College of Physicians to deliver in 1873. Combining anatomist and scholar as he did, he was able to make this, not a mere panegyric or medical thesis, but a contribution to scientific history, elucidating for the first time various points in the great discoverer's career, and his relation to contem- poraries and rivals. This oration, which attracted great atten- tion among the Faculty, is here reprinted (Art. xli), and in its latter pages the non-professional reader will be interested to find stated Harvey's position as the real demonstrator of the circulation, working by methods so new that he sometimes not unreasonably feared he should set all men against him. The examination of contemporary records made by Rolleston for this purpose has added also to our biographical knowledge of Harvey, whose college life and philosophical thought have much of that diS'used interest which genius throws beyond the limits of its actual path. Wide as was the main work of Rolleston's life^ it was not in his character to keep within its limits. Where discursive thought led him into adjacent subjects, he would follow the track; and this he did on principle, holding that his mind was the better for its many-sidedness. Indeed he had a stock formula to express contempt for a man who was only classical or only scientific— ' Stupid fool, he can only do one thing.' Though he doubtless lost much force by thus expending himself in too many direc- tions, there must be set against this his gain by making one thing bear on another. Talking once to his present biogi-apher of the way in wliich he found his anatomy and classics and antiquarian research converge on the study of man, he illus-