343 PREHISTORIC FAUNA. As regards the ox, Bos taurus, I have little to add to what has been A\Titten by others with the much larger stores available to their hands which the Swiss pile-dwellings and other habitations of the living pre- historic man have furnished. Etitimeyer, 'Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' p. 127, and Naumann in his interesting memoir, 'Archiv fur Anthropo- logic,' viii. I, 1875, p. 30, suggest that the variety of ox known in this country as Bos longifrons, and known abroad more correctly as regards structui-e, if not more conveniently as regards the appropriation of the name, as Bos brachi/ceros, is probably the oldest domestic animal with which we are acquainted. The older zoologists held (see BufPon, 'Hist. Nat.' xi. 312, ed. 1755), perhaps rather as an article of faith than as the result of enquiry, that ' on a soumis le brebis et le chfevre avant d'avoir dompte le cheval, le bceuf ou le chameau.' The dog and the pig have on the grounds of their present and their pristine distribution in space, of their readiness to attach themselves to man and share his fortunes, and, I incline to think, most of all, of their solidarity with him in supporting the alternation of generations of certain entozoa, perhaps equal claims in this matter with the other five animals specified. For my own part I should incline to favour the claims of the dog, on the general grounds of the hunting stage having been earlier in date than the pastoral and of the facility with which commensalism would be set up between the two species when they happened to enter into partnership in the chase. What I saw at Cissbm-y (see 'Jour. Anth. Inst.,' July, 1876, vol. vi. Article xix.) impressed me very much with the idea that the pitfall counted for much more in the earliest times than I had previously imagined. whilst, as a visit to the hungry and thirsty, stony and light-soiled, island of Rhenea showed me, the goat will retain its vigour and independence of bearing with but the scantiest supply of succulent vegetation and of pure water. The goat possesses certain advantages over the sheep as a domestic animal in a ' barren and dry land where no water is,' but in a palustrine or lacustrine district it possesses none. And I submit therefore that the abundance of it in the Swiss lake-dwellings can be reasonably explained by supposing that it was carried thither by a people or tribe migrating northwards from the Mediterranean countries. Uncultivated races, as is well known and can still be observed, will adhere with a persistence which, if not wholly intelligent, is yet not wholly unpleasing, to their own domesticated animala even when their inferiority to other available breeds is demonstrated; and the goat, on its side, will, as Buffon has remarked (' Hist. Nat.' v. 66, ed. 1755), attach itself to man with an irrepressible fixity correlated with its traditional petulance. The importance of these points in the natural history of the goat is impressed upon u8 from the purely anatomical point of view by the absence of any well-marked Western varieties of it; whilst the greater utility of the sheep in our latitudes is shown contrariwise by the multitude of such varieties into which it has effloresced under domestication in a period throughout which the goat has remained as unchanged as the weeds it feeds upon.