XIX. NOTE ON THE ANIMAL EEMAINS FOUND AT CISSBUEYi. The most surprising", tliough by no means the most important result of the examination of tlie animal remains found in the excavations at Cissbury was the demonstration of the existence amongst them of the bones of the wild ox, Bos primigenius, and the wild boar, Sus scrofa v.ferus. It is true that we have abundant evidence from the consilient utterances of poets, historians, and naturalists, from the names of men and places, and from other quarters also 2, for showing that these wild animals persisted into quite recent historical times. Stilly for all that, it has been at least rare to find their bones in any prehistoric excavation. I had never been so fortunate as to meet with any such remains so placed till my experiences at Cissbury. It had never seemed difficult to me to account for this absence, the presence of the remains of domestic animals sufficiently explaining it on the principle of ' least action,' a principle which commends itself as much to savage as to sage. Hence, when I was told that in the pits excavated at Cissbury by the late Mr. Tyndall^ of Brightonj the bones of Bos primigenius had been found in considerable quantities, as also those of Sus scrofa v. fenis, I felt and expressed a great anxiety to see them. This wish was gratified and my scepticism removed by the kindness of my friend Mr. Ballard, of Broadwater, who presented me with the bones now to be described as having come from ' [In November 1875 Colonel A. Lane Fox, now Major General Pitt-Rivers, com- municated to the Anthropological Institute a Eeport of the Exploration Committee On the Excavations in Cissbury Camp, near Worthing, Sussex, which disclosed a great factory for flint weapons ('Journ. Anth. Inst.' v. 1876). The above account of the animal remains discovered in the course of these excavations was given by Professor EoUeston and published in the Journal of the Anthropological Institute, vol. vi. p. 20, 1877.—Editok.] » See Dr. J. A. Smith, 'Proc. Soc. Ant. Scot.,' 1871-72, ix. p, 667.