362 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAHROW PERIOD. tumuli, so far as Great Britain is concerned, though they have been found in such structures both in Denmark and in Brittany^; thirdly, that when they do contain burnt bones, those burnt bones are never found in urns; and, fourthly, that a very much larger proportion of the bones from these tumuli present the manganic oxide dis- colouration, so characteristic of antiquity, than has been observed in the series of bones from any other ancient burial-places. If it is easy and safe to speak of the long barrows en masse as being undoubtedly the oldest sepulchral monuments with which we are acquainted, much difficulty and danger attaches to any attempt at dividing the long-barrow period into different epochs. If we know, as we do know on irrefragable evidence ^, that two modes of disposing of the dead so diametrically different as inhumation and cremation have been practised contemporaneously, and by the same people, on the same area, it is impossible, it may be thought, to lay weight on any differences in sepulchral details for proving dif- ferences of date. Again, it may be urged, and should be borne in mind, that, in a country intersected by woods and water as Great Britain was in and long after the period we are dealing with, tribes living at what we now consider but short distances from each other might be practically quite isolated, and develop thus entirely independent manners and customs. And, thirdly, though Diodorus Siculus has told us^ that peace ordinarily prevailed between the multitudinous kings and chiefs in this island, we may set our knowledge of the condition of things, as to war and peace, prevailing among savages of the present day against this statement. I have been informed by the Rev. W. G. Lawes, who was for many years a missionary in Savage (Nine) Island, that he found that very few of the natives had ever been more than two or three miles from the place they were bora in, the condition of blood-feuds which prevailed between the various septs and clans rendering it unsafe to do so. Analogous accounts are given to us by Australian travellers, which enable us to understand that very complete separation of one tribe from another may be compatible with this living in the immediate neighbourhood of, and contemporaneously with, each other. On * See Thurnam, 'Ancient British Barrows,' 'Archaeologia,' vol. xlii. pp. 34 and 71, separate publication. ^ See ' Archaeologia,' xlii. p. 434. » 'Biblioth. Hist.,' v. 21.