169 INTRODUCTION. identical, sometimes a slightly lower stature-estimate. The length of the femur has been measurecU from the point at which the head of the bone abuts upon one flat surface to the middle point of another flat surface which touches the distal ends of both the con- dyles. The length of the tibia has been taken from the level of the femoral articular-surface to that of the astragalar^ as by Professor Huxley, I.e. p. 146, and Langer, I.e. p. 65. In some few cases, in which none of the other long bones were available for measure- ment, the length of the humerus, from the upper surface of its head to the middle of the distal articular surface, has been taken as being 19*5 to the stature as 100, as given by Professor Humphry, ' Human Skeleton,' p. 108, 1858. As regards the sex of the skulls described and figured, there can, it is believed, be little ambiguity even irrespectively of any indications which the long bones and pelvis may have afforded. These indications have of course always been taken into account, where it was possible to do so, in the determination of the sex, not only of each figured and described skull, but also of every other skull mentioned in this book which has been sent to me for verification. In some cases ^ it may be unsafe, in the absence ^ This measurement, as taken by Professor Huxley (' Preliistoric Remains of Caith- ness,'p. 147), appears to be preferable for the purpose in question to that taken by Virchow ('Archiv fiir Anthropologie,' vol. vi. p. 18) from the trochanter major to the external condyle; or by Lihai zig, from the same point to the middle of the patella ('Gesetzdes Wachsthums,' p. 321,1S62); or by Langer ('Wachsthum des Menschlichcn .Skelets,' Denkschrift Kais. Akad. Wiss. Wien, Math, Nat. Klass., Bd. xxi. S. A. pp. 59, 87), from the apex of the trochanter major to the middle of a line drawn as !\bove as a tangent to the two condyles; or by Lissauer ('Alt-Pommer. Schiidel,' p. 8, 1872), from the uppermost point of the head of the femur to the under edge of the inner condyle. " The skull of an Anglo-Saxon woman found by me at Frilford ['Archaeologia,* vol. xvii. p. 440, 1870], buried with the insignia of the female sex, would I think be referred to the male sex by most craniologists if the bones of the trunk and limbs (to say nothing of the archaeological surroundings) had not been available for reference and comparison, as fortunately they were and are in the University Museum, ' No. xxii. Jan. 6, 1869.' Similarly 1 have more than once had skulls of savage races put into my hands which I had every reason to believe had belonged to females, but which, from a consideration of the skull-characters alone, I should have supposed to have belonged to men. As I have elsewhere observed, however (see 'Journal of Anthropological Institute,' vol. v. p. 123, October 1875), female skulls of savage races are by no means always thus similar to male either in size, texture, or contour; the class of cases indeed characterised by similarity or subequality is perhaps only a little more numerous, at all events amongst priscan skulls, than the class characterised by disproportionate smallness. As Welcker has observed ('Archiv fiir Anthropologie,'