ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEEOW PEEIOD. 381 and intended, as Sir H. Dryden pointed out to me, for use in pot-making-, as in Brittany. The pottery was reported to have come from parts west of the middle of the long axis of the barrow, nearer its north than its south wall, and from no very great dis- tance downwards in it. A coin of Constantine was found in the same locality, but very near the surface. It may now be well to put distinctly on record what we per- sonally observed in 1874, whilst making certain sections to clear up points left undecided by what had been done in 1867 and 1868. In clearing out the space already spoken of as the transverse zone, containing the ossiferous chambei", and that part of it which ran southwards from the chamber, parts or the wholes of four skeletons were come upon. And the first points, perhaps, to be noted about them are that they were not laid upon the natural soil, as has sometimes been observed to be the case—as, for ex- ample, in another long barrow in this neighbourhood—but that they always had some slaty rubble interposed between them and the soil, and that two of these bodies lay to the south of the long axis of the barrow. These facts may seem to some to be an argument in favour of Professor Nillson's view^ of the bodies having been introduced at successive periods into such tumuli, and of explaining thus those marks of disturbance which have induced other writers to have recourse to the hypothesis that these ancient, like certain modern savages, used their tumuli as ossuaries. The first body found was that of an aged woman, lying (on the right side ?) in the contracted position, with the vertebrae in situ, about 4 feet 6 inches from the top of the barrow, and from % inches to 4 inches from the natural surface of the ground, which was separated from the skeleton by a layer of stones. In front of the legs of the woman, and quite close to them, was the skeleton of a child, in possession of the full milk dentition. Charcoal lay in small quantities all about the bones of the two human subjects, and mixed up with them were the bones of voles. As the trench was carried up towards the chamber, the bones of another child, considerably younger than the former one, were found scattered about in it; and, finally, in the nearer neighbourhood of the chamber was found ' 'Primitive Inhabitants of Scandinavia,' ed. Lubbock, p. i68.