xl LIFE OF DE. E0LLE8T0N. ledge, which a conversation on any subject whatever was enough to refute, and one had to acquiesce in being treated as a kind of authority upon the very subject which he was putting in a perfectly new light. A walk round a Museum with Professor Rolleston was a treat I more than once enjoyed. He would take up topic after topic, some great and some small, and pour out his stores of precise and often recondite knowledge, always de- lighted to be questioned, and glad of any appearance of receiving information. I remember how once a turn was given to our talk by the chance mention of a piece of rascally cruelty in- flicted upon animals. I remember the rush of indignant words, and the excitement which could not abate till he had uttered his passionate exclamation. Professor Kolleston's popular lectures are in many persons' recollection; they were odd in many ways, immensely discursive, often dwelling upon details more curious than important, and overlaying the subject with an excess of illustration. There was always an infinity of unfamiliar matter, discussion of passages in classical historians, quaint applications of the rules of logic, rectification of words, and something of the flavour of the learned and rather whimsical writers of the seventeenth century, such as Bui'ton, Fuller, and Sir Thomas Browne. Two characteristics never failed to redeem these dis- courses from any suspicion of triviality. The facts were minutely accurate, and they were made to converge upon one point with an effect which was only impaii'ed by their profusion and vivacity.' Such remarks, at once appreciative and critical, will be read with far more lively interest than any mere panegyric. Rolleston was a man whose mind and character were built on a large enough scale to allow of the full all-sided truth being told about him. A further aid to realising him will be found in the judgment of him by his instructor first, and friend afterwards, Mr. Savory, F U.S., the eminent surgeon :—' What always struck me in Rolleston was his abounding energy, his profuse mental activity. While awake his mind seemed never to be in a state of com- parative repose. It was constantly striving at the solution of some problem or other, either in argument or discussion, or in a