328 APPENDIX. Scripture', or the mountain oak of Hesiod's 'Works and Days,' 230, is the following passage in Mr. Logan's 'Scottish Gael,'ii. 147, 'The Celtic Britons,' says this authority, 'kept their bees in a bascaud formed of ■willow plaited. About fifty years ago one of these was found in Lanis- haw Moss ; and about eighteen years since another was discovered about six feet underground in Chat's Moss, both in Lancashire. This last was a cone of about two yards and a half high and one yard in diameter at bottom, and was divided into four floors or separate hives.' No refer- ences are given in loco, and I have not been able to find any more detailed account of this discovery elsewhere. The older editions of Sir Charles Lyell's ' Principles of Geology,' e.g. ninth edition, 1853, chap, xlv. p. 721, familiarised us with the belief that Roman roads were to be found in Yorkshire and Kincardineshire covered under peat of eight feet in thickness; but in his tenth edition of 1868, vol. ii. chap. xliv. p. 499, as also in his 'Antiquity of Man,' 1863, p. 110, we find some distrust expressed upon this point, and in the last cited work the author inclines to accept M. Boucher de Perthes' estimate of three centimetres being the rate of increment for every hundred years. The following summary, however, of the facts known as to the growth of peat, given by Professor McK. Hughes in a lecture delivered before the Royal Institution, Friday, March 24, 1876, on 'Geological Measures of Time' (see 'Proceedings of the Royal Institution,' p. 6), will justify us in setting aside the imperfectly recorded history given above from !Mr. Logan's work:— ' He explained the growth of peat, pointing out that there are two kinds of peat; that which is formed in water, as in mountain tarns or ' I have not been able to convince myself that there is any allusion in either the Old Testament or the Homeric poems to the invention of the hive any more than there is to the common fowl. The earliest mention of hives which I have met with is in Hesiod (fl. 700 B.C.), who in five lines of the Theogonia, 694-598, speaks of them twice, once in the words fffirjveaai icaTTjp{<t>ie(Tffi, and again as k-m}p((pkas ain^Kovs. An eminent scholar has however suggested to me that hives seem to be referred to in the words from the description of the cave in Ithaca (Odyssey, xiii. 106) :— ivOa 5' tTTiiTa riOaiPdiaaovai ftiKiaacu. But nothing that I can find recorded of the habits of wild bees is inconsistent with what we can see of the fearlessness with which swarms of our bees will enter places tenanted by man. As regards the force of the words, I find that Virgil in his para- phrase of the passage, JEneid, i. 159 seqq., as also Quintus Calaber in his vi. 470, omits to give any equivalent whatever for them, whence perhaps we may infer that they were not quite certain what they meant. Mr. Worsley liowever, in his translation of them, gives us the simple words, ' Wild bees make honey there.' The two passages in the Iliad, ii. 87-S9, xii. 167, obviously refer to wild bees; and I submit that Quintus Calaber in his line iii. 222, at pd 6' idv rrepi a'tufiXov airupiam woTiovrat, as well as elsewhere, was guilty of an anachronism.