REPORT ON EXCAVATION AT SIGWELL. 446 as to suggest that it has been affected by disease and absorption, and a fragment of a femur also of the right side. The burnt bones, ' iii d,' were in much greater quantity than those found in ' Sig- well ii,' and had some, though very little, charcoal amongst them : differences which may be accounted for by the place in which they were burnt having been in close proximity to the place where we found them. The place of burning we discovered thus. At a distance of i foot 9 inches below the burnt bones there was a thick seam of burnt wood 4 inches thick, and the floor below the ashes, at a spot a little to the north-east of the centre^ was very much reddened, showing that a fire had been lighted and had burned with much intensity upon it. In these ashes on the floor of the barrow were a few fragments of human bone, ' iii. e,' well burnt, like those above, which we may suppose, therefore, to have escaped the careful out-picking which had removed so large a number of the burnt bones from interminglement with the ashes, and had placed them together, as described, on the top of a mass of earth, piled up to a height of nearly 2 feet above the site of the pyre. A similar up- piling of earth must have taken place in the bark coffin in ' Sig- well ii/ as the description shows, and a similar picking out of the bones from among the ashes. That the fire had been lighted on the original surface without paring away the turf was plain enough, from the fact that in paring it immediately below the ashes, at 7 feet 9 inches to 8 feet below the centre picket, the stalks of coarse grass and bracken were very plainly visible in section. But besides this we found also round sections of small stakes about i inch in diameter, which penetrated 6 inches or 7 inches down into the natural soil, and some of which tapered towards their lower ends. They had been stuck in to support the pile of wood we may sup- pose. A chipped flint disc, 2| inches, chipped on both sides, was found in the centre of the burnt wood, ' Sigwell iii. c,' which might have been used as a sling-stone with a riband sling. Of the other flints some have black fracture surfaces, others have been weathered before being put into the barrow; two good scrapers were amongst them, one, ' Sigwell iii. c,' having been found by us 3 feet 5 inches south-west of the centre, and 4 feet 7 inches below the surface ; the other,' Sigwell iii. f,' having been found by the Rev. A. J. Bennett in superintending the filling-in of the excavation. One flint has a saw-edge, as I think purposely produced; another has the appear-