xlviii LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. capacity, as seen at the sub-section of Anthropology at Bristol in 1875: 'he had contrived to gather round his presidential chair some of the leading men in literary as well as in physical science, and those who had the good fortune to be present will not easily forget the intellectual tournament, which from day to day filled the room to the very doorways and riveted the in- terest of the audience, and in which he held the scales and adjusted the palm with the skill and authority of an acknow- ledged master . . . Among the many fields in which Professor Rolleston will be sorely missed, the arena of the British Asso- ciation will not be the least.' His Address at this meeting (p. 880) took up several anthropological topics of wide interest. Bagehot had remarked, and Darwin quoted his remark, that ' savages did not formerly waste away before the classical nations as they do now before modern civilised nations; had they done so the old moralists would have mused over the event; but there is no lament in any writer of the period over the perishing barbarians.' Rolleston had been struck at the fii'st reading with the beauty and originality of this passage, but on second thoughts he asked himself whether it was safe to argue that there were no perishing barbarians from the silence of the classical writers about them, any more than it would be safe to say that Stonehenge was not standing because the Romans did not mention it. The conclusion of this address shows how thoroughly the speaker took the study of Anthropology to be the study of Human Progress, and how the pessimistic doctrine that the world is going more and more to the bad, a theory just then beginning to hold up its head anew in Europe, seemed to him irreconcileable with the facts. A good example of his fresh way of dealing even with well-worn topics is to be found in his paper on the Iron, Bronze, and Stone Ages (p. 660). One would hardly have expected to find such a subject treated with new lights in the Transactions of a local Archseological Society, but it is plain that the writer having undertaken to read a paper, as his manner was, put his whole force into it. No one had shown so clearly that the effect on civilisation ordinarily attributed to