GENERAL REMARKS 244 A third remark of equal generality and importance would be suggested by this survey of these three sets of crania, to the effect that though skulls very closely similar to the typical representatives of either of the prehistoric series might be found upon living shoulders amongst the present population of this country, the elongated and fairly well-filled oval Anglo-Saxon cranium was the prevalent form amongst us in England ^ at the present day. points of difference which thus guide to a right conclusion will appear in the descrip- tion to be given in the text. ' In Germany anthropologists are not as yet at one as to whether the dolichocephalic form of slcull, which when combined with taU stature and light hair and complexion has been usually considered to constitute ' Das Germanische Typus,' is at the present day both outnumbered and qualitatively excelled by the brachycephalic type or not. Ecker, in the ' Archiv fiir Anthrop.' ix. 4, p. 259, 1877, expresses himself thus : ' VVissen wir doch z. B. dass die in unserem Lande einst so verbreitete Schadelform der Reihen-Graber die wohl unzweifelhaft auch mit einer bestimmten Koiperstatur verbunden war, jetzt fast ganz einer anderen Form Platz gemacht hat, deren Triiger m ihrem ganz physisuhen Habitus auders geartet sind, als jene es wahrscheinlich waren. Waren jene hochgewachsen vorherrschend blond, so sind diese gedrungener, dunkler von Haar und Aiigen.' Virchow, who has repeatedly expressed himself to the effect that brachycephaly is a higher form of skiUl than dolichocephaly (see 'Arch, fiir Anth.' V. 4, 1872, p. 536, where Calori is quoted to the same effect as regards the Italians ; or, ' Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologic,' iv. 2, p. 36, where Cortese is similarly cited as to tlie smaller size and stature of modem Italian dolichocephali; or, ' Sammlung,' ix. 193, 1874, p. 45), would appear, from his saying,' Arch, ftir Anth.,' 1. c. p. 540, that the broadening which the dolichocephalic modern German skulls of which Herr Holder writes have attained to as compared with the ancient dolichocephali may bring them within the limits of brachycephaly by measurement, to neglect the difference which Professor Cleland (' Phil. Trans.' 1. c. p. 146) has so well insisted upon as existing between dolichocephaly of type and contour as opposed to that constituted by mere measurement of the single relation of breadth to the length, and that too irrespectively of the height. Herr Holder appears to have proved that the Germanic type as ordinarily understood has the larger and better developed brain, at all events in the parts of Germany known to him (see his Memoirs, ' Archiv fiir Anthropologie,' ii. pp. 53-55, and' Zusammenstellung der in Wtirtemberg vorkommenden Schadelformen,' 1876, and the discussion at the meeting of the German Association for Anthropology held in Stuttgart in August 1872, reported in the 'Arch, fiir Anth.' v. p. 539). His words in the Report just quoted are, ' In Wiirtemberg linden sich aber unter den seit Generationen geistig beschiiftigten Stiinden viel mehr dolichocephale Formen als unter den Handarbeitem.' The facts, so far as I can collect them as regards Germany, appear to me to be that the genuine Teutonic type, as we know it from undoubtedly Anglo-Saxon, and from Erankish skulls, has, in the course of centuries (some of which have been times of culture, and all of which may have been times admittedly of crossing with a brachycephalic stock), intermediate in archaeological date between the Reihen-Graber period and the earliest graves, become relatively somewhat broader, but without losing its primitive contour. Throughout Germany however there exists a brachycephalic stock, usually, but by no means ahvays, darker haired and of shorter stature and of less cranial capacity than the typically dolichocephalic variety; and