5 OP THE OEANG UTA.NG. Having- indicated our opinion that the dealing with such views as those just quoted from Tiedemann's thirty-second corollary is to be safely, though by no means of necessity, delegated to the meta- physician, we may proceed forthwith to lay before the reader the anatomical details which will enable him to decide for himself, whether the Heidelberg anatomist or the French natural historian was the nearer the truth in the matter of fact. Multitudinous as are the differences which a detailed comparison of any two brains will disclose, they yet admit of being arranged under four beads. Under the first of these heads we may class those differences which the observant anatomical eye would detect without the assistance of any anatomical instrument, and could ex- press without being necessitated to employ any technical anatomical tnowledge. Our second class of differences comprehend such as the scales and the callipers reveal. For the powers of describing, and one might almost say, for the powers of discovering the third class of differences, we are indebted to M. Gratiolet's masterly analysis of the cerebral convolutions. Previously to the appearance of the'Memoire sur les Plis Cer^braux de I'Homme et des Primates,' it was all but impossible to express in words the differences which the eye detected in the arrangement in two different brains of what has been called 'the chaos of the convolu- tions.' "What was previously all but an impossibility, M. Gratiolet's philosophy has made an easy task. No apology can be necessary for adopting his phraseology, as the right of naming the country he has conquered is a prerogative never denied to one who has succeeding in subduing a territory which few before him had ever thought of invading. Under our fourth head we shall arrange those points of difference which a dissection of the brain alone can reveal. These four heads correspond, it is obvious, to the successive stages of an anatomical investigation ; and they possess, consequently, the merit not merely of colligating conveniently the results, but also of corresponding accurately to the several processes of an accurate anatomical investigation. The orang dissected was a young male (Simia Iforio). The first two molars had just come into use in both jaws ; the weight of the entire body was 16 lbs. 12 oz.; the height was 2 ft. 7 in. None of the