ANIMAL EEMAINS FOUND AT CIS8BURY. 424 and its shaft, between the two epiphyses of the radius and its shaft, between those of the fibula and its shaft, and between the cristae ilii and the body of the bone are visible. The vertebrae are com- pleted, and, what is somewhat surprising, the five bones of the sternum are all but completely anchylosed. There can, however, be no doubt as to the age of the woman to whom this skeleton belonged, inasmuch as the first vertebra of the sacrum is still unanchylosed, and the wisdom-teeth, though present in both jaws, are very little, whilst the other teeth are very much, worn. As re- gards the limbs, the scapulae, the pelvis, and the clavicles of this skeleton, what Dr. Kuhfi" has said (' Revue d'Anthropologie,' iv. 3, 1^75) P- 435)5 "^^2- ^^^^ 'plus Ton se rapproche des origines de I'homme, plus I'on voit s'effacer les caracteres differentiels sexuels dans le squelette,' is the very reverse of the actual state of the case. As regards the cranial capacity it is otherwise, and the skull of this woman from the skeleton shaft at Cissbury, with a cubic capacity of 105 inches (=1732-7 cub. cent. = 6i-5 oz. av. brain weight), exceeds the immense majority of male skulls cubed and recorded. Out of a large series from very various times and peoples cubed by myself, three only have exceeded this amount. One of these was a Roman of the Romano-British period in Britain, with a cubic capacity of 108 inches; a second was a skull from a British tumulus at Crawley, of probably the time between the evacuation of Britain by the Romans and its entire subjugation by the Saxons, with a capacity of io6'75 cubic inches; the third is a modern European head, with nothing to note in its history, but with a capacity of io5'5 cubic inches, I have so very lately, 'Journal Authrop. Inst.' vol, v, p. 120, April, 1875 (Article xviii), and elsewhere ('Address on Anthropology,' British Association, Bristol, 1875), gone over the various rationales which have been offered to account for these, at first sight, some- what startling results, that it may be superfluous to repeat here what I have already said locis citaiis. Looked at in the norma lateralis, as given in fig, 1, PI, xix. ^ vol. V. of the ' Journal' of the Institute, the skull is seen to have the highest point of its vertical arc just at the coronal suture; the slope of the forehead is a little more pronounced than is usual in female skulls, but, on the other hand, the parieto-occipital region * This plate forms one of the illustrations appended to Colonel Lane Fox's Report.