ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONQ-BARROW PERIOD. 395 be expected in the bones of people of such early times, living in a bleak upland country, such as the neighbourhood of Swell. From the contents of this cist a child's skull has been recon- structed by Mr. Wm. Hine. Aet. circa 7 or 8, Ext. length . . . .6-5 Least frontal , . . • 3'4 Ext. breadth . . , .5-1 Lowest frontal .... 4-5 Yert. height . . . • 5-3 Ceph. ind. .... 78 This is a high cephalic index, but its height is explained by the skulls having been reconstructed in the interests of brachy- cephalism, a direction the reverse of what is usual in reconstructed or shrunken skulls; and that this is so, is demonstrable from the fact, that one of the temporals will not fit in between the parietal and frontal s. The interior of the frontals in this skull were richly, and the inte- rior of the parietals more sparingly, covered with vascular osseous upgrowths, just as (skull E, May, 1864, Long Wittenham, Univ. Museum) in many skulls in which the widening of the lower jaw, and with it the easing outwards of the lateral walls of the skull, begins to put an end to the constant pressure which the brain previously kept up upon the skull's interior surface. Some of the bones from this cist are encrusted with stalagmite, notably those of the old woman, but none of them have any man- ganic discolouration. One of the humeri of the old woman, the right one, has an olecranic perforation, this peculiarity being in the bones from these barrows, as in some other cases ^ observed in the female more frequently than in the male' bones. Many of the bones are beset with exostoses, as in the bones from Swell i. September 30, Wednesday.—On this day a third receptacle, 'cist,' or 'chamber,' was found to the north of the one just described; it was 4 feet 6 inches wide at its widest part, 3 feet at its narrower, which occupied three-eighths of its entire length of 8 feet, so that it had somewhat of the shape of a bottle. Its long axis, as was the ease in both the other similar receptacles, ran at right angles to that of the barrow; its narrower end was within a couple of feet of the north wall of the barrow; its south-east angle was 82 feet from the re-entering angle of the east end. Within this 'cist' or 'chamber' were found parts of no less than ten skeletons, of which * See Broca,' Mem.' ii, p. 366.