LIFK OF DR. EOLLESTON. sugar by the quarter-pound.' This letter is dated 13 Henrietta xx^^lii child's necessities may occasionally clash. What a rare event the acquisition of a new notion must be however to the working classes with their dull grey life. Their minds are as unused to it as their stomachs to turtle, and are as little able to bear with it. But among my own friends I can count several men of great acquirements and education in the past who have reached the happy stage of finality and never take in any new notion whatever. It seems to be a painful process to them— even the very attempt to do so. This is a Whig state of mind, and while it is to be found in the upper, what are we to expect in the lower classes of life? However, after all, even the exercise of my powers of persuasion as distinguished from those of prescription is attended with pleasure, except in the case of the Irish, whom I have long learnt to consider as unamenable to reason or indeed anything else.' A few weeks later he con- tinues, ' For my own part, I am working at my Children . . . They are very interesting in many ways, having ni'st of all less of the tarnish and soil which longer life in this world never fails to smear over us, and secondly having the claims to pity which in addition to those which all sick folk have, they possess, as suffering without having brought their suffering on their own heads by their own fault. The people I object to are husbands; their cruelty and savagery are very great obstacles even to the bodily health of their children, and are totally destructive of everything else of a higher kind. But this I do not see so often as I see self-denial and exertion on the part of the wife, indeed these qualities are called for whenever the husband is of the above kind, and on many other occasions also. Every now and then I find women taking care of children whose mothers cannot, from disease or poverty, though they themselves are only one grade better off. This is most pleasing, as proving the existence of real goodness, as poverty allows of no luxury, not even of the luxury of doing good. Supporting and feeding another person's child gratis is something for people to do who buy fresh meat three times a week, and their tea and