310 GENERAL REMARKS the eruption of these teeth to have been provoked, as is sometimes the case in savage races, into taking- pi-ecedence of the union by ossification of the occipital and sphenoid bones. Such precedence has been noted by Professor Broca ^ in one of the Cro-Mag-non skulls; and from his comparison of the skulls of various modern savages between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five with skulls of modern Europeans at the same period of life, it results that this peculiarity must be considered as a mark of degradation. Several other notes of inferiority which are commonly found in savage races of modern days, and which have been described as existing in the remains of troglodytic man, are wanting in the neolithic skeletons which I have examined. Foremost amons-st these may be mentioned prognathism; a peculiarity which our knowledge of the extent to which the jaws are modifiable and modified by the nature of the dietary alike in the lower races of man and in the lower animals would certainly lead us to expect to find amongst a stone- and bone-using people. But, as it has often been remarked ^, the facial angle of these early races is by no means small, and their jaws have none of that pithecoid elongation which is so striking and prominent a characteristic in the crania of many still existing savages. On the other hand, prognathic and macro- gnathic jaws are not rare, though they are not the rule, in series from the bronze, and also from the early iron period in this country. A second mark of inferiority, not entirely unexampled among modern savages, the junction, namely, of the squamous to the frontal bone, has never to my knowledge been observed in any prehistoric Crania. If this peculiarity had been present its significance would have been very great, as denoting a curtailment of the part of the brain which, corresponding to the great ala of the sphenoid in the skull, is eminently favourably conditioned, both as regards vascular supply and histological constitution. I have already remarked (pp. 236, 248 supra, and ' Journ. Anth. Inst.,' vol. V. p. 126, Article XVIII) that a third mark of in- ^ See 'Revue d'Anthropologie,' 1873, ii. p. 20. Dr. Barnard Davis in his' Thesaurus Craniorum,' 1867, p. 309, observes of a Loyalty islander,' set. c. 25,' that ' the syn- chondrosis sphenobasilaris is not quite ossified, yet all the teeth have been cut.' This is the ordinary sequence in the lower animals. * Broca, 'Mdmoires,'ii. p. 197; 'Rev.Anth.,' 1. c, p. 19; Thumam, 'PrincipalForms,* P- 32-