LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. XXVU civilisation generally in the American North and South war, are still true to their Devil-Worship.' Eolleston's service in the East came to an end in 1856, when a letter to his sister from Alexandria, June 12, shows him re- turned from a torn- in Palestine, and on his way back to Eng- land. The next year he held for a short time the appointment of Assistant-Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children in London. In a letter to Miss Beever dated July 5, 1857, he writes of his disappointment that the Smyrna Report was not to be re-printed as a Blue-Book, but he was looking forward to taking his M.D. degree at Oxford, and fully occupied. 'I see on an average about 60 fresh cases of children from a few days old up to 13 years every week, besides old cases. You will see that this is a fail' field for labour, and I hope to be allowed to be of some use to my fellow-creatures in my generation. I strive certainly to do my duty, and if God gives me health and strength I hope to continue to do so in this post for some time. ... I see a good deal of the London poor by this means, and though I find among them much stupidity and brutishness, I nevertheless see more of qualities which are estimable. Love and self-denial I see constantly, and I make it my business to encourage these qualities and to prevent their being neutralised as they so constantly are by ignorance of the very commonest things. I don't at all object to safiron, which is given by most London mothers for most diseases in perfect faith, but I wage daily war against veal and bacon, pork and cheese, for infants of seven months old and upwards. Some mothers I find, with the greatest affection for their infants, still will not ever become sensible that special emergencies need special practices, and that habits, however old-established, must under critical circum- stances be broken through. They resemble the authorities in the late war, who sacrificed 10,000 lives rather than re-arrange their habits. A child I find, out of the Hospital of course, who requires attention from one hour to another, will get it till 10 P.M. when its mother goes to bed, but no longer, unless great pains be taken to drive in the notion that mother's habits and