XXVI. THE BLOOD-COEPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. Propessor Lankester, in a recent number of the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science\' (January 1878, p. 70-73), makes certain statements relating to me, the chief tangible basis for which * Professor Lankester writes as follows:—' The entirely original introduction of Brancliiobdella into the list of Annulata with corpusculated ' pseud-haemal fluid ' is difficult to explain, since, from what follows, it seems unlikely that Dr. George RoUestou had made himself acquainted, by actual observation, with any of the genera to which he alludes. On page 238 of the second edition of Gegenbaur's ' Grundziige,' a somewhat awkwardly introduced reference to Dorner's paper on Branchiobdella might lead an unwary reader to suppose that the statements there given, on the authority of Kupffer andLeydig, with reference to the proliferation of blood-corpuscles from the valves of the vessels in other leeches {Piscicola and Clepsine), have reference to Branchiobdella—which they have not. A glance at Dorner's excellent memoir on Branchiobdella would, however, suffice to satisfy a conscientious bookmaker that the vascular fluid of Branchiobdella has not yet been shown to contain corpuscles, and that it notoriously differs from the vascular fluid of true leeches, in that it most certainly does not ' communicate with the perivisceral cavity so as to form a lacunar circulation.' The introduction of Branchiobdella into the list given by Dr. George RoUeston is, it would seem, due to his having misunderstood the German authors. The statement tliat ' the pseud haenial system communicates with the perivisceral cavity so as to form a lacunar circulation in Syllidea, the Opheliae, the Cirratulida, and the Staurocephali' is more difficult to account for than is that relation to Branchi- obdella, since, whilst there is here no foundation whatever for such a statement in fact, the description and figures of Claparbde with reference to two at least of these genera are admirable in clearness and detail. We are driven to the conclusion that Dr. George Rolleston has acquainted himself with the introduction without having consulted the body of C'laparfede's work. . . . Whilst I regret to find myself unable to accede to the statements in the text-book which I have quoted above, I may point out that the errors therein contained are not traceable to any attempt on the author's part to make original observations in the domain of morphology, but are rather due to a failure to observe accurately the contents of books.' It will be observed that wliile some of these statements relate to matters of fact, and others to matters of inference based upon facts, or supposed facts, a third set consists mostly of expressions of Professor Lankester"s personal opinions. I shall deal only with the two former sets of statements.