THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. 487 are still based, mainly, tliougli not exclusively, upon Leuckart's account of these systems in this animal and some of its allies at pp. 651, 65a, 665, 670 of the first volume of 'Die Menschlichen Parasiten,' published in 1863. It would take too much space to reproduce these valuable pages here; most of them are referred to in 'Forms of Animal Life'' (pp. 138^ 140), and Professor Lankester's phrase that the vascular fluid of Branchiobclella ' notoriously/ differs,' &c., has suggested to me, among other things, that it will be more than suflBcient for my purpose to show from references to the utter- ances of the various writers who have referred to the matter subse- quently to the appearance of Leuckart's work, that, as regards ' notoriety,' Bmnchiohdella is ' notoriously' taken as the typical 'text-book' illustration of the points which I specify. Firstly, then, Professor Oscar Schmidt, well known to English readers as the author of ' The Doctrine of Descent and Darwinism,' in the fifth edition of his ' Handbuch der Vergleichenden Anatomic' (1865)1, writes as follows with reference to the circulatory system of the Eirudineae :— ' The Discophora manifest the most remarkable relations, as it is only in BrancM- ohdella that the perivisceral cavity presents itself as an actual roomy cavity, with which the single large vessel running above the intestinal canal communicates.' This statement is repeated in the sixth, edition (p. 108), word for word, except so far as the substitution of the word 'Egel' for ' Discophoren' makes a difference. Professor Glaus, in the first edition of his ' Grundziige der Zoologie' (1866), in which (p. viii.) he expressly acknowledges the assistance given to him by Leuckart, has the following passage in a page (p. 155) where Leuckart's researches upon the circulatory system of the Eirudineae are specially referred to :— * It will furnish encouragement, perhaps, to lecturers just entering upon their first course of Comparative Anatomy Lectures to read the following passage prefixed to this edition of Professor Oscar Schmidt's ' Handbuch.' Persons who are as little liable to discouragement may, ceteris 'paribus, hope ultimately to attain to an eminence as great as that of the now deservedly well-known Professor. His words are:—' In Sommer Semester 1849 las ich zum ersten Male in Jena iiber vergleichenden Anatomic. Von den drei Wissbegierigen welche sich gemeldet war der eine schon mit der ersten Stunde befriedigt, und war nicht mehr gesehen. Die beiden anderen bezeigten mir ihre Sympathie bis zum Schluss; nie schwiinzten sie zugleich. Das war fiir dieses Buch sehr wichtig, denn aus den fleissigen Vorbereitungen zu jenem Collegium und nnmittelbar aus diesen ersten, oft in ein Zwiegespriich Ubergehenden Vortriigen entstand eg.'