ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY, 420 and was conformable with the sides of the ditch. The sudden and somewhat unexpected breaking through of this brittle flooring of red silt and the opening into the shaft beneath, out of which a large part of the skeleton had been extracted previously to my coming, by Colonel Lane Fox and Mr. Park Harrison, was a circumstance which, not only by virtue of its general sensational character, but also by forcing upon me the fact of the finely par- ticulate, and therefore the rain-washed character of the red seam, made a great impression upon me. The red seam appeared, as it were, to assert its claim to belong to the lower strata by the abrupt manner in which it broke away, much as one geological stratum parts in an escarpment from one above it. As many of the snails below the seam were in large quantity, as well as individually of large size, it was a matter of ocular demonstration that they had in one way or another got down into the pit before the formation of the red seam of the ditch, and of the ramparts. The length of the galleries connecting shaft E with shaft H (fig. i, PI. xv.) rendered it impossible to think that the snails could have found their way into shaft H, as Colonel Lane Fox had done, by way of those galleries, and there seemed then, as there seems now, to be no escape from the conclusion that the ditch was a later, the shaft an earlier, excavation. The moUusca, however, furnished us with a stronger argument still. For the shells of the Cyclostomata had, in a very great nmiher of cases, their opercula still in relation with them. This shows beyond all possibility of doubt that the animals had crawled down alive, and had not simply worked down as dead shells, a view which was further rendered untenable by the fact that in a great number of instances the shells, both of the Cyclostomata and the Helias, were adherent to the sides of the shaft. But they would not have crawled down in rubble to the depths at which we found them for any purposes of hibernation, nor could they, I think, have worked their way through the red seam so often referred to. On the other hand, the protection against both cold and drought which an open shaft only 4 feet 6 inches in diameter and more than three times those dimensions in depth, would ofier to snails on a chalk down, very fully explains both their presence and their abundance. This latter point, viz. the great number of these snail- shells, and especially of the Cyclostomata, found in the rubble-filled shaft helozOf though not above, the red seam, calls for some consider-