ON THE PEOPLE OF TPIE LONG-BxVRROW PERIOD. 371 Museum I have been, by the kindness of Professor Humphry, allowed to inspect and examine. I have to say that, after repeated and careful examination of these bones, with the assistance of skilled anatomists, I am entirely convinced that they do not fairly bear the interpretation which Dr. Thurnam has put upon them. The ' perfectly sharp and clean' edges of the broken bones, and the 'porcellaneous character' of the fragments themselves, I happened one day to see reproduced by an accidental breakage which occurred in one of the skull-bones from the Market Weighton long barrow, and my eyes were opened to the necessity of no longer taking the theory in question for granted. On further examination, and after repeatedly submitting the Ebberston series, of which Dr. Thurnam wrote, 1. c, to the inspection of others in whose judgment I had confidence, I was compelled to give the theory up ^. "What has compelled me to the acceptance of the Ossuary theory, is, firstly, its all but absolute indispensability for the explanation of the appearances met with in cremation long barrows ; secondly, the fact that, in many receptacles for unburnt bodies, the arrange- ment which those bodies present is not that which they would have if they had been, one after the other, disturbed to make room for fresh immigrants; thirdly, the fact that the practice of storing bodies in provisional receptacles, en attendant a final sepulture, is one which has been practised all over the world; and, fourthly, a consideration of the circumstances which would be likely to throw a number of coi'pses upon the hands of a tribe in the Neolithic age, and the difficulties which those very circumstances would put in the way of their disposing of them at once. The first three points need no further explanation; upon the fourth I will say a few words. At the present day, with all our means and appliances, severe cold produces a high mortality; even * So, I think, has been Dr. Engelhardt, who has been quoted in favour of it. His last account of the great Tumulus at Borreby, in the 1872 edition of his ' Catalogue of the Danish Antiquarian Museum,' runs thus, p. 10 :—' 43 a. Inhalfc einer Stein- kammer bei Borreby auf Seeland, welche bis an die Decksteine mit unordentlich dnrcheinander gemiachten Skelett-theilen von wenigstens 70 Individuen angefullt war; mitten im Begriibnissraume fand man mehre gespaltene, und vom Feuer angebrannte Menschenknochen, und auf dem Steinpflaster des Bodens, unter Kohlen und Asche, gebrannte Menschenknochen und das Gevveih eines Eehbock's, welches letztere vieUeicht vom Opfermale hd der Einiceihung der Grabstdlte Iwriihrt. Neben den Knochen im Grabe lagen Werkzeugo von Stein und Bein, Perlen und Topf- Bcherben,' B b 2