ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE BEA.IN 16 the development of its convolutions. This last of the seven brains will allow us to apply our second canon to test the value of the absence of this structure in the particular relation of superficial position as a mark of serial degradation. But a structure which exhibits so much variability, as to conform to the rule in but three, and to diverge more or less from it in four, out of seven brains chosen at haphazard for examination, as being all at that moment which a particular museum contained, will scarcely seem to merit a high place as a zoological differentia. With reference to the 'premier pli de passage' in the orang, a careful comparison of the relations of the parts lettered a «, in Fig. 3, with the same relations in Fig. 4, will show that this convolution is by no means superficial in its entire extent on the left side of that brain. And, secondly, in our second specimen of an orang's brain, this convolution is concealed on both sides within the fissure; and the cerebral hemispheres in this specimen present, in consequence, as perfectly wave-like an opercular edge as in any other monkey. In confirmation of this, I would appeal to Tiedemann's ^ and Wag- ner's^ figures, already referred to, as giving typical representations of an external perpendicular fissure in the brain of orang utangs, in which, according to M. Gratiolet, it should be invariably half-filled up by his ' premier pli de passage.' Lastly, with reference to the chimpanzee : our specimen possesses on its right side a well-marked, superior bridging convolution, coming for a considerable part of its length nearly or quite to a level with the lobes it connects. Tiedemann^s figure of the chimpanzee's brain leads us, by its imperfectly marked operculum, to the same conclusion as its sharply drawn one did in the case of the orang. The law of correlation of forms is a safe guide to us, when we have to predict what will be found in the lower organisms of well-marked families ; it loses its inflexibility, and becomes but a leaden rule, when we come to examine the most perfectly evolved species in such families. In the higher species of the order, apes, as in the higher varieties of the species, man, we find variability the rule, uniformity the exception ; in the lower species, as in the ^ Wagner, 'Icones Zoot.' viii. 3. 2 Ap. Wagner, ' Icon.' Taf. viii. fig. 2. But Bisclioff, p. 77 of his paper on the Grossbirnwindimgen, says that Wagner had not taken away the pia mater, and that when he took it away a first pli was visible only with its posterior segment hidden in the external fissure.