LIFE OF DE. EOLLESTON. li men, who are a very small class, and all human regulations inconvenience somebody; good men are benefited by being obliged to take stock of their attainments, and put them into easily manageable form and shape; bad men, ^aCAot mentally and morally, are saved often from utter ruin by the conscious- ness that a sword of Damocles is hanging over them, "jamjam lapsiu'a cadentique imminet assimilis," in the shape of a coming examination.' But the longer he taught, the more he became im- pressed with the harm done to a serious student's career by the pressure to get up subjects in order to answer questions. He tells a favourite and successful pupil that he hopes to get him an appointment 'when you have got rid of these examinations.' Keferring to a case where some men were put in a lower class than they were known to have merited he says, ' Such accidents in the very nature of the case will from time to time occur and teach everybody to look to other results besides those of Class Lists.' His desire to alter the Examination system in Oxford increased with years, and one of his last occupations was to set down the results of his experience in a Memorandum. Here he fully acknowledges the value of Examination. The awakening of intellectual activity by its institution at the beginning of the century cannot, he says, be doubted by any one acquainted with the previous condition of Oxford. But Examination has been accepted ' both inside and outside the University as an Institu- tion for imposing Mint Marks and Trade Marks on men who pass through it as First, Second, Third, and Fourth Class-men. I believe (with the Scotch University Commissioners) that this function does more harm than good, and I hold that the Univer- sities ought to be content to divide men into two Classes only, those two to be one Class in alphabetical order of Honour-men, and another, also in alphabetical order, of Pass-men.' More men, he believes, would be encouraged to work for the object of getting above the Pass-man level than are found now to work for the hope of getting one of three or four Classes. But to his mind the strongest argument lies in the notorious misplacements in classing. He draws up a list to show ' a few of the glaring d 2