DESCRIPTrON OF FIGURES OF SKULLS. 206 the sagittal is obliterated on the outside of the skull in the region where such obliteration usually shows itself first, viz, in the region of the foramina emissaria. On the right half of the frontal bone there is a wound 3" long and 1" wide, sloping downwards from a point, about an inch in front of the point where the sagittal meets the coronal suture, very nearly to the point where the temporal line passes from the lateral cranial wall on to the external orbital process. The floor of the wound is formed for a little over %" by the diploe, the cavities of which are filled with black earth of the same kind, apjparently, as that which has given the entire exterior surface of the skull its dingy appearance. The outer table forms the lateral boundaries and the floor at either end of the wound. The inner table of the skull does not appear to have been affected by the blow, and the wound may be taken as an instance of ' un- depressed gouged out fracture,' for accounts of which kind of injury see 'United States Reports/ Circular No. 6, War Department, Surgeon-General's Office, Washington, p. 12, Nov. r, 1865. A spear or celt of metal if driven with force at a living head might very well raise a splinter of bone out of the two external layers of the bony cranium, especially if the recipient was lying on the ground and rolled his head as much out of the way as he could as the blow descended. The splinter would probably, in the first instance, be left adhering to the scalp, and might have taken up its old place again. Here it has been lost; but that the patient survived its separation, at least from all connexion with the bone of which it once formed a part, the state of that bone furnishes fair evidence. On looking carefully with a lens at the edges of the wound formed by the external table of the skull, it will be seen that, though the meandering channels formed for themselves by plant rootlets have had something to do with making the surface what it is, still some process of smoothing down due to the vital operations of the skull itself is recognisable upon them. The lamellar arrangement of the outer table is still distinctly visible, nevertheless the surface is not as sharply defined anywhere as it must have been when the wound was first inflicted. To allow of this smoothing down being effected not more than two or three months would be required; in the very instructive histories given of the owners of skulls in the Berlin Museum (see Walter's ' Museum Anatomicum,' 1805, p. 468) which had had sword-cuts inflicted upon them, a process of healing