xxiv LIFE OF DR. EOLLESTON. Chiefly however in consequence of the great ability of a few of the Juniors, and I again remark that Mr. Rolleston was the representative man, we determined to retain the services of four of them, viz. Messrs. Rolleston, Wilkinson, Eddows, Atkinson, as a reserve of medical strength, and to meet contingencies. This fortunately met with Lord Panmure's approval, and it was to give them something to do, and to utilise the time, that the plan was hit upon of calling for a Report on Smyrna in refer- ence to the sanitary and other aspects of the place. They received, I think, no particular instructions, but they collected a great deal of useful and valuable information, which is em- bodied in Mr. Rolleston s Report, dated Nov. i, 1856. The abrupt termination of the war consigned it, like many other Reports, to the waste-paper basket.' The Report which thus came into existence is probably even now the best guide-book to Smyrna which a traveller or mer- chant could have. Among other matters, the writer's experience enables him to write with authority on the malaria-fever, the terror of Europeans in the East. Comparing the conditions of Ephesus, where it is said that no European can sleep without contracting a fever, of Mersina, the port of Tarsus, and of Alexandretta, where the inhabitants sleep in wooden cages set on poles 10 to 12 feet above the earth, he comes to the conclu- sion that the one effective condition for generating malarious fever is not abundant vegetation, is not marshy soil, nor any one season of the year, but marshy ground in the process of desiccation under the influence of solar heat. The one con- dition common to all three places in question is marshy ground, nearly or quite exhausted of its moisture by solar heat. As an illustration he quotes a warning given him by a Consul at Tripoli to avoid mulberries, because all experience shows that they cause the pernicious fever. Now logically, this caution was an instance of that commonest of fallacies, post hoc propter hoc, but scientifically interpreted it contains a certain amount of truth and should be thus read; the sun has just got power enough to ripen the mulberries ; the marshy ground will be now