GENEBAL REMAEK3 288 during life or immediately after death. It is true that the cut surfaces described by Dr. Thurnam may have a ' clean' and ' por- cellaneous ' appearance; but in answer to this I have to say, firstly, that I have seen perfectly similar surfaces produced in the very old and altered skulls in question by accidental falls or impact or pres- sure ; and that it was an occurrence of this kind happening- in the case of a skull-bone from the cremation long- barrow at Market Weig-hton which first opened my eyes to the questionableness of Dr. Thurnam's theory. But, secondly, the broken surfaces in the skulls from Ebberston and Rodmarton have both their tables broken in the same or very nearly the same plane, and thoug-h an incision of this kind can be effected in a living- skull by a vertically delivered blow, as it is not rarely efiected in a dead and buried skull by a spade, the immense majority of wounds which we find on skulls known to have been struck by sword or axe have been inflicted in the way of oblique impact, as proved by the prismatic chip of bone which they have forced up out of its proper relations. It is well known that it is common enough even for a well-directed thrust with ' that queen of weapons the bayonet' to be deflected into innocuous obliquity even by such a surface as that of a rib; much more then would a stone-weapon be liable to be deflected from the denser and more resistent surface of the more mobile skull. Hence if these prehistoric crania had really been battered by prehistoric weapons we should expect to find a very large proportion of obliquely received wounds upon them. Just the reverse of this is the case with the fragmentary skulls which Dr. Thurnam and I myself have obtained from the long barrows both of the cremation and the non-cremation kinds. Numerous as are the fragments into which these skulls are broken up, it is rare for the line of fracture to pass otherwise than vertically through both tables, or to leave the inner table either projecting beyond the plane of the broken surface of the outer one or broken away for a greater square area than that lamina. The appearance presented by an aggregate of such skull-fragments is not unlike the aggregate of fragments re- sulting from the discharge of a firearm, pistol or other, so close to the base of the skull as to subject its vault to the sudden and enormous tension resulting from the explosion of the gunpowder. The results of such an injury may be seen in the multitudinously fractured skull No. 2902 A in the Museum of the Royal College of