LIFE OF DR. EOLLESTON. X that this is not very unlike what the world of those days took quite gravely in the learned quartos of Bryant and Faber. In one of Miss Rolleston's letters (1837) she records that at Maltby she taught Hebrew to one of her nephews, 'the very cleverest boy I ever knew.' This was George Rolleston, then eight years old, but who in after life did not quite reciprocate his aunt's admiration. Indeed, he used to descant with humorous horror on his sufferings when once introduced to a large and serious evening party as the nephew of the great Miss Rolleston, the authoress of' Mazzaroth.' The Maltby just mentioned is a village near Rotherham in Yorkshire, where the Rev. George Rolleston combined the functions of squire and vicar, living at Maltby Hall; and his son George was born July 30, 1829. The sisters of the younger George Rolleston, the subject of this memoir, still tell of their wonder at the ways of the odd clever boy, rolling lazily on the hearth-rug, or with his head between his hands buried in a story-book, yet all the time knowing whatever was read or said, and ready with the lessons he seemed scarcely to have looked at. Taught by his father, a fine classical scholar, the lad is said to have been able at ten years old to read Homer at sight. Some of these family stories have an interest as explaining Rolleston's later life. It has been thought extra- ordinary that a man whose school and college education was entirely classical, should have turned into so thorough an anatomist and zoologist. But in fact this was a reversion to the tastes of boyhood, when at six years old, dressed in his little crimson pelisse, he would go out in the snow alone to attend to his duties as 'keeper,' and set the traps in the plantations round the house. Brought up on Izaak Walton, White's 'Natural History of Selborne,' and Stanley's ' History of Birds,' he knew all the birds and their nests, and could tell them by their flight at great distances. In his schoolboy days he had taken to preparing skins, and setting up skeletons of mice and weasels in his little room, the smell of which the inmates of the house remember after half-a-century. An old servant says of him: