LIFE OF DB. R0LLE8T0N. xxxii i Natural Science on a par with the old learning. In i86c the central hall and galleries were opened for the collections which were to provide materials of instruction, and the lecture-rooms for the professors who were to convert these materials into scientific education. Christ Church removed its Anatomical Collection to the University Museum, and the Lee's Reader in Anatomy migrated with it. Dr. Acland induced the Radcliffe Trustees to move the Radcliffe Library thither also, that the Museum might have the best provision of scientific books, while at the same time the Camera, where the Radcliffe Library had been housed, was set free for the more general purposes of a reading-room and annex of the Bodleian. Merton College, having a large fund available for the promotion of Medicine, took the judicious course of creating the Linacre Professorship of Anatomy and Physiology, also within the walls of the Museum. When this Chair was founded in i860, Dr. Rolleston was elected its first occupant, and held it through life. It was a stirring time in the history of Biology when he began his work. Darwin's 'Origin of Species' had set men's mind in movement, though whither this would tend was not yet seen by all. It was destined not indeed to carry RoUeston's mind altogether in its stream, but to shift the direction and force of the current of his thought. A letter to his friend on Jan. 19, i860, shows him swaying under its first impulse: 'I don't see that you mention Darwin's book; everybody is reading it now and here, and I think if the book were a little better arranged it would make a good many converts. If the chapter on Classification, which is now last but one in the book, were put first, the book would be much more read. As it is, many people are deterred from reading it by the great difficulty of mastering his meaning, as he writes as curtly as Bishop Butler nearly. I am very much amused to find the Hyper- orthodox Americans of the North are driven into unison with the Southern Slaveholders in one point by their fear of Lamarck and the 'Vestiges of Creation.' They have out of utter fear of these views gone into the other extreme of multiplying specific