18 ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE BRAIN them himself to carry; and anatomical investigation seems to me but to strengthen the argument based upon these literary con- siderations. For this ' lobule of the marginal convolution' is very frequently asymmetrical on the two sides of the same brain, and its development in any two human brains taken at hap- hazard is pretty sure to present the very greatest differences. Varying, as it does, most widely in absolute size, it varies also in showing ' rien de constant in its relation to certain other parts ; its value can hardly be high, therefore, as a serial charac- teristic The convolution numbered 4 in Fig. i and Fig. 3, the ' premier pli ascendant' of Gratiolet, is separated by a vertical more or less interrupted fissure from the horizontal-lying frontal lobes 3. and 3. Now, a line drawn down the long axis of this fissure would fall a considerable way in front of the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. Such a line in the human brain falls always far behind the commencement of that fissure, joining it, indeed, some way behind the angle where the fissure of Sylvius makes its bend horizontally backwards. The forward position of this line speaks more strongly than can the vertical direction of the fissure of Sylvius, of stunted antero-posterior growth of the frontal lobes, and it deserves more attention than it has yet received. The convolutions, No. 3, the superior frontal convolutions, are of all the convolutions those in which by symmetry and simplicity, both alike sure marks of degradation, the orang's brain contrasts to the greatest disadvantage with man's. But this fourth and this fifth point we shall leave to be elucidated by the reader for himself from an examination of our figures. We will state, however, the details which an examination of the chimpanzee's brain, instituted with a view of seeing whether its convolutions were really more sym- metrical and more simple than those of the orang, elicited, in con- firmation of M. Gratiolet's views. In the orang, and in the chimpanzee, both the frontal, i, 2, 3, the 4 and 5 ascending pa- rietal, and the superior bridging convolutions a, a, are asymmetrical on the two sides of the brain. The occipital D, the temporo- sphenoidal B, and the convolutions h, b, h, named ' pli courbe' by M. Gratiolet, are symmetrical in the champanzee, but asymmetrical in the orang. The occipital lobe is both more simple and more * 'M^moire,' 1. c.