Ixxvi LIST OF PROFESSOR ROLLESTON'S PUBLISHED WRITINGS. la conjunction with Charles Robertson, Esq. 79. [1861]. On the Aquiferous and Oviducal System in the Lamelli- branchiate Mollusks. {Transactions of the Royal Society, London, i86i.) [The authors conducted a series of ex- periments made in the way of injection, in which they attempt to prove that the orifices on either side of the foot in the Unionidae lead both to the generative gland, the products of which may be seen to issue forth from them at the spawning-season, and to a system of tubes widely spread through the entire foot.. They do not believe that any direct communication subsists either between the blood vascular system and this system of tubes, or between either of these systems and the punc- tated depressions and inlets along the foot edge. The blood vessels seem to constitute a system of tubes closed, save at one point and at one lacuna. That point and that lacuna is the pericardial space—a cavity into which, besides the blood of the animal, the water in which it lives also finds its way. As the bivalve shell opens the lacuna is dilated and the water is drawn into it through the oi'gan of Bojanus. The water then passes into the in- terior of the blood vessels, from which they believe it to transude into the system of water-tubes everywhere in apposition with them and under normal conditions to find its exit by these tubes, whilst under such abnormal cir- cumstances as the sudden removal of the animal from the water, the sudden contraction of the muscular foot causing jets of water to pour forth from the dilated semitrans- parent mass, may unload the infiltrated organ in a yet more expeditious manner.] HiTHEETO UNPUBLISHED^. Notes on the site of Roman Pottery "Works at the Mynchery, upon the Sewage Farm near Oxford. Page 937. Notes on Archseological Discoveries at Wytham, Berkshire. Page 939. Notes on Archseological Discoveries at Yarnton, Oxfordshire. Page 942. * These notes form an Appendix to the second volume.