SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN ONE HUNDRED AND SIX YEARS OLD. 153 branches. The heart was very fat, its muscular tissue firm ; there were blood-clots on its interior. There was splenization of the lung- and bronchitis (sic). In the other organs of the body there was nothing worthy of note. Melis's parents had, like himself, attained great ages. The post-mortem appearances put on record by Dr. Berruti coincide in scarcely a single particular with those I have noticed in John Pratt. Ossification of the cartilages is noted in this case and in that of Dr. Holyoke; in the cases given by Haller, Dr. Keill, Harvey and myself they were not thus altered. That the immoderate use of alcoholic drinks may lead to this change, even in young subjects ^, cannot be doubted ; still, as Dr. Holyoke led a life of the greatest temperance, the ossification of his costal cartilages must have been owing to some other cause. Old age causes very opposite changes to take place in bone; possibly it may act upon cartilages in equally differing ways. The appearances noted in the case of John Pratt coincide with those recorded in the case of Thomas Parr, in the following parti- culars. In both, the stomach and intestine-walls were of normal firmness and thickness ; in both, the spleen was very small; in both, the outer surface of the kidney was beset with serous cysts, and that of the heart with fat, and in both the costal cartilages retained their softness. In this last point, as well as in that of the dilatation of the aorta, Haller's and Dr. Keill's cases resemble that of John Pratt. Dr. Keill's case aflFords a yet more perfect parallel by the state of the right kidney, of the spleen, and of the pigment- spotted lungs. In this last point, as in that of the condition of the testes. Parr differed from Pratt. Dr. Holyoke has left us a graphic account of the sensation of fluctuation within his head, which led him to suspect the existence of what has been called hydrocephalus ex vacuo. The post-mortem examination verified his diagnosis. In this point, as well as in that of pigmentary deposit in the lungs, in those of abundant deposit of fat round the heart, of bloodlessness of the scalp, of widened cere- bral fissures, and of cysts upon the kidney's surface, the case I have here recorded coincides with that of Dr. Holyoke. None of the appearances recorded in the post-mortem of John Pratt are inconsistent with the claim he made to the age of io6 ; the many points, indeed, in which they resemble the appearances ' Humphry ' On the Human Skeleton,' p. 58.