XV LII*E OF DR. ROLLESTON. shifting of crude opinions formed as each nevf aspect of life opens on the mind, to be strengthened or displaced as the ultimate resultant shapes itself. To the writer of these pages, who knew KoUeston well, but not till middle age, when his character had long since set into the sharp lines of liberal and reformer, it is curious to come upon him reading Macaulaj^'s Essays for the first time, and remarking,' He is rather radicalised, and is full of Progress and Whiggery, but in other respects is most delightful.' And again, 'What a charming history Ali-^ son's is. I almost wonder at people's taste for novels.' ' I can- not see how the most fervent admirer of Carlyle could ever be so far carried away as to enter him into competition in a historical contest with Alison.' In his second year he describes a characteristic University scene:—' Last Sunday I heard in the beautiful Norman ante-chapel of Christ Church the man whose name Evangelical ribaldry has so long applied to all not of their own persuasion, which meaneth that Dr. Pusey preached. There was an immense crush, perilous indeed to the bones of all therein engaged, caused by those who were eager to hear him. The whole Cathedral, i. e. all used for the University, was filled in the space of three minutes completely as regards seats. Such is the regard the University of Oxford pays to a man humble in guise, holy in demeanour, self-denying in life, whom, however, the irreverent Dissenter and robed Schismatic scruple not to call a Jesuit, a Papist, a hypocrite. The pith of his sermon was in- tended to show the truth of the fact that evil shall hunt the wicked man, and that sin always in this life even superinduces an adequate punishment. And yet, which you, I am afraid, will hardly believe,there was no reference, as the "Record" would say, to inanimate mediation, such as that of Crucifixes, etc. How- ever, I am afraid that though there was no impression of the cloven foot in the sermon, yet Puseyites would not be so called if their Founder were not like them.' By 1850 his ideas had swung into a direction nearer that of his after-life:—'Though I take now, for the present, little interest in anything not immediately connected with my reading, I yet every now and then catch