396 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. Cauon Greenwell, who superintended the examination of it in my enforced absence, speaks as follows : ' It was very difficult to say whether any body was entirely undisturbed, though some had some of the bones in their relative positions. The six bodies' (found on the first day) ' were huddled into so small a space, and the bones were so much broken, that it was impossible to make out the relative position of the bones of the several bodies. I think, however, that some, if not all, of the bodies had been placed in the cist in the flesh, or, at all events, when the ligaments were there .... All the skulls seem to be at the south side of the cist .... These cists are very puzzling .... I do not think they have been tampered with in late times^ and the whole appearance sug- gests an ossuary/ On October 2 (Friday), Canon Greenwell wrote that 'the cist has had ten bodies in it, and some certainly in position, if all were not. I incline to the ossuary theory more and more.' Details as to the osteology of this rich 'find' will be found further on. Another 'cist' or 'chamber^ was discovered on the same day as thisj making up the entire number of receptacles for skeletons, ' chambers,' or ' cists,' to four. In it were found the bones of but a single individual, a young person between the age of twelve and sixteen, the upper epiphysis of the ulna being unanchylosed, whilst all the permanent, except the wisdom teeth, were in use, and an urn of black, coarse ware of quite different character from the one already spoken of as found placed superficiall}'' to the second * cist.' This cist was about 4 feet square ; it was close upon the southern wall of the barrow, and about 85 feet from the re- entering angle of its eastern end. The facts of this cist having but a single occupant, and this occupant being a young person, and being accompanied, which was not the case with any other skeleton found in these long barrows, by a food-vessel, are not unimportant. In this barrow, as in the two other long' barrows examined by us in this locality, and also in the cases.of certain other Gloucester- shire long barrows, and in the case of the long Scottish cairn, Camster, in Caithness, no burial had taken place at the east end. Osteoloffi/.—(Swell vi, C. a).—From the 'chamber' or 'cist' No. 2, examined by Canon Greenwell, and labelled Swell vi, C. 2, we have evidence, through the lower jaws recovered by him, of no less than ten bodies having been interred in it. Of these bodies only one