APPENDIX ON THE TOPOGRAPHY OF SiaWELL. 449 simply an enlargement from the Ordnance one-incli map. Past this tumulus an ancient British roadway runs northward, and turn- ing to the west descends the hill by the steep ravine between the rouud barrow opened afterwards and Sigwell, and then running along the north-east of the Whitcomb Valley, below the hill and beneath Charnwell, takes the direction of South Cadbury. My attention was first directed to the little spur of Sigwell between the two steep ravines which unite at the six wells or springs from which Sigwell derives its name. This spur, it soon appeared evident, had been converted into a camp by means of a ditch about 60 feet wide uniting the two ravines. The artificial character of this ditch is shown by its direction forming with the two ravines the base of an equilateral triangle, and therefore being in a position in which it would be impossible that it could have been excavated by water flowing along the ravines from the high ground. The rampart, if it ever had one, has been destroyed, but it is possible the earth from the ditch may have been used to form an interior mound. It would appear that the ditch, as at first drawn, formed too oblique an angle with the northern ravine, and that in order to prevent the position from being taken in reverse by missiles from the high ground on the opposite side, the ditch was afterwards thrown back on that side; this, at least, appears to me the best way of accounting for the mound, composed of undisturbed soil, which has been left in the ditch on the line of the old escarp, and another smaller ditch cut at the back of it; the structure however is peculiar, and may bear a different interpretation. The ditch throughout its length is shallower than the two ravines which form the north and south defences of the triangular interspace; but as the soil is yielding, it is probable that the ravines may have deepened considerably since the place was used for defence, and the enclosed space has probably, by the widening of the ravines at their summit, been much reduced, whereas the ditch not being liable to denudation by water has retained its original depth. The section running through the tumulus and across the camp shows that the interior of the camp is commanded, at the short bow- shot range of about 120 feet, by the summit of the tumulus. I assume, therefore, that it is unlikely the defenders of the place should have allowed such an erection to be made outside their Gg