ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. 426 its owner had lived in early times. For though well-formed jaws are found in early cemeteries, it is certainly rare to find such a jaw as this in the burial-places even of the bronze period. The thick- ness of the bone is referable to the irritation which the only recently completed evolution of the wisdom-teeth, as well as the injured premolar, would cause ; when allowance is made for this, the sexual characters of this lower jaw are as distinct as those of any other part of the skeleton, and notably its inferiority in the points of width and of muscular marking's. The lower parts of both nasals are lost; the upper halves form a broad and low arch, above which a moderately developed glabella passes without any mesial depression into similarly developed supraciliary eminences on either side. The left supra-orbital notch had, even at the early age at which this woman died, been con- verted into a foramen. Viewed from behind, the lateral walls of the occipital pentagon are seen to converge somewhat from the point of maximum width, which lies a little below the level of the faintly marked parietal tuberosities. In this aspect the skull is seen to narrow rapidly, as if pinched in, immediately behind this level of maximum width (see ' Journal of Institute/ vol. v. p. 124). The upper part of the occipital bone, however, though its sides are conformable with the posterior and inferior portions of the parietals, is not produced so far backwards as is sometimes the case in skulls of this type, and specially in male skulls, and, on account of this truncation, it does not come largely into view in the norma verti- calis. In this aspect the sides of the cranium are seen, as we follow them forwards from the point of maximum width, to undulate gently inwards over a space corresponding with a shallow post- coronal depression, and then to taper very gradually to the region of the frontal tubera ; as we follow them backwards they converge with much greater rapidity, but still without giving a sharply pointed occipital end to the vertical oval. It is aphaenozygous. A circular depression, about half an inch in diameter, is seen on the right parietal bone, its floor is covered with vascular ramifications, but the injury to which its formation is due had been recovered from long before death. All the cranial sutures in the vault of the skull are free from anchylosis, except the frontal, which, as usual, is closed, though it may be stated here that it is occasionally patent even in undoubtedly priscan skulls. The occipito-sphenoid suture