UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTOUIC CRANIA. 315 shire within the shadow of the protecting- Forest of Wychwood, renders it exceedingly probable that this vigorous race, after sur- viving- three centuries of Roman rule, may have endured till, at the commencement of the historical Danish invasion and immigration, there came into this country a stock to which they are beyond doubt physically, and probably also ethnographically, most closely allied. The probable continuity in the way of descent of the long-barrow people with certain varieties of our present population, considered together with the fact that in these series we miss certain marks of degradation which are recognisable in the confessedly more ancient remains from certain continental ' finds,' may tend to produce in the mind of a reader an exaggerated as well as a somewhat morti- fying notion of their inferiority in the matter of antiquity. I will therefore, in conclusion and very shortly, enumerate the various physical peculiarities of an anatomical, to the exclusion of an archaeological, kind which have in spite of all the considerations just put forward impressed me very deeply with a conviction of the immense distance which separates our time from that of the long barrows. First amongst these I should put the smallness of many of the skeletal and of the cranial bones both, which I have obtained from the long barrows alike of the cremation-kind, as in the East Riding of Yorkshire, and of the inhumation-kind in Gloucestershire. It is time enough that powerful skeletons and very large skulls have been found by me in these British as well as by many other investigators in many other interments of the same and of earlier ages. So generally accepted ^ indeed is this a priori surprising fact that we find writers such as Virehow Archiv fiir Anthro- pologie,' 1873, vi. p. 92) speaking of the notion that savagery and inferiority are characteristics of the aboriginal population of Europe as being simply an arbitrary preconception,' der vorgefassten Meinung von der Wildheit und Inferioritat der europaischen Urbe- volkerung.' But against this criticism we have to set the following considera- tions ; firstly, that the male skeletons in these tumuli are the skele- tons of men who were chiefs, and chiefs in times and under con- ditions when such a position was held and kept only by men of force at once of character and physique (see supra, pp. 237, 260, * See 'British Association Keport for 1875,' p. 150.