GENERAL REMARKS 800 Professor Virchow appears to consider these cases explicable by the action of an arthritis chronica deformans ; Friedlowsky ('Wiener Med. Jahrbiiclier,' 1868, Bd. xv. p. 241 ; cit. Virchow, 1. c. p. 343) is inclined to believe them to be due to intra-uterine disease; in some cases I should suggest that they were the result of strumous disorganisation occurring in early life but recovered from, as we have seen recorded in two of the cases here referred to, so completely as to allow of a goodly old age being attained to. It is perhaps difficult to assign any other ethnological bearing to them than that which they have had conferred upon them by being discussed in the important ethnological memoir i-eferred to. The skeleton ' Goodmanham, xiv, ci,' already mentioned as having had the last lumbar vertebra anchylosed to the first sacral, presented another form of exostosis, which, as it did not affect the joints, cannot be ascribed to an arthritis (see Adams, cit. Paget, ' Lancet/ Nov. 18, 1875). An osseous upgrowth on the tibia, %" long by •6" in height and •35" in width, roughened and perforated here and there, occupies the part of the popliteal line which is common to the popliteus and the inner head of the soleus; the bone is further beset by rough and by smooth exostosis on its border below this level, and is finally joined, by a stalactitic growth I•25" long and 'Y' thick, to the fibula. That particular form of exostosis which produces in its most usual form what is called the puerperal osteophyte is by no means unrepresented in prehistoric series. As in modern times also, it is not confined to the female sex exclusively; a typically male skull of the brachyeepalic type from a grave in a barrow at Gardham exemplifying it. Finally, we have in the long-barrow series from Market Weighton, Rodmarton, and Swell, that form of hyperostosis which developes masses of bones along the supraciliary ridges, as repeatedly observed in Australian and Tasmanian skuUs (see ' Catalogue Ost. Series, Royal College of Surgeons,' vol. ii. 1853, Nos. 5317, 5318, 5324, 5345), as also in foreign skulls of prehistoric times, e.g. the Danish skulls from the Island of Seeland, as noted by Virchow (' Arch, fiir Anthr.' iv. p. 66; see also Spengel, ibid. viii. p. 59,1875, and ' Journ. Anth. Inst,' Oct. 1875, P- i?^'