UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 263 metaphysical expression ' the retention of an infantile type,' which refers us to causes such as scarcity of food which arrested potential growth. The fact that the dimensions of the parietal bones are usually less affected by any general stunting to which skulls may have been subjected than those of either frontal or occipital is a very striking illustration of this, it being well known that the two latter factors of the brain-case attain their normal relation to the parietal only after several years of childhood with its numerous liabilities to disease and distress have passed away. None, how- ever, of these prehistoric skulls have exhibited that extreme lowness and smallness and precoronal depression of the frontal bone which is seen in some of the skulls from the Melanesian Islands and Australia, though in some of the hypsistemocephali of the long barrows we do observe that relatively greater pro- minence of some one segment in the anterior half of the parietal in the sagittal line which is often observable in skulls of this kind (see Dr. B. Davis, 'Natuurkund. Verhand.' Haarlem 1866, Deel 24, PI. i. fig. i; Busk, 'Anthrop. Instit.' vi. 3, Jan. 1877, PI. ix-xii). The small skulls of which I am speaking are sometimes, and especially when belonging to males of the brachycephalic type, of considerable textural solidity^, but I incline to think that it is more usual to find their ill-nourished character expressed by a slighter structure and a lesser relative weight as well as by their smaller dimensions. As I have already hinted (see pp. 190 and 337 supra), I am inclined to think that it may have been the mal-nutrition of such skulls as these which gave origin to the hypothesis of a Lapp population having existed in prehistoric times in Denmark, South Sweden, and in these islands. Latitudes much further south than Great Britain went undoubtedly through a reindeer period, but, without questioning this, we can stop short of averring that the men who domesticated these animals in prehistoric Southern Europe were of the same stock as the men who domesticate them now in Northern Europe. The skulls of the modern Lapps do not closely resemble either the stone and bone period skulls, or our bronze period skulls ; neither of these periods coincided with the * Such IB the Ancient British Skull from Codford described by Dr. B. Davis, ' Cran. Brit,,' pi. 14, as being 'dense in its structure and rather lieavy;' and such are a con- siderable number of skulls of the Romano-British period described by me as found at Frilford, ' Archaeologia,' xlii. p. 458.