262 GENERA.L EEMABKS intended to be implied by the application of Professor Cleland's expressive epithet ' ill-filled ;' I may here add that a good rationale of most of them, such for example as their wall-sidedness, their retention of the prominence of frontal and parietal tubera, and the stops on either side of their sagittal vertical line, is given in the corresponding to the sagittal, and two transversely-running half-arches, corresponding respectively to the half of the coronal and the half of the lambdoid sutures on one side, the exact position of all the main convolutions and fissures of the brain can be shown in their normal relations to these landmarks in the vault of the skull. It will make the matter plainer, and at the same time facilitate the production of similar preparations in other museums, to say that a brain under such surroundings presents something of the appearance in the skull which a living head does when subjected to measurement in such a cephalometer as that of M. Antelme (see • Mdm. Soc. Anthrop. de Paris,' tom. i. pi. vi. fig. 2). By means of such a preparation it is easy to show that the post-coronal depression in the roof of the skuU does not correspond, as supposed by the late Dr. Thurnam ('Nat. Hist. Review,' April i, 1865, p. 267), to the fissure of Rolando, but to the deep, often wide, fissure which divides the superior frontal convolution into two well-defined lobes, and abuts upon the ascending frontal convolution by a terminal bifm-cation into two arms of considerable length. This fissure, as is well known, exists, and has often been described and figured, in the brains of the anthropomorphous apes, in the crania of which animals the post-coronal depression is sometimes indicated when the sagittal carina is absent. Similarly, the second of the depressions which I have noted as commonly present in the postero- inferior part of the parietals of " ill-filled" skulls, may be seen to correspond to a certain multi-radiate fissure frequently noticeable on the posterior or convex aspect of the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution, but as far as I know, not named by any of the numerous writers who have followed Gratiolet in describing the convolutions and fissures of the cerebrum. 'Professor Bischoff however, in his well-known paper on "Die Grosshirnwindungen des Menschen " (in the " Abhandlungen der k. Bayer. Akadeniie der Wiss." ii. Clause, X. Band, ii. Abtheil. 1868, pp. 448, 450, 495 ; or " Separat-Abdruck," pp. 58, 60, 105, Tafel X. fig. 7) speaks of certain fissures, without any well-defined character, which appear on the boundary between the parietal and occipital lobes, and sa3'3 that they correspond to a " fissura occipitalis externa" which appears in the human foetus, but is normally limited in duration to the seventh and eighth months of intra-uterine life. Though brachycephalic skulls have not as yet been proved to have been found in ("xreat Britain in any primary interments in the barrows of which I am writing, and though brachycephalic skulls from the United Kingdom and indeed, I am Inclined to think, from European countries generally, are ordinarily well- and not "ill-filled" skulls, it may, nevertheless, be allowable to say here that the " brachycephali angus- tiores" (see "Phil. Trans." 1870, p. 148), as Professor Cleland would call the brachy- cephali of several other parts of the world, frequently ]iresent the depressions of which I have been writing. An excellent instance of the postero-parietal inward pinching of the skull-walls was furnished to me quite recently by a Maori skull presented to the University Museum by Dr. Batt, the skull having a latitudinal index of 79, and possessing also markedly the contour which induced Eetzius to class the Maoris as brachycephali.' Since writing as above, I have noted on both sides of the brain of a Malay a depression which must have had a very considerable postero- parietal depression of the cranial walls corresponding to it.