ON MODIFICATIONS IN THE STRUCTURE OF DIVING ANIMALS. 63 to the condition of total absence which we find in carnivorous cetacea ; and, but that some of the latter class possessed olfactory bulbs, a similar relation might be said to prevail between these oro-ans also in the two orders. In both classes alike, the weight of the brain was high as compared with that of the body; in a young Thoca vituUna I have found it to be as i: 46, in a young Phocaena communis as i: 60. The bark of the seal spoke plainly enough to its want of any such arrangement of the larynx as the whales possess; but a recent inspection of a large seal [Pelagius monachus) had shown it to possess an exceedingly strong sphincter muscle guarding the entrance to the respiratory passages, and it might be conjectured that the membrano-muscular pouch in connexion with the nasal passages in the Stemmatopus cristatus was a foreshadowing of the sac so often described in connexion with the cetacean blow- hole. Several foetal structures were permanently retained in the cetacea. The thymus, as shown by Mr. Turner ('Edin. Roy. Soc. Trans.,' xxii. p. 2), was one of these; certain other remnants of the general formative mass of blastema which surrounds the aorta in the foetus, noticed by me in the 'Natural History Review' for Oct. 1861 ^, furnished a second example, and to these I would now add a third, in the largest remnant of a Wolffian body, or organ of Giraldes, which I have met with in the class mammalia. I may add that, in the two classes of birds which I have had to contrast, scarcely any such approximations could be traced between the two sets of structures to be compared. The modifications in the tibiae of the birds commonly known as 'divers' {Coli/mhinae), and the large intra-hepatic venous sinuses which they, in common with the mammals just spoken of, possessed, were beautiful adaptations to the special habits of these animals ; but nothing at all reminding us of these structures would be found in such a bird as the water-ouzel [Cinclus aquatiens). Indeed, the soft parts of this bird presented very few points of difference from those of a redwing {Turdus iliacus) dissected at the'same time with it, except in the much greater development of the second pectoral muscle. The large size of this muscle was permanently recorded on the keel of the ouzel's sternum; and this point might perhaps have ' Article IV. in this volume.