ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD. 389 maximus, but there is no flauging- out beyond the piano of that insertion. This flattening is not rare in ancient skeletons with skulls of very various kinds. It has been noted by Holder ^ as existing in his 'Ligurian' type. Only a few of the bones of this skeleton have become stained with manganese. Swell vi.—Long Barrow in field known as ' Long Ground,'' two miles west of Nethersioell, E^ford, co. Gloucester.—In the field next beyond the one lying on the left side of the road leading from Netherswell to Naunton, at the bottom of the first descent, and about two miles from the former place, we—that is to say, the Rev. David Royce, Canon Greenwell, and myself—examined, in September, 1874, a long barrow of very similar form to the horned tumuli described by the late Dr. Thurnam^ and by Dr. Joseph Anderson, from parts of Great Britain as far apart from each other as Gloucestershire and Caithness respectively. A plan was taken by Sir H. Dryden, Bart., who visited the spot, and gave us the advantage of his experience. It is sufficient here to give the following particulars:—The broader end of the barrow was at E.N.E., and here the outlines of the two horns ^ were distinctly traceable; the westward end of the barrow had suffered more from agricultural operations than the eastward. The distance, however, from this end, as restored, to the centre point of the eastward end, was 108 feet. The distance between the tips of the two horns was 44 feet; the barrow tapered gradually from this, its extreme width, to a width of 34 feet at its westward end. The height of the tumulus was about 4 feet, on an average, but allowance must be made for possible diminution by farming processes. The two horns were not symmetrical, the north-eastern being the longer and slenderer. The limiting wall was made of the slate of the district, being Stonesfield oolite, arranged in about fourteen horizontal rows, and forming a boundary about 2 feet wide and i foot 9 inches high. The body of the barrow was formed of stones, with a general inclination inwards towards the middle line from either side; and in the middle line, here and there, a blackish seam was to be seen, due, I think, to accidental detritus of vegetable and other rubbish, during disturbances, in past time, of the barrow. ' ' Arch. f. Anthropologie,' ii. p. 54. ' See above. ' The Gloucesteruhire tumuli appear to diflfer from the Scottish, in having only two homa, and those at the eastward end.