UPON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC ORANIA. 281 I have already remarked, pp. 224, 2^5 supra, that intermediate forms, belonging distinctively to neither the one nor the other of the two great types of dolichocephaly or brachycephaly, are not common in these series. In the skulls of the stone age in Great Britain we find no unambiguous traces at all of any admixture with the brachycephalic type; and even amongst skulls from barrows of the bronze age, when the two races were living and dying together, it is rare to find skulls which combine, as the ' Mischformen' of the German anthropologists do, the contour and picturesque peculiarities of the one type with the proportions and measurements of the other. Still such forms are to be found, and there are two principal varieties of skull from the later period, the existence of which is perhaps better explained by the hypothesis of their being the result of intercrossing than in any other way. And, firstly, I should be inclined to consider the very large size ^ of certain crania of the bronze period as due to an however recently shown (see Virchow, p. 11, ' Beitrage zur physischen Anthropologie der Deutschen,' 1876, Berlin Abhandlungen) that the physical characteristics of light hair, blue eyes, light skin, so constantly spoken of by the ancient writers, make up still no less than 35-47 per cent, of the children at school in Prussia, though the pro- portion falls to 20-36 per cent, in Bavaria, brunettes being in tliis latter country 21-09 per cent, against 11-63 in Prussia. ' Without extending our view to the lower animals, it is easy to convince ourselves that a great increase of size is very often at the present day a result of the inter- crossing of two varieties of our own species. Von Baer, on the occasion of the famous meeting of anthropologists at Gottingen in 1861 (see ' Zusammenkunft einiger Anthropologen,' p. 22), drew attention to the increase of vigour which Baron Osten Sacken had observed amongst North American half-breeds ; and Professor Daniel Wilson, in his ' Memoirs on Hybridity,' p. 27, 1875, writes with great particularity to the same effect in the following words : ' The Half-breeds are a large and robust race, with greater powers of endurance than the native Indian. Mr. S. J. Dawson, of the Eed River Exploring Expedition, speaks of the French Half-breeds as a gigantic race as compared with the French Canadians of Lower Canada. Professor Hind refers in equally strong language to their great physical powers and vigorous muscular develop- ment ; and the Venerable Archdeacon Hunter, of Red River, replies in answer to my inquiry, " In what respects do the Half-breed Indians differ from the pure Indians as to habits of life, courage, strength, increase of numbers, &c. ?" "They are superior in every respect, both mentally and physically." Much concurrent evidence points to the fact that the families descended from mixed parentage are larger than those of the whites; and though the results are in some degree counteracted by a tendency to consumption, yet it does not amount to such a source of diminution on the whole as to interfere with their steady numerical increase.' Similarly, Mr. Huth (' Marriage of near Kin,' 1875) writes, p. 308, ' that crosses are beneficial in very often effecting an increase of size in the progeny, exceeding that of either parent, is established beyond doubt,' Pp. 324 and 325; 'The Zamboes, or offspring of Negroes and American