451 APPENDIX ON THE TOPOaRAPHY OP SIGWELL. Both these small camps, therefore, covered springs. Whether there is a camp on Gurt Hill to the south I am vinable to say with certainty; my impression is that there was. There has certainly been a low bank with a ditch on the outside across the gorge or narrowest part of the hill, but the greater part of it has been destroyed by a quarry, and there is no spring on this hill that I am aware of. There are also traces of a small bank on Littleton Hill to the north, but not of sufficient extent to afford trustworthy evidence of a defensive work. Whether there were two or more of these banks, it appears unlikely that such small and feebly-defended camps could have held their own as the strongholds of independent tribes in the vicinity of so large and powerful a fortress as Cadbury, defended by three ramparts and almost precipitous declivities on all sides; and we might therefore assume on a priori grounds that they were out- posts dependent on the larger fortress. But other and more cogent reasons may be urged in favour of this assumption. The occupiers of Cadbury had flocks and herds, as proved by animal remains dis- covered in the interior and described first by Mr. Winwood and subsequently by Professor RoUeston. These flocks and herds must have had pasture somewhere. To the west, as I have said before, the great valley is low and swampy, and probably at that time was an impassable jungle. The high, dry, and well-watered Valley of Whit- comb, between the camp and the hills, would be the only place in the neighbourhood where these flocks could be pastured; but with the commanding hills to the east, and the springs arising from them in the hands of an enemy, there could be no security against surprise by hostile neighbours who, approaching unperceived from the tableland, might at any moment make raids upon the cattle from the hills above. The sources of water-supply and the com- mand of the hills must therefore have been a matter of vital con- cern to the possessors of Cadbury, and the small camps of Sigwell and Charnwell appear to have been thrown up to command the springs and secure an uninterrupted communication with the plateau beyond. From these considerations it would appear that we have here evidence of a central fortress defended on one side, and that the most approachable, by a chain of detached but dependent outposts, which affording as it does some insight into the social condition and military organisation of the inhabitants of this G g a