APPENDIX. 344 A wild animal was much more easily mastered in that way' than in any other available to the man to whom 'Arma antiqua manus, ungues, dentesque fuerunt Et lapides et item sylvarum fragmina rami.'—Lucret. v. 1282. The wild dogs which fed themselves or were allowed to feed upon the remnants of the animals thus caught and slaughtered would not be slow to leai-n the lesson of attachment to place, and out of, or upon this, might very readily grow the feeling of attachment to person. It re- quires a greater effort of imagination on our part to imagine a pack of wild dogs co-operating with priscan men in driving a herd of wild cattle or wild pigs (both of which were represented in the Cissbury pits) along a track in which a pitfall had been dug and covered over. Still what we know of the relations subsisting between savage men and dogs or dingoes (see Nind, 1. c, p. 29) justifies us in holding that this second stage of co-operation may have been attained to very early in the history of our species. The contrast, common in ancient writings, both sacred and profane, between Bos ^^i^i^'^ig^i^i'^s, 'magnitudine paullo infra elephautos,' as Caesar wrote of them (' De Bell. Gall.,' vi. 28), and the tamed variety or varieties of the species, with the 'tenue et miserabile collum' which Juvenal (Sat. x. 270) half pathetically describes, were seen in eminently instructive shape in the Cissbury pits, the filling up of which with chalk rubble had very effectually preserved the bones. By the spar-like hardness and lustre, by the sharply-defined ridges and sculpturing of the ^ Caesar's words (B. G. vi. 28) used of the Germans capturing Bos primigenius, 'hos studiose foveis captos interficiunt,' I had commented upon ('Journ. Anth. Inst.,' 1. c.) before learning that Keller (' Lake Dwellings,' pp. 298, 299, trans. Lee) had written as he has done. The Old Testament writers make innumerable references to the use of the pitfall. The tradition of its employment by the Ancient Britons sur- vived into the days of Henry V., and of Hardyng who in his ' Chronicle in Metre fro the first Begynning of Englande,' cit. Youatt on the sheep, speaks of ' pitfalles and trappes' as well as 'Arrows and boltes To slee the deere, the buU, also the bore. The bear, and byrdes that were therein before.' For the use of the pitfall by the Esquimaux, see an excellent paper by N. L. Austen, Esq., in the ' Reliquiae Aquitanicae,' p. 217. The fact that the Esquimaux have fitted their pitfall for the reindeer with a trap-door revolving on two short axles of wood, as is done in the so-called ' tipe' or' tip' in rabbit warrens, together with other considera- tions, makes me doubt whether Daniel (' Rural Sports,' vol. i. p. 351) can be right in holding that this last is 'a modern invention.' The Norway reindeer is similarly taken in a 'rengfraven' (see Austen, I.e.), and the kangaroo in Western Australia (see Eyre,' Central Australia,' ii. 278; Nind, 'Journ. Royal Geog. Soc' i. p. 30, 1831).