457 FAUNA OF A CEANNOG. and a part of the ascending ramus and of that last molar itself, which could, I think, by any possibility be referred to the wild variety. And even here such a reference could only be justified on the ground of the great degradation which the cusps of the tooth have suffered, it being usually the case that domestic pigs are not allowed to live sufficiently long to get their teeth so worn down. I have however to say that, both from this country and from India, skulls of undoubtedly domestic animals of this species have come into my hands, in which the teeth are worn down far below the limits to which the molars of pigs are allowed to be worn down by modern model-farm managers. The texture of the bone furnishes us with no indications, its gloss and tenacity, if such it ever possessed, having been entirely removed by its long maceration in water. It is however worth mentioning that this fragment from a Scottish Crannog exactly reproduces the contour of a fragment from the Starnberger See. (See memoir on this ' find' in the 'Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' viii. 1875.) In both the angle of the jaw has been knocked away, for the sake, doubtless, of the soft and succulent, and I may add sensitive, substances it protected during life ; and in both the posterior molar has been left in situ, though much worn down. The posterior molar however of the foreign specimen has that superior development of its third molar, which, if Nathusius (' Schweineschadel,' p. 49) had not taught us better, might have been referred to domestication instead of to better food or sexual (male) character. I owe this specimen to the kindness of J. E. Lee, Esq., F.G.S., and though I hesitate in the case of the Scottish specimen, I have no hesitation in referring this one to the wild variety, as indeed it is referred under the title Sus scrofa ferox on the label it carried when it came into my hands. The specimens of pigs' bones and of pigs' teeth are numerous, but none other either of the bones or of the teeth are of the size, strength, or proportions which would have enabled their owners to hold their own as wild animals in a country in which the wolf may still have existed ^. The sheep, old dun-faced breed, Ovls aries, variety Irachjiira.— * For reference to the bibliography of Prehistoric Swine, see ' Linnean Soc. Trans.,' aer. ii., ZJool. vol. i. 1877, p. 272 ; also Article XXX. p. 547.