xli LIFE OF DE. ROLLESTON. long monolog\ie delivered with extraordinary rapidity, to which he had no difficulty in compelliiag his friends to listen. His exceeding volubility was indeed a striking part of him, and a very characteristic one. He was perhaps the most fluent and rapid talker 1 have ever known. When elated and once fairly off, his rattle of words was amazing. But although they were poured forth at a prodigious rate, it was evident that they did not come fast enough for his thoughts. In fact, though he rarely talked nonsense, and was oftentimes singularly brilliant in speech, his thoughts and words appeared sometimes to escape from his control. This was most marked in a set discourse or a lecture. He started a subject or a line of thought. Ideas and speculations from all quarters soon crowded in. One after another was taken up and pursued at a tremendous pace, until at length we were watching a torrent of words on some question as remote as possible from the subject which originally provoked it. Thus when once in the Chair at our inaugural dinner on the i st of October he rose to propose " Prosperity to the Medical School," and in less than five minutes he was dis- cussing with great vehemence the origin of the word " clan." On another occasion he began a lecture, the subject of which was to have been "Ancient Skulls," but towards the end a large part of it was taken up by a criticism of the merits, as a writer, of Diodorus Siculus. This striking feature of RoUeston's intellect goes very far, I think, to explain the character of his work. It was abundant, clever, brilliant, but too diffuse and fragmentary. He touched many things, and most of them with effect, but he produced nothing wholly worthy of himself. He was certainly far greater than he appeared to be in any work he has left behind him. Rolleston was indeed richly endowed in intellectual gifts. He had splendid abilities, a marvellous memory abun- dantly laden, a fertile imagination, a singularly quick and clear apprehension,—much in his mental constitution which might be called genius, and overwhelming energy; but lacking somewhat perhaps of the power of patient thought, of steady and sustained reflection. His will was not perhaps fully equal to the direction