BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 41 To commence witli the lobe which is lettered a and 13 in our dia- grams, which occupies so much space and has had so much importance assigned to it in the human brain, alike by Professor Huxley ('Natural History Keview/ January i86j) and M. Gratiolet ('Memoire,' p. 62), what is its meaning, signification, Bedeutunff? is its importance serial or physiological, classificatory and specific, or functional and quanti- tative ? M. Gratiolet's works give, it must be said, but one uncer- tain sound upon tbis point. Twice (' Memoire,' pp. 89 and 76) he tells us that the Thumbless Spider Monkey [Ateles belzehuth) possesses ' par un exemple unique parmi les singes,' these convolutions in as perfect a state of morphological integrity as man himself, albeit one of them maybe 'fort reduit.^ On the other hand, I find M. Gratiolet (in the 'Memoires de la Societe de I'Anthropologie,' i860, tom. i. p. 65) speaking of the coming level to the surface of one, the second of these bridges, as a character peculiar to man. And as if to put himself again in opposition to himself, I see in one of his own figures of a human brain, and that a well-developed one (Plate II. Fig. i), a long unbridged fissure running continuously from this internal perpendicular fissure right across the upper surface of the hemi- sphere. In this last case, however, I suspect that, as is described by myself in the 'Natural History Review,' April, 1861, p. 311, the brain in question having belonged to a gardener, and a man of more than ordinary intelligence, this appearance of an unfilled-up chasm is due to excess rather than to defect of development; the bridging convolution, instead of crossing from one side directly to the other, having bent itself into a curve witb its concavity upward so as to form thus a secondary valley within the primary fissure, an appearance almost unavoidably deceptive in a hardened and undissected brain. Professor Huxley, whose views as to the importance of this lateral perpendicular fissure I just now alluded to, seems in a recent number of the Zoological Society's 'Proceedings,' June 11,1861, to consider this part of M. Gratiolet's analysis as some- what unsatisfactory, and his identifications of these bridging convo- lutions to fall somewhat short of the certainty which attaches usually to his homologies. Still in his figures of the Coaita [Aleles . panincwi) the occipital lobe is continuous with the parietal by a level table-land summit. Coupling the authority of others with observa- tions of my own, I shall be inclined to rank the physiological value of these convolutions a and /3 as second only to those of the frontal