314 GENERAL REMARKS understand how even in the time of Canute British outlaws carried on brigandage even in such counties as Huntingdonshire. There is of course no need to adduce any argument in favour of the self-evident proposition that the brachycephalic metal-using Celt was in date but of yesterday as compared with the troglodytic men of the continent; but the line of argument which may be employed in favour of this conclusion as regards the neolithic man of our long barrows, that, namely, such as it is, which rests upon the continuity of descent which appears to connect this stock with the dark Welsh and Gael of our own days and country, would not admit of being so used as regards the later race. For, as has been above (pp. 1326, 227, 281) pointed out \ the cranial and skeletal characters of the bronze-using Celt are very closely similar to those of the mediaeval and modern Dane; and this similarity must of course make it difficult to decide whether the brachy- cephalism of many crania procurable from mediaeval and especially urban mediaeval interments, is to be referred to the persistence of such a brachycephalic prehistoric stock, or to the admixture of Danish blood in historic times upon which writers such as Worsaae ('The Danes and Norwegians in England, Scotland, and Ireland,' 1852) and Isaac Taylor ('Words and Places,' 1865, p. 183) have insisted with so much force. The discovery however by Dr. Thurnam and myself^ of numerous skeletons of a typically brachy- cephalic tribe in a tumulus belonging to a period close upon that of the Saxon invasion, and situated at Crawley in Oxford- woods nor lofty mountains to serve as refuges to their occupants may, as the miserable history of the Greek Archipelago has shown from the time of Datis and Artaphernes (Hdt. vi. 31) down to our own, have their inhabitants entirely extirpated. And this may have been the case when the Hebrides were invaded by the Northmen. But as regards larger islands and continental areas the lines from Wordsworth's 'Poems dedicated to National Independence and Liberty,' ' Two voices are there; one is of the sea, One of the mountains,' need to be supplemented by a mention of woodlands. ^ The very frequent discovery of amber ornaments in round barrows may be fairly considered as an argument in favour of their ' Cimbric' or ' Baltic ' origin. Mr. Spence Bate (see 'Trans. Devon Assoc' 1872) considei-s the beautiful amber dagger-pommel found in a I'ound barrow on Dartmoor as evidence for the 'Scandinavian' charactei- of the interment. For amber-ornaments on bronze weapons, see Montelius, ' Congr. Internat. Anth. C. E. Stockholm," ii. 833, and ' Catalogue, Stockholm Museum,' 1876, p. 40. * ' Archaeologia,' 1870, xlii. p. 175, and supra, p. 255, note.