BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 49 weights speak of when placed in the scales opposite to the brain, or relative, as compared with the body in which the brain was lodged during life. It is obvious that an absolutely heavier brain may be relatively lighter, and vice versa, than another. As less weight, as it seems to me, is to be laid upon relative than upon absolute weight, it may be well to state the facts relating to relative weight first. By common consent the largest apes are always taken as subjects of this comparison. Now, the heaviest encephalon of any one of these creatures which has been put on record is the one recorded in the 'Natural History Review' (July, i86i), by Mr. Marshall, of a chimpanzee. The brain weighing 14 oz., the body 264, the proportion of the one to the other was nearly 1:19. Now, in a well-nourished girl of 8-8, whose dentition was further advanced than is generally the dentition of the anthropomorphous apes which die so early in our ungenial latitudes, I find their proportion given by Tiedemann (' Philosophical Transactions,' 1836), as I : 14* 13. The proportion between brain and body in a young orang dissected by myself was I : 23"3. The very self-same pro- portion, deducting the decimals, is given by Haller, 'Elem. Physi- ologiae,' iv. 10, as having been found by him to be the proportion existing between the brain and body of a boy of 6 years of age. As, I believe, it has been recently shown that the average body- weight of successful candidates in certain competitive examinations is higher than those of the unsuccessful; that is, as, indeed, the popularity of the line might have led us to anticipate, that the little body lodging a mighty mind is something of a rarity, and, as with an increase of body-weight the favourable proportion of brain to body is diminished, I need not go further into this question of relative weights of body and brain. The question of absolute weight is of more meaning, and fortu- nately can be despatched in fewer words. The maximum ape's weight is 14 oz.; the minimum human is, speaking roughly, a lb., i.e. 32 oz. avoirdupois. The lowest authentic and reliable weight of a brain of a person dying in possession of mental faculties which I can find in the most recent work on the subject with which I am acquainted (Wagner, ' Vorstudien,' Gottingen, i860) gives, from Dr. Sims, 31 oz. as the weight of a woman's brain who died at 73, with a brain at once atrophied and filled with fluid. Tiedemann's Negro E