•WEAVEBTHORPE. 219 tlnffuishable from, thouffh continuous with the commencement of the linea nuchae mediaua in a tuberculum linearum. The frontal length taken to this hist point is shorter than the extreme length taken to the centre of the occipital squama by as much as /^ths of an inch. The mastoids are largely developed, and what is of some importance to state, as the sex of the Engis calvaria has been supposed to be female, these processes, which in the Engis specimen are only imperfectly represented, taken together with the lower jaw, which in the case of the Engis calvaria has not been identified, leave no doubt as to the sex of their owner having been male. Had this calvarium been as imperfect as is the Engis, there would have been more justification than there is in the case of that specimen for suggesting that it may have belonged to a woman. There is no doubt that the lower jaw belonging to this skull justifies us in speaking of its owner as having been a strong male subject, its angle, mentum, and coronoid being all alike powerfully developed, and its ramus showing on its lower edge the undulation anterior to its angle and the ridges on the internal surface of that area which are distinctive of muscular men. The one wisdom tooth, remaining on the left side, shows some wear from use upon its two anterior cusps, the absence however of wear upon the posterior may perhaps have been due to the absence of any wisdom tooth on the left side above, a point which cannot now be determined. The other teeth are much worn, the mastoids are very large, and, though the sutures are often very extensively obliterated in skulls of this type before middle life, their very extensive obliteration here, both internally and externally, coupled with the two other points just specified, makes it safe to speak of this skull as one of a man of at least the middle period of life. In the norma verticalis this skull is seen to taper somewhat rapidly forwards from the point of maximum widtli which lies in the plane of the mastoids, but on the level of the upper edge of the squamous; it tapers even more rapidly backwards, as the measurement of the extreme occipital width shows when compared with the measurement of extreme width ; a depression existing on either side at the ' asterion ' or site of the posterior lateral fontanelle. The contour consequently presented by this skull when viewed from above is that described ^ by Professor ' "Cana/lian Journal,' New Series, vol. liv. p. 393, Nov. 1864; and Dr. Beddoe, ' Mem. See. Anth. London,' vol. ii. p. 349.