PREHISTORIC FAUNA. 341 exceedingly variable points. Tiie condition of neglect and comparative freedom in which the still surviving Scotch breed is described as living has no doubt been constant since the earliest times; and we may, after making some allowances, fairly suppose that it must have pro- duced the same changes iu the soft and perishable parts, and so in the entire appearance of the swine of those days, that we can see it has done in those subjected to it now. The bones of the domesticated prehistoric pig, it is almost needless to say, are the bones of small animals; nor does the early age at which the great majority of domestic swine were then as now slaughtered entirely explain this fact away. As regards the sheep, Ovis aries, I have to say, firstly, that I think the caution with which any identification of any ovine or caprine bone from a prehistoric ' find' is usually recorded, should be so worded, or at least received, as to make us think it is .at least as likely to be a sheep's bone as a goat's. The reverse is ordinarily taken as being im- plied. But anybody who will study the coloured draiw^flg given by Low (' Hist. Nat. An. Dom. de I'Europe,' pis. i, ii, French ed.) as referred to breeds, under the selective action of certain foods, viz. the paint-root, Lachnanthes iincloria, and buckwheat, Polygonum fagopyrum (see Wyman, Spinola, and Heusinger, citt. Darwin, ' Origin of Species,' sixth edition, p. 9 ; 'Domestication,' second edition, ii. p. 332). The ' Roman' pig is now, as figured in Low, 1. c, of a deep black colour almost universally; but in classical times it was not so any more than the domestic Greek pig was of which Aristotle tells us (H. A. ii. 2. 14) the wild boar differed from it in being black. It is true that the sow of .zEneid iii. 392 and viii. 45, 'Alba solo re- cubans, albi circum ubera nati,' is spoken of (viii. 81) as 'subitum atque oculis mira- bUe monstrum;' but Servius in loco, who from his date, a.d. 400, must have been familiar enough with 'Roman' pigs, explains the word 'monstrura' thus, 'quia et subito et cum triginta porcellis est visa,' which is quite an adequate explanation. Columella also contrasts (vi. 9) a ' grex nigrae setae quam durissimae densaeque' with a ' glabrum pecus vel etiam pistrinale album ' as being better suited for a ' regio fri- gida et pruinosa.' Hence, though there is no doubt that one of the earliest effects of domestication upon the wild-boar stock not uncommonly is to make the colour white or at least what Youatt calls 'dirty white' or 'yellowish brown,' there is also no doubt that the reverse of this may be effected by the same process in later stages or through the introduction of new disturbing influences. I incline to think that, though the reverse must have been the case with several of our common domestic animals, immigrating races of men have usually provided themselves with tame pigs by having recourse to the young of the wUd-boar stock available on the area which they have occupied. For whilst wild swine everywhere lend themselves readily to domestica- tion, it must in early times liave been very difficult to transport or import even already domesticated pigs. The contrast in this latter point between the pig and the two animals, which most certainly of aU must have been imported into Europe as domes- ticated, did not escape the notice of the ancient fabulist who, as referred to by Bochart, ' Hierozoicon,' ii. 57, p. 698, spoke of the 'porcus, qui cum agno et capra ad urbem deferebatur et qaum illi pacate degerent solus se distorquebat.'