CASTLE CARROCK. 199 that this skull belonged to a man much ' past the middle period of life,' if not to an ' aged' man. The still outstanding muscular and other processes in the lower part of the skull and the still powerful lower jaw show that the owner of this skull was a person of con- siderable strength ; whilst the general rounding oflP of the angular portion of the vault of the skull seems referable to the working of senile absorption. The diploic sinuses are exposed on either side in the region of the parietal eminences, as is the case in advanced senile atrophy; the cavities exposed are undoubtedly larger than they would, in almost any circumstances, be until some time after the prime of life; the skull however has suffered somewhat from water-wear, and it is not easy to be sure that some of the excavation and exposure shown in the drawing on the left parietal bone may not be due to this posthumously working cause. The down-growth of the occipital condyles, and of the mastoids, and the spiny roughnesses developed generally at the base of the skull, and specially around the posterior border of its foramen magnum, are points indicative of its advance in age. A somewhat similar skull, from Tosson in Northumberland, presented to the University Museum by Canon Greenwell, has been described by Dr. Barnard Davis in the ' Crania Britannica,' vii. PI. 54 ; its sex however does not seem to be quite so certainly male as that of the skull from Castle Carrock, and its age to be a little greater, as is also its cubical capacity, 97-5 as against 95 cubic inches. The two skulls are specially useful as showing the modifications, especially in the way of rounding-off of outlines, which the advance of old age produces upon the more capacious brachycephalic skulls, which when young might have been spoken of as ' tetes carrees,' ' sub- cubical,' or ' subquadrate.' Both of them have retained compara- tively vertical foreheads and the characteristic dip of a slightly asymmetrical parieto-occipital region, the Castle Carrock skull in company with a powerful lower jaw, and the Tosson skull in company with a feebler one; both have their points of maximum transverse width low down upon the parietal bone, both have vertical pterygoids; but the lateral bulging produced by senile change has advanced further in the Tosson specimen, and the plane of maximum width has advanced further forwards relatively to the long axis of the skull. Some of the peculiarities to be seen in the norma basalis and lower jaw of the Castle Carrock skull are very