292 GENERAL REMARKS skeletons were disposed around such principal interment but in such a way as to show that less care and trouble had been bestowed upon them, much probability would have attached to the view that these latter skeletons might have been those of captives or of slaves slaughtered in honour of the chief represented by the central interment. But I have shown in ' British Barrows,' pp. 530 and S that where a single undisturbed interment has been found in company with, though distinguishable from, a number of bones giving evidence of the presence with it of several other bodies, these latter bones give evidence of their having been placed as we find them with a certain pious painstaking which arranged them, when parts, not of a body, but of a skeleton, without ana- tomical knowledge, though obviously with a view to making room for the skeleton found undisturbed. What we have to deal with in such cases as those described above 1. c. are cases of successive interments; and if we figure to ourselves how the mingled and allied feelings of reverence and of terror would act upon the otherwise excitable nature of uncivilised men engaged in such a work, we shall have little difficulty in interpreting the phenomena presented to us by the bony remains without having recourse to the hypo- thesis of human sacrifices, a hypothesis incompatible at once with the care bestowed upon some and the injuries received by others of these remains. The question however here naturally arises, how is it that in the very large number of interments recorded in ' British Barrows' we have never come upon any bony remains bearing their evidence to the existence of a practice which is spoken of by such a very large number of literary witnesses? In answer to this I have to say that the literary evidence when duly considered proves simply that slaves and captives were slaughtered at the funeral of their lords without proving that they were allowed to lie beside them afterwards. The only passage I have met with which might be held to speak of a contiguity in the graves as well as a contemporaneity in the deaths of the masters and of the slaves is the passage in which Caesar writes, as follows, of the funeral ceremonies of the Gauls, B. G. vi. 19: ' Funera sunt pro cultu Gallorum magnifica et sumptuosa ; omniaque quae vivis cordi fuisse arbitrantur in ignem inferunt, etiam animalia, ac, pauUo supra banc memoriam, servi et clientes, quos ab iis dilectos esse con- * [See also tlie description of the Swell barrows in Article XVIII. Editor.]