xxxi LIFE OF DK. ROLLESTON. and water down for about twenty minutes. She was too weak to be sick or less would have done. No evil followed. Was not that fine practical Chemistry 1 She has lived through it all, and is likely I should judge now to live, as if that business could not nothing else is likely to kill her, and she is now on Quinine and Cod-liver oil, and the Pig-nature is showing itself, salt having killed the Tiger-cat, as salted meat usually does the Carnivora. I dwell on this professional bit of my life, as the Professorial is now so much overlaying the former. It is very demoralising this having to work two lines simultaneously, but I think I see my way now toward getting rid of the former of the two. Possibly this confession, which I do not wish to be made public, may cause you to lose any little confidence you might have had in me in my capacity of Practising Doctor. I will send you by this post, however, an Oxford almanac in which you will see me to full extent in my Professorial capacity, and being at the same time always at your service in the other too, I am your afiectionate brother.' The new move which was to make Rolleston's future career one of instruction, was his appointment to the recently created Linacre Professorship of Anatomy and Physiology, an ofiice belonging to the great scheme of development of Science in Oxford, which was just becoming embodied in the University Museum. This was, from the first, not a museum in the modern sense of a collection of rare and interesting objects, but rather intended to realise in nature as in name the idea of the original Museum of Alexandria, where mathematicians, astronomers, and chemists were gathered together under the same roof engaged in research and teaching, where an anatomical school formed the basis for the education of physicians, and a great library put within the student's reach all the knowledge hitherto amassed. Such a Museum of Science the authorities of the University established, not without many difficulties by the way, for the ornate building in which Mr. Ruskin's ideas found expression proved of vast cost, so that the economical resistance of financiers mingled with the disfavour of those who were jealous of putting