XVll LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. to rest over it, and in the midst of it are to be seen moving great figures. At present we are so close to them that they only impress us with our own littleness, not with their greatness. We are like the travellers at the foot of the Sphinx: its real size, its true proportions, are only seen at a distance. Though dis- tance takes away from the distinctness, it adds to the majesty of its features. Now look at Arnold. In a profession in which liberal opinions were a sure bar to preferment, he stood forth as an uncompromising advocate for freedom. His views were distorted neither by prejudice nor by precedents, by establish- ments, nor by interest. As dispassionately as the mathematician he proposed his problem, and as calmly he declared the result, careless of everything but truth. "By the one party accused as mystic, by the other as infidel." The man rises before us Kke a granite mountain, and the crows and choughs around its base show scarce so gross as beetles. The mean man could not explain, the weak man could not comprehend, his conduct. To me there is no subject so pleasing and none so ennobling as the triumph of will over interest, and the victory of conscience over expediency. But I shall tire you with my opinions . . . .' In 1850 Rolleston took a First Class in Classics, and next year was elected a Fellow of Pembroke. The fellowship which he took was the medical one lately founded by Mrs. Sheppard, and this circumstance was the turning-point of his life, de- termining him to take to Medicine as his profession. It is a good index of the change of educational ideas within the last generation, that one meets with no letters to or from Rolleston at this time complaining of his having spent four of the most receptive years of his life exclusively on classical studies, hardly in the remotest degree bearing on his future profession. Under the present system a student looking forward to the career of Medicine does not abandon altogether the literary culture which is the University's heritage, but he soon ceases to devote his whole time to letters, and passes on into the special lines of science suited to form the ground-work for his future profession. Only men of exceptional energy and capacity b