394 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. sheep, and of several human subjects, young and old. But the most striking 'find' in the cist was in the north-east corner. There, between two large stones, were found, lying in situ, the femora, humeri, ulnae, radii, clavicles, pelvis, rib, and many vertebrae of a woman past the middle period of life. She had been laid on her left side; and between her chest and the north wall of the cist lay the pelvis and leg bones of a young dog, which we may, with some probability—bearing in our recollection the interesting account by an eye-witness, Ahmed Ibn-Fozlau, of the incremation of a Norse chief, translated for us by Holmboe and Anderson ^—suppose to have been put into the grave to keep his aged mistress com- pany, there and elsewhere. The woman had been laid so that her skull just projected beyond the slab upon which the upper trunk bones were laid; and the skull had just escaped from being smashed, when the top stone fell in, at the cost of being carried ofi", probably by some mediaeval or later tomb-riflers, and so lost to us. Half the lower jaw was still in situ, and has been recovered. Swell i, Cist t.—Under this slab, together with the dog and man, were the thigh bones of one of the children, and also femur of sheep. The lower jaw of the old woman was feeblish, as compared with some of the male jaws, but not with all, from these barrows. It had lost no teeth from the half we recovered, during life, though the teeth were very much worn down, and the first molar, notably, down to its fangs ; in connexion with both of which there were alveolar abscesses. The femur, 16 inches long, of the woman, laid in company with the young dog, gives a stature of 4 feet 10 inches. It is consider- ably flattened from before backwards, in the region of the insertion of the glutaeus maximus, but the insertion of this muscle is at the free edge of the bone. The whole bone, and others with it, under the label, ' Cist in situ, Swell vi,' gives the idea of their owner having had hard work and poor food, being as they are, slight, but with rough ridges. The other adult bones may have belonged, and probably did belong, to a man beyond the middle period of life, of moderate strength ; many of the bones are exostotic, as would * 'Proc. Soc. Ant. Scot.,' May 13, 1872. Compare Nillson, 'Primit. Scandin.,' ed. Lubbock, pp. 140, 150; 'Frilford Graves,' p. 9; ' Archaeologia,' xlii; and Article XXXIV. of this volume.