CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. ]33 Mr. Mivart's ilio-peroneal seems to me to have its serial homo- \ogx\e in the muscle which, in many mammals, passes from the posterior vertebral angle of the scapula down to the olecianon, and which seems to be a divarication of the more commonly found ' dorso-epitrochlien.' As this muscle is clearly one of the series made up of the biceps, semimembranosus, and semitendinosus, which, like itself, take origin, in Crocodilidae, from the ilium, it may be suggested that in the muscle just mentioned, as found in certain mammals, among which I may specify the marten [Musfela martes), may be contained the homologues of the biceps, semimem- branosus, and semitendinosus, as well as the ilio-peroneal of the lower limb. This great increase of the number of the muscles of the lower, as compared with that of their homologues in their upper limb, is illustrated also by the great excess which the number made up by the adductores and the obturatores shows when compared with that of their homotypes the coraco-brachiales. It furnishes ns with a fresh illustration of the principle laid down by Mr. Parker (' Shoulder-Girdle/ p. 7, note), to the effect that ' the hip-girdle is always, in the higher classes, more complete as to mere mass, and lower in type morphologically, than the shoulder-girdle.' Tabular View of Muscular Homologies suggested in this Paper. Xame of Muscle in Mammal. liomolofjue in Upper Extremity of Bird. Homologuc in Upper Extremity of liepiile. Serial Homologuc. Pectoralis major. Ditto. Ditto. 'Gracilis' of Mivart, as described in Iguana, P. Z. S. 1867. Pectoralis minor. Kssentially the up- per or anteriorly in- serted fascicles of the deep layers of i^ctoralis major. Ditto. Fascicle lettered ei in fig. 3? ? Subclavius, In mammals only is it of subordinate im- portance to the spinati. Pectoralis secundus s, levator humeri. Epicoraco-humeral of Mivart, as described in Echidna and Igu- ana, I.e. Amphibian pars clavi- cularis deltaidei as described by Ecker, ckido - humeralis of PfeifTer. Inner and deeper head of peclincus, supplied by obturator nerve. 'JoracoJjrachialii brevin t. rotator humeri of Wood. Dcltoides inferior of Meckel. No. XX. of Schoepss, MeckersArchiv,i82g. Upper part of coraco- brachialis lying su- periorly to tendon of biceps. Upper fiiscicles of obtu- rator cxlernus. Coraco-brachialit me- di'U. Cf/raco-brachialit longus. Pectoralis tertiui t, co- ruco-hrachiali* infe- rior. No. xvi. Schoepss, I. c. Middle and longer por- tions of anterior co- raco-brachialiji. Rest of obturator extcr- nus and adductors.