94 ON THE PLACENTAL 8TRUCTUEES OF THE TENREO number of large blood-vessels is also to be seen ; so that we easily understand how, had the animal's life been preserved and its uterus contracted; a lamellar cake, perforated and made irregular by vermiform vessels, would, as we know it does in our own species, have come to project for a while into the cavity of the organ at the placental site. The tissue, therefore, which would have been persistent or non-deciduous serotina, differs little from the homo- logous layers in the human subject, except, perhaps, in being relatively somewhat more abundant. In this point (as remarked in the ' Hunterian Catalogue,' prep. 3584, and as may be seen by comparing either what I suppose to be a drawing of the placenta whence that preparation was taken, viz. Sir Everard Home's pi. 168, vol. iv. ' Comparative Anatomy,' or Breschet's fig. 2, pis. I and 2, and fig. 4, pis. 3 and 4, 1. c, or Rudolphi's figure of a marmosets placenta, 'Abhand. Berlin Akad.' 1828, with the description given of the human decidua serotina by KoUiker, 1. c. p. 145 or p. 158, or by Priestley, 1. c. p. 48) this simious decidua serotina contrasts markedly with the human. I must, however, add, that I could not note any similar difference in the placenta of a chimpanzee {Troglodytes niger) which I had an opportunity of seeing in the College of Surgeons. The chorion having been nearly removed when the preparation I have been describing came into my hands, I am unable to say whether the decidua reflexa retained the completeness which it and the decidua vera are figured and described by Breschet^ as possessing. The lining membrane of the non-placental parts of the uterus was lowly vascular and smooth internally; and herein it resembles the decidua vera of the human subject. In a case where even the placentae were morbidly adherent, it will not be expected that the non-placental uterine membrane should have exfoliated. It is difficult to see, however, how the double membranes, just referred to as figured by Breschet, can have been other than deciduous; so that Kolliker ^ and Funke ^ are scarcely justified in speaking of the decidua vera, as well as the reflexa, as being exclusively human structures. Their statement and Weber's Zusatze,' p. 417) as to the exclusively anthropoid character of the decidua reflexa is, of course, also ' Pis. I and 2. fig. 2, pis. 3 and 4. fig. 2, p. 444 of the ' Mdmoires de I'lnstitut,' torn, xix, 1845. ^ 1. c. p. 169. 3 'Lehrbuch der Physiologic,' 1858, ii. 929.