APPENDIX. 342 by Riitimeyev ('Fauna der Pfahlbauten,' p. 129) of the 'dun-faced,' 'flounder-tailed/ ' hrevicauda' 'goat-horned' variety of the sheep still existing in the islands north of the Pentland Firth, will see how difficult it must be to decide the question as to the absence or presence of the sheep at any particular prehistoric period, unless an entire skull be available for deciding the question. Nor is the variation which gives to the horns of the sheep, usually considered the most distinctive portion in the prehistoric skeletons left us, the shape of those of the goat, by any means confined to the Orkney or Shetland sheep. The same approach to the goat's character is noted of the horns of the Welsh higher mountain breed (Low, Fr. ed. p. 20, Eng. ed. p. 65) of sheep. Hence it is en- tirely unsafe to decide from the often fragmentary and detached horn- cores which we obtain from neolithic burials that the animal they be- longed to was not a sheep. But, secondly, though a sheep may have the horn-cores usually foimd in goats, a goat never has the horn-cores usually found in sheep. But such may be found in prehistoric interments \ ^ Since writing as above I have, through the kindness of Herren Edmund von Fellenberg and Grossrath Biirki in Bern, of Professor F. A. Forel of Lausanne, and of Dr. Uhlmann at Mtinchenbuchsee, had opportunities for examining the very rich collections of animal bones from the various lake-dwellings which owe so much to their protecting care. And I found that the caution which is necessary in dealing with the scanty and often imperfect remains available to me from our prehistoric graves is superfluous in face of their abundant and more complete specimens. The goat is richly and unambiguously represented in the stone-age lake-dwellings, and more abundantly indeed than the sheep in the early stone-age lake-dwellings of Moosseedorf. It seems however to have lost this numerical preponderance towards the end of the stone period, and to have become comparatively scarce in the bronze age. And I find that M. Kinberg, 'Stockholm Ititernat. Congrfes Anth.,' p. 831, teUs us of Sweden that ' La Chfevre Capra hircus h. paralt avoir 6t6 primitivement plus rare que le mouton. EUe est rare du moins dans les sepultures de I'age de la pierre de la Vestergotlande.' These facts are entirely in keeping with the sus- picions hinted at in the text, and with the view that our domestic animals, though coming in the ultimate resort from the East, like nephrite and jade in the stone-, and bronze probably in the bronze-period, did not reach the regions north of the Alps directly from the East, but only by passing northwards from the Greek and Italian peninsulas. For the goat, as has been repeatedly observed from the time of Aristotle ('Hist. An.' ix. 4) down to the present, bears cold less well than the sheep, whilst every traveller in sunburnt barren countries may observe with gratitude and wonder what copious supplies of milk are obtained from it, often off but limited areas in tliese surroundings, and from but shrubs and weeds. The sheep on the other hand, is, as its resting-places on the ' Schatten-seite' of a mountain show us, more sensitive to heat and more appreciative of the ' shadow of a great rock in a weary land' than most animals. As described in the beautiful translations of a modem Greek ballad, by Niebuhr and Miss Winkworth (' Life and Letters,' vol. ii. p. 23, ed. 185a), it loves the 'Btill cold fountain' of the 'many fountained ' mountain-top, Tro\vmda«os aKpoipdrjs,