ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. 383 to that at wliich the bodies found headless were interred, and that the skulls of these latter were removed at that time from their natural connections, and placed near the chamber. It is, however, plain that such an explanation as this combines the ossuary theory, which it would employ for the skeletons found undisturbed, with the view of holding- that these interments are to be considered the successive interments of a family powerful enough to command the use of a barrow, which view it would employ for the skeletons found at a distance from the chamber. It is possible that it may be right so to combine these views. Osteology and CraniograpJiy.—A few general remarks may be made as to the entire collection of human bones obtained from the long barrow, ' Swell i.,' before we proceed to give in detail the craniography of the skulls which have admitted of reconstruction. We have definite proof of the presence of eight skeletons in this barrow; of these eight skeletons, three belonged to children, and five to adults. Of the five adults, four had been aged ; of the four, two had been men, two women. The fifth adult had been a man of from twenty-four to thirty years of age. Of the three children, one was about two years old; the other two were about seven months at most. The four skulls which belonged to aged adults have been reconstructed. The skulls of the two adult females will be observed to differ greatly in size, the one being veiy large, the other very small; whilst the two adult female skeletons resemble each other in a point eminently characteristic of savage life—to wit, in showing that their owners were disproportionately short in stature, as compared with the male members of their tribe. The leg bones of the females give them a stature of 4 feet 10 inches and 4 feet 9 inches, against a stature of 5 feet 6 inches in the males; and a similar tale is told even more emphatically by a comparison of their respective collar-bones. The average difference between the male and female stature ^ of civihsed races is about half this amount. In two cases of the aged adults considerable loss of teeth had occurred before death; in the two others, precisely the reverse was the case. The young man, as might be expected, had retained his entire complement of teeth—in the upper jaw, at least, which alone we recovered in his case. The male lower jaws have the alveolar * See ' Archaeologia,' xlii. p. 447.