APPENDIX. 322 pottery found in tlie other. If we are to reason about these as we do about other facts of distribution in space and time, we must hold that a greater uniformity existed in the forms of vegetable and a much greater in the forms of animal life over the whole of this country in prehistoric than in recent times; and that the distr icts in question may be likened to islands which have been separated from each other by the encroach- ments, sometimes more, sometimes less gradual, of an invading sea. If a greater mass of material has been available to me in the barrows themselves than has been to some other writers upon the subject of the fauna of prehistoric times, it must be said on the other side that my investigations have been confined to the ' houses of the deadand that I am not here writing of the relics to be found in such greater" abundance in what were ' the houses of the living,' viz. cave- and pile- dwellings. In the largest long barrow indeed, that at Crosby Garrett (see p. 510 'British Barrows'), which I have examined, I noted that of all the animal bones found, only one single fragment could be said to have been proved to have owed its introduction to the race which reared the barrow. And though in many barrows considerable numbers of such bones have been found, the remains of the funeral feast have not been so productive, as indeed they could not have been expected to be, as the rubbish-pits or the floors of the dwellings of ancient times have been to other investigators. I. Of the Prehistoric Flora oe this Country in the Neolithic Period. The palaeolithic man had before his eyes a country, the hills, valleys, and plains of which had somewhat different contours from those upon which the neolithic man lived his hunting or pastoral life. But the position of the long barrows and forts, reared by the later race of men in places of vantage as regards prospect and elevation, shows us that the solid earth on which they trod has had its escarpments and its river- courses subjected to but little change since their time. The landscape however upon which his eyes rested was nevertheless a very different one fi'om that which meets ours now in any but the wildest districts of this country. The characters of a landscape at various periods depend mainly upon its vegetation, and if the indigenous trees of Great Britain have not been so entirely out-numbered and the character of its summer and indeed winter clothing of leaves so entirely changed by foreign immigrations, as Victor Hehn in liis interesting work, ' Kulturpflanzen und Hausthiere,' 1870, pp. 2, 314, 392, is in-