232 GENERAL REMARKS of the inhabitants of ' le pays de Leon' and ' le pays de Cornouaille * in Brittany ('Memoires de la Soci6te d'Anthropologie de Paris/ torn, i, i860, p. and readers of other French writers on Ethnology are abundantly familiar with the question of ' la dualite gauloise ^' Against calling the brachycephalic people of the round barrow and bronze period by the name of the Ligures, a people so much and, probably, so unjustly abused by the ancient Latin writers, arguments of the same general kind as those already brought against calling the dolichocephali of the stone age Iberians might be adduced at considerable length. It is however superfluous to do this, as the brachycephali for whom the name 'Ligurian' has been proposed of late by the Baron de Belloguet ^, Herr Holder ^, M, Leon Vanderkindere and Professor S. Nicollucci ^ are short of ^ It may be well to supply evidence from times intermediate in date between the present and the bronze age to show that, whatever proneness the Celtic race and its subdivisions may, as testified to by the two authors just cited, manifest to quarrels and disagreements of a minor kind, they have in practice found it more possible to make such diiferences compatible with joint occupation of the same country than have some other races. Diodorus Siculus, v. 33, cit. Zeuss, p. 163, writes thus of the formation of the Celtiberian nation: Ovtoi yap rb iraXatbv irepl rfjs x^P"-^ dWrjXois StarroXenT]aavTes, 01 t£ "l^rjpfs koi 01 KfKrol, Kal fierd, ravra dia\v9(VTfs /cat tt^v x^po-v KOtvfj KaTotKr]<ravTes, tri SI ewiyan'iai irpbs dWrjKovs avvBifxtvoi, 6id t^^v iTrifii^'iav touttjs (Tvxov TTjs -npoariyopias. Avoiv 5' tdvuiv dXiclpaiv puxOivrcnv, k. t. A. The words of Skylax, cit. Zeuss, p. 167, respecting the Ligurians and Iberians are similarly to the purpose: 'Ktrb t\ 'Wrjpwv (xovrai At'-yuey Kal 'l^ripes my&des, fiexP^ noTa/xov 'PoSavov. The existence, lastly, of the name KeXroXiyves, Strabo, 4. p. 203, may seem to show that a fusion was effected between the Celts and the Ligurians similar to that which was effected between the Celts and the Iberians. The earlier relations between the Celts and the Ligures are represented in tradition to the following effect in the lines of Avienus, ' Ora Maritima,' v. 432 :— ' Cespitem Ligurum subit Cassum incolarum, namque Celtarum manu Crebrisque dudum proeliis vacuata sunt Liguresque pulsi.' ' ' Ethnogenie Gauloise,' cit. Virchow, ' Archiv fiir Anthropologie/ vi. p. 107, 1873. ^ 'Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' ii. p. 56, 1867. In his ' ZusammensteUung der in Wtirtemberg vorkommenden Schadelformen,' 1876, p. 8, Herr Holder has given up the title ' Ligurian,' and replaced it by the titles ' Turanian ' and 'Sarmatian.' * ' Recherches sur I'Ethnologie de la Belgique,' p. 58. The skulls, with a cephalic index of 85, described by Dr. Sasse from South Beveland, ' Archiv fiir Anthro- pologie,' vi. p. 76, had a cubical content of 1323 cub. centim. = about 80 cubic inches, as against an average content of 98 cubic inches obtained by Dr. Thurnam from twenty-five British brachycephali. Probably this inferiority was correlated with an additional inferiority in the matter of stature. * ' La stirpe ligure in Italia,' Napoli, 1864.