THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDE8. 493 of his 'Icones Physiologicae' (fig-. 3i), figures the blood-corpuscles of the earthworm under three denominations, viz. firstly {a, b, and c), ' Kcirperchen mit vielen Vacuolen und stachlichen Fortsatze, die Form und Stelle wechseln; die Hohlraume mit gelblichem Schimmer,' which amoebiform bodies I believe to be perivisceral in origin; secondly (d), ' Kerne,' one variety of which is g-ranular, and the other hyaline as to its contents ; and thirdly (e), ' Feine Kornchen,' which till lately I held to be the only formed elements existing in the worm's red fluid. But the two kinds of bodies figured by Ecker at (d) are to be found in this fluid, when uncontaminated with perivisceral fluid, and before its morphology is upset by the setting in of those changes to which all fluids containing colloids are so liable under the influence of so many disturbing agencies. Thirdly, in the year 1835 we find Rudolph Wagner (Miiller's 'Archiv,' 1835, p, 313) asserting a claim to having seen the blood-corpuscles of the earthworm in 1832, and vindicating him- self against an expression of surprise uttered by the elder Cams, in his ' Lehrbuch der Vergleich. Zootomie' (ii. p. 682,, 1834) at his not having discovered the ' deutlichen runden abgeplatteten Blutkor- perchen im rothen Blute des Regenwurmes.' Fourthly, Leydig's words ('Histologie,' p. 437, 1857), 'Zu innerst sah man hoch vereinzelte blasse Kerne die wahrscheinlich von Blutkiigelchen beriihrten,' appear to me to apply, even when I take the sentence in its own context alone, to the earthworm ; and when I recollect that it was Leydig who pointed out (' Archiv fiir Mikroskop. Anat.' i. 281, 1865) that Cliaetogaster has no blood- corpuscles, I cannot but think that he would have made here the same remark as to Lumbricus if he had not seen it to be otherwise conditionedj and indeed had not supposed himself to have stated the fact to be so. Fifthly, I have to say that in the year 1861 the late Dr. John Davy read a paper before the British Association at Manchester on • The Blood or Red Fluid of the Common Earthworm.' This paper is printed in extenso in the second series of ' Physiological Researches' (1863, pp. 203-207). In it Dr. Davy states that I assisted him ' especially in laying bare the cardiac organs, and in procuring their contents.' 'Indeed/ he. adds, 'it was at his request that the inquiry was entered upon.' He then gives at