ON THE PEOPLE OP THE LONG-BAKROW PERIOD. 355 ordinarily supposed to apply, imdaiis mutandis. Broea, in his in- teresting paper on the ' Caverne de I'Homme Mort,' says^: ' L'uu des traits les plus remarquables de la s^rie de 1'Homme Mort, e'est la g-rande capacite relative du crane des femmes/ The head of the female occupants of this cavern, like the head of the rustic Dalecarlian females, as observed upon by Retzius, was but little— some 99-50 cub. cent. (6 cubic inches)—inferior in capacity to that of their male fellow Trog-lodytes, whilst the difference between the modern Frenchman of Paris and the modern Frenchwoman is more than twice as great as this amount. Where a woman is told by symbols, no less than by precepts, as Tacitus tells us^ the German women were told, ' venire se laborum periculorumque sociam^ idem in pace idem in praelio passuram ausuramque,' it is easy to under- stand, upon the principle of natural selection, how an equality, or, at least, a near approach to equality, in the physical, as well as in the moral and mental character of the sexes, may come to prevail, and how the weight and stature of the entire body in the female sex may approximate to the proportion of the male sex. Such, however, is rarely the case in savage tribes and times, and what we usually find, both among modern savages, as testified to by Weisbach 3, and among prehistoric men, as I have found, is an exaggeration in the females of the disproportion which exists, even in civilised races, between their brain and their entire body weight, to the disfavour of the latter, which is relatively heavier in the other sex. Without going into the familiar statistics which tell us that the brain attains very neai'ly its full weight at a veiy early age, I will just add that the average circumference of the head is shown by Liharzig^ to be but about an inch less in either sex at the age of four- teen than it is in adult life, the measurements being 54 as against 57 centimetres for the male, and 52-5 as against 55-5 for the female sex. Now, when the differences in treatment and mode of life, which have already been alluded to as accounting for the dispro- > 'Eevue d'Anthropologic,' ii. i, p. 45, 1873; and 'Bull, Soc. Anth.,' Paris, torn, viii. Ber. ii. p. 837, 1874. * 'Germania,' 18. * 'Reise der Novara,' 1867, ' Anthrop. Theil,' a. 222. * 'Das Gesetz des Wachsthumes,' Taf. vi.; which table shows also that the female head is, at 21 months, 48^ centimetres in circumference as against 50 for the male. A a 2