ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BABBOW PEBIOD. 402 The femur is flattened in region of glut, max., and gives a stature of 5 ft. 6 in. The tibia is flattened; but did these bones belong to the skull ? Ext. length . . . • 7'i Ceph. index (approx.) . .75 Ext. breadth .... 5-3 Femur ..... 18-2 Vert, height . . . - 5-5 Tibia 13 5 Viewed from above, this skull has an evenly ovate contour, taper- ing only very gradually either backwards or forwards. The point of maximum width is in the meridian of the mastoids, which are large for a female skull. The forehead is vertical up to the level of the tubera, and the parieto-oceipital region is also a little more vertical than is usual in skulls of this elongated type. The parietal tubera are less well marked than is usual in female skulls. The supraciliary ridges, however, are characteristically female, as are also the low height index and the lower jaw, the teeth in which are very much worn, and, though an alveolar abscess was developed under the anterior molar, had not been diminished in number by more than one or two during a very long life. Note by Canon Greenwell.—' Just north of 7 and 8, a body, 9, on left side, head to south, apparently in position; hips are 7 inches higher than the head. Just north of hips of 9, a skull, 10, close to surface and much disturbed, No. 9 being the highest body, as regards the hips. The fact of its being undisturbed shows that any dislo- cation or breakage is not due to modern agencies.' Swell vii.—The third long barrow examined at Netherswell in Sept. 1874, is situated on a hill to the N.W. of Netherswell Church, in the district known as Upper Swell, upon the estate of Alfred Sartoris, Esq., by whose kindness Canon Greenwell was allowed to explore it. It is the largest of the three barrows examined here, and resembles the second very closely in its contour, and both that and the first in the materials—oolitic flags and rubble—of which it is made up. Its extreme length is 173 feet. Its length from its westward end to the central concavity of its horns 156 feet; its extreme width, which lay about 20 feet west of the apices of the horns, is 57 feet; its least width, which is, as usual, at the west end, is 3a feet. The height of the mound is from 6 to 8i feet above the natural surface; it is surrounded by a wall, which was 5 feet high at the east end, where it defined the outlines of the horns, and about 4 feet high round the sides and west end, being in thick-