86 ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENREC the term • litis' as an equivalent for Mustela furo. Breschet \ however, is in no way justified in substituting for ' le furet putois' the words ' la lelette Mustela; and Daubenton's words, which we append, will show that he is scarcely justified in speaking of this creature as furnishing an instance of a double placenta, such as that which we find in the Old World Simiadae (220) :— ' Chaque fcetus avait deux placentas ronds, posos sur une zone circulaire qui em- brassait le fetus sur le milieu du corps, comine le placentas du Chien et de la Fouine. Les placentas du Furet avaient chacun environ neuf a dix lignes de diamfetre et une ligne d'^paisseur dans le milieu. Leur face extdrieure dtait gris^tre, et I'in- tdrieure avait une couleur rougeatre. lis n'etaient dloignds I'un de I'autre que d'une ligne par I'un des cdtds et d'un pouce par I'autre cote ; ce dernier interialle Uait rempli par une sorte de placenta, car la substance qui sy trouvait etait beaucoup jtlas epaisse que celle du chorion et celle de I'amnios,' Rodentia. The following history will show that in the rat, and probably in all other rodents, the three structures which we have called placenta, deciduous serotina, and non-deciduous serotina are as distinct from each other as they are either in the cat or in the tenrec. A female rat (3Ius decumamis) was killed after giving birth to nine foetuses. Of these, three had been partly devoured by the mother to the extent of one-third or so of their whole bodies, beginning in two cases from the head, and in the third from the tail. The stomach of the mother was found to contain, besides the food furnished to her and the portions of the foetuses just specified, the placentas or a great number of the placentas which, had been in connexion with the nine foetuses. Some of these placentas had upon the convex surface a cap of pulpy decidua serotina with a thickened border ; in others this cap was removed, and the placenta, from exposure to the macerating action of the digestive juice, had its villi hanging free, and presenting an arborescent appearance. Portions of decidua serotina were found in the stomach lying loose by themselves. Some of the placentae had cords of about an inch in length in connexion with them. Along one uterine cornu there were found six, and along the other were found three globular masses forming hernial protrusions either into or by the side of the mesometrium, and marking the places of the attachment of the nine foetuses. The cavity of the * ' M^moires de I'lnstitut.,' torn. xix. p. 457.