REPORT ON EXCAVATION AT SIGWELL. 447 anee (but not, as I think, the reality) of a barbed arrow-head. Some of the flints had been burnt. The two bones found at a distance from the burnt ones may nevertheless have belonged to the same body as that which fur- nished the ashes; both are of the right side, the one an os inno- minatum, the other a femur fragment. They may ha've escaped the perfect burning to which the rest of the skeleton was subjected. Why they were not put together with the perfectly burnt bones I do not know. The charcoal and ashes of the pyre must have under- gone a very complete sifting to leave so few bones behind amongst them, and also a very complete shifting of place as regards a con- siderable part of them, for the layer of charcoal over the natural soil, which had been reddened, was not thicker than that which was over the parts which were not so reddened. The charcoal over these latter parts, therefore, must have been removed on to them. That the burnt bones were collected in a skin, or possibly in some textile fabric, and so placed where we found them may, in the absence of any relics of bark, or of either of the other substances just mentioned, be shown to be probable by a reference to a paper by the Babu Rajendralala Mitra, in the 'Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,' 1870, iv. p. 253, where we read that the bones from the pyre ' are washed and put in an urn or tied up in a piece of black antelope skin.' That the two large fragments of bone found in this interment may very well have belonged to the same body as that which fur- nished the ashes, is evident from the following observations of Dr. Hutchinson, of Patna, which are put on record by Dr. Norman Chevers, in his 'Medical Jurisprudence,' p. 64, 1870 :— ' Dr. Hutchinson, of Patna, an active observer of all that can throw light upon our knowledge of medical jurisprudence in India, took an opportunity to ascertain exactly the amount of wood which would be necessary to destroy entirely an adult healthy body, and the time that would be necessary for its entire cremation. The pyre was composed of ten maunds of wood, but an equal amount of fala straw was necessary, as also two bottles of oil. The pile was lighted at 6-30 p.m., and at 3 a.m. next morning the conaomption of the body was declared to be complete. When he visited the spot he found in the centre of the ashes the heads of two femora entire, but completely calcined, and a mass of incinerated matter, as large as two fists, said to be the remains of the liver. Thus 20 maunds, or 1600 lbs. of wood and straw, and two bottles of oil, were required to consume a healthy body, and 8| hours more required for the opera- tion, which even then was virtually incomplete. Here, however, five times the need- ful quantity of fuel was consumed.'