494 THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELTDE8. some lengtli an account of the method we employed for collecting the contents of the vascular system, so as to keep them free from admixture with the perivisceral fluid ; the essentials of the method being that a delicate pipette with, at one end of it, a very thin bulb, and a sharp perforated point at the other, was used for puncturing" the great vessel, and extracting from it ' one or two small drops, varying with the size of the annelid and its condition.' ' The dissections were conducted under water; and before the cardiac organ was opened, which was done out of water, the fluid which bathed the vessel was carefully washed away, and the sur- face of the vessel was wiped with bibulous paper.' Dr. Davy de- scribes the bodies seen in the red fluid thus obtained as follows :— ' Viewed under the microscope with a one-eighth inch power, granules or minute corpuscles were seen scattered through it. These varied a little in size ; their average size was about n^^^^th of an inch, or about one-fourth that of the blood-corpuscles of man. Each corpuscle had a luminous centre and well-defined outlines faintly coloured red or yellowish red. The colouring matter, it was pretty clear, was contained within the cell. After some doubt and many trials, this was the conclusion we arrived at—that the fluid owed its colour, either altogether or in great part, to those corpuscles. I did not at the time entirely agree with Dr. Davy's views, the exceedingly small size of these bodies making me adverse to calling them by the same name as any indubitable 'blood-corpuscles' of in- vertebrata ; whilst two non-quantitative peculiarities observable in many of them compelled me to consider them ' lifeless,' in a more thoroughgoing sense than it has ever been proposed to consider even the mammalian red blood cell. These two peculiarities were, firstly, the presence in many of these spheroids of concentric striation, reminding one of the similar lines in the much larger amyloid bodies from the prostate and the walls of the cerebral ventricles ; and secondly, the occupation of the centre of many of them by a rough-hewn, solid, and therefore functionless, dot of yellowish-red pigment. These coloured bodies are strikingly like the pullulations produced in mammalian, and other red blood- corpuscles, by the action of tannin, described by Dr. Roberts. I thought then, and know now, that a large proportion, if not the whole, of these bodies were due to retrograde metamorphosis; and knowing then that the more care (we took too much care) was