260 GENEKAL EEMARK8 of which single examples occur amongst the semi-civilised canocmen on the river.* The fact, finally, of the existence in certain un- civilised races of a far greater difference between the skulls of the women and those of the men than that which exists in European races, is put forward with emphasis by Dr, Zuckerkandl, in the 'Reise der Novara,' Anthrop, Theil, i. 1875, p. iii; and, besides proving, when compared with the utterances of Retzius, Huschke, and Broca, to precisely the opposite effect, the variability of savage female crania, brings, when compared with the results of an exami- nation of female long-barrow crania, a fresh illustration of the importance of collecting, while yet we may, all the available facts for the illustration of ancient savage life. In saying that the dolichocephalic skeletons of the long-barrow period contrast in the points of strength and stature to disadvantage with those of the bronze age, it is by no means intended to assert that ill-filled skulls and stunted skeletons are never to be found in the brachyeephalic series. The very reverse of this indeed has been already, p. 189, pointed out as being the state of the case. The races of the bronze age were in possession of larger means for carrying on the battle of life than those of the stone age; still, they lived in latitudes which we are sometimes tempted to think are only made endurable by the command of glass, and coal, and iron ; and they must, like races in more modern times in a somewhat similar stage of development, have from time to time suffered greatly from famines. Suffering from scarcity of food at a critical period of growth is sufiicient to stunt the stature of individuals even of tall races who may be subjected to it. The chiefs would be less liable than the common people to be so affected; Mr. Bates indeed tells us of a Brazilian tribe {' Naturalist on the Amazons,' ii. p. 127) how the ' footmarks of the chief could be distinguished from the rest by their great size and the length of the stride;' still, a long-continued succession of murrains and bad harvests would affect all classes alike, even in the bronze as well as the stone age. The stature would be more likely to be affected by the operation of such times of scarcity than would the size of the head, as it goes on increasing for so many years, possibly years of scarcity, after the full proportions of the cranium are attained to^ But small and ^ The average circumference of the head has been shown by Liharzig (' Das Gesetz des Wachsthums,' Tab. v. and vi.) to be but a little over an inch less in either sex at