201 CASTLE CABROCK. Extreme leugth . Frotito-iiiial length Extreme breadth Vertical height Absolute height . Basi-cranial axis . Circumference I. Measurements of Calvaria. f 5-6" 5-7" 5-4", 4.05" ■20.7" Cubical capacity . 96" Frontal arc . . . . 5-3" Parietal arc . . . . 4-9" Occipital arc . . • . 4-4" Minimum frontal width . 3-95 Maximum frontal width . 5-1" Maximum occipital width 4-7" II. Measurements of Face, Length of face : ' naso-alveolar' line Breadth of face : ' iiiterzygomatic' line ' Basio-subnasal' line ' Basio alveolar' line Height of orbit Width of orbit Length of nose Width of nose Lower jaw, interangular diameter Lower jaw, depth at symphysis Lower jaw, width of ramus Length-breadth index: Antero-posterior index Basilar angle . III. Indices ' cephalic index' Facial angle to nasal spine Facial angle to alveolar border 2.8" 5-2" 3-7" 3- 9" 1-5" 1.7" 2.05" 1.2" 4- 4" 1-3" 1-3" 80 24 71 66 together with the remarkably small size of its mastoids and its lesser absolute and relative height, may seem to indicate that it is a female skull. However this may be, there can be no doubt that they both are what Dr. Barnard Davis has said one of them, viz. the Tosson skull, is, 'of the typical series of ancient British crania,' and of the typical series, I should add, of the Round Barrow or Bronze Period. As an individual peculiarity in the Castle Carrock skull not observed among the other brachycephalic skulls here figured, may be noted ^ the fact that when placed without its lower jaw, but with the grinding surface of its upper molar teeth upon a horizontal surface^ it touches that surface posteriorly, not with its conceptacula cerebelli, but with its occipital condyles. This is mainly due to the downgrowth of these processes, but also in part to the upward slant of the cerebellar fossae, a point more common in brachycephalic than in other crania, and not indicative of deficient cranial curvature when coupled, as in this case, with a vertical forehead. This ?kull and the five here described before it are all alike ' See Ecker, ' Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' iv. p. 301, cit. p. 172 supra.