ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTUEE3 OF THE TENREO 96 and foetal blood-vascular systems than would have been due to a similar investigation of it in the recent state. I am not, however, myself inclined to think that the lapse of time has made any differ- ence of consequence in the appearances in question. Approxima- tions, on the other hand, to the sinus arrangement of maternal intra-placental vessels have been noticed by Eschricht (1. c. p. 24) as existing in the cat; and Kolliker (I. c, pp. 163, 170) speaks of the ' colossal capillaries' \"' wide, of the dog's placenta, as forming, in contradistinction to the ordinary capillaries of the homologous parts in the rabbit, the ruminants, and the pig, a transition to- wards the arrangement which, in the previous sentence, he cha- racterises as exclusively human ^. It is well to put on record the fact that upon yet a fourth point of supposed difference between the simious and the human placenta considerable weight has been laid, which close examination has shown it would not bear. This point was the persistence of the umbilical vesicle ; and Rudolphi^ speaks emphatically of its supposed disappearance at the third month in the human foetus as sharply differentiating its foetal structures from those of Mycetes, which, in other points, it so closely coincides with. This statement looks strange by the side of such a title to a recent monograph ^ as the following: ' Das Nabelblaschen ein constantes Gebilde in den Nacbgeburt des ausgetragenes Kindes' (The umbilical Vesicle a constant structure in the After-birth of the Child at full time'), or of a statement to the same effect as the heading of this paper of Dr. Schultze's, which is made by Breschet* in his already cited memoir. Before leaving the subject of the simious placenta, it may be well to state that the last-named author is inclined to suspect that further investigation will show that a naked-eye difference of arrangement distinguishes, as do many other points of the like character, the Old-World from the New-World monkeys. This point of difference is the possession by the New-World of a uni- ^ [The Editor in his memoir on the Placentation of the Apes (Phil. Trans. 1878, pp. 537,555) has now established the presence of an intra-placental sinus-system in the ape.] * 'Abhandlungen Berlin Akad. Phys. Klass.' 1828. ' Bis hierher alles also mensch- lich ; aber nun die grosste Abweichung zwar nicht der absoluten aber der relativen Zeit nach wem man das Nabelblaschen betrachtet.' ' Von Dr. Bernhard Sigismund Schultze, Professor der Geburtshulfe in Jena; Leipsic, 1861. M.c.p. 470.