181 HESLEKTON WOLD. tous des sepultures pavtieulieres.' See 'Memoires d'Anthropologie,' i- PP- 354> 355' '871 ; or 'Bull. Soc. Antlir. de Paris/ vol. ii. Ser. i. p. 510. HESLERTON WOLD. [v. p. 142.] This skull presents many of the peculiarities distinctive of a male brachycephalic skull of pre-historic times, and in a form which is by no means extinct at the present day. It has lost considerable portions of the left parietal and temporal bones, as also of the left half of the occipital, by water-wear; the rest of the skull however, and the jaws, are in good preservation. The forehead has the obliquity so usually found in the skulls of strong- male subjects ; the parieto-occipital region, on the other hand, shows the abrupt dij) characteristic of the brachycephalic type. The external occipital protuberance is the most backwardly placed portion of the skull ; and the extreme length and the fronto-inial length therefore coincide. The absence however of the portions of the skull-walls specified enables us to see that the cerebral hemisphere of the left side has overlapped the cerebellum by a considerable length. The point of maximum transverse width lies at a lower level than and anteriorly to the faintly-marked parietal tubera which are situated far back in the norma verticalis. In this view the skull itself is seen to be little more bluntly oval and more globosely rounded out than the figure given of it. The supraciliary ridges are largely developed, a broad but shallow and transversely sutured furrow representing the glabella between them. The muscular and mastoid ridges are large, the teeth however are small, and the wisdom teeth have not been developed in either jaw. The sagittal and coronal sutures are open in both tables of the skull. This skull represents in an early period of life the same modification of the brachycephalic type which we have represented to us in advanced life by such forms as that of'Rudstone, Ixiii. 9,' figured and described below at pages 190, 192, and in which we find a markedly oblique frontal combined with a parieto-occipital region as markedly vertical. The lesser obliquity of the frontal slope ^ in the skull now before us ' See Cleland, 'Phil. Trans.,' 1870, pp. 136, 163, and p. 190, note, infra.