350 APPENDIX. flore comme les c^reales elles-mfime elles ont suivi le sort de ces demiSres, et nous sont venues d'Orient, peut-6tre avec les premiers colons la- custi-es.' Dr. Oswald Heer, however, a botanist of whose investigations Switzer- land may justly be proud, in laying these facts before the world, as in Troyon's ' Habitations lacustres,' p. 443, and Keller's ' Lake Dwellings,' transl. Lee, p, 344, appears to adhere to the second of the two views above stated ; as indeed Keller himself does (1. c. pp. 56 and 309) in the following words used of another product foreign to Switzerland, namely, nephrit: ' It was not brought by the settlers with them from their earlier abodes, but was acquired by barter in later times, after they had lived for centuries in the lake-dwellings of our country.' In the second of the two passages referred to Keller says distinctly: ' There is no ground for concluding that successive peoples of different races or civilisations have occupied these lake-dwellings, one of which has chased the other from its abodes in order to occupy them themselves.' In spite of this, however, scientific opinion in Switzerland seems to me to gravitate rather in the direction of the former of these two views. And this I say, though Herr Edmund v. Fellenberg (' Bericht,' 1. c. p. 15) puts both of them forward without distinctly indicating to which of the two he inclines. He points out that the two minerals nephrit and jadeit are found only in Central Asia, China, New Zealand, and South America ; that only a single unworked block, and that one probably dropped by the importers, has been found in Europe at Schwemmsal in Saxony; and that the usually shai-p and little worn-down implements and weapons made of these two highly resistant minerals are found in somewhat different proportions in different parts of Switzerland, the nephrit- preponderating in the eastern and the jadeit-weapons in the western lake-dwellings ; but he sums up the discussion by asking im- partially, ' Sollten Einwanderungen von verschiedenen Seiten stattge- funden haben, oder batten diese Stamme Handelsbeziehungen nach verschiedenen Eichtungen hin^l' The third view, diametrically opposed to the two first enunciated, was put forward by M. Dupont, with the protection of the honoured name of Steenstrup, at the meeting of the International Anthropological Congress at Stockholm in 1874, in the following words ('Compte Rendu,' p. 821):— * Mr. H. Cayley's valuable account of his own visit to the old Jade quarries of Kdenltin given in Macmillan's Magazine for October, 1871, appears to have escaped the all but exhaustive research displayed in Dr. Heinrich Fischer's 'Nephrit und Jadeit/ already referred to, p. 347.