ON THE HOMOLOGIES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES 118 cartilage, not with the sternum, but with the rib, and it is inserted into the outer and under surface of the clavicle and into the coracoid. But it has no origin from the sternum, and no scapular nor any humeral insertion, either direct or indirect. The human subclavius may have an insertion into the coracoid (Wood, 'Proc. Royal Soc' June 1864, p. 300); but such an aberrant slip as that recorded by Ganzer (cited by Mr, Macalister, ' Journal of Anatomy,' May, 1867, p. 318) as passing in the human subject ' from the cartilage of the first rib to the capsule of the shoulder beneath the pectoralis minor' I should be inclined to look upon as merely a part of the deeper layers of the pectoralis major, which took origin as much higher than those layers do ordinarily reach, as the slip of muscle e 0, figured from the crocodile in Plate 3, fig. 3, takes origin higher than the external obHque does ordinarily. I may now pass by a natural transition to a vindication of my proposition, that the pectoralis seeundus or levator humeri of the bird does not find its homologue in the pectoralis minor of the mammal. For the establishment of this negative proposition, it is not sufficient to say that in each of the mammals (from dissections of which I have described a subclavius apparently homologous in origin, course, and insertion with the avian pectoralis seeundus) a muscle homologous with the human pectoralis minor is also found, and that this coexistence disproves the view which asserts these two pectorales to be homologous; for the pectoralis minor may be multifid, and many instances have been put on record in which it forms a groove for a portion of its fibres in the coracoid, and working in it as over a pulley, comes, either directly or through the intermediation of the supraspinatus (which these fibres join), to act as an elevator of the humerus (see Macalister, ' Proceedings Royal Irish Academy,' Dec. 1867; 'Journal of Anatomy,' May 1867, p. 317 ; Wood, ' Proceedings Royal Society,' May 1867, p. 524, June 1866, p. 231); and it is plain a priori that for the formation of an avian pectoralis seeundus by the pectoralis minor, and for the alteration of its functions from that of a depressor into that of a levator humeri, all that is necessary is the provision for its tendon of some such pulley-like arrangement by the coracoid. What I have to show is that, as a matter of fact, the muscle which, in the economy of nature, has been worked up into the avian