6 ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE BKAIN internal viscera presented any appearance of disease. The lungs, which were both but unilobar, were crepitant throughout, free from congestion, collapse, or tubercle. The callosities on the backs of the fingers, which have been held, and with some show of probability, to indicate the existence of a state of debility, were absent. The roof of the cranium was removed by a circular incision, intersecting the foramen magnum posteriorly. Before the removal of the dura mater the cerebral hemispheres were seen to cover the superior surface of the cerebellum entirely, and even to project a very little way beyond it posteriorly. After the removal of the dura mater a small segment of cerebellar surface became visible on each side, posteriorly to the tips of the occipital lobes. It is well known ^ that the antero-posterior dimensions of the corpus eallosum are very diflPerent in a brain whilst contained and supported within its case, and when removed from the skull—the forward swaying of the hemispheres upon their supporting stems, the crura, flatten- ing the previously arched commissure. That it was the weight of the hemispheres, working similarly, which produced the alteration just noted in the relations of the cerebrum to the cerebellum was seen thus—a wider segment of cerebellar surface was visible on the left side than on the right, the animal lying over towards its right side. The greater width of the semi-lunar segment exposed on the left side was no doubt owing to the gravitation of the cerebral lobes, but the greatest width of this segment was only three lines. The relations thus described are well shown in PI. iii. Fig. 3. The view of the base of the brain, as given in Fig. 2, will enable us to com- plete our observations as to the relations of the cerebellum to the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. On looking at that figure it will be seen that no cerebral surface comes into view on the outside of the lateral boundaries of the cerebellum. In a view of the base of the human brain, some cerebral substance is invariably seen in this situation; but the same is the case with a second orang's brain, with a chimpanzee's brain, and with the brains of several Cereopitheci, and an Imms, in the series belonging to the Christ Church Museum. * ' Bei der Messung der Lange des Balkena muss man wohl im Auge behalten dass man ilin misst so lange die Hemispliaren ihre Lage noch in Schiidel haben; am heraus genommenen Geliirn dehnt er sich sehr betriichtlich in die Lange aus und verliert seine Wolbung.' Huschke, 'Schiidel, Hii-n und Seele/ p. 110.