54 ON THE PRESERVATION OF ENCEPHALA. much greater ease and rapidity tban is the ease in brains not thus treated. Especially is this the case in the brains of foetuses, in which, whilst the substance of the convolutions is softer, the amount of their vascular supply is relatively much greater than in adults. I have little to add to these recommendations except in the way of confirmation based upon the results attained by applying this method to specimens to be preserved permanently in catalogued series. And I may say that a permanent specimen of a brain of any vertebrate animal which has been treated with zinc chloride, either injected by the umbilical vessels, as is to be done in the case of foetuses, or otherwise brought into relation with it, contrasts very usually with a brain which has been treated with alcohol alone, in having a much smoother and less grumous sur- face than brains treated in this latter fashion, however pains- takingly their membranes may have been picked away from them. The difference may be illustrated by saying, that the surfaces of two sets of brains, thus severally treated, differ very much in the same way that the surfaces of the bones of wild and domesticated representatives of the same species differ. But, secondly, I would say that the condition of freshness is by no means absolutely necessary for the purposes of making anato- mical preparations of brains, as M. Stahl appears to have found it to be for the purpose of modelling. Having to deal with the brain of a large toper shark [Galeiis canis), some way removed from that condil ion of freshness which would have rendered it safe to attempt to remove it from the skull, I treated it for some days in situ, firstly with zinc chloride, and subsequently with spirit. After this, it bore removal from the skull, as well as the brains of its congeners, which came into our hands in more favourable con- ditions, and in this matter of smoothness and clearness, and what the Germans call the 'Glanz' of its surface, it compares to con- siderable advantage with them (see Prep. 896, d. e. Anatomical Department, Oxford Univerity Museum). For the successful application, however, of Broca^'s method of hardening and shrinking a brain by nitric acid, for which see ' Mem. Soc. Anthrop., Paris,' ii. 1865, p. 84, into a mass which, when dried and varnished, bears handling for an indefinite period; I take this opportunity of saying that I incline to think the condition of freshness is usually