SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN ONE HUNDBED AND SIX YEARS OLD. 151 Everard Home in the second plate of his second volume upon the diseases of this gland must have resembled the one just described very closely. The lateral lobes were large, and in the veins forming the prostatic plexus some little blood was observed, but by no means a large quantity. A uterus masculinus of one-third of an inch was present; the vasa deferentia opening anterior to it, one on either side. A semi-lunar fold of mucous membrane of three-eighths of an inch in length projected on either side of the veru montanum from the lateral lobe of the prostate, with its free edge towards the membranous part of the urethra. Some yellowish fluid was con- tained in the spermatic vesicles and ends of the vasa deferentia; it contained a great number of free nuclei, but no spermatozoa. The scrotum was not opened, but I could not detect any testes within it, though the epididymis was easily recognisable within either compartment. Dr. Davy was informed by the old man, in the summer of i86i, that it was not till the age of lOO that he lost virile power, and that it was then his health began to fail. This coincidence of failures seems in accordance with the conclusion come to by Dr. Davy, in his ' Anatomical and Physiological Re- searches,' vol. i. p. 337, to the effect that, with the exception of consumption, wasting diseases terminating in death have the effect of arresting the spermatic secretion, M. Duplay^, however, who examined the contents of the seminal vesicles in 51 cases of old men, and found spermatozoa in as many as 37 of these cases, these 37 being mostly above 70 years of age, remarks that nearly half of them died of chronic diseases, and that some modification of Dr. Davy's views seems necessitated by his statistics. That Thomas Parr retained virile power to the age of 100 is only too well known; and in the 'Derby Mercury' for November 12, 1862, I find an account of a congratulatory dinner given to a centenarian, Mr. Foster, whose 'firstborn child, if now living, would have at- tained her seventy-eighth year ; and whose last, the only one left, had celebrated her tenth birthday but a few days before.' Dr. Luigi Berruti's recently published account of an Italian who died at the age of 104, besides furnishing a singularly close his- torical parallel to the case of Thomas Parr, shows us that the ' Geist, 'Klinik der Greisenkrankheiten,' vol. i. p. 147 ; 'Archives G^n^rales de M^decine,' Dec. 1852, 1853; SchmidtB ' Jalirbiicher,' 1853, N0.4; 1856, No. 2.