126 ON THE HOMOLOGIES OP CERTAIN MUSCLES muscle of the same origin as the smaller levator of the fowl; and we have thus an intermediate stage between the trifld insertion of the levator-apparatus of the fowl and the single tendon of the hawk. It will be obvious that the 'deltoides externus' of the common fowl corresponds, both as to origin and insertion, with the anterior or praeglenoid head of the ' epicoraeo-humeral' of the crocodile, and that its smaller levator humeri corresponds as closely, as to its inser- tion, with the postscapular head of that reptilian muscle; and it might seem, therefore, that the larger levator humeri muscle of the fowl remains without a separate homologue in the reptile, were not this muscle innervated by the same subclavius nerve as the reptilian epicoraeo-humeral, whilst the smaller levator humeri is, together with the deltoides externus, innervated from the circumflex. To an objector who denies the validity of this argument, and lays stress on the fact that the reptilian muscle has not the sternal factor of the avian pectoralis secundus, I reply, first, in the emu a muscle very unmistakeably homologous with the praecoraeo-scapularis of the crocodile possesses but a very small sternal factor; and, secondly, in the ostrich [Struthio cavielus), which also retains a pectoralis secundus, this sternal factor is aborted and lost. Stages of successive degradation from a highly specialised structural arrangement may well serve to guide our judgments in problems such as these, if it be true that the essential elements of a structure are the last which it loses so long as it retains any actual func- tional power at all. But, thirdly, lower types than even the scaly or loricate reptile may have an epicoraco-humei'al with a sternal factor. This is the case in the frog, where the epicoraeo-humeral (the ' pars clavicularis deltoidei' of Ecker, ' Die Anatomic des Frosches,' p. 97) arises from what Mr. Parker (' Shoulder-Girdle,' pp. 79, 80, and pi. V.) has shown to be the praecoracoid and the omosternum. With this I close my case for proving that the epicoraeo-humeral of the reptile is the homologue of the pectoralis s. levator humeri of the bird. It is not necessary for the acceptance of this conclusion that a person should accept also the Theory of Progressive Evolution. By speaking of organs as being ' homologically identical,' a person who is either averse to pronounce himself, or anxious to secure a dispassionate consideration from all parties, or both, may avoid pledging himself either to the theory which teaches that they are 60 by virtue of the 'secret bond' of their ' conformity to type,' or to