252 GENERAL REMARKS and therefore of proportionately greater morphological value is presented to us in the shortness of the coronoid process relatively to the condyle-bearing portion of the ramus. In this point these ancient dolichocephali resemble many modern Eskimo crania^ indeed the frequency, almost amounting to con- stancy, with which it occurs in these modern savages is such as to render of less importance the fact that it is sometimes ob- servable in other races both savage and civilised^. A second mor- phological peculiarity of similar significance is sometimes though by no means so frequently constituted by the backward position of the foramen mentale, an orifice which in modern European lower jaws opens in the plane of the anterior premolar, but in these priscan jaws sometimes occupies the more backwardly placed position not unusually noticeable in Negros. The skeletons from the long barrows differ as markedly from those of the round as do the skulls. I have never found the stature to exceed 5 ft. 6 in. (see p. 539 of ' British Barrows ;' ' Journ. Anthr. Instit.' V. Oct. 1875, p. 121) in any skeleton from a barrow which was undoubtedly of the stone and bone period. In this point my results are in close accordance with those of Dr. Thurnam (' Further Researches,' p. 33), who found the mean stature of the dolicho- cephalic men of the long barrows to be 5' 5-4"=i-66i metre, and that of the brachyeephalous men of the round barrows to be 5' 8-4"= 1737 metre; the brachycephali having thus an advantage of no less than 3"= 7-6 cent, in the matter of height 2. To this I ' Sohaafhausen, cit. Ecker, ' Archiv fttr Antliropologie,' iii. p. 134,1868, speaks of a massive lower jaw with almost vertically ascending broad and short ramus, the processes of which are almost of the same height, as causing us to recognise the rough and more aboriginal type of conformation as it is known to us in the old Scandinavians, Celts, and Britons, and as it is in part at least presented to us in an exaggerated degree among modern savages. See 'Journal of Anth. Institute,' July 1876, vi. p. 34, for description of such a lower jaw from the Ancient British Flint-mine at Cissbury. ^ Mr. J. R. Mortimer, ' Journal Anthrop. Institute,'vol. vi. 3, p. 333, Jan. 1877, has found that the mean stature of his skeletons with dolichocephalic skulls is as much as 5'9-4", as against 5'5" for the brachycephali, a very different result from those attained to by Dr. Thurnam and myself. The discrepancy however is very easily explained ; Dr. Thurnam and I, when we speak of dolichocephali, are referring only to dolichocephali from long barrows, in which no metallic instruments are found, and all of which are anterior in date to the round barrows with which Mr. Mortimer ia dealing. In these latter barrows, as the craniography of them shows, we have, in Yorkshire commonly and to some extent even in the South of England, to deal with a mixed race; and the effect of crossing, as will hereinafter be pointed out in the text, is very usuaUy to increase the size of the mixed races. The only cremation long