421 ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. ation. It might seem, at first sight, to indicate that the gallery and shaft excavators had left this pit open for a considerable time, departing herein from their usual custom. Snails, however, mul- tiply with very great rapidity under favourable conditions, and the damp and protection from enemies, such as, notably, the pig, which such a shaft would have afforded, would constitute such favourable conditions. And it must be borne in mind that but little weather- ing of the sides of the shafts had taken place (see Professor Prestwich, ' Journal of Institute,' 1. c, p. 386.), and that the rubble with which this shaft, like the others, was filled up, was not altered, softened, or broken up, as it would haVe been if long exposed to rain and cold. Taking all the facts together, those, to wit, which are put before us in Colonel Lane Fox's Plate Xv,, with letterpress in explanation at p. 375, 1. c.; those which I have before me in the very large collection of fragmentary and of perfect, of brute and of human bones, and those which the snail-shells represent, we may sum them up as follows:—A human skeleton, with nearly every bone represented, including the often missing patellae and fibulae, was found with its skull about 3 feet 6 inches from the bottom of a shaft, which must have been 14 feet deep originally, but which had got filled up some little way at the time of the falling of the owner of this skull into it. The skull rested on its base and lower jaw; one of the heel bones t fouiid when I cleared out the upper part of the shaft from the 'red seam' marking the bottom of the ditch down- wards, I foot 7 inches higher up than the skull. This os calcis was lying upon a small outstanding ledge of the natural chalk which had been left projecting inwards from the sides of the shaft, on which it had caught, in what we must suppose to have been the sudden and somewhat ungraceful plunge of the woman into the pit. This fall must have bent the head round, as the crown was looking upwards when it was found. The space occupied by the skeleton from the os calcis to the crown of the skull was only 1 foot 7 inches, a distance only some 3 inches or so greater than the length of the femur; but that even this distance should have been preserved, it must have been necessary that a considerable quantity of support- ing material must have accompanied the woman in her fall, other- wise the entire skeleton would have been found flat on the floor of the shaft. And, as a matter of fact, we found the bones of the pigs above enumerated mixed up confusedly with the human bones and