DESCRIPTION OP FIGURES OF SKULLS. 220 Daniel Wilson as characteristic of the ' Insular Celt/ and called by him ' pear-shaped ' or ' coffin-shaped.' Skulls, it may be said with truth, very closely similar to this skull and to the Engis skull have, like it, been found in caves ; three strikingly like them ; one from the mountain limestone cave at Llanel)ie in Caermarthenshire, mentioned by Dr. Buckland, Reliquiae Diluvianae, p. 166^, and filled with stalagmite; a second from a cave at Cheddar; and a third, presented by James Parker, Esq., from a small cave at Uphill, near Weston-super-Mare; all, ol' considerable, though, as is often the case with other objects of the same kind from the same sort of locality and deposit, of uncertain antiquity, may be seen in the Oxford University Museum. But very similar skulls are to be found in perfectly modern interments. The Engis skull has been compared by its discoverer Professor Schmerling ^ and by Professor Virchow ^ to Ethiopian skulls; and by other authorities to Eskimo and Australian skulls. Principal Dawson F.R.S., of McGill College, Canada, remarked to me of a skull of the dolichocephalic variety of the Red Indian race and of the Iroquet tribe from Hochelaga near Montreal, that it resembled the Engis cranium, and as this cranium has been presented to the Oxford University Museum it is available there for comparison with a cast of that famous calvaria. Resemblances so strong as are some of these should, since they are also so widely scattered over the globe, make us careful in speaking as to the ethnographical affinities of any calvariae, or even, inasmuch as the absence or presence of prognathism varies a good deal within the limits of a single race, of skulls, until we have a very considerable number of representatives of both objects of comparison to place alongside of each other ; and it may be added until we have also succeeded in bringing other lines of evidence from archaeology, philology, and, when available, history, to bear upon the question ^. * An account of this cave, with a figure, may be found in Mr. L. W. Dillwyn's 'History of Swansea,' p. 52, and may be advantageously compared with M. Dupont'a similar discovery near Grendon, recorded at p. 229 of his work, cit. p. 537 of 'British Barrows.' * ' Recherches sur les ossements fossiles d^couverts dans les Cavernes de la Province de Li(lge,' p. 59 seqq., 1833. Cit. Professor Huxley,' Man's Place in Nature,' p. 121,1863. ^ ' Archiv fiir Anthr.,' vol. vi, p. 92, 1873. * 'Canadian Naturalist,' vol. v. No. 6, Dec. i860. 5 [The Editor described ('Quart. Journ. Science,'April, 1864) a skull from St. Acheuil, near Amiens, which closely resembled in form and proportions the Engis cranium.]