ANIMAL REMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURY. 417 vertebrae have been recovered from this pit may seem at first hardly in keeping with the view just stated. But the Homeric epithet for the chine, as eaten at feasts (' Iliad,' vii. 321), cm'iously enough suggests that the vertebrae would be kept together even when thus used; and the comment of the scholiast upon the word in question seems to indicate that the way of Utilising the muscles of the back for food with which he was familiar, was not such as to be described by such words as vu)tol(tl hnqviKieacri. It is easy to imagine that savages using flint knives only to carve with would be glad to be spared the trouble of disarticulating the vertebral column into segments^ such as we eat under the name of ' chine'; and the deeper lying spinal and interspinal muscles and ligaments would keep it all bound together after they had devoured the more super- ficially placed soft parts. What they left would be flung on to their rubbish heap ; from that it migrated, in a way to be hereafter suggested, into the skeleton shaft. The fact that the lower jaws are invariably broken ^, so as to part the alveolar from the other parts of the bone, bears directly upon the employment of the bone for food, as does also the very scanty representation of the brain-containing part of the skull, or indeed of any part of the skull except the upper jaw. The absence of any manubrium sterni I should explain, following a hint given by Riitiraeyer, by suggesting that it was found useful as a punch when the tynes of the red deer might have become scarce. An old goat, Capra hircus, was represented in the series from this skeleton pit by a radius, a metacarpal, and metatarsal bone, and by four lumbar vertebrae. A kid was also represented by its metatarsal bones. Two roes, Cervus capreolus, were also represented here ; the femur and humerus of one had been split for marrowj and was slightly stained with the manganic oxide. Bos primigenius may perhaps be represented by a couple of thick and rough nasal bones, as well as by a few other fragmentary bones of similar texture, and some much worn premolars. These may have got accidentally mixed up with the bones of the other animals found in larger quantities in this pit, some of the suc- cessful drivers of the urns having brought away its head from * See Eutimeyer, 'Fauna der Pfablbauten,' p. 14. E e