UPON THE SERIES OP PREHISTORIC CRANIA.. 249 attention in the 'Natural History Review' of 1865 (see also Vircliow, ' Archiv fiir Anthrop.' v. p. 535, 1873) as being very frequent in this type of cranium is specially obvious ; and not rarely, though by no means universally, in the skulls of individuals in quite early stages of adult life (see pp. 211, 213 supra). It is rare in the brachycephalic series to see any traces of such anchylosis until many other senile changes have set in with advancing years. In many of the stone-age dolichocephali, by combining the view given in the norma verticalis with that given in the norma occipitalis, we realise to ourselves very vividly the force of the epithets ' scaphocephalic' and ' kumbocephalic' (see p. 214 supra) which have been applied to them. The keeled mesial ridge and the lateral wall-sidedness given in the back view are often combined with a rapid tapering, both forwards and backwards, from the plane of the anteriorly situated parietal tubera, which suggests the comparison to a long and narrow boat which the epithets just quoted embody. On the other hand, it must be said that the contour presented by these skulls in the norma verticalis does, whilst always retaining the length in a relation of advantage to the breadth, yet vary considerably, as the other epithets ' birnfdrmig,' pear-shaped, ' keulenfdrmig,' club-shaped ( = 'elongate oval'), and coffin-shaped (=' cuneate oval') by various writers applied to them plainly indicate. In other words, these skulls when viewed in this as also in other aspects are seen, whilst remaining always dolicho- cephalous, to vary considerably as to being well or ill filled, globular or pinched, phaenozygous or aphaenozygous, rounded off or angular in the plane of greatest breadth, and finally to some extent even as to the relative position of this plane in the long axis of the skull. As has been however already said, the conformation of the lower jaw in every well-marked variety of the human species is an eminently distinctive element in the complex aggregate of peculia- rities which make up its cranial character. The presence of pro- gnathism in the upper jaw is by no means a point of such con- sequence for distinguishing crania of prehistoric series infer $e, as it is for distinguishing them from those of later and of modern races. For, as a matter of fact, prognathism, which is not always constant in its presence even in modem races reputedly prognathic, is by no means common in crania from the early interments of Britain