134 ON THE HOMOLOGIES OF CERTAIN MUSCLES Name of Muscle in Mammal. Homoloffue in Upper Exlremity of Bird. Homoloifue in Upper Extremity of Reptile. Serial Homologue. Deep portions otcoraco- biachialis, in Mono- treme. (See Miv.'.rt, p. 385, Linn. Soc. Trans, vol. XXV.) Coraco-brachialis supe- rior. No. xvii.Schoepss, sug- gested as homologue by Mivart, t. c. Ditto. Obturator inlemus. Thi.s muscle is never supplied by the obtu- rator nerve. Deltoid. Represented in birds by the ddloidcs e.xlcr- nus of Meckel, no. xix. Schoepss, by the tlel- toides supiTior of Meck- el, no. xviii. of Schoepss, and by the smaller (cua- tor humeri of the fowl. Deltoid. Outerhead otpeclineus, supplied by anterior ' crural nerve or its internal cutaneous branch. InfratpinnlHS and su- praspinalus. Not found in birds as differentiated slips. Suprascapnlaris,' infra- spinatus,' Mivart. Iliacus, exclusively of part specified below. Teres minor. Essentially a deep portion of posterior l)art of deltoid. Not differentiated in birds, except emu and other Batitae ? Differentiated in cro- codile and chamae- leon. Musculus iliacus inter- 7ms minor of Luschka, Anat. Mensch. ii. 2. 13'. Scapulo-humeral. Essentially a part either of mbscapularis or teres major. Present in fowl, goose, sparrow-hawk, buzzard. Absent in pigeon. Present in crocodile. Absent as a differen- tiated slip in some sau- rians. Musculus scantorius. Teres major. Very large in birds. Present in crocodile. Absent as differen- tiated slip in some sau- rians, as chamaeleon. Tensor fasciae femoris. Pj/ri/onnis. In Macropus major a thin muscular slip arises from superior border of scapula near the origin of omohyoid. It passes down over the tendon of the subscapu- laris, with which mus- cle it is closely con- nected for an inch and a half, and it is also attached to the tendon of the biceps as it gUdes over the inner tubero- sity of the humerus. It is inserted on the inner side of humerus above but close to the Lenuon ui luo h#co major, overljdng and giving fibres to the in- ner head of the tric-ps. This muscle corre- sponds with the iliac head of the pyriformis. The acromio-traehclian corresponds with its sacral head. External and inter- nal intercostal of ante- rior intercostal space. 'Subclavius' of birds. Subclavius of reptiles. External and inter- nal intercostal mus- cles. Bicepn femoria. Semimembranosus, Semilendinosus. Muscle arising from posterior vertebral an- pleofscapula,andpass- nig down to olecra- non. Lettered + t. in CuvierandLnurillnrd's ' Planches de Myologie,' pis. 100, 104,108.