LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. Ivi " drunkenness has decreased wonderfully ;" and my informant, whose words I quote, but who, like myself, has seen reason to disbelieve wholly in the " system," professed himself astonished at the change. You may think that my informant and myself are hard to please if we do not think this a success. I have to say that a man must be hard to please and must not be easily satisfied nor contented with first impressions if he is either to get at the real facts or to draw true inferences from them in a matter which is not merely somewhat complex in itself, but which touches hardly on the one side upon powerful pecuniary, and on the other upon powerful philanthropic interests. The first rulcj however, in Natural History and, I imagine, in all other sound investigation, is to make yourself acquainted with all the circumstances of the case, and in stating your problem, at least to yourself, to omit from consideration no condition which may in any way be relevant to the question of causation. This rule is a little elementary, but it is also a good deal neglected. Acting upon it, I will remark that the three years in question which have seen the Gothenburg sj^stem in full operation, besides being but three years, a sufiiciently short time to base even a B.A. degree upon, have been years of severe com- mercial distress in Gothenburg as in England, with which country the bulk of its trade is carried on. Now we are not here and now so far removed from the memories of the cotton famine as to have forgotten that certain evils, such as that of excessive infant mortality, to say nothing of drunkenness, diminished greatly in England during that period. But nobody ascribed the diminu- tion of that mortality to any other cause than the very obvious vera ac sufficiens causa, which shut up the mills and left the mothers to stay at home and look after their children. And I cannot see why the same line of reasoning may not be applied to the case of Gothenburg, with its three last years of hardship. The analogy is mine, the explanation it suggests to your readers was the one given me by my informant; they can judge for themselves which of the two antecedents has been the more or the really operative one. But Descartes' rule as to an exhaustive