GENERAL REMARKS 273 the area of which we are treating* j there are several reasons how- ever for hesitation as to referring this variability of the topogra- phical disposition of the vesicular neurine to the less vigorous character of the circulation of the blood in the arteries supplying it: but if this peculiarity does not explain the greater morpho- logical variability of these convolutions, it does justify us in ascribing to them a lesser physiological activity. Leaving now the consideration of the distribution of arteries over this particular area of the cerebral cortex as detectible by the naked eye, we come to a consideration of the histological characters of this zone as compared with that of the fronto-parietal convolutions which lie anteriorly to it. And it is a fact of cardinal importance that it is in this anteriorly situated part of the brain that the large pyramidal cells, the 'cornu ammonis formation' of Meynert, so characteristic of the healthy human brain, are chiefly, if not exclusively, found. The largest indeed of these pyramidal, cells, ' Riesenpyramiden/ have been said by Professor Betz to be limited in their distribution posteriorly by the line of the fissure of Rolando (see ' Centralblatt Med. Wiss.' 1874), and Dr. Achille Foville ('Medical Examiner/ Feb. i, 1877, p. 85) does but extend the area in which, they are all but exclusively to be found, just so much further back as is the second ascending central convolu- tion which forms the posterior boundary of that fissure. Dr. Major ('Journal of Mental Science,' Jan. 1876) has justly insisted upon the indications with which human pathology firstly, as shown by him in the ' West Riding Asylum Reports,' 1872, vol. ii. pp. 41-52, and comparative anatomy secondly, furnish us as to the functional importance of these pyramidal cells ; it being in these cells that ' degenerative changes first occur when age is beginning to do its work and pari passu the intellect is failing,' whilst 'as we proceed downwards in the scale of development it is these cells which vary most distinctly from the corresponding bodies in the human organ.' To this I would add that the histological characters of these cells when compared with those of other" cells known to discharge important functions with great activity are such as to vindicate their claim to a high rank amongst such cells. As seen in a microscopic specimen prepared by the ordinary reagents, these cells are remarkable, firstly, for their large size; then for their freedom from the limitation of a cell wall; thirdly for the clear lacunar spaces