194 DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS. This skull does not show any traces of the not uncommon asymmetry of the parieto-oecipital region produced by careless one-sided carriage in infancy; but it has a singular and sug- gestive resemblance to many of the artificially deformed skulls of the New World, though it is not likely that it was subjected to any such process purposively carried out. Skulls like this resemble some of the purposively deformed skulls, firstly, in general antero-posterior contour from the large supraciliary ridges over to the similarly developed transversa crista occipitis; secondly, in the general relations of maximum breadth to the extreme length; thirdly, in the position of that plane of maxi- mum breadth far back in the plane of extreme length; fourthly, in the width and strength of the upper and lower jaws; and, fifthly, in the minor yet not wholly unimportant point of the disparity of size between the upper and lower squamae occipitis with their respective nervous contents. Nor is prognathism, which is almost always absent in these priscan skulls, by any means always present in the artificially deformed ones of modern times. Skulls like the one just described have a calculable brain weight of 54 oz. avoidupois, which is considerably above the average weight 49'5 oz. for European males in modern times; their powerful lower jaw and the bones of their limbs show them to have been possessed of muscular strength at least as much superior to that of average men ; and their owners, for. these as well as for other reasons which it is not my purpose to discuss here^, may be veiy reasonably supposed to have been chiefs of their clan or tribe. The physical peculiarities however of individuals in such positions are very usually imitated by other members of their clan, tribe, or nation; and it may be suggested that the habit of artificially deforming the head, at all events as we see it most commonly done when it results in the production of a form like the one just described, may have arisen from the wish to give a child from the first the outlines which distinguished some adult whose vigour had placed him in a position of eminence and command 2. * See Address to Anthropological Subsection, 'British Assoc.Report for 1875,' p. 150. It is not entirely easy even with a large number, as in the Oxford Museum, of artificially deformed skulls to be perfectly certain that such a skull as the one above described cannot have owed its peculiar contour to compression purposively exercised upon it during the period of infancy. Some sort of a priori probability in favour of this skull having been endowed with its peculiar shape by this means arises of course