LIFE OF DE. KOLLESTON. Ixiii body. There's that testimonial I have written for you, and I've put your name down at the Athenaeum.' The present writer saw him in London just starting, full of his old interests, and far less troubled for himself than for his unfinished work. In the hot bright climate of the Riviera his strength revived, and his old capacity for enjoying nature showed itself still strong in him. He went to Nice, and there with Mr. Alfred Tylor examined the human jawbone lately found imbedded in the hill-side, apparently in remote prehistoric times. The description written by him of this jaw was his last scientific paper ^. A few days later he moved to Bordighiera, whence he wrote home to his family a description of the hills clothed with olives to their tops, and the oranges and lemons and ' real date-palms ' below. On his way with Mr. George Macdonald to visit Mr. Thomas Hanbury at La Mortola, he pleased himself in picturing how different an aspect the land- scape would have presented to the prehistoric man he had lately been describing—only the hills and pines the same, the now characteristic fruit-trees of the region not yet come from Asia. The tropical vegetation of the gardens of La Mortola raised in his mind a glow of pleasure, expressed in another home letter. A few weeks later, having gone on to Corsica, he writes to one of his sons that he had there found a young General in the Mexican service who could neither read nor write, but who had ^ At Prof. Turner's suggestion, the following extract is taken from this memorandum, ■which is too unfinished for printing in extenso. ' These bones . . . were found in dig- ging the cellar of a little country house about a mile out of Nice, about lo feet down in a deposit of river sand mixed with calcareous matter, in which fresh-water snail sheila were found. The bones had been thrown out in spadesful of the deposit, but Mons. Joachim [the proprietor] was clear that they had formed an intrinsic part of the deposit itself. Now this deposit is far above the level of any stream in that locality at present, and it is above the level of terraces very like those now made by the proprietors in this district for olives: and due, like the similar ones at Amiens, to the action of a quaternary pluvial period. So it must have been much older than they, and indeed deposited before the river had become as small and the valley as large by a very great deal as it is now.' The lower jaw in question is very im- perfect, the angle is strongly marked for the masseter muscle, mentum feeble, alveolar part of front relatively long, sockets for incisors small; there are 3 molars and I pre-molar, very little worn, and Dr. Eolleston judged the jaw to have belonged to a woman nearer 18 than 24.