AND THOSE OF CEKTA.IN OTHER MAMMALIA. 107 whicli comes into relation and connexion with the placenta gives way in the rodent, and allows the cuplike mass which it attaches to the uterine wall to drop freely into the uterine cavity; if it gives way in the ruminant, as it sometimes does, it is' a patho- logical process which entails, pro tanto, sterility upon the animal in which it occurs, and has its occurrence marked by the production of a cicatrix. In other words, the fibro-plastic cells which may be found on the utero-placental area of a ruminant, from which the above downgrowth proceeds, are not sufficient for the regene- ration of the mucous structures over that area, which perfect regeneration however we do find to take place in the whole class of deciduate mammals. Nor is this all. For though the placenta with its upgrowth (Kern of Bischoff) in the guinea-pig might be taken to represent, though roughly, the cotyledons on the dis- charged placenta of a ruminant, the structures which they were drawn from in the rodent differ essentially from the placentulae of the ruminants, in that they contain inextricably mixed up in their mass, as a well-injected specimen will always show, maternal elements which the apparently similar ruminant structures do not ^. In its early attainment of the faculty of self-help, however, in the inguinal position, and in the small number of its mammae, the guinea-pig presents points of real resemblance to the ruminants and also to most other non-deciduate mammals. Secondly, Professor Owen, in the Linnean Society's 'Proceedings^,* says of the deciduous portion of the rat's placenta, that it— ' Consists of foetal parts exclusivelyand that the ' structure of the discoid pla- centa in the Pleropxis, like that of the rat, more resembles that of the foetal portion of the cotyledon in the cow than that of the ceUulo-vascular, spongy placenta of the Quadrumana.' To this it must be replied that specimens, such as most museums possess, of uteri containing foetuses in which both foetal and maternal vessels have been injected show distinctly that this resemblance does not exist. It is impossible to inject the uterine vessels of any deciduate mammal, at any but the very earliest ' It should be borne in mind that, though in the pregnant uteri of these prolific animals the sites of former placentae are recognisable as well as the functional struc- tures, the sitea of the two hardly ever coincide. Eeichert says that he has only once seen the new placenta attach itself to the place occupied by its predecessor (1. c. p. 130). Matters are altogether different in the ruminants. * 1. c. p. 16, note. See also ' Phil. Trans.' for 1857, p. 351.