OF THE OEANG UTANG, 21 The internal anatomy of the simioiis brain does not furnish us, then, with those sharply differentiating- characteristics which have been supposed to put it' into a position of such marked inferiority to that of man. As to the external anatomy, whilst too little importance has perhaps been assigned to the points of difference which the very widely differing antero-posterior diameters of the corpora callosa, and of the frontal lobes, and the very widely differing absolute weights of the two brains, constitute, too much seems to have been given to the 'absence of an external perpendicular fissure^' to the ' presence of a lobule of the marginal convolution/ and to the lesser relative size of the nerves in the human brain. Upon most other points, I find myself in agreement with most other writers, both as to facts and to inferences; the cumulative weight of the many minor points of agreement and difference, the reader will be best able to appreciate, by massing each order of facts together for himself. The principles of the idealist teach him that the difference which exists between the soul of man and the life of the beast which perisheSj is not one which can be weighed or measured, be drawn or figured, be calculated in inches or ounces. He fearlessl}^ ac- knowledges that the anatomical truth in this matter lies on the boundary line of the conterminous positions taken up by Buffou and Professor Huxley^ respectively; for he feels that yet higher truth is expressed in the golden words but recently rescued from long oblivion:— ' On earth there is nothing great but man; In man there is nothing great but mind.' DESCRIPTION OF Plate I. These four views of the brain of the orang are copies of photo- graphs taken of it by Messrs. Hills and Saunders, of Oxford. The brain had been carefully hardened in spirit for as much as two months before it was thus photographed. The figures are num- bered in the order in which the photographs were taken. The numbers placed upon the convolutions on the exterior surface of the brain will be found to correspond with those similarly employed by