BRAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 37 when we analyse the tertiary convolutions. In one jmrt of the brain, where two of the five great masses into which its convoluted surface may be mapped out abut upon each other, what are but connecting- spurs in the ape's, overhung and concealed by the beetling" parietal and occipital lobes, rise in man to the dignity of connecting table-lands, filling up and bridging over levelly what is a valley, or rather a chasm, in most simious encephala. Small as this difference may seem to be^, it nevertheless corresponds with what has been spoken of as absolutely, with two other points, difierentiating man's brain from that of the ape's under the head of ' the absence of the external perpendicular fissure,^ and it cor- responds also with the absence or presence of what has been figured in diagrams 3 and 5 in a larger or smaller mass of convolutions lettered a and /3. These diagrams I must now proceed to explain by the aid of the yet simpler, yet not less truthful Figures 6 and 7. These last figures are taken from M. Gratiolet's work so often referred to, but they might have been taken from the outer aspect of the left cerebral hemisphere of the very brain from which the dissected right ventricle of Figure 6 was drawn. The oblique line which is lettered S, in what I will speak of as a vervet monkey's brain, is the fissure of Sylvius. Earliest to appear in the developing brain, it is the very last convolution which we lose in the simplified cerebrum of the lowest western monkey. From both the stand- points, therefore, of scientific anatomy, it is of primary importance, and to us it is the least moveable of all our land-marks. As it rises and forms an angle with the horizon, so the grade of the brain to which it belongs falls, and vice versa. Our second land- mark is the fissure which is second also in order of appearance in the growing human, though not in the simious brain, the fissure of Rolando. It is a fissure which should be dear to the phrenologist, for whilst all other fissures and their limiting convolutions shift (Gratiolet's ' Syst^rae Nerveux,' tome ii. p. 115) about in different individuals as they are differently developed, from one region of the protecting skull roof to another, so that we are never justified in saying that any one convolution, which we could recognise and number accordingly in an exposed brain, will be found under such or such an osseous protubei-ance, which we may be passing our finger over ('promenant nos aveugles doigts,' as Gratiolet some- ' 'Nat. Hiat. Eeview,' January, 1861, p. 83.