ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONQ-BAEROW PERIOD. 407 as to the dentition of the dolicliocepliali from the Yorkshire Wolds. There were two humeri from this barrow, both evidently female, and possibly from the same individual, with olecranic perforations. Of the opposite condition of hyperostosis we have an example in the supraciliary ridges of one fragmentary and one nearly perfect frontal bone, the ridges not being underlaid by sinuses, but made up of can- cellous bone. There were found here also one specimen of an ossified thyroid cartilage, and one of anchylosis of the dorsal vertebrae. Many of the bones are encrusted with stalagmite ; and a con- siderable number, both of the human bones and of the bones of sheep, ox, and pig which were found in the chamber, were dis- coloured by the manganic oxide, a circumstance which renders probable at once the contemporaneity and the antiquity of both. Description of skull helonging to male skeleton found in passage leading into chamber.—Swell vii.—The bones of this skeleton show their owner to have been a man of about thirty years of age, traces of the suture between the first and second sacral vertebrae being still to be recognised in the middle line; to have been of average mus- cular strength, and of a stature of about 5 feet 5 inches. With his bones came also the jaw of a young pig, just as was the case with the bones from the chamber in Swell i.; as also some bones of a sheep or goat. Cranial Measurements. Ext. length • 7-4 Cephalic index .... .76 Ext. breadth . . 6-6 Antero-posterior index . 94 189 Vert, height • 6-65 Distance from auditory foramen Least frontal width . . 3^8 to fronto-nasal suture 4-3 Frontal arc . 5-2 Distance from auditory foramen Parietal arc . 4-8 to uasal spine , 4.2 Occipital arc . 4-7 Distance from auditory foramen Circumference (approx.) 21 to alveolar edge 4.4 GlabeUo-inial length . • 7-3 Height of orbit • x-35 Width 1.6 Interangular diameter of lower jaw Depth of symphysis This skull has the typical dolichocephalic contour when viewed in the norma lateralis, though by mere measurement it is less doli- chocephalic than skulls from similar barrows usually are. The highest point in its evenly curving antero-posterior arc is at the coronal suture. Its most striking characteristic is the prominence of its