UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 283 described in the ' Crania Britannica/ PI. ii, by Dr. Thurnam. Some additional probability for the view \Vhich would consider these skulls to be ' Mischformen' is on the principle laid down in note 4, p. 232 supra, gained from the fact that this latter skull had belonged to a skeleton with a thigh of 20-5", and by consequence to a man of not less than (/ 2," in stature. Neither of the authors touch upon this point in treating of these skulls; they coincide with each other in observing upon the great height and the vertical dip of the pos- terior part of their parietals. As regards the series of prehistoric crania with which I am dealing, I have to say that whilst skulls of this kind are by no means rare in interments of the bronze period (e, g. ' Flixton, Ixxi. 12/ p. 278 ; ' Jarrett, civ.' p. 315 ; ' Sherburn Wold Prodham, ix. i' Paulinus, cxiii. 3,' p. 322), they form a con- siderable proportion of the skulls from Canon Greenwell's series of the late Keltic or early iron age of Great Britain, and are entirely wanting, so far as I have observed, in the series from the long barrows. The skull from Grimthorpe in the East Riding of Yorkshire, described in the Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries, March 18, 1869, by Dr. Barnard Davis, and now in the Oxford University Museum ; the skull from Arras in the same localityj figured and described by Dr.Thurnam in the 'Crania Britannica,' PI. 6; and a skull from Crosby Garrett (see p. 386 of 'British Barrows') in the county of West- moreland, may be mentioned as combining the peculiarities above spoken of with the archaeological surroundings of the comparatively short period between probably, at the utmost, 200 B.C. and 100 a.d. Mere etymology might lead a reader to suppose these lofty yet doli- chocephalic skulls might resemble the ' Hypsistenocephali' of the Melanesian islands described by Dr. Barnard Davis (locc. citt. supra, p. 246), they differ however from these skulls in being larger in cubical contents ; in being better filled out, especially in the frontal region; in being orthognathous; and above aU, in having their parietal tubera far more backwardly placed. See p. 454 of' British Barrows.' I will now pass from the consideration of the skulls as found in a more or less perfect condition, or at least in one which has admitted of their being, partially at least, restored, to a considera- tion of certain conclusions which have been based upon the appear- ances presented by the fragments into which the prehistoric skulls are, so often and so unfortunately, found to be broken.