AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 85 of the bitch as figured by Dr. Sharpey ^ it is possible to cast the doubt upon that observer's views which M. Eobin has done 2. It is obvious that when glands or follicles are arranged as closely together as in the figure referred to, all increase of their calibre must take place by means of outgrowth of interfollicular or inter- glandular substance, and that, admitting the facts which are incontrovertible, the contradiction of M. Robin amounts but to a dispute ^ as to the use of words. Bischoff's assertion that the cotyledons of the roe [Cervus capreolus) are devoid of utricular glands, amounts to more than a verbal question ; but as Eschricht and Von Baer had noted their absence in the similar structures of ordinary ruminants ^ many years previously, this observation has little claim to be quoted as novel. The decidua reflexa can be scarcely said to be present even as a mere rudiment in carnivora. The mucous secretion found exteriorly to the chorion may perhaps be considered as homologous with the distal part of what in other orders is a coherent, more or less perfectly encapsulating membrane. I have not observed, nor do I know, that any observations have been made showing that any variations exist as to the relations or degree of development of the allantois, amnios, or umbilical vesicle within the class Carnivora. Von Baer's words (1. c. p. 243), ' Vielleicht weiclit das Ei der SoUenganger, das ich nicht kenne in eirdger Hin- sicht, ab; beim Utia ist der Giirtel des Fruchtkuchens nicht vollstandig,' refer in all probability to the description given of the placenta of the ferret by Daubenton, in the ' Histoire Naturelle,' torn. vii. 1758, 'litis' is ordinarily used to denote the polecat {Mustela putorius)] but Von Baer may have thought himself justified in considering the polecat and ferret as of the same species, and using * Miiller's 'Physiology,' translated by Dr. Baly, p. 1575. ' Robin, 1. c. p. 132 : ' Les villositds des cotyledons ou du chorion de I'homme et des autres mammifferea tela que ruminants, rongeurs, carnassiers, solipfedes, et fissipfedes, n'enforcent pas, comme on le dit, leurs subdivisions terminales dans les glandes tubu- leuses de la muqueuse uterine.' ^ See also Goodsir, 'Anat. and Path. Observations,' 1845, p. 58; and Henle, 'Handbuch der Eingeweidelehre,' 1862, p. 462. * 'Entwickelungsgeschichte des Rehes,' 1854, p. 22. fig. 43; cit. Kblliker, I.e. p. 170. ' Von Baer, ' Gefassverbindung,' p. 16; Eschricht, 'De Organis,' p. 36.