APPENDIX ON THE TOPOGEAPHY OP 8TGWELL. 448 APPENDIX ON THE TOPOGRAPHY OF SIGWELL. BY MAJOU-GENERAL A. LANE VOX. As it was my particular function during these excavations to make the survey and take the measurements, a few words on the topography of the neighbourhood of Sigwell may he desirable. Leaving Professor Rolleston to superintend the digging, I set about examining the surroundings. At the distance of a mile in a south-west direction we have Cadbury, a large British camp, which, like most earthworks that are distinctly British, occupies with its entrenchments the whole brow of the hill on which it is situated ; it is one of those positions which the Rev. F. Warre, in his excel- lent classification of the British camps of this district^, describes as fortresses pure and simple, having no interior divisions, as distin- guished from other works which, having a kind of keep and some- times one or two fortified interior partitions, he considers to be fortified towns rather than positions of a purely military character. It is on a detached spur from the line of hills which are shown on the right of the accompanying rough sketch ^, and which run north and south, forming the eastern boundary of the Yeo Valley, and the source of many of its tributary streams. To the west of Cadbury the ground is low for some distance. On the east, the summit of the hills is occupied by table-land, the margin of which is defined in the sketch ^ by Littleton Hill, Pen Hill, Charnwell, Sigwell, and Gurt, and between this range and Cadbury is the long east- ward-stretching valley of Whitcomb, with its central stream rising in Sigwell and joining another stream from the summit of Charn- well, below Cadbury Hill, from which point it flows westward by Sutton Montis and ultimately into the Yeo. Paddock Hill is another detached hill, belonging to this range and situated between Cadbury and Gurt. The position of the twin-barrow first opened and described by Professor Rolleston on the table-land is shown on the sketch, which it must be observed has no pretension to accurate detail, and is ^ 'Proceedings of the Somersetsliire Archaeological and Natural History Society,' vol. V. p. 38. ^ This account of the Topography of Sigwell is illustrated in the original paper in the ' Journ. Anth. Inst.' vol. viii, by three plates.