DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS, 186 and in the norma lateralis the characteristic contour of tlie brachy- eephalic skull. The lower jaw, with its great width, flanged-out angles, and prominent bifid meutum, shows that ibs owner was a man of considerable strength. The teeth are comparatively small, and not as much worn as the teeth are usually in skulls of individuals of this period and the age of this subject. The cranial sutures, especially the sagittal, have undergone extensive obliteration. This skull has been figured and described by the Rev. W. Green- well, M.A., and D. Embleton, M.D., in the Natural History Transactions of Northumberland and Durham, Tyneside Field Club, vol. i. pi. xiii. C O W L A M. [lix. 3. p. 226.] A fragmentary femur gives a probable length of i8'5"forthe perfect bone, from which we may calculate the stature as having been 5' l "y about an inch and a half less than the average stature assigned to the brachyeephalous British by Dr. Thuruam upon an examination of twenty-seven femora. The femur in question shows its owner to have been a man of considerable strength and to have been in the later period of middle life, conclusions to which the condition and character of the skull would likewise point. The articular surface of the head of the femur has encroached a little way on to its neck anteriorly, which may indicate the existence in early life of some disease of the joint which was recovered from. The sagittal and coronal sutures are still patent, both internally and externally, for a considerable part of their extent. The skull itself is a most favourable specimen of the brachycephalic type, combining as it does indications of strength with great size, and yet showing no marks of savagery. It assuredly merits the titles of 'Kraftigkeit und Wiirde,' which His and Riitimeyer ('Jahrbuch der Schweizer Alpen,' for 1864, p. 398) bestow upon the better developed skulls of their ' Sion Typus;' though it belongs to the class of skull assigned by those anthropologists to their ' Disentis Typus.' The skull as a whole is sub-quadrate or sub-cubical in outline, but being filled out in each individual region it gains an appearance of general smoothness and globosity. The supraciliary ridges are less in size and the forehead is less oblique than is at all usual in skulls