BKAIN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 51 To believers, then, in the Doctrine of Types, I would suggest in the way of comfort, that even if it were to be clearly proved, which however I do not say that it yet is, that the differences between man's brain and that of the apes are differences entirely of quantity, there is no reason in the nature of things why so many and such weighty differences of degree should not amount to a difference of kind. Differences of degree and differences of kind are, it is true, mutually exclusive terms in the anthropomorphic language of the schools; whether they are so also in the laboratory of Nature, we may very well doubt. In the inspection of a museum, it is but the uneducated who look at the cases and shelves, and admire them, the handiwork of the carpenter, to the neglect of the works of nature for the convenient arrangement of which they were designed. Yet educated men are constantly guilty of analogous vulgarity of thought, when they worship formulae rather than facts, and bind themselves rather than phenomena in the trammels of artificial classifications. I would express the moral of my metaphor by saying that of all idolatry, that which is paid to the Iclola Tkeatri is in these days of ours the least justifiable. With the difficulty which has been raised^ by speaking of the sparks of understanding and flashes of ratiocination which we see every now and then flickering out in the life manifestations of the lower animals, as though they were nascent soul and nascent spirit, the metaphysician may very safely be trusted to deal. Kant and Coleridge have indeed lived in vain, if their very dullest disciple is unable to grapple with this objection. But an anatomist may go out of his way to say to believers in the Theory of Development, that, granting the human brain to be greatly larger according to actual measurement, and greatly more perfect, according to all the analogies which other systems and structures offer us, he by no means allows as a direct consequence of this, that of the two terms of the comparison which is present always to our mind's eye, during such an investigation, soul is the second and body the first—that psychical manifestations, mental phenomena, are the result, not soul the condition, of bodily perfec- tion. There are many facts in biology, not the least striking of which Gratiolet^s analysis of the Brain Convolutions has enabled certain ^ of his disciples to discover, which go to prove that mind ' 'Nat. Hist. Review,' January, 1862, p. 8. ^ Wagner,'Vorstudien,' p. 90. E 2