GENEEAL EEMAEKS 296 to those of the later or Cimhric race. And we are further justified in saying that Mr. Darwin has been misinformed when he says of this suture (' Descent of Man,' ist ed. p. 124, 2nd ed. p. 39) that it persists ' more frequently in ancient than in recent crania, especially, as Canestrini hns observed, in those exhumed from the Drilt and belonging to the brachycephalic type.' The true rationale of the persistence of the frontal suture would appear to be that it is a teleological accommodation to the needs of the enlarging brain of an advancing civilisation, with which enlargement is correlated a diminution of the size of the jaws, and of the necessity for the rotation of the brain and the frontal bone backwards which has been so often noted here (see p. 240 supra) as occurring in macro- gnathous men, and which is carried out still further in the ' villainously low foreheads' of the apes. We may now pass to the consideration of the few pathological deformations which have been noted in these prehistoric skulls and skeletons ; and we may begin by recording I. Abnormal Ossifications. Dr. Thurnam in his ' Further Researches and Observations on the two principal Forms of Ancient British Skulls,' p. 33, suggested that some ethnical importance might attach to the fact that in remains from the long barrows an ' anchylosed condition of two or more of the cervical or upper dorsal vertebrae' had been not rarely observed by him, whilst it was within his experience very un- common and almost unknown in the round barrows. This con- dition of things he thought was indicative of some peculiarity, and that peculiarity the troglodytic mode of life of the people in whose remains it had been observed, and whose heads and necks he supposed would have been very much exposed to violent concussions against the sides and roofs of their narrow passages and doorways. Without discussing whether ' anchylosis of the vertebrae may have resulted from such violence,' I would say that I have observed the morbid condition of which Dr. Thurnam writes in many vertebral columns of much later times than those of the cave-dwellers. The Pathological Department of the Oxford University Museum contains, under the Catalogue-numbers 159-165, seven specimens with every appearance of being of modern date ; and the magnificent