LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. xxm at one from the north side. Sebastopol in the distance looks very beautiful, it has a grand Grecian building in it, like the Madeleine in Paris, which strikes the eye, as well as large barracks, hospitals, forts, etc. The south side is built on ground sloping up inclined-plane fashion from the harbour up to the south sea-board which is cliff like the south coast England, north coast France cHfFs. When you enter it you are struck by the utter destruction of what seemed so fine, shots lodging in walls or great holes knocked through them, no floors, no roofs, and finally a horrid smell telling of those brave men who slumber there below. The town has not walls, and is not fenced up to heaven, but has round knolls, mamelons, lying ofi" at a little distance, made up into earth-works, great banks of earth with embrasures for myriads of cannon. The Russians were brave men to cross the valley of Inkerman, a great deep valley with a mile of level ground between on our side of it. Down the same hillside did they descend to the bridge of Praktin, from the same hillside did they yesterday fling their shot over Philip Rolleston's and my head as we rode over the hillside collecting reHcs. Oh! how thick the bullets lay in particular spots. I saw some oak-leaves gathered on that ground : you know it was all covered with brushwood where the battle was fought; all has been grubbed up since and burnt. All the battles which have been fought would, if their result had been difi'erent, have decided the fate of our army. The battle of the Tchernaya was meant to cut us from Balaclava, and how the shipping would have blazed in that narrow winding valley, so at Balaclava and at Inkerman. Near indeed was the whole army to utter destruction.' In December RoUeston was back again in Smyrna, taking one day a week at the hospital, reading medicine, riding across a country well provided with ditches and stone walls to the vineyards, attending a single lady patient, and wishing for more work. Some work was found for him, as appears from some further notes by Sir H. Lefroy: ' There were 200 vacant beds in the hospital, and the object of my mission was to arrange, in conjunction with Col. Storks, for closing it entirely.