DESCEIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS. 202 brachycephalie by contour as well as by mere measurement. In all of them, with the exception of ' Rudstone, Ixiii. 9,' the ' vertical height' is greater than or at least equal to the ' extreme breadth;' in all of them the posterior part of the parietal bones curves downwards more or less vertically, making- thus the distance between the plane of the parietal tubera and that of the back of the head shorter than it is in dolichocephalic skulls and throwing the foramina emissaria entirely on to the back aspect of the cranium. In none of them, whether young or old, is either the coronal or the lambdoid suture entirely obliterated, showing that the form of the skull in them, as we shall hereafter see it is also in the dolichocephalic variety, is dependent upon that of the brain and not upon any synostosis. With this skull, undoubtedly the oldest of those as yet described, the series of brachycephalie skulls here figured ends; in the arrangement of the dolichocephalic series, next to be entered upon, similar regard has been had to age; and the first skull of that series, 'Langton Wold, ii. i,' differs from the skull ' Castle Carrock' in the matter of age as much as in any other of its distinctive peculiarities. LANGTON WOLD, [ii. I. p. 136.] The femora and pelvic bones taken together with the cranium show that the skeleton, Langton Wold i, belonged to a strong man in the early part of middle life, that is to say probably between 30 and 35, of very considerable muscular strength, and about 5 ft. 9 in. in stature. The sacrum and ossa innominata have their sutures and epiphyses completely anchylosed. The two posterior molars however on each side of the jaws are comparatively worn. The femur is of great strength, flanged out in the region of the upper insertion of the glutaeus maximus so as to give this part of the bone a flattened appearance; the inner division of the upper bifurca- tion of the linea aspera is prolonged into a spiral ridge continuous with the anterior intertrochanteric line, a peculiarity much more marked in the much smaller femora of the skeleton next to be described; whilst the size of the linea aspersa in the area over which its two lips are combined is such as to give the fluted appearance to the posterior aspect of the femur which has procured