M 2 XV. DESCEIPTION OF FIGUKES OF SKULLS OB- TAINED BY CANON GKEENWELL FROM BEITISH BAEROWS WHICH HE EXAMINED \ Eleven skulls and two calvariae from thirteen barrows examined by Canon Greenwell have been selected for description by myself, and drawn and engraved by Mr. W. H. Wesley. Four of the skulls and both the calvariae are of the dolichocephalic, and the remaining seven of the brachycephalic type. Four views have been given of each of the eleven skulls ; the incomplete state of the two calvariae rendered it useless to attempt to give more than two views of each of them. The four views given are the profile view, the so-called norma lateralis; the view from above, the norma verti- calis; the view from in front, the norma frontalis; and the view from behind, the norma occipitalis. Views have not been given of the norma basalis, the base of the skulls having very ordinarily suiFered so much posthumous injury as greatly to impair the value of such a view of them. Each skull has been drawn in the position most commonly adopted by craniographers, in which a vertical line drawn from the centre of the auditory meatus passes through the plane of the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures^. The horizontal plane obtained by drawing a line from the centre of the auditory meatus at right ' [The barrows are described in ' Britisli Barrows,' Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1877.— Editor.] For the most recent Memoir which has appeared upon the question of the true horizontal plane of the human skull, see ' Archiv ftir Anthropologie,' Bd. ix. 1876, ' Die horizontal Ebene des menschlichen Scliadels, von Dr. Schmidt in Essen.' To the extensive bibliography there given should be added a reference to Professor Busk's Address to the Anthropological Institute, January 1874 (given in Journal of Institute, vol. iii. p. 522), where especial reference is made to Dr. von Ihering's views upon the subject which have been put forward by him in the 'Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' vol. v. 1872, and the 'Zeitschrift fur Ethnologie,' 1873. See also Aeby, 'Archiv ftir Anthro- pologic,' vol. vi. p. 295, 1874; Gosse, 'Deformations artificielles du Crdne,' pp. 7, 59. 1855. In brachycephalic skulls with vertical foreheads the true vertical line often falls a little way behind the coronal suture.