UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 237 least the female descendants of the long-barrow people who were still living" amongst them. It puts the skulls into a similar position of contrast when compared with most of those of the dark-haired brachycephalic stocks now existing in Europe; and, taken together with their much larger cubical capacity, with, the greater stature, and with the different complexion of their owners, it shows us that we have to deal, if not with two exceedingly different races of men, at least with two exceedingly different sets of individual men^. But we must never lose sight of the fact that in dealing with a series of skulls from these prehistoric barrows we are all but certainly dealing with the skulls of a set of individuals from the upper classes of times when members of those classes were, as are the chiefs of many modern savage races, from the operation of one or both of two causes, larger and more powerful, and pro tanto 2 larger-brained men than were the mass of the population. pp. 467, 468, where it is suggested that tapeinocephaly may indicate lowness of type among ancient as it does among the modern Bushmen and Tasmanian races. * The average cubical capacity of the ancient British brachycephali, as given by Dr. Thurnam, is 98 cub. in,, as against 94 cub. in. for modern English skulls ; as against 80 cub. in. ( = 1323 cub. cent.) obtained by Dr. A. Sasse for a series of probably comparatively recent brachycephalic skulls, with an index of -85, from South Beveland, ' Archiv fiir Anth.' vi. p. 76, 1873 ; as against an average of about go cub. in. ( = 1480 cub. cent.) for the modem Parisian skull, with an index of about -79 ; as against an average of 83 cub. in. (=1377 cub. cent.) for the Disentis type of His and Eutimeyer, with an index of -86, which includes most of the modem inhabitants of Switzerland, together with some skulls of Roman, if not of earlier times; as against an average of 89 cub. inc. ( = 1478 cub. cent.) for the modern Rouman- ians, with an index of .82 ; as against an average of 92 cub. in. (=1521 cub. cent.) for the modem German (Weisbach) ; and as against an average of 80 cub. in. for modem Red Indians. Herr Holder, in his earlier paper, 'Arch, fiir Anth.' ii. p. 5 5, 1867, gave for his ' Ligurian ' type, with a cephalic index of from .84 to .90, a cubic capacity varying from 79 cub. in. (=1300 cub. cent.) to 97 cub. in. ( = 1600 cub. cent.). In his monograph published last year the two types ' Turanian' and ' Sarmatian,' into which the single form 'Ligurian* is divided, are both said to have their height less than their breadth. ' One of these causes was no doubt their possession of a greater command of the material comforts of life; the other was the necessity which a wild tribe under a severe struggle for existence had for putting itself under the guidance of the ablest men it could find. A statement as to the operation of the first of these verae causae 18 given usbyBaatian,' Ethnologische Forschungen,'i. 335, on the authority of Logan as to Scotland, to the following effect: ' The common Highlanders from hard and often scanty fare are usuaUy inferior in stature to the chiefs and better sort.' A statement as to the operation of the second as to Africa is given us by Mr. F. Galton in his ' Hereditary Genias,' p. 339, 1869, in the following words: 'A native chief has as goo<l an education in the art of ruling men as can be desired ; he is continuaUy exer- cised in personal government, and usually maintains his place by the ascendancy