280 GENEEAL REMARKS The indications in favour of these views are as follows. The bronze- period Briton very closely resembles in his osteological remains the brachycephalous Dane of the neolithic period, and the likeness between these and some of the modern Danes has been noticed by Virchow in his valuable Memoir on ' Die altnordischen Schiidel zu Kopenhag-en,' 'Arch, fiir Anth.' iv. p. 71, 1870. There are not wanting, as already pointed out, p. 227 supra, reasons for supposing that the brachycephalic people of the round-barrow period may have immigrated into this country from the Cimbric Peninsula ^, that, in other words, the historical invasions of Cnut and Swegen may have been but repetitions of prehistoric invasions of the bronze period, of, in other words, earlier ' Wikingziige.' This being so, it becomes of consequence to recollect that though the ancients, the contemj)oraries of the Cimbric invaders, differ as to speaking of them as ' Gauls' or ' Germans,^ they are unanimous as to describing them as light-haired and blue-eyed, as well as tall of stature, in comparison at least with the Italian population, Horace's line, ' Nec fera caerulea domuit Gerraania pube ' (Epod. xvi, 7), being supported by parallel'* passages nearly infinite in multitude. ^ Of the modern Danes we know from Dr. Beddoe's paper in the * Memoirs of the Anthropological Society,' vol. iii. p. 382, that with the cephalic index of 80-5 they . combine a stature of 5' which would be a fair average for Great Britain, eyes which are almost always light and either blue or bluish-grey, and hair which is generally either pale yellow or light brown. It would be interesting to know whether in the exceptional cases, in which the hair is black, as in the Moen man of whom Dr. Beddoe writes, the colour was not light in Infancy; this change being one wliich is often observable amongst us now, as indeed it was among the Gauls in the time of Strabo and Diodorus Siculus (and, as Mr. A. J. Evans informs me, among both the Finns and the Lapps), and being one which, upon the principles of modern zoology, should be taken to indicate that the parent stock was originally light-haired perma- nently. The words of Diodorus Siculus (v. 32) are—rcL iraiSia wapd. Tofy Ta\6.Tats in ytve- Trjs xm&pxfi ■noXia Karcl rb irXuarov irpo0atvovTfs Si rais ^MKiais e/s to twv irarepaiv XP^M^ rais xpoi'S i^fTaffxTjI^aTi^ovTai. I should doubt, even as to the earlier race, whether Jornandes, when he, in the words of Lipsius,' adspexit imo transcripsit' the chapter xi. of Tacitus' 'Agricola' relating to the Silures, had any real reason for substituting ' torto plerique crine et nigro naacuntur' for the exact words of the great historian. ' For these see Ukert's 'Germania,' pp. 198, 199, 345, 347, 348, 353, 362 ; Zeuss, 'Die Deutschen,' p. 51 j Pdrier, 'Fragments Ethnologiques,'pp. 43-82 ; Prichard, •Physical History,' iii. 3rd ed. 1841, pp. 189-200. The Chevalier Bunsen is referred to by Prichard as saying that he had ' often looked in vain for the auburn or golden locks and the light caerulean eyes of the old Germans, and never verified the picture given by the ancients of liis countrymen till he visited Scandinavia, and that there he found himself surrounded with the Germans of Tacitus.' Exact investigation has