416 ANIMAL EEMAINS FOUND AT CISSBURT. made up by small fragments of the bones of the domestic pig-, Siis scrofa v. clomesticus; and all the larger and longer bones were imperfect from old breakages. The pig-bones give evidence of the presence in this pit of at least six individuals, two of which had been very young, and none of which had attained the age of eighteen months, as in none of them had the last true molar come into use. It has only been by the fragments of the lower jaws that I have been able to establish the existence of bones from as many as six pigs in this shaft; no one set of bones of any other denomination give evidence of more than four individuals of this species having been present. The very large number of pig-bones, and the small size of some of the fragments of the lower jaws, may serve as something of an excuse for my having given four (see p, 376, 'Journal of Institute,' Jan. 1876, vol. i. No. 3) as the number of individual pigs represented in this collection from the ' skeleton shaft.' It is of some consequence, as regards the view we have to form as to the way in which the bones of the lower animals came to be mixed up with those of the human skeleton, to have a precise enumeration of the number of those animals, and as nearly an exact enumeration of the number of bones by which, each one was represented as may be possible. If all or a large part of the bones of all the skeletons had been found in the pit with the human skeleton, it might have seemed probable that the animals in question had been sacrificed, as in the familiar instance of the funeral of Patroclus, in honour of, and at the time of the interment of, the human body. But as it was found that the bones, whilst giving evidence of the pi'esenee in the pit of six or seven animals, fell far short of containing the proper complement of bones for an equivalent number of skeletons, some skeletons being represented by very few bones, it was plain that the human and the brute skeletons had come together into one and the same receptacle after experiencing, previously to their common inter- ment, entirely different modes of handling. There is no reason to suspect the Cissbury flint-miners of cannibalism, but the animals we may reasonably suppose to have been eaten, most of the marrow- containing bones having been splintered, and the immense majority of the other bones presenting old breakages. The fact, which the subjoined table of the bones of the domestic pig will show, that no less than four more or less perfect sets of