32 ON THE AFFINITIES AND DIFFEEENCE8 BETWEEN THE broad ; the simious is taper because it is narrow; the human outline is, viewed from above, irregular, but its irregularity is due to elongation, and is not merely a sign but a source of power; the ape's conforms more closely to the egg-type, but conformity to type is here in actuality, as in ontology, but a limitation of capability. A profile view of the two brains, such as you may take from the diagrams, disregarding the letters and numbers, may have many of its results expressed in much the same terms. The human brain presents along its upper surface a long gradually- sloping table-land, which reaches its highest point a considerable way behind the middle point of the long axis of the organ. The line limiting the superior edge of the simious brain is all but a semicircle. Looking now at the inferior boundary line of the two hemispheres, we see that regularity and evenness have removed from the lower and become the characteristics of the higher brain. The unevenly projecting prominence numbered 7 and 8 is much larger relatively to the part of the brain which lies above it and before it in the ape than in man. This irregularity is due partly to excess, the anterior and posterior excavations in the ape's lower boundary line are due to defect of development rather than to the reverse. These points of difference are quantitative, they are con- siderations of more or less ; and it is only fair to observe that the lower of the two human brains differs as to these very points to some extent, though not by any means to the same extent from the higher as the simious brains do from it. The often-mooted point of the overlapping or non-overlapping of the lower or after brain, the cerebellum by the cerebral hemispheres, may be set at rest by a reference to these diagrams. The cerebral hemispheres of the Hottentot's brain are seen to project further beyond the cerebellum than do the cerebral hemispheres of the white man's brain. The marmoset brain, albeit its owner was but squirrel-like in intelli- gence, as in outer form, has a largely overlapped cerebellum; the length of its hemispheres being SyV^ extent to which they pro- jected beyond the cerebellum was The squirrel monkey, properly so called [CallitJmx sciureus), indeed outdoes the marmoset, its cere- bral hemispheres overlapping the cerebellum by as much as one-fifth of their length ^; and its superiority of intelligence we might be » St. Hilaire, ' Hist. Nat.' ii. i. 249.