02 ON THE PLACENTAL STRUCTURES OF THE TENREC 1 Kolliker, I.e. p. 164. the chorion to the after-birth, along which any matter secreted by the uterine mucous coat can pass. And it is precisely over the part of the chorion which forms one side of this triangular space that these villi spring up, according to Bischoff, in the later stages of pregnancy—at a period, that is, in which the non-vascular, non-secreting decidua reflexa is absorbed, and the secretion of the non-placental mucous membrane, whatever it may be, can be brought into relation with, and absorbed by, the foetal vessels. This appears to be a very beautiful instance of natural economy. In the Leporidae, it is true, the chorion is not attached to the centre of the placentulae, and it therefore has not that partial protection from the pressure of the uterine walls for the omphalo- mesenteric circlet of villi which the placentae of the rodents we are speaking of enjoy; but as their decidua reflexa is but a rudi- mentary fringe, whatever is secreted by the uterine walls can at all times come into immediate relation with the omphalo-mesenteric vessels, and be absorbed by, or interchange products with them. In no rodent that I have examined is the non-decidous serotina separable as a distinct and coherent layer from the circular muscular coat; in all rodents the placental site is on the mesometrial border, and in all also, and not merely in the rabbit^, does the chorion receive a vascular supply from the omphalo-mesenteric as well as from the umbilical arteries. In all rodents that I have examined at the time of their birth the omphalo-mesenteric vessels were persistent. In this point they agree with the Carnivora; and in that of these vessels being supplied to the chorion, the vampire resembles them. Simiaclae. A female pig-tailed monkey (Macacus nemestrinus) having died after giving birth to a foetus, and having had one of its two morbidly adherent placentae removed by artificial means before its death, the maternal vessels were injected with a red, and the foetal with a chrome-yellow injection. One of the two placentae was in its natural position; and from it a triangular slice was removed for microscopic and other examination. The deeper layers of mucous tissue which are exposed over the site of the placenta, artificially removed in the hope of saving the animal's life, are