HOMOLOaiES OP CERTAIN MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT, 113 ('Shoulder-Girdle/ 1868, pp. 142, 192), certain of the problems of morphology in plainer language than those of most other animals. It was whilst dissecting these and other animals in the light fur- nished me by Mr. Mivart's papers on the myology of the Echidna hystrix ('Trans. Linn. Soc' xxv. 1866) and the Iguana ('Proc. Zool. Soc' June 27, 1867)^ that I came to entertain the views which I now put forth, and in which I should have more confidence if I knew them to be in accordance with his views. The pectoralis secundus s. levator humeri of ordinary birds arises from a greater or less extent of the keel and lateral portions of their sternum ; and narrowing into a tendon as it passes along the * In the former of these two papers (at p. 395) a very extensive, if not exhaustive, bibliography was given of the many disquisitions which had previously appeared on the subject of the Homology of the limbs and their muscles. To Mr. Mivart's list the following memoirs may be added, most of which are either contemporaneous with or posterior in date to his paper:— Hermann Pfeiffer, 'ZurvergleichendenAnatomic des Schultergeriistes,' Giessen, 1854. Professor Haughton, ' On tlie Muscular Anatomy of the Crocodile,' 'Proceedings of the Eoyal Irish Academy,' June 26, 1865 ; ' Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist.' Ser. iv. No. 4, AprU 1868. Dr. Macalister, ' On Irregularity in the Muscles of the Shoulder,' and ' On the Homologies of the Flexor Muscles of the Vertebrate Limb,'' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' May 1867 ; ' On Muscular Anomalies, and their bearing on Homotypical Myology,' 'Proceedings Royal Irish Academy,' December 9, 1867; 'Contributions towards the formation of a correct System of Muscular Homologies,' ' Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist." Ser. iv. No. 5, May 1868. Dr. Hair, ' On the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Alligator,' ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' November 1867. Professor Pagenstecher, ' Ein Vergleich der Muskulatur des Drill mit der des Menschen,' ' Der Zoologische Garten, Zeitschrift fiir Beobachtung, Pflege imd Zucht der Thiere,' April and May 1867, Frankfort. W. F. Vrolik, 'Den Carpus der Zoogdieren,' 1866, Leiden. Wood, 'Varieties in Human Myology,' 'Proc. Roy. Soc' vol. xiii. p. 299 (June 16, 1864), voL xiv. p. 385 (June 1865), vol. xv. p. 239 (June 1866), p. 524 (May 1867); ' The Comparative Anatomy of the Muscles of the Shoulder,' ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' November 1866. Jeffries Wyman, ' On the Symmetry and Homology of Limbs,' ' Proc. Boston Nat. Hist. Soc.' vol. xi. June 1867, ibique citata. My thanks are due to Messrs. Vrolik, Mivart, Haughton, Wood, and Wyman, for their courtesy in sending me copies of their papers, several of which were thus rendered accessible to me much earlier than they otherwise would have been. Mr. Parker's magnificent volume on ' the Shoulder-Girdle,' recently (1868) published by the Ray Society, furnishes, here and there, hints and guidance for the determination of muscular homologies which no writer can for the future afford to ignore. One of the many pleasing fruits of studying this work is the feeling that by so doing one has fairly earned a right to spare one's self the task of criticising views which must have been formed before Mr. Parker's labours were published. I