156 ON THE VARIOUS FORMS OF the cranium of an ancient aborig-iual of Scandinavia regarded as the Celt. The cranium is long- in proportion to its breadth, and resembles in size and shape the Gentoo skull, No. 5553. This is the type of a class of skulls called dolichocephalic by the donor. Professor Retzius.' Secondly, of the Diunington cranium, I would remark that Professor Ecker, in ' Archiv fiir Anthropologic/ bd. i. hft. 2. p. 283, has remarked of it, that it is exceedingly like the Prankish skulls obtained by him from his grave-row cemeteries. And Dr. Barnard Davis,in his 'Thesaurus Craniorum,' p. 10, speaks of it as ' a very large, even enormous, subscaphocephalic skull,' Of the thirty-two crania obtained by me from Frilford, which from archaeological evidence detailed by me in a paper to be published by the Society of Antiquaries^ have been shown to belong to pre-Saxon times, I may say, firstly, that they resemble very closel}'' the two casts already mentioned ; and, secondly, that they differ from the dolichocephalic crania ordinarily obtained from long barrows, and notably from such crania obtained for me, by the agency of the Rev. David Royce, from a long barrow at Nether- swell, near Stow-on-the-Wold, as much as any two sets of dolicho- cephalic crania can differ. Their frontal region though not loftier is yet fuller and wider ; and much the same description may apply to every other part of the calvarium, which in no point corresponds to the description given by His and Rutimeyer to their Hohberg type of skull, except that occasionally in male skulls, though by no means always, it has the mesial vertical carina^ developed in male specimens (cf. Professor Ecker,' Archiv fiir Anthropologic,' bd. i. hft. I. p. 84). The skulls themselves, whether belonging to young or old, present signs of culture in the softness and even rounding of their outlines, to which the retention of verticality by the forehead pre- sents an exception in subordination to the rule or reason of the absence of angles elsewhere, but if the skulls themselves differ their owners seem to me to have differed much more. Of all differences which relate to life there is no one more important than difference as to its duration, and in this the British crania of Frilford differ most essentially and to great advantage from the dolichocephalic individuals described by Dr. Thurnam, in ' Memoirs of Anthropo- logical Society of London,' vol. i, as found by him in dolicho- taphic barrows. Eleven, or more than half of twenty-one, male 1 See Article XXXIV. of this volume.