405 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD. Lying upon the chest of this skeleton were a number of fragments of another adult skull, and to the right of its knees Were the femur, tibia, and humerus of a strong old man ; and about 6 inches from the right humerus of the female skeleton were parts of the skull of a baby, some fragments of which were also found over the female skeleton, and between its legs. Probably, or all but certainly, the two skeletons of the baby and of the old man had been disturbed and replaced when the woman was buried. Some bones of ox and of sheep, the latter differing much in size, were found in this grave. The grave was about i8 feet from the re-entering angle of the horned east end, and probably to it may belong a ' spindle whorl' of stone, found October 5th, by Canon Greenwell, 3 feet 9 inches from sur- face, when making a large excavation close to the spot where, a little more than a month later, viz. November 7th, the female Anglo-Saxon belonging, as she and her tribe might have phrased it, to 'the spindle side,' was exhumed. Traces of another secondary burial, which, though earlier than that of these Saxons, was later than the burials of the occupiers of the chambers, and the passage leading to it, may be supposed to be furnished to us by the discovery of some fragments of a very beautifully ornamented drinking-cup on the top of the barrow, very near the apex of the south horn at the east end. At the opposite end of the barrow, on its south side, and about 6 feet from the south end of the chamber containing the fragments of nine bodies, a piece of a red deer's antler, partly cut, was found among the small stones and clay, which at that point formed the lower part of the mound. Bones and teeth of sheep, ox, and calf, as also a piece of burnt bone, probably human, were found elsewhere, some 3 feet deep, some at the very bottom, in the barrow; and bones of sheep, ox, and pig were found in the chamber, together with the human bones. Odeolofjy and CraniograpJii/ of human remains from Swell vii.— Under the label' Swell vii. gen.,'signifying bones from the interior of the chamber generally, and under the label 'Swell vii. i,' we have bones proving the presence in the chamber, and in the passage leading down to it, of no less than twelve bodies, eleven being bodies of adults, and one the body of a child. Two of the adults from this barrow appear to have been about twenty years of age, one about thirty, and the rest to have been in middle life or