LIFE OF DR. ROLLESTON. xxxiv refined Oxford culture was banished from his mind in dealing with the nature of man.' The controversy here referred to, one of importance in modern scientific history, lasted several years. It arose at the Oxford meeting just mentioned out of a botanical paper by Dr.Daubeny on the Sexuality of Plants, which went into criticism of Darwin's 'Origin of Species.' Professor Owen, in the discussion which ensued, took up the question of differences between apes and man, asserting that the brain of the Gorilla presented more differences as compared with Man than with the lowest Quadru- mana. This was met by Professor Huxley with a flat denial, he declaring that the brains of man and the highest monkeys difier less than the brains of the highest and lowest monkeys. Eolleston does not appear to have spoken at this time, nor on the occasion a day or two later when the Bishop of Oxford received a famous rebuke for the rhetorical device of perverting the Darwinian theory in order to make fun of it. But this problem of brain- classification became an especial subject of Rolleston's study, and in January 1862 he delivered a lecture upon it at the Royal Institution, which is republished in the present volume. At the Cambridge Meeting of the British Association in 1862, Professor Owen renewed the contest, bringing it to a direct issue by reading a paper ' On the Zoological Significance of the Brain and Limb Characters of Man.' Appealing to his own system of classifica- tion of the Mammalia by differences of brain structure, he exhibited casts of the brains of gorilla and man, saying that he had placed Man—owing to the prominence of the posterior lobes of his brain, the existence of a posterior cornu in the lateral ventricles, and the presence of a hippocampus minor in the posterior cornu—in a distinct sub-kingdom, which he had called Archencephala. He considered that the sudden advance of the human brain, and the hiatus between that highest grade of structure and the next step below attained by the orangs, chimpanzees, and gorilla, was one of the most extraordinary in the whole range of Comparative Anatomy, associated with Man's intellectual capacity, his power of framing general propositions