364 ON THE PEOrLE OF THE LONG-BAEROW PERIOD, patterned pottery, however, is figured by Dr. Thurnam from a chambered long- barrow at West Kennet, Wiltshire ^ and its presence there would, of course, invalidate any argument which its presence in a cremation barrow might have tempted us to draw. That presence, however, in the Wiltshire barrow is supposed by Dr. Thurnam 2 to have been due to a subsequent intrusion into, or occu- pation of, this chambered barrow by the metal-using Eelgae. But the fact that much pottery, elegantly marked and delicately made, albeit not lathe-turned, has been found in Continental barrows of the Stone Period 3, may make us think Dr. Thurnam's suspicion somewhat unreasonable; and, if we do think it so, the argument from the presence of such pottery in the cremation long barrow in the East Riding falls to the ground If it is unsafe to suppose it to be anything more than a proba- bility that the practice of cremation may be considered to mark a later, and the practice of inhumation an earlier, epoch in the long- barrow period, there is still less reason for suggesting that the un- chambered long barrows were anything but contemporaneous with the chambered. But a question may arise as to whether those long barrows in which the receptacle for the dead took the shape of a closed ' cist,' without any passage or gallery leading to the exterior, as in the chambered barrows, may not, as being more nearly approx- imated in shape to the cists in the round barrows of later times, have been also nearer to them in point of date. The long barrow in which the closed cist has taken the place of the galleried chamber is by no means so common as either the chambered barrow, or the unchambered, used for inhumation, or the cremation long barrow. A very competent antiquary ^ has expressed himself to me as doubt- ing whether true cists are ever found as the primary places for ' ' Cran. Brit.,' PI. 50, p. 3, * ' Archaeologia,' xlii. p. 72. ' See Weinhold, 1. c, * As it is but a few years since it was currently held that no pottery was to be found in the long barrows, at all events of the north of England, it may be well to say that a coarse, particoloured pottery, containing large fragments of pounded pebbles and shells, which we may suppose to have been manufactured for domestic purposes, is very abundantly represented by shards in the long barrows both of the north and south of England. Pottery of similar paste, but rolled into finger-shaped masses, was found in some abimdance in a long barrow (Swell i.) in Gloucestershire. Similar pieces of pottery, used in the manufacture of other fictilia, have been shown me by Sir Henry Dryden, Bart., from ancient structures in Brittany. * So Nillson, I.e. p. 166, says, 'Every tomb had its side gallery.'