BEPORT ON EXCAVATION AT SIQWELL. 445 enclosed in an urn, were found lying closely placed together in one spot beneath the stones.' And in the earth that was carted home^ ' besides a quantity of bits of bone, was found the blade of a bronze dagger.' 'Sigwell iii.' Monday, July 23.—Commenced work with seven men upon the barrow to the south-west of Sigwell camp by cutting a trench 17 feet long and la feet 6 inches wide to south-west of centre picket. This barrow resembled the two already described as ' Sigwell i' and ' ii' in the material and mode of its construc- tion ; in containing burnt bones which had been picked out of the ashes of the fire in which the body they belonged to had been burnt and buried apart; and in containing fragments of coarse pottery it resembled ' Sigwell ii,' but differed from it in not furnishing any specimen of bronze, and in, perhaps by way of compensation, furnishing a very large number of worked flints^ some black, others whitened on their fractured surfaces, and in containing a small fragment of a patterned drinking-cup or food-vessel, and a very much larger quantity of human burnt bones as well as two large fragments of unburnt bones, an os innomiuatum, to wit, and a piece of a femur. Among other important lessons taugbt by the history of this barrow, one of special importance is the ease with which it is pos- sible to miss an interment when that interment lies within a circle of half a foot radius, and consists only of a small quantity of either very finely comminuted or all but pulverised burnt bones. A good scraper, labelled ' Sigwell iii c,' was found 3 ft. 5 in. south- west of the centre picket and 4 ft. 7 in. below the level of it. All through this barrow worked flints were found in much greater abundance than in either of the other two. I was inclined to con- nect their presence in this quantity with the absence in this barrow of any rabbit-holes, supposing that a rabbit in burrowing would be likely to throw out a worked flint rather than an equivalent mass of sand for obvious reasons, mechanical and other. But I should not press this view. Exactly beneath the centre picket, and 6 feet below it, was a mass of burnt bones occupying a circle of about a foot in diameter. The bones belonged to an adult, sex uncertain. In two other spots in the barrow two other bones were found, viz., a fragment of a right OS innominatum, the acetabular portion of which is so shallow