GENEKAL EEMARKS 226 in connexion with some other skulls ; and" with these questions is intimately connected the choice of the name, whether 'Iherian' or 'Silurian/ 'Brigantian' or ' Cimbric/ which we may for the sake of convenience impose upon the one or the other variety of skull. The effects which the mode of life possible to the inhabitants of this country in the earlier and indeed also in the later of the two periods of stone and of bronze, with which we have to deal, exercised upon their bodily structure, form a further subject for thought and enquiry, the materials for the prosecution of which however, being limited to the bones and teeth, are, from the point of view of a pathologist, comparatively scanty. Something has also to be said as to the sources whence the food of these races came, whether from domestic or from wild animals exclusively, or in combination with each other and with agricultural produce. It will be convenient to begin by saying that I should speak of the crania of the long-barrow period, not as belonging to the ' Iberianas it is becoming the fashion to style them, but as belonging to the ' Silurian' type; and the brachycephalic crania of the round barrow I should similarly speak of, not as belonging to a ' Ligurian,' but to the ' Cimbric' type. Tacitus, Agricola, xi, tells us that there was a tribe of people called Silures living in the district which we know now as the South Welsh counties of Glamorgan, Monmouth, Brecknock, Here- ford, and Radnor; he tells us further, as a matter of fact, that the complexion and hair of this tribe could be described as ' colorati vultus, torti plerumque crines,' words which Jornandes alters slightly, making them a little clearer but perhaps less accurate, as (Get. 2) ' Silurum colorati vultus, torto plerumque crine et nigro nascuntur.' And we know that the black-haired type of the West * The earliest paper with which I am acquainted in which this name was adopted for one division of the population of Great Britain is a paper, not without its merits, by Dr. Hibbert Ware, to be found in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edin- burgh,' vol. i. March 4, 1844. Keyser, in a letter of date April 21,1*^47, addressed to Eetzius and published by him in 'Miiller's Archiv,' 1849, or see 'Ethnol. Schrift.' p. 103, 1864, suggests that the Iberians may have been the primitive stone-age inhabi- tants of Great Britain and Ireland. This stock was then considered to be Turanian and brachycephalic. Weinhold, who in his ' Altnordisches Leben' had called the stone-age race ' Finnish,' adopted the name ' Iberian' in his memoir ' Die heidnische Todtenbestattung in Deutschland,' published in the ' Sitzungsberichte d. K. Akad. d. W. phil. hist. CI. Wien.' bd. xxix. hft. 2. p 131.