454 DESCRIPTION OF A SKELETON bone implement—period. For tlie characters both of skull and skeleton are intermediate between those of these two sets of men. The short stature, the lowness of skull as well as of stature, and the orthognathous character of the jaw, albeit a little exaggerated by senile absorption, point to the earlier stock; whilst the strength of the bones, skeletal and cranial both, and the brachycephalic character itself, incline us to the other view. The hypothesis of crossing will cover and combine the facts, I should be slow, in default of other evidence besides that which is furnished by the osteological remains, to aver positively that this skull must have belonged to a man of the Bronze period. The comparatively per- fect condition of the teeth is, however, certainly in favour of the claims of the former period, according to Mr. Mummery's examina- tion of Dr. Thurnam's collection ^, in which amongst sixty-eight long-barrow skulls only two cases of decay were found, whilst amongst thirty-two of the later period no less than seven such cases were found. As individual peculiarities, the exceedingly low orbital index is specially noteworthy, though some doubt may exist as to its ethno- logical significance. Correlated with a comparatively full lower jaw we have a comparatively vertical forehead; the strength of the ridges, on the other hand, overhanging the orbits, and above all, the strength indicated by the temporal and other ridges for mus- cular insertion on the back parts of the skull contrast rather than correspond with the weakness of the upper jaw. Something of this last peculiarity, however, is due I think to senile atrophy, which would have progressed further but for the persistence of the teeth in their somewhat wasted sockets. Rheumatic exostosis had beset both vertebrae and long bones, and had not spared the articular condyles of the lower jaw; im- pairing thus the happiness, or at any rate the enjoyment, of their owner very considerably. The sutures of the skull are still unobliterated on the outer sur- face at least of the skull; this point Dr. Thurnam would have held, I think, to be more common among the brachycephali of the Bronze than among the dolichoceiDhali of the Stone age. But it may have been an individual peculiarity, and so may be taken to point neither ' For a discussion on this point see ' British Barrows,' p. 701; also Article XVI. * p. 302.