GENEEAL REMARKS 234 p. 145), the value of which is in the inverse ratio of the attention it has received, at least from foreigners, by ' dolichocephaly' and ' braehyeephaly^ respectively, Retzius intended that much more should be connoted than that ' ordinarily the longitudinal diameter of the dolichocephalous skull surpasses the breadth about one fourth, while in the brachycephalous the difference varies between a fifth and an eighth ^' I propose here to enumerate the various points, mostly, though not entirely, those specified by Retzius, which characterise the two sets of dolichocephalic and brachy- cephalic crania with which I have here to deal, besides and beyond those which are etymologically implied by these names; and having done this I shall attempt to give some rationale of the existence of these differences. The peculiarities of the contour of the hrachycephalic crania already described have been repeatedly alluded to above, pp. 175- 302; of these peculiarities the most important as well as the most constant is, I incline to hold, the relation held by the posterior aspect of the skull to the plane of the parietal tubera. In the hrachycephalic skull the parietal tubera are usually situated high up on the sides of the skull, and almost invariably the profile line of the vertical arch as viewed in the norma lateralis dips into the posterior aspect of the skull at a point very little behind the plane of these tubera. The skull, in other words, and from another point of viewing it, that namely of the norma verticalis, rounds itself off somewhat abruptly from the level of the parietal bosses, instead of tapering as in the other type somewhat gradually * Retzius confined himself to this binary division of skulls, and I have in the fore- going ' Description of Skulls' followed his example in this matter. Other writers have made many subdivisions of the two primary divisions of Retzius, which may be seen given in a tabular form by Ihering, 'Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologic,' bd. v. 1873, p. 12. The subdivision suggested by Ihering himself, p. 141, has claims upon the attention of those who wish for additional subdivisions constituted upon the principle of actually existing proportions. He proposes to call Skulls with a relation of breadth to length of 80 and upwards,' Brachycephalous.' „ „ „ 72 and below, 'Dolichocephalous.' „ 72-80, ' Mesocephalous.' And of 'Mesocephalous,' those with index from 72-76, ' Mesodolichocephalous.' „ 76-80, ' Mesobrachycephalous.' A far more important subdivision has been suggested by Professor Cleland, I.e. p. 148, whereby each of the two primary divisions would be subdivided according as they are ' latiores' or ' angustiores,' whilst retaining the contour characteristic of their respective types.