ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BARROW PERIOD show the disproportionate smallness of the females even more strikingly than the bones already alluded to. Professor Busk has recorded the small size and delicate form of the clavicles from the Gibraltar eaves ^. To the relative size of the skulls in the two sexes in prehistoric times, the doctrine laid down by Retzius in 1845 2, and re-affirmed in 1854 by Huschke ^, as to the upper and lower classes of modern society, and the civilised and uncivilised races of modern days, is Gustav Fritsch, in Ms work, 'Die Eingeborenen Sud-Afrikas,' s. 17, gives 171.8 cm. (5 feet 7| inches) as the average stature of men of that race of Kaffirs just mentioned, and at p. 24 he says of the females: 'Pflegen die weiblichen Individuen in der Entwickelung den mannlichen nachstehen was wohl in der unterdriickten politischen Stellung der Frauen seinen Grund hat;' but he does not give their exact stature. At p. 216 this author says, ' Die Frauen der Ova-herero erscheinen in gleieher Weise wie der ubrigen Siid-Afrikanischen Nigritier in Vergleich mit den Mannern un- bedeutend,' and at p. 277 he gives 160.4 cm. (5 feet 3 inches) for the average stature of ten male Hottentots, as against 144-2 (4 feet 8 inches) for the average attained from measuring four females of the same tribe. When, however, the stature of the male members of a race falls as low as that just given for the female Hottentot, the stature and other dimensions of the sexes appear to be nearly identical. This is the case with the Bushmen (see p. 398, 1. c). The measurements, however, given by Weisbach in the Anthropological part of the ' Reise der Novara,' 1867, p. 216, do not show that the discrepancy between the stature of the sexes of savage races rises in a direct proportion with their savagery, the greatest difference put there upon record being that between Java men, 1679 mm., and Java women, i46i-2, and amounting to 8| inches, whilst the difference recorded between Australian men and Australian women is only 65 mm. (2^ inches). A similar disproportion, and one even greater than that recorded by Weisbach for the Javanese males and females, has been reported to me as the rule amongst the Japanese ; whilst, on the other hand, a ' Report on the Aborigines of Victoria,' 1859, p. 45 (cit, Davis, 'Thesaurus Craniorum,' p. 364), gives 5 feet 6 inches as the average height of eleven Australian men, as against 4 feet io| inches of an Australian woman. (See, however, Davis, 'Phil. Trans.' for 1868, p. 524.) The honourable position assigned to, or obtained by, the female sex amongst the Germanic races may be considered as testified to by the near approach to equality in stature which, even in ancient times (see 'Smith's Dictionary of Geog.,' art. 'Germania'), was observed to exist between the sexes. Liharzig, however, most surely under-estimates the difference when, in part following Quetelet and Bedniir, he gives, in his great work, ' Das Gesetz des Wachsthumes,' p. 4, Taf i, ii, iii, iv, 175 cent. (68-899 inches) as the average male stature, and 173 cent. (67-iii inches) as the average female stature. The rationale of all this lies in the earlier attainment of puberty by the female sex in our species, and the consequent early consignment of the females, in savage varieties of it, to child-bearing and hard labour. Mr. Dobson's paper on the ' Andamans and Andamanese,' published in the preceding number of the Journal of the Anthropological Institute, p. 457, furnishes a good illustration of this principle. (See especially Plate xxxi.) ' 'Trans, Internat. Congress Prehist. Archaeology,' 1869, p. 158. '•' 'Miiller's Arch.,' 1845, p. 89. ^ ' Schadel, Hirn und Seele,' p. 48.