256 GENERAL REMARKS abridged, of being more frequently quoted than he is, as to the size and appearance of the British heroine, give us some colour of reason for suggesting that Boadicea may have possessed the cranial conformation characteristic of the bronze age, rather than that which we have at Arras in the East Riding and elsewhere found in interments with the archaeological accompaniment of the late Celtic or early Iron period in this country. On the other hand, a collection of the trunk and limb bones from one of the long barrows described above as examined in the neigh- bouring county of Gloucester (as e.g. p. 538 of 'British Barrows') contrasts in no point more strikingly with a similar collection from such a tumulus as the one at Crawley than in the disproportionate slightness and shortness of the female skeletons. The average diflFerence in civilised races in the stature of men and women may be taken as about four inches, being in England at present the difference between about 68'' and 64''; twice this difference will very usually be found to exist between the male and female skeletons of the stone and bone period, being the difference between about 66" and 58". The male skeletons of this period contrast to disadvantage with the male skeletons of each and all of the races who have inhabited this country since the introduction of metal into it; but the difference between the female and the male skeletons of this early period is a very much greater difference than any which can be shown to arise out of the comparison of any other two sets of adult human bones from cemeteries in this country. This difference is perhaps more strikingly shown by a comparison of the male and female collar-bones than by that of any other bones of the skeleton; and it enables us to reproduce for ourselves the narrow chest and drooping shoulders which must have given their i^ovaa . . . ?jv h\ KoX t6 aujfm (Xfyiari] Kal t6 ttSos PKocrvpairdTr] t6 t€ /SXe/x^a Spifivrdrrj' Kai rb (pdiyfia rpaxv <?X*' '''V^ x^firjv TtKeiaTrjv re Kai ^avOoTCLTrjv (liXP^ Toiv yXovTojv KaOuTO. ' Boadicea, a British woman of the royal family, had more than a woman's spirit. She was of very large bodily proportions; the fierceness of her appearance struck beholders with awe ; the expression of her countenance was exceed- ingly severe and piercing. Her voice was harsh, and she had a profusion of very light hair, which reached down to her hips.' Lib. Ixii. 701, ed. Leunclavii, 1606. It is not impossible to reconcile this account with Martial's lines, xi. 53-56:— ' Claudia caeruleis quum sit Rufina Britannia Edita quam Latiae pectora plebis habet. Quale decus formae, Romanam credere matres Italides possunt, Atthides esse suam.'