159 THE SO-CALLED 'CELTIC' CRANIUM. frequently referred to, it may be well to put here on record such notes as I have been able to gather from the report of persons present at the removal of the stones of which the barrow was made up, and from personal observations made upon the spot where it had been, after its removal. Dinnington is a small village about two miles south of Laughton- en-le-Morthen (in the Moorland) in South Yorkshire. A little to the south of Dinnington and on the left hand of the road leading from Dinnington to Anston, and some little way short of the quarries from which the stone for the New Houses of Parliament was taken, there was on the estate of J. C. Athorpe, Esq., a heap of stones about 134 paces in circumference, 42 long, and 35 or a little less in breadth, and 7 or 8 feet in height. The stone was the light porous sandstone common in the neighbourhood; the in- dividual pieces were of nearly equal size throughout; and there was no protecting lean-to nor cist anywhere in the tumulus. Up to 1862 the tumulus was covered with turf, had thorn shrubs growing upon it, and had rabbit burrows in it. In the autumn of that year Mr. Athorpe began to dig away the turf and stub up the thorn bushes, and finally to cart away the stones for wall-building. It was in doing this that the workmen came upon the skeletons, of which there were in all as many as twenty-two, twelve lying in the centre of the cairn, near to each other, but not piled one upon the other, and without any orientations, ornaments, weapons, flints or pottery. Some of the skeletons were at as great a depth as 12 feet, one skeleton, however, was no deeper than 2^ feet. The workmen said, 'the skulls lay between the legs; 'the thigh-bones were at the back of the neck;' and I suppose consequently that the bodies had been buried in a sitting posture. Only one skeleton was extended, and its head lay at the north- west. The barrow itself had its long diameter, which however was only the longer by a very few yards, and may have become so by virtue of the paring to which it may have been subject in agricultural processes, lying east and west. At its east end a skeleton was placed far apart from the rest, a point of importance to be noted, as Sir R. C. Hoare (cit. ' Crania Britannica,' i. p. 230) has put on record that the deposit in the long barrows he excavated was usually at the east, which was also the broader end. A con- siderable proportion of these skeletons had belonged to aged indi-