167 INTRODUCTION. The maximum parietal widtli is, as stated above, given under the head of 'Extreme Breadth;' the maximum occipital is taken from the point (^asterion' of MM. Broca and Topinard) where the occipital, parietal, and temporal bones of one side meet, to the cor- responding- point on the other; i. e. between the two most distant points of the lanibdoid suture. It is not unusual to give a number of ' indices ' stating the pro- portions existing between various measures of length in addition to that usually called the ' Cephalic Index,' which gives the rela- tion of the breadth of the calvaria to the length taken as lOo. Thus we have an index of the relation of the height to the length and of the height to the breadth ; a ' nasal index;' an ' orbital index;' and a 'maxillary^ index,' giving the relations of the basi- cranial line to a line passing from the middle of the anterior border of the foramen magnum, the ' basion' of Broca, to the nasal spine. The value of these measurements is beyond question; but as the important point in each of these cases is simply one of greater or less magnitude, oscillating within narrow limits, the in- convenience of additional statements of proportion is not counter- balanced by much corresponding advantage. I have, however, given one measurement of proportions in addition to the ' Cephalic Index;' and this, which I have called the ' Antero-posterior Index,' gives the relation which is held to the extreme length of the skull by that part of the extreme length which lies anteriorly to the auditory foramen. The extreme length being taken as above described, it is divided into an anterior and a posterior segment by a line passing as a tangent to the anterior border of the audi- tory meatus, and prolonged so as to cut the line of extreme length at right angles. The proportions between these segments may be very readily obtained by fitting an indicator to one of the longer sides of M. Broca's ^ cadre a maxima'^,'' and, when the instrument is so applied as to take the extreme length, adjusting the indi- cator so as to run as a tangent to the anterior edge of the auditory meatus. The vertical line thus obtained falls always some way behind the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures; but though ' Virchow, 'Archiv fiir Anthropolo^e,' vol. iv. p. 63, 1870. * For description of this useful instrument, see ' Bulletin Soc. Anthrop. Paris,' torn. iv. {2'^" S^rie), pp. 101-104, 1869 ! or 'Memoires d'Anthropologie par Paul Broca,' torn. i. p. 152, 7871.