ON THE CRANIOLOGY OF THE BUSHMEN. 469 crania, a series well represented here. The only other race of indisputably pristine and very pristine habits, in which I have ob- served it to exist, is the Eskimo, and out of a large number of such skulls I have only noted it once, in the form of bilaterally sym- metrical fissure. The other skulls which this Museum contains possessing- this suture either well or rudimentarily developed, are six in number. Four are presumably either of the Malay or of the Chinese race, as two were collected by Captain Elmhirst of the 9th Regiment, from the sea-shore of an island in the Chinese Seas, out of a great quantity which were lying about unburied, and were supposed to have belonged to Chinese pirates, and were finally pre- sented to the University Museum by the Rev. H. Hansell, Fellow of Magdalen College ; the third was a skull of a female Moro, collected in the mountains of Sulu, and presented by Captain Chimmoj R.N. j whilst the fourth was purchased from Mr. Cutter, the dealer in Natural History specimens, as being a Borneo pirate. The other two are from Ceylon, one being a Tamil from Central Ceylon, presented by Mr. B. F. Hartshorne, who was himself for a considerable time resident in the island, and has written upon its ethnology; the other being a ''Malabar.' As the absence of this suture from the Zulu and Negro series gives additional importance to its presence in the Bushman, so its absence, which I have noted in a considerable number of Praearyan skulls, such as those of the Coles and Moosahurs, procured for me by William Duthoit, Esq., D.C.L., gives additional importance to its presence in ' Malabars,' 'Tamils,' Malays and Chinese. Of course further research may dis- cover this suture in other races of mankind; as the matter stands at present I am tempted to think that there is possibly some signifi- cance in its having been noticed in the Eskimo, in the Bushman, in certain races of the Eastern Archipelago, and in Tamil skulls, as well as in the fact of its having been found to be absent in certain other skulls also of ancient races, such as the Kolarian and the Australian ^, * It may be well here to give the literature of the Os (Malare) hipartUum:— 1779. E. Sandifort, 'Observat. Anat. Path.' lib. iii. 113; tab. viii. fig. 7- 1837. ' Le9ons d'Anatomie Comparde,' parGeorges Cuvier at M. Dumi^ril. Seconde Edition, par F. G. Cuvier et Laurillard, tome ii. p. 381, 1837. 1844. Breschet, 'Ann. Sciences Nat.' 3 sdr. Zoologie, tome i. p. 30. 1852. ficliultz in 'Bemerkungen iiber den Bau der normalen Menschenschiidel,' p. 57, tab. ii.