UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 233 stature and dark of complexion, whereas the brachycephali with whom we have to deal were certainly tall, and all but equally certainly light in hair and complexion. The skulls from the earlier British barrows have been stated to be invariably dolichocephalic, whilst the skulls from the barrows of the bronze period, though in some cases exclusively brachy- cephalic, may belong to either one or other of these two types. The few skulls which I have been able to examine or to read of from interments of what is called the late Celtic period, the period intervening between the close of the bronze age and the establish- ment of the Roman power in this country, have been dolicho- cephalic, a fact which may be explained either by a reference to the well-known persistence with which ' les types autochthones sur- vivent k la domination etrangere et au melange des sangs ^/ or, though with less probability, by the hypothesis of a preponderance having been given in this iron age to the still surviving dolicho- cephalic stock in the way of invasions from the continent. The dolichocephalic late Celt however differed probably from the dolichocephalic inhabitant of these islands in the stone age in being light- instead of dark-haired ^. See pp. 255, 283 infra. It is undoubtedly an important fact that in no skull from any long barrow, that is to say, in no skull undoubtedly of the stone age, examined by us, has the breadth been found to bear so high a rela- tion as that of 80 : 100 of the length ; for this alone would suffice to show that Retzius's classification of skulls into two great divisions of dolichocephalic and brachycephalic cannot, even when taken to connote merely the strictest geometrical proportions, be summarily set aside as an artificial one. But, as Professor Cleland has well pointed out in a memoir ('Philosophical Transactions,^ 1870, vol. 150, ' Broca, ' Mc^moires,' i. 340, 341. * Broca, 'Bull. Soc. Anth. Paris,'s^r. ii.tom. viii. Avril, 1873, p. 319, says that cer- tain districts of modern Brittany, in which the British refugees from the Saxon invasion of the fifth century settled in great numbers, are still distinguished by the tallness, light complexion, and dolichocephaly of their inhabitants. He calls this stock ' Kyrarique,' in the application of which word I differ from him. Similarly, at least as to the cephalic index, certain interments from the period of transition fiom bronze to iron described by Kopernicki, cifc. Ecker, 'Archiv fiir Anthropologie,' ix, p. 118, 1876, as examined by him in South-east Galicia, were found to furnish skulls 'exquisite orthognathe dolicho-cephalen' (C.I. = 73), contrasting strongly with the pronounced brachycephalism (C. I. = 8i) of the modem Ruthenian inhabitants of that district.