142 NOTES ON THE P08T-M0ETE.M EXAMINATION OF A MAN to need more than partial modification. In the history of the ex- amination of the body of an American physician who died at the ag-e of lOO, and about whose age I shall show there can be no reasonable doubt, I find the following statement:—' The bodies of very many persons at 60 exhibit on dissection more of the appear- ances which are thought to result from old age than did Dr. Holyoke's\' An examination of the colossal tables given by Dr. Boyd in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for 1861, or of those reprinted by Dr. Peacock in the same year, will show how widely the weights and the measures of the same organs may vary within the same decennial period. And Dr. Geist^, in the latest work treating of the diseases of old age with which I am acquainted, speaks of weighing and measuring as giving more extraordinarily varying results in very advanced years than in those which man more com- monly attains to. Neither do qualitative changes of tissue give a more certain verdict. Cartilages may ossify^, convolutions may waste*, vessels, large and small, central and peripheral, may de- generate in young persons of particular habit, and habits, as well as in older individuals. For other reasons, however, much interest must always attach to records of the post-mortem appearances in the bodies of centenarians. A notice of the post-mortem examina- tion of a woman ^, currently held to have been of that age, is given us by Haller: Dr. James Keill ^ has in like manner, and somewhat more fully, reported on the structures of John Bayles, who was believed, on apparently good evidence, to have been 130 years old. The history of Thomas Parr, and of the state of his body after 152 years of life, is accessible to all English readers in the Sydendam Society's edition of the works of the famous Harvey Two similar, * 'Memoirs of Edward A. Holyoke, M.D., LL.D. Prepared in compliance with a vote of the Essex South District Medical Society, and published by their request.' Boston (U.S.), 1829, p. 53. 2 'Klinik der Greisenkrankheiten,' von Dr. Geist, Erlangen, i860, p. 9. 'Gewichte und Dimeiisionen der Organe sind in hohen, noch mehr in hochsten Alters so ausserordentlich verschiedene und ungewohnliche dass die gewohnliche Beziehungen, gross, klein, schwer, leicht, u.s. w. eine Ausschauung nicht mehr begriinden.' ^ Humphry ' on the Skeleton,' p. 58. * Keid's ' Anatomical Researches,' p. 383. " 'Philosophical Transactions,' vol. xliv. p. 528, May 7, 1747. * Ibid., vol. XXV. p. 2247. 1706. '' Harvey's Works, Sydenham Society, p. 589.