KUDSTONE. 195 Professor Busk has, loc. infra cit., felicitously suggested the restoration of the Linnaean term ' plagiocephalic' to this strongly from its very close i-esemblance to the Oregon, Peruvian, and other antero posteriorly compressed skulls which we know as a matter of fact to have been so treated, and which we see to be as free, if they be skulls of aged individuals, from any traces of the severe treatment they underwent in the first two years of life, as in the skull now before us. It is obvious, whatever may be said to the contrary, that a deformation which goes so far as materially to alter the relative proportions of the several lobes o^ the brain to each other without matei-ially altering the anatomical relation of those lobes to the skull bones covering them, which M. Broca has (' Bulletin de la Soci^t^ d'Anthropologie,' 1870, p. 115) shown that the 'Deformation Toulonnaise' actually does, must be put in play in these early days. For of the 22 inches or so ( = 555 mm.) which may be taken (Bischoflf, ' Sitzungsberichte k. bayer. Akad. Wiss. Miinchen,' 1S64, Bd. i. p. 39) as the average head circumference of a living male adult, no less, but a little more, than nineteen inches and a half ( = 500 mm. = 19.685") have been shown by Liharzig (' Gesetz des Wachsthums,' 1862, p. 17, Taf. 5) to be attained by the male child of twenty-one months old. And between twenty-one months and the age to which the owner of such a skull as this must have attained, abundant time would have been afforded for smootliing down, rounding off, and removing any such traces of the action of any deforming apparatus as are sometimes to be seen in younger skulls {e.g. in a skull from "Vancouvei''s Island, No. 826 a. Oxford Museum) which have been subjected to it. Further, the fact that in a country so near as France a practice of depressing the head has lasted in Normandy (Retzius, ' Ethnograph. Schriften,' p. 130) and in the non-Iberian parts of Southern France (Foville, cit. Retzius, I.e.) even into our own days,—and in the Tolosan portion of this latter dis- trict has been supposed (see Broca, 1. c.) to have been a survival of the practice of the Tectosages,—may make us hesitate before definitely refusing, as so many other writers from the times of Haller (cit. Blumenbach,' De Gen. Hum. Var. Nat.,' 1. c.) down to that of Virchow (see ' Congres Internat. d'Anthropologie,' 1876, tom. i. p. 318) have refused, to accept artificial deformation as the explanation of the conformation of a particular skull, whether it be plagiocephalic as this skuU, or annularly constricted like tlie well-known Avar skulls of Grafenegg and Atzgersdorff. It must however be said, on the other hand, that both these forms of skull, though now well known to be pro- ducible artificially, do yet arise spontaneously even in our own day; and it is here suggested that unless a considerable number of skulls of one or other or both of these forms are found together it is unsafe to assert, in the absence of still persistent marks of the action of a compressing or constricting apparatus, that any single skuU has been artificially deformed. For in most cases in which we have undoubted evidence of the existence of this practice, skulls of both forms, the plagiocephalic, in which the skull has been compressed from before backwards, and the annularly constricted and elongated form illustrated by the Avar skulls above-mentioned and described by many of the authors enumerated below, have been found together: and in spite of the tendency shown by many writers to make multitudinous divisions of artificial cranial deformities, it is plain from a consideration of the history of the rapid gi-owth of the brain and of the restlessness of children in early life, that it must be ex- ceedingly difficult to prevent, with whatever care and whatever apparatus, the plagiocephalic form from lapsing into the annularly consti-icted form. A com- parison of the account given by M. Dumoutier of the practice (' Bull. Soc. Ethnograph. de Paris,' vol. i. 1847, cit. Gosse, I.e. p. 154) as carried on in Patagonia with the description given by Professor Huxley of a skull brought from Gregory Bay. O a