THE BLOOD-COEPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. 489 into direct communication with the blood-vascular system, there was any likelihood of, as there could be no need for, a lacuna exist- ing to connect the two systems. But where, as in Branchioidella, the perivisceral cavity has not been differentiated even into lateral and median vessels, not to say not into capillaries, and where the blood-vascular system proper itself remains in a condition of com- parative simplicity, failing- to develop a capillary system upon the walls of the intestine, and having* its two great trunks connected by simple arches of anastomosis, the probability that a lacunar should exist, as in so many other cases, in supplementation of the missing capillary intercommunication, appears, as my above-given quotations abundantly show, to be very great. If BrancMohclella is to be considered a leech, it is very strange that it should diflPer from its allies in not having its perivisceral system freely and openly communicating with its blood-vascular, the acknowledgedly existing difference that its perivisceral system is peritoneiform and not vasiform being a very much smaller dif- ference, as the lacunae of one genus are often enough replaced by vessels in an allied one. If BrancMohclella is to be considered one of the Annelides in the restricted sense, as it has, so far as I know, been for the first time proposed in Gegenbaur's 1878 edition of his ' Grundriss der Vergleichenden Anatomic' to consider it, I should still consider the question an open one so far as authority goes, following in this Professor Gegenbaur, who (I.e. p. 179) repeats the words used in the earlier edition of it (p. 198) and in the ' Grundziige' (ed. 1870, p. 234):— ' Dieser avis einem lacunaren system hei-vorgegangene Gefassapparat ist auf die Hirudineen beschrankt, denn bei den Anneliden ist die Scheidung des Gef ass-systems von der Leibeshohle fast durchgehend entwickelt. Wo sie fehlt, sind nicbt Weiter- entwickelungen, wie sie die DifFerenzirung der Leibeshohle der Hirudineen bot, sondem Riickbildungen im Spiele.' Now, I submit that the parasitic habits of Branchiohclella are, on general grounds, likely to have produced such a readily-produced ' Riickbildung' as that of leaving a vascular system open at one or more points. And as a third warning against rashly stating that the vascular system of Branchiobdella ' most certainly does not com- municate ' with its perivisceral, I will draw attention to the fact that in Malacoidella, which, whether it be nemertine or leech, had anyhow been supposed to possess a closed system of vessels, whether