GENERAL REMARKS 270 either by disease or by accidents. Fourthly, the comparison of the brains of human beings of various known capabilities and ages with each other and with the brains of the lower animals which are nearest to man casts a diffused, if not a concentrated light upon the entire enquiry. Arguments bearing upon this question may be procurable from other sources ; of the four specified the first fui'nishes us with the least ambiguous and the most readily verifiable indications; with these the indications furnished by the other three, if not connected in the way of effect with cause, are at all events correlated in the way of concomitant growth. A survey of the distribution of the several arteries ^ supplying the cerebrum appears to show unmistakeably that the particular zone of convolutions in question is at unmistakeable disadvantage in the matter of irrigation as compared with the segments of the hemi- sphere which lie in front of it, and that of two brains of equal or approximately equal length that one is the more favourably con- ditioned which has this segment contributing the smaller factor towards making up its total length. The belt of convolutions which interposes itself between the line of the lambdoid suture and another line drawn parallel to either half of that suture over the parietal tuberosity of that side receives its main arterial supply from the terminal twigs of that branch of the internal carotid which is known in this country as the ' middle cerebral' artery, but which for the present purpose might bear one of its foreign names, viz.' arteria fossae Sylvii.' For it is only after having supplied the very numerous and extensive convolutions which form the floor and the walls and the margins of this great fossa that terminal branches of this artery emerge on to the ex- terior convex surface of the brain and distribute themselves to this ' Some difference of opinion exists between the two investigators, MM. Buret and Heubner, wlio have ('Archives de Physiologie Normale,' 1874, torn, vi., and ' Central- blatt fur die Med. Wiss.' 1872, ' Die luetiscbe Erkrankung der Hirnarterien,' 1874. pp. 172-175) been investigating the cerebral circulation, as to the degree of freedom with which the arteries in question anastomose with each other. Heubner however, who specially insists upon the formation in the pia mater of a common retifcirm reservoir by all the brain-supplying arteries in a common solidarity, nevertheless allows, as the facts of pathological embolism even more than those of experimental injection compel him, that the different parts of this reticulation are filled from the different main arteries with differing facility; ' von dem eutfernteren naturlich schwerer und lang- samer als von dem naheren.' This is all that need be asked for justifying the argu- jnent in the text.