AND THOSE OF CERTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 103 it may be remarked that tlie halitus evolved on opening- the great cavities of each of these animals possesses a very similar odour. Upon the first of these two points, perhaps, little stress should be laid, as it may be either a result or a necessity of the mode of life of either creature; and the latter, depending- entirely upon the evidence of the sense of smell, has consequently but a subjective cogency. Much greater importance should be assigned to the statement, now ordinarily made^, to the effect that the Cetacea have no azygos veins at all, as this peculiarity would, if it really did exist, differentiate them from all other mammals whatever. But on looking at the words of Von Baer^j upon whose authority this statement is made, and at the facts with which Von Baer's words are usually in accordance, it will be found that the vena-azygos system not only does exist in Cetacea, but actually furnishes us with an additional point of affinity between them and the large ungulate Mammalia. Von Baer's words, in the * Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg,' 1. c, are: * La veine dite impaire qui manque excepts le bout anUrieur, et dont les sinus de la colonne vert^brale tiennent lieu.' This anterior end, however, is a very considerable vessel; and in the ' Nova Acta' (1. c.) I find that Von Baer describes it as having, a trunk as large as that of the vena cava superior, which it joins; and he goes on to state that its large size is not to be accounted for by its intercostal factors, but by the junction to it of a trunk from within the vertebral canal, of large size and connected by its constituent factors, as the vena azygos is, with those of the lower cava as also with the lower intercostal veins. If we examine a pig, we shall find it to possess a large azygos vein on the left side ; and this the cetacean, it is true, does not; but it will be seen to have on the right side a short vena azygos, just as the porpoise has, with four or five affluents from the upper intercostal spaces, as well as very considerable tributaries from the muscles of the back and scapulae. The vena-azygos system is well known to be intimately connected with venous ramifications situated about, around, between and within the spinal column ; and the greater ' 'Phil. Trans.' for 1849, p. 152; Milne-Edwards' 'Physiologie Comp.' vol. iii. pi. 2. p. 598. * ' Nova Acta,* vol. xvii. pi. i; p. 408, 1834; 'Bull. Acad. St. Petersbourg,' torn. i. 1835; Froriep, 'Notixen,' 50, p. 38, 1836.