CONNECTED WITH THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 123 I know, verifiable in the muscle, thoug-h it is in the tendon, of the adult. But it corresponds very closely with a description of the posterior layers of the great pectoral in the common rat [Mus (lecimanvs); and it is difficult to see how it is possible to deny the homolog-y of the upper fascicles of the posterior layer of the great pectoral in this animal with the pectoralis minor of man. The nerve-trunk which thus supplies in the bird what I hold to be the homologue of the two pectorales of anthropotomy does, it is true, give off a nerve to one other muscle, viz. the coraco-brachialis inferior, or pectoralis tertius, a muscle which arises from the posterior three-fifths of the outer and inferior edge of the eoraeoid, and is inserted into the inner tuberosity just inside the most mesially placed portion of the crateriform rim which it throws up round the mouth of the pneumatic inlet. But this nerve-trunk seems to me to be the homologue of the musculo-cutaneous nerve of anthropotomy, which supplies the coraco-brachialis, and is given off from the same outer cord of the plexus, whence the external anterior thoracic arises. By studying the four figures in Plate 3, and the descriptions given of them, a better comprehension of the bearings of my position, that the pectoralis secundus of the bird is homologically identical with the epicoraco-humeral of the reptile, will be gained than could be conveyed by any disquisition, however lengthy, if unaccompanied by illustrations. The name ' epicoraco-humeral' has been given by Mr. Mivart ('Trans. Linn. Soc' vol. xxv. p. 383; 'Proc. Zool. Soc' June 27, 1867, p. 778) to a muscle found both in the Echidna hjsMoo and in the Iguana ticherculata, which arises from the precoracoid and epicoracoid in the reptile, and from the epicoracoid in the reptile-like mammal, and is ' in- serted into the summit of the radial tuberosity between the inser- tions of the pectoralis major and deltoid.' It was by recognising in the shoulder-muscles of the crocodile (fig. 3, e/i) the homologue of this saurian muscle, and by comparing it, when thus recognised, with the highly simplified pectoralis secundus (fig. 4, eh) of the emu {Dromaius novae hollandiae), that I came to hold the view which I now put forth. The great reduction, already spoken of, which the sternal origin of the accipitrine levator humeri has undergone, as compared with the vast pectoralis secundus of the Gallinae, pre- pares us somewhat for finding in the emu a pectoralis secundus