OF THE ORANG UTANG. 7 Tlie cerebellum does not project so far laterally as to cover the cerebral lobes in a basal view of any brain in Tiedemann's 'Icones' which is above the rank of the Lemur'ulae. Two figures ^ of the brain of the gibbon given by M. Sandifort, which present a relation of the cerebral lobes to the cerebellum, much resembling that which I have described in the brain of the first of the two orangs in our Museum, M. Gratiolet regards with suspicion, whilst he himself records the existence ^ of a similar relation of the two parts of the eneephalon in the gorilla. M, Gratiolet gives the figure of the brain of the chimpanzee as drawn by Tyson, only to express a strong opinion as to its worthlessness ; and as he condemns it, as well as the two figures of M. Sandifort, on grounds quite inde- pendent of the view they give of the cerebellum and its relations, we may perhaps be justified in disregarding any evidence which might be based upon these three figures, and in considering the condition and relation of the parts in the subject of this paper as an individual, rather than a specific, peculiarity. The roof-like exterior of the skull of the gorilla would prepare us for meeting with quite another relation of cerebellum and cerebrum than that which we find in the sub-globular skulls of the smaller anthropoid apes. For though the transverse diameter in these latter skulls taken from one parietal protuberance, or rather from one spot homologous with such protuberance to the other, is only sub-equal to the transverse diameter as taken from the one supra- mastoid region to the other, it is yet never markedly inferior, as is the case with the gorilla, to a degree for which no development of mastoid air-cells can account. The evidence then for tbe lateral predominance of the cerebellar lobes rests upon the single instance, the subject of this paper, and upon the three representations which M. Gratiolet sees, upon other grounds, good cause for condemning. Against it is to be set the evidence based upon the examination of several other simious brains as above specified, upon the unanimous assent of every one of the plates given by M. Gratiolet in his 'M^moire sur les Plis Cere- braux,' and upon Tiedemann's figures of the brains of the S'mia rhesus, Simia nemeslrina, Simla sabmus, and Cehus capucinus. If the weight of this latter mass of evidence is not sufficient to make us ' Gratiolet, ' Mdmoire sur les Plis Cer^braux,' Planche iv. fig. i and 2. * 'Comptes renduB,' Avril i, i860, p. 803.