261 UPON THE S"EBIE8 OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. ill-filled skulls as well as short skeletons are to be found in the braehycephalic^ as well as in the dolichocephalic series, even if not in equal proportion; their smaller numbers being" correlated with their greater command of means, such as metal and eerealia. I have elsewhere given ^ at length the peculiarities which are the age of fourteen than it is in adult life, the exact measurements giving a diflterence of 3 centimetres = i-iSi" for each sex, and being 54 : 57 centimetres for males, and 52-5 : 53-5 for females. The potential increment of the stature subsequently to the age of fourteen averages, according to the same authority, 12 centimfetres = 4'72 inches for males, being the difference between 163 centimfetres = 64-i7 inches, and 175 centimfetres = 68-89 inches; and 12 centimetres = 4-72 inches for females, being the difference between 161 centimetres = 63-38 inches, and 173 centimetres = 67-11 inches. But here Lihar2ag appears to underestimate the average difference between the sexes at the age of twenty-five. See Taff. iv. and v. and p. 15. ^ Such for example are the brachycephalic skulls of which a record is given under the following titles and at the specified pages of 'BritishBarrows':—'Goodmauham, cxvii. I,' p. 326; 'Rudstone, Ixiii. 3,' and '6,' p. 248 ; * Rudstone, Ixvi. i,' p. 254; 'Rudstone, ccxxxiv. 4,' p. 555 ; ' Weaverthorpe, xlvi. 4,' p. 200; ' Weaverthorpe, xlvii. 5,' p. 195 ; ' Brough, xxi. 6,'p. 163; 'Flixton, Lxxi. 6,'p. 276; 'Sherburn Wold, ix. 2,'p. 148. With these skulls may be compared the Ancient British Skull from Codford figured in the 'Crania Britannica,' pi. xiv., by Dr. Barnard Davis; in the 'Canadian Journal,' No. xli., Sept. 1862, by Professor Daniel Wilson, and stated to have a cubical content of 82 cub. inches, a circumference of 20 inches, and a cephalic index of 83. Such again is the Danish cranium from Moen, a cast of which (No. 5710) maybe seen in the Museum of the London College of Surgeons ; and such would appear to be the skulls described by Holder as the female form of his ' Ligurian * type, ' Archiv fiir Anthro- pologic,' ii. p. 55. As also the female skulls described by me,' Archaeologia,' xlii. p. 457. ^ See 'Journal Anthrop. Instit.' Oct. 1875, vol. v. pp. 124, 125, where I write as follows:— ' By an " iU-filled " skull. Professor Cleland tells iis, he means a skull the exterior surface of which is marked by a "mesial and two lateral ridges on the roof, with flat- ness of the adjacent surfaces," which has " its position of greatest breadth high up upon the parietal bones." The mesial carina may, I would add, be prolonged in such skulls over the frontal bone, and the frontal tubera may retain their infant-like pro- minence. To these peculiarities I would further add the presence of two depressions on the exterior of the skuU, corresponding to convexities on its interior surface, as completing in many ancient and modern savage crania the character of "iU-filledness." One of these depressions is well known as the " post-coronal furrow," but inasmuch as the mesial vertical carina often developed in male skulls may be, and often is, continued along the line of the sagittal suture, so as to divide the so-called "furrow" into two part?, this name is not a happy one. The second of these depressions con-esponds to a part of the parietal bone which lies a little above its posterior inferior angle, and immediately, therefore, above the part of the bone which is furrowed internally for the lateral sinuses. As in the former case, an inward growth corresponds to the outwardly visible concavity, so that much such an appearance is produced as we can imagine would have resulted from pinching in the skull walls over this area, had they been plastic. I have been able to demonstrate the rationale of these depressions in the following manner. By removing from a skull, with its brain in situ, the greater part of its roof, but leaving of this structure one antero-posteriorly-running arch of bone,