XXll LIFK OF DR. ROLLESTOy. have never reached their destination, and that makes all the difference. For my own part, I have not often had such a con- tinuance of good health and vigour. For the last six weeks I have had Dr. Martin's wards as well as my own to take care of, and I never found myself the least overworked, even at the time the two sick ships came down. It was of course a great advantage to get so much practice put into my hands all at once, and, by a little management, I contrived to get a very large share of what are called "good" cases (i.e. dangerous ones) into my own wards. At the present moment I have as many of these cases, more, I think, than anyone else. Of the first lot (16 or so), one died in about 36 hours after landing: the rest are all doing fairly. Very few deaths have taken place lately, I don't think more than one this week. We have in reality about 750 soldiers here, though the papers speak of us as having only 500; our hospital has only 500 men in it, but it has a Convalescent establishment as well, which no other hospital has, so that they keep and count then- convalescents whereas we send them off one mile to the Lazaretto and do not count them in our sum total. Hence our mortality is really very low. ... I have plenty of time for visiting and flirting, and reading to boot. In fact I have read more medical books since I have been here than I could have done anywhere else I think, also I have contrived to find an outlet for some of those social qualities which go towards making up the entire man.' After a while, finding himself with nothing to do, Rolleston came to Sebastopol to offer his services, but Dr. Hall told him he had more doctors already than he knew what to do with, so ' I re- signed myself to sight-seeing for my fortnight's leave of absence. In the three days I have had here, I have seen Balaclava, Inker- man and Sebastopol. I have got clear notions of what war really is, which you cannot do from books or prints (though the Redan and MalakofF are very like their pictures in last week's "Illustrated"), and I have gone over those famous fields and collected trophies with my own hands from them. Also I have heard the whistling of the round shot which the Russians fling