82 ON THE PLACENTAL STBUCTUEES OF THE TENREC Of the foetus (now unfortunately lost) of a vampire {Thyllostoma hastatum) I have the following- note : The ovum was five-eighths of an inch long. There was a considerable, if not complete, de- cidua reflexa. Next to the decidua reflexa came the chorion, to which, as in the rodents, an omphalo-mesenteric artery went.' In the uterus of this bat (which I still possess) the non-deciduous serotina is, as in the lusectivora, separable from the circular, and this again from the muscular coat. Neither in the shrew nor in the vampire have I any note of the umbilical vesicle. In the foetus of the mole, however, and Tteropus I have observed it to be present and large. Before passing on to a comparison of the tenrec's placental structures with those of other orders of Mammalia, it may be well to enumerate the points in which they differ from those of the, perhaps, most nearly-allied orders, Chiroptera, as well as from those of other Insectivora. These points of differencCj then, are the absence of a yelk-sac, of the allantois as a distinct sac, and of any membrane, either decidual or chorionic, on the exterior of the amnios. The upgrowth of the chorion in the tenrec, its attachment to the periphery of the utero-placental area, and the division of this area into two regions are points peculiar to this creature. Aberrant thus in its placenta, it is aberrant from those nearest of kin to it in several other peculiarities pointing towards marsupial affinities. Of these it may suffice to mention the involution of its lower jaw angle, and the reception of its lower canine into a fossa in the upper jaw. Carnivora. A bull-bitch (Canis familiaris) which had been impregnated, it was believed, by a dog of much larger size, was delivered, with artificial help, of one of two foetuses at full time. The other foetus was retained in the left uterine cornu, the life of the mother (the vagina having been ruptured) having come to an end after the birth of the first. The uterus and vagina were brought to me, together with their contents, by Dr. Tuckwell, and I am thus enabled to give the following account of the state of the after- birth, and of the uterine walls of the bitch after parturition. In the right cornu, whence the foetus which had been expelled came, the mucous membrane was much corrugated transversely to the long axis of the tube. The zone to which the foetus had been attached