ON THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE TWO-TOED SLOTH. 69 the smaller corpuscles of the camel neither power enabled us to de- tect the presence of nuclei in the coloured blood-cells. Bearing in mind Nasse's observations^ as to the comparative frequency of the presence of a large colourless nucleus^ or, in the place of it, of an area of fainter colouration, in the coloured blood- cells of the pregnant human subject, and also of the pregnant bitch, I examined the blood from the uterine veins of a cow which had been killed, in ignorance, as I was told, towards the end of the period of gestation. But I was unable to discover any nucleated red corpuscles in the blood from this source. It is well known that nucleated red blood-cells have been observed in tbe blood of the human subject ^, of the horse ^, of the elephant of the paco ^, and of the sheep"; but it should also be recollected that round coloured blood-cells, so small as to resemble very closely the normal mammalian blood, may be found very constantly in the blood of certain ovipara Here, as in so many other cases, the morphological value of a structural arrangement depends, not upon an invariable presence or an invariable absence, but upon the con- stancy of its quantitative preponderance. And upon this principle, whatever other affinities to the sauroids the sloth may be supposed to possess, the microscopy of its blood cannot be held to point in that direction. That the red blood-cell—the carrier of oxygen, and probably enough, the distributor of heat ^ generated in the body— should present such different structural characters in the two classes, Aves and Mammalia, which are both alike warm-blooded, is a fact of the greater morphological importance for that it is physiologically so hard to understand. From the purely anatomical point of view it may be allowable to suggest that the enormous relative prepon- derance of the lymphatic and lacteal gland system in the mam- malia may account for the almost exclusive presence in their blood of the small non-nucleated red blood-cell. ' Wagner's ' Handworterbuch,' i. 90, cit. M. Edwards, 'Le9ons,' i. p. 66. * Nasse, L c.; Buak,' Quart. Joum. Mic. Soc' 1852 ; translation of Kolliker's 'Hand- book,' ii. p. 348, 1854. * Wharton Jones, ' PhiL Tran-s.' for 1846, p. 73. * Ibid., and Schultz, ' Miiller's Archiv,' 1839, p. 252 ; but see Cotti, 'Zeitschrift fiir Wiss. Zool.,' voL V, cit. KOlliker, ' Mikro-Anat..' ii. 2, 583. ' Wharton Jones, 1.0. ^ Ibid. ' Funke, 'Lehrbtich der Physiologie,' 4th edition, p. 213. * Beale, in Todd and Bowman's ' Physiological Anatomy,' p. 137.