THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE ANNELIDES. 486 the plate of fig-ures of this parasite, g-iven in Odier's well-known paper in the ' Memoires Soc. Hist. Natur. Paris/ i. p. 70, 1822, show that its claims to be allowed to remain in the separate family with the animals of much the same unlovely habits and external form as itself are not lightly to be set aside on the score of their being based simply on teleological adaptations, whilst, on the other hand, the memoirs of Heule (Miiller's 'Archiv,' 1835, p. 574) and of Dorner (loc. eit.), dealing as they do with many important points of the internal anatomy only imperfectly handled by the first-named authority, do certainly lend some support to the opposite view of its affinities,—a view which, as already stated, Gegenbaur, in the last edition (1878) of his ' Grundriss der Ver- gleichenden Anatomie' (p. 134), supports. My statements as to the existence of corpusculated blood in the vascular system of Branchiobdella, and as to the communication of that system with its large perivisceral cavity, were based, and Edwards, Burmeister, Wiegmann oder R. Leuckart nimmt, und vor allem, ob er die Hirudineen mit ilinen verbinden oder zu den Planarieen (Dendrocoelen, Rhabdocoelen) und Trematoden hiniiberfiihren will.' It is true that Leuckart does ('Menscbl. Parasit.' i. p. 156) put the Hirudineae together with the other orders, the Turbellarians, Cestodes, and Trematodea, into a class ' Platodes,' which he keeps separate from a class 'Annelidas,' containing the four orders, Acanthocephali, Nematodes, Chaeto- g^athi, and Chaetopodes. He appears to me, however, to have done this rather for purposes of convenience as a helminthologist than as a zoologist; at any rate in the 'Lehrbuch der Zootomie,' published in 1847 by himself and Professor Heinrich Frey, the Hirudineae, s. Abranchiati, are ranged as a sub-order under a sub-class ' Annelides,' and in the ' Menschlichen Parasiten' (p. 673) itself, we find this excellent authority, after specifying the points of similarity which subsist between the leeches and Trema- todes as regards their reproductive system, saying:—' Die Aehnlichkeit mit den Trematoden, die wir so eben hervorhoben, erstreckt sich iibrigens keineswegs bis auf die Einzelnheiten der anatomischen Bildung. Es finden sich hierin vielmehr so zahl- reiche und durchgreifende Unterscheide, dass sich der Typus der Hirudineen auch in dieser Hinsicht als ein selbstaudiger zu erkennen giebt.' Glaus, in the last edition (1876) of his 'Grundziige der Zoologie,'having in view, I apprehend, not only the utterances of Professor Leuckart, but also the discussions which had taken place between Claparfede and De Quatrefages (' Bibliothfeque UniverseUe de Genfeve,' N.S. vol. xxii. 1865 ; ' Bull. Sci.' p. 346 ; and ' Annales des Sciences Naturelles') upon this subject, writes as follows (p. 395):—'Man hat daher neuerdings zumal im Hinblick auf die nahe Verwandtschaft mancher Discophoren und Polystomeen die Anneliden als systematische Einbeit ganz aufgegeben und die Auflosung derselben in gegliederte Plattwiirmer und gegliederte Ruudwiirmer befiirwortet, allein einerseits erscheint der Anschluss an jene niedere Wurmclasse keineswegs auf die gesammte Organis.atiou durchgreifend, andererseits gerade in dem gemeinsamen Charakter der Segmentirung ein so wesentliches die hohere Lebensstufe bedingendes Merkmal gegeben, dass wir den Verband der Anneliden als wohl gegrundet betrachten.'