AND THOSE OF CEKTAIN OTHER MAMMALIA. 97 lobetl, and by the Olcl-World monkeys of a bi-lobed placenta; and should Professor Breschet's anticipations prove to be correct, we should have an additional, though slight confirmation of the law which teaches us to expect to find considerable diflFerences in structure and in habits between Old-World animals and their South-American representatives, and an additional, though slight confirmation of the general value of the placental system from a classificatory point of view. I call the confirmation it would lend to these great principles but slight, firstly, because the anthropo- morphous apes, if we may judge, at least, from one of them, viz. the chimpanzee {Troglodytes niger), resemble the New-World monkeys, and differ from the Old-World species, so much nearer to them in other structures and in place, in possessing a uni-lobed placenta; and, secondly, because such a point as the divarication of such an organ as a placenta, which is usually a single mass, into two or more naked-eye masses, seems to me but of small mor- phological importance. Such an example as that of the ferret [Mustela furo), already detailed from Daubenton, deters one from assigning any very great value to the continuity or discontinuity of the cellulo-vascular mass, which it is not pretended has changed its relations either to allantois, to amnios, or to umbilical vesicle. The placenta of the Leporidae will not, I anticipate, be found to be uniformly bi-lobular or multi-lobular ; and a reference to any work on midwifery 1 will show that very great varieties of the like nature may exist in the placenta of our own species. It would, however, be highly interesting to have further obser- vations made as to the placentae of the long-nosed monkey {Semno- jjitkecus nasicus) amongst the lower Old-World Simiadae, and of the Callithrix sciureus amongst the New-World monkeys, as in speci- mens of their placental structures [which were, however, in hath cases alike in a bad state of joreservation) Professor Breschet^ was unable to satisfy himself that his rule held good. * C'azeau, 1. c. p. 191, where a figure of a cotyledonary human placenta is given. ^ Professor Breschet's words are (I.e. p. 461), 'S'il ne s'est gliss^ aucune erreur dans ITiiatoire du fait anatomique, il faut avouer que la loi que j'^tablissais de I'existence d'un double placenta dans I'oeuf des Singes de I'ancien continent, et d'un aeul placenta dans celui des Singes d'Am^rique, n'est pas exacte ou quelle souffre dea exceptions. Le mieux serait peutfitre d'attendre que de nouvelles observations vinssent eclaircir la question et lever tous les doutes aur le poiut.' The following account, therefore, which may apply, perhaps, to Professor Breschet's labours, will nevertheleaa, I apprehend, give an incorrect impression of what his opinions are : H