378 ON THE PEOPLE OF THE LONG-BAEKOW PEEIOD. and such an additional receptacle for additional dead may have been constituted by a somewhat enigmatical structure found in 1868, but destroyed before 1874. This structure, when discovered April loth, 1868, during the process of carting away the eastward end of the barrow, was described as being a ' diagonal oval chamber, built of small slates, after the manner of the inclosing outer wall/ and as being 6 feet by 4 feet 8 inches in transverse measurements. It contained no upright flags, and was 25 feet nearer to the east end of the barrow than the chamber already described, and a little to the north of the middle line. When discovered, it contained the following relies: the distal end of the left radius of an adult man; the mid and ungual phalanges of an adult human subject; the clavicle of an infant; the upper molars of an ox ; the last lower molar of a sheep; and the phalanx of a small carnivore, probably a weasel, as verified by Professor Owen for Mr. Royce, April 27th, 1868 ; and two flint flakes. Though the fact of this penannular structure having been so far away from the line of the chamber already described makes it improbable that the two bodies represented by the bones just mentioned could have been of the number of eight found to the west of that line, it is of importance to note that there is no osteological impossibility in the way of considering them to have so belonged to them. But in favour of their independent origin there is an additional fact, in the possession by me of a very much worn human temporal bone, which can scarcely have belonged to any of the five adult skeletons already spoken of, but which came from some part of this barrow, it is uncertain which. If much is left in comparative uncertainty as to the bones con- tained in this structure, much more is left in uncertainty as to the interpretation of the structure itself. It is possible that when dis- covered in 1868 it was even then but the remains of a much larger, or, at least, a more perfect structure ; and that larger or more perfect structure may have been either the remains of a heart-shaped or horned east end, or it may have been the remains of a chamber placed much as certain chambers were placed in the chamber-end barrow at Uley, already referred to as described by Dr. Thurnam. But it is also just possible that it may have been simply a stretch of walling erected as a ' block' to shore up the loose rubble, of which the great bulk of the tumulus was made. Similar structures.