BE:UN OF MAN AND THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 47 to variety, but a stunted occipital reg-ion is not; it may contain, or it may not, in man it never does contain, occipital lobes alone. The bony case is forced out into protuberance in this region; but it is so forced out in man by the outgrowth of brain lobes which can no longer find sufficient shelter under their own proper vertebra, to use the language of mystical and exceedingly delusive anatomy; but whether these outgrowing convolutions be those lettered a and 13, or those numbered 4 and 5 in our diagram, no external mani- festation can tell us. It is plain that judging of the contents of any one of - the four volumes of a four-volume work from the numeral emblazoned on its back is a scientific and safe method of coming to a decision as to its contents^ when compared with the analogous procedure so commonly held to be legitimate, conclusive and safe, when applied to the human skull. The convolutions numbered i, 2, 3, correspond to the frontal, and a glance shows the enormous development they have attained in man ; and a second will explain how it is that the horizontality on the reverse of the temporo-sphenoidal (numbered 8, 7) lobe stands in a direct ratio to the greater or less development of this frontal mass. It is broad, subquadrate in front, deep, long, complex, asymmetrical, in man; narrow, pointed in front, excavated, fore- shortened, simple, symmetrical, in the apes. Divisible as it is in both alike into three stages, it is especially the uppermost which in the uppermost of mankind presents the widest difference when compared with lower organisms; but these lower organisms are, as my diagrams show (see Fig. 3 b), human as well as simious, and to the believers in the doctrine of types, as commonly expounded, the words ' divisible as it is in both alike' are words of disappoint- ment, speaking as they do to merely quantitative differences. These quantitative differences are, it may be said, incomparably wider when we measure the interval between the Hottentot Venus and the African ape; but when we measure that existing between the Hottentot Venus and the European, are the latter differences greater than those which separate such a brain as the chimpanzee's from such another as the marmoset's ? Now, to these enormous differ- ences as existing in Nature, and shown in these diagrams as existing between the African and the American ape, will any one aver he can assign concomitantly varying capacities, co-ordinately graduated amenabilities to education? I cannot but think the