KEPOET ON EXCAVATION AT SIGWELL. ' 441 This exploration was undertaken at the suggestion of the Eev. J. A. Bennett, the rector of the neighbouring parish of South Cadbury; and to his other suggestions on many points, and to his help throughoutj we are greatly indebted. The British Association gave us a grant towards the defrayment of the expenses, and the following report was read before the Plymouth Meeting in August, 1877, ' Sigwell i,' July 18,1877, Tuesday.—The examination of the twin- barrow was begun by opening the tumulus situated to the north by a trench 9 feet i inch wide from the east side. The natural soil, lias sand, was of a light yellow colour with concretions of a small size and somewhat darker hue intermingled with it, and was readily enough distinguishable from the made earth of the barrow, which was darker in colour owing to finely divided carbonaceous matter, and was also more loosely compacted. The natural soil was 5 feet below the top of the barrow at its eastern edge, and 9 feet below it at its centre. When the excavation had passed the centre west- ward, it was opened out northwards to a length of 21 feet. July 19, Wednesday. A great deal of charcoal was found about 4 feet above the natural surface at the centre; and at a depth of I foot 6 inches from the natural bottom, and 7 feet 6 inches from the surface under the centre picket, a well-formed flint ' scraper' or 'strike a light' was found. And in all about twenty fragments of worked flint were found in this barrow, some of them with patina upon them, and some with rose-coloured staining (from manganese?), but most retaining the black surfaces of their original fractures unchanged, and showing thereby that they were chipped during, or only shortly before, the erection of the mound, for the purpose of funeral ceremonial. But in this northern part of the twin-barrow we found no pottery, no bronze, no interment; and the flints, such as they were, were much fewer in mere numbers than in either of the two barrows to be hereafter described. Our failure to find any interment may be explained by the fact that this mound was very extensively burrowed into by badgers, foxes, and rabbits ; and if the interment had been contained within as small a compass, and had consisted of such easily scatterable materials as those contained and discovered in the two other mounds, it is easy to see how it might have been entirely dispersed and destroyed. 'Sigwell ii,' July ao, Thursday.—We commenced upon the