J^82 aENEKAL KEMARKS intercrossing of the two stocks. Such skulls are all found in barrows of the later period, and all, while retaining both the contour and the proportions of the brachycephalic type, still exceed the great majority of such skulls in the matter of cubical capacity. His and Riitimeyer consider the largest of the skulls treated of by them in their ' Crania Helvetica' (p. 44), skulls to wit with an average capacity of 1638 cc. = circa 100 cub. in., a maximum of 1820 cc.= circa 111 cub. in., and a minimum of 1430 cc. = 87-27 cub. in., to be the result of the intercrossing of their' Sion typus,' which is the skull of the ' Pfahlbauten' and (p. 34) ' unserer Keltiseher Vorfahren' and corresponds to many of our long-barrow skulls, with their ' Disentis Typus,' which corresponds to many of our round-barrow skulls. It is of great importance to note this coincidence as to the facts observable in Switzerland and in Great Britain respectively. A second variety of skull, which I incline to consider a ' Misch- form,' is found in round barrows containing both dolichocephalic and brachycephalic crania, lying together peacefully and in equally honourable positions within their precincts. These skulls differ from those just spoken of in being dolichocephalic by measurement, but they resemble them in combining with this proportion of breadth to length the precipitous dip downwards of the posterior half of the parietals which is so characteristic of brachycephaly generally, and the great height which is so characteristic of the brachy- cephaly of prehistoric times. A skull figured by Dr. Ad. Pansch ('Arch, fiir Anth.^ vi. 3, p. 175, 1873) as found in a deposit cut into in the excavations for the new harbour at Kiel and in surround- ings which, without definitely proving the skull to have belonged to the stone age (pp. 174, 179), did yet vindicate for it claims to a very considerable antiquity, gives a very good representation of this form of skull. Another may be found in the ancient British skull from a barrow at Kennet, near Abury, North Wilts, figured and Indians, are, according to Dr. Hancock, remarkable for their physical superiority over their progenitors on either side, and this he says is a well-known fact.' Per contra, ' Most of the criminals of Nicaragua are, according to Squier, Zamboes, bigger and better made than their parents, without possessing any of their good qualities.' Dr. Beddoe's investigations into the stature and bulk of man in the British Islands ('Mem. Anth. Soc' iii. 553) have led him to say, 'on the whole, the results of my tables tend to support, but only in a feeble way, the current opinion as to the advantageous effect of crossing upon size.' Professor Broca (' Mdmoires,' i. p. 342) says,' L'amelioratiou des races par des croisemeiits est fortement contest^e aujourdhui;' but he should have added, I think, words limiting the dispute to France.