BRAIN OF MAN AND. THE BRAINS OF CERTAIN ANIMALS. 45 internal bridging convolution, the entire absence of which from the human fissure leaves it a clear void. The clear open fissure in the diagram (Fig. i b, R H.) is not the internal perpendiculai- but the hippocampal fissure, and its large size corresponds to the large hippocampus, not to the large internal occipital furrow of the human brain. Brain then for brain, we may say that the human brain is always wanting in internal, the simious very frequently in external, convo- lutions for the filling up of a certain fissure which separates the occipital from the parietal lobes in either case. This fact does not at first seem to affect the typical meaning, or classificatory value, or serial importance of the convolutions in question, tliough it is obvious that it bears with considerable force upon their physio- logical. But their serial value also is affected when we find that amongst the apes, the Ateles belzebuth (the spider monkey) alone of all those figured by M. Gratiolet, follows the human arrange- ment, and the human relation of these four convolutions exactly, as to the degradation of the one and the exaltation of the other set; in other words, in man and the spider monkey alone do the external connecting convolutions come fully to the surface, forming, as I have said, a quadrangular mass in man, though but an hourglass-shaped mass in the monkey. Still upon such con- striction as converts a quadrangular into an hourglass-shaped mass there is little weight to be laid. Surely the Ateles is not so very much more man-like than all other monkej^s upon this ground; the imperfection denoted by its name has never been belied by its manifestation of any psychical properties in correspondence with its high brain, but out of correspondence with its mutilated hand. The small area occupied by the lobes numbered lo, u, 12, in the human, as contrasted with that occupied by the same numbers in the simious brain, speaks of a corresponding difference in their occipital lobes; the mandrill has the largest occipital lobe (see Fig. 3 a and Fig. 5 a), man the smallest in the series. And here the doctrines of Gall may seem to coincide with the results attained by quite another method, by a far more searching and truthful analysis than his; but such coincidence is but apparent. A stunted occipital lobe is indeed a sign of elevation, whether we rise by giant strides from species to species, or by imperceptible gradntions from variety