NOTES ON SKELETON FOUND AT OISSBUEY. 437 sknll is viewed from the front, the lowness of the orbital and the height of the nasal indices are very obvious ; the end interzygo- matic diameter forms the base of a triangle with its apex at the middle line of the frontal; but inferiorly, the flanging out of the lower jaw at its angles diminishes the relative superiority of this transverse measurement. The malar portion of the orbit has its edges everted. The supra-orbital portion is strongly developed, and bridges over the supra-orbital foramen. The supra-ciliary ridges are distinct from the supra-orbital, and meet across the middle line. The frontal sinuses are far from being co-extensive with them. The lower jaw of this skull contrasts in very many important particulars with the lower jaw of the other skull from Cissbury (' Jour. Anth. Inst.' I.e., p. 34, and Article XIX. p. 425). The body of the bone, instead of having its symphysis separated by a wide interval from a horizontal plane upon which itself rests, has an all but perfectly horizontal boundary line inferiorly, upon which it would rest in its entire length but for a small downward growth in the region of the symphysis, and a slight rounding oflF' of its angle, the general contour of which is quadrangular ; when thus resting on a horizontal plane, it has its coronoid process projecting considerably above the level of the articular surface of the condyle, and when placed in its normal relation with the skull it has this same process prolonged a considerable way into the zygomatic fossa j a line drawn along the lower margin of the body of the bone makes an angle of but 103° with one drawn along the posterior aspect of its ascending ramus as opposed to the angle of 133° made by the same lines in the other lower jaw from Cissbury; and the teeth are less worn and of smaller size, and the body of the jaw less tumid, though the age was about the same and the sex male as opposed to female. If the regions of the symphysis of the lower jaws differ very much when looked at from the front, they differ even more when looked at from behind. The posterior aspect of the symphysis of the lower jaw can be naturally divided into two segments, one anterior, the other posterior to the tubercles for the geniohyoglossi and the vascular foramen just in front of them. If we place the point of one arm of a pair of compasses in this pretty constant foramen, and take with the other, first, the distance to the alveolar, and secondly, the distance to the mental edge of the symphysis, we