GENERAL REMARKS 224 Facts of neai-ly equal generality and obviousness would be pre- sented in the observation of the comparative rarity of the inter- a round or globular headed race, existed in that country in the earliest times, apparently simultaneously. Examples of both rnces, but especially of the former, he thought were still to be found among the modem Irish. The evidence before Sir William Wilde is given at pp. 40, 228-232 of his ' Beauties of the Boyne and Blackwater,' the second edition of which was published in 1850. In this year Professor Daniel Wilson, in a paper read before the British Association and published in the ' Transactions' of the Sections for 1850, p. 142, put forward the following statement as to the succession of races in Scotland, in opposition to the views of Professor Nilsson which may be found in the • British Association Report for 1847 ' at p. 31: ' The earliest Scottish race differed entirely from the earliest Scandinavian race as described by Professor Nilsson, being rather dolichocephalic, or perhaps more correctly cymbocephalic, to adopt a term which I venture to suggest as most appropriate to the peculiar boat-like shape of the crania The second race decidedly corresponds with the brachycephalic of Retzius, though in the few examples I have been able to obtain the cerebral develop- ment appears considerably greater than in the primitive race of Scandinavia.' These races Professor Daniel Wilson appears to have considered to be Preceltic ; and of the ' true Celtic type,' he says, ' nearly all ethnologists are agreed in assigning to it an intermediate form, shorter than the true dolichocephalic and longer than the brachy- cephalic' These views were expounded by him at greater length in the first edition of his ' Prehistoric Annals of Scotland,' pp. 163-187, 695-696, which was published next year; cit. Nott and Gliddon,' Indigenous Races,' p. 293. With Professor Wilson's conclusion that the earliest race in Great Britain was eminently dolichocephalic, and I would add exclusively so, all archaeological anatomists are now agreed; and the tendency to extend this conclusion to other regions of the world's surface is now so strong as to have suggested a comparison between the progress from dolichocephaly to brachycephaly, which is taken for granted, and the gradual widening of the skull, which, it is asserted, takes place between childhood and adult age in modern races. See Schaafhausen, 'Urform nienschl. Schadels," p. 5, 1868, or as cit. Welcker, 'Archiv fur Anthropologie,' i. p. 151, 1866. Professor Wilson's views were adopted by Mr. Bateman in his' Ten Years' Diggings,' p. 147, published in i86i ; and he himself reaffirmed them in his paper on 'Ethnical Forms and Undesigned Artificial Distortions of the Human Crania,' published in the ' Canadian Journal,' No. xli. Sept. 1862, p. 41, and in his paper on 'Ancient British Skull Forms,' published in the' Edinburgh Philosophical Journal,' vol. xviii. July, 1863, p. 62 seqq. Still Professor Nilsson's views as to the priority of the brachycephalic races main- tained their hold upon the beliefs of the great majority of at least continental anthro- pologists until the publication of Dr. Thurnam's memoir on ' The Principal Forms of Ancient British and Gaulish Skulls' in 1865, in the ' Memoirs of the London Anthro- pological Society.' Professor Broca, 'Bull. Soc. Anth. Paris,' ser. ii. torn. viii. 1873, p. 827, in his memoir 'Sur les cranes de Solutrfe,' thus sums up the present state of opinion upon this ques- tion : ' En efFet dans les gisements les plus anciens de I'Europe occidentale, tons les cranes sont dolichoc(«phales, et dans les gisements moins anciens qui ne remontent qu'Ji I'age du renne, la dolichocephalic est encore la rfegle la plus gin4ia,\e ; quelques faits, il est vrai, ^tablissent qu'k cette derniere ^poque il y avait en outre une race au crane plus arrondi;' some Solutrfe, like some Hungarian, skulls contravening this rule. I do not know what foundation there may be for the statement of Professor