210 DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES OF SKULLS. is situated a little hig-lier up than in the preceding- skull, and the mesial vertical carina is less clear in the occipital pentagon. But it resembles that skull in the faintly rfiarked parietal tubera and the absence of any rounding out of the lateral cranial walls below the level of those eminences. Viewed from above this skull presents a somewhat more tapering- outline in both directions, both towards the forehead and towards the occiput, than the preceding one, and would have been more phaenozyg-ous if the zygomatic arches had not been extensively lost. The sagittal and coronal sutui'es are more extensively obliterated than in the preceding skull, and the lambdoid, which was unaffected in that skull, is larg-ely obliterated in this. There is a depression in the region of the left lateral fontanelle, the spot called ' asterion' by Professor Eroca, and the maximum occipital width is half an inch less than in the other skull with which it has been compared. These points and the closure of the lambdoid may suggest that the occipital lobes ceased to grow early in life; their length however must have been great. In the norma basalis the absence of any crista transversa occipitis enables us to give a more favourable measure- ment to the fronto-postremal as compared with the frontal-inial diameter of the skull than in skulls where the commencement of the linea nuchae mediana is masked by a large development of that outgrowth. The palate is deep ; the external alveolar border of the upper jaw is ellipsoidal; the disproportionate smallness of the upper wisdom teeth gives the inner border of the dental series a parabolic outline. There is a spot of caries on the right wisdom tooth in the lower jaw. The absence of any occipital spine enables us to see the distinctness of the curves described by the superior squama from those of the parietal above and the coneeptacula cerebelli below, and produces the * facettirte Absetzung des Hinterkopfs' dwelt upon as characteristic of the Hohberg type of skull. The absence of the process in question is however rather a sexual than an ethnographical difference; but it enables us to see the peculiar conformation of the back-head which is common to both sexes to great advantage.