GENERAL REMARKS 274 suflPer from irritation, inflammation, and other morbid action are so because normally they are the seats of habitual activity, this dis- tribution of the signs of disease over the area in question is of cardinal significance. In the last place, I will mention very briefly the indications which the comparative anatomy of some of the various races of mankind, and of the developing skull and brain in the human species, as also tbe proportion of two segments of the parietal bone anterior and posterior to the line of the primitive centre of ossifica- tion, furnish to us in this investigation. The most typically dolichocephalic modem race, not even exclud- ing the Esquimaux, is beyond doubt the Australian, As was pointed out long ago in the ' Osteological Catalogue of the Royal College of Surgeons,' vol. ii. p. 838, No. 5385, brachycephalic skulls are to be found amongst Negro tribes, and (see p. 269 supra) instances may be found among Negro brains of excessive narrowness in the zone of brain between the supra-marginal and the occipital convolutions, though some of the most forwardly placed parietal tubera which I have ever met with are from series of CafTre crania; and though, secondly, these tubera are sometimes backwardly placed even in dolichocephalic Negro heads. Confining ourselves therefore to the consideration of the Australian cranium, which furnishes us with a simple case, as its uniformity and also the degraded character of the race are alike beyond dispute, we have to say that the parietal eminences all but always occupy a relatively forward position in the parietal bone and in the skull of the Australians; and that to the unvarying dolichocephaly of their brain the segments lying pos- teriorly to the plane of the 'lobulus tuberis' always contribute a quantitatively large though not a quantitatively superior proportion. Without going further into the controversy alluded to at pp. 244, 245 supra, as to the relative superiority of the dolichocephalic or brachycephalic type, it may suffice to say here that not only would the inferiorly irrigated and histologically inferior segments of the modern European dolichocephali found in Germany, England, and Ireland form a smaller proportion of the entire length of their brains than, judging from their skulls or from such casts as those labelled 6 and 7 in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, the homologous segments do in the Australian brain, but that the anterior segments of the European brain are broader, with their