UPON THE SERIES OF PREHISTORIC CRANIA. 259 other skulls, male and female, which differed from them greatly in size, but in no way as to the archaeological surroundings ; and that there is no reason for supposing, therefore, that their smaller size is to be explained by reference to any inferiority of rank which among savages has so often been observed to entail inferiority of bulk (see 'British Association Report,' Bristol Meeting, 1875, pp. 150-152). "We are prone, as I think, by a certain confusion of thought, to imagine that savage life is as unvarying and monotonous, and as little relieved by alternations, as is the ' dull grey life ' of the lowest ranks of highly civilised communities, and that in consequence greater uniformity of physical conformation is to be expected and to be found among all the members of wild and prehistoric races. The assumption, and the inference based upon it, are equally unsub- stantial ; savages are exposed to greater vicissitudes in their battle alike with inanimate and animate forces than are the veriest out- casts of civilised society; and as regards the means of meeting these emergencies, compared with savages ' our basest beggars are superfluous.' ' The action of the environment,' ' I'influence des milieux,' counts really for more instead of for less upon savage than upon civilised man; and as a matter of fact this more potent working is as distinctly verifiable upon the living modern savage as it is upon a series of bones from the stone-age barrows. Mr. Bates, e.g. says, when (' Naturalist on the Amazons,' vol. ii. p. 129) writing of a Brazilian tribe, the Muudurucus (whom, he says indeed, p. 131, it would be a misnomer to call 'savages; their regular mode of life, agricultural habits, loyalty to their chiefs, fidelity to treaties, and gentleness of demeanour giving them a right to a better title,' but who nevertheless, on his own showing as to details such as dress, &c., p. 125, appear to have owed very little to civilisation and the arts): ' The great difference in figure, shape of head, and arrangement of features amongst these people struck me forcibly, and showed how little uniformity there is in these respects amongst the Brazilian Indians, even when belonging to the same tribe. The only points in which the}'^ all closely resembled each other were the long thick straight jet-black hair, the warm coppery- brown tint of the skin, and the quiet rather dull expression of countenance. I saw no countenance so debased in expression as many seen amongst the Mura tribe, and no head of the Mongolian type, broad with high cheek bones, and oblique position of the eyes, s 2