22101442024Med K9357TIME AND MONEY SAVED BY USING HUCON’S “ATORA” REFINED BEEF SUET Indispensable In ovary Household all tho year round. Specially recommended for Summer Use and for Hot Climates. It supersedes Raw Suet, Lard, and Cooking Butter for Puddings, Cakes, Mince Meat, Pie Crust, Frying and Cooking. Prepared from best English Beef Suet only! Saves trouble of chopping ! Always ready for use ! N o waste ! One pound goes as far as two pounds of Raw Suet! Digestible and Wholesome. Absolutely Pure. It is put up in one pound boxes and sold by most Grocers and Dealers Sole Manufacturers— HUGON & Co., Ltd., PENDLETON, MANCHESTER.The most nourishing, digestible, and delicious of all Cocoas. van fjouten’5 £ocoa BEST % GOES FARTHEST. 4Patent High-Pressure Steam-Prepared PEA FLOUR TRADE MARK. For Thickening Soups, Gravies, &c. By using this. Soup can be made in a few minutes ; while ordinary or split peas take 24 hours in soaking and preparation. Pea Flour is more Easily Digested. PEA SOUP Is the Pea Flour with the addition of LIEBIG’S EXTRACT OF MEAT, herbs, and seasonings. Only boiling water required. Boiling for two or three minutes improves the flavour. WHEAT CRYSTALS. The most nu- tritious part of Wheat; mukes fairy-like Blanc-Mange, the lightest Milk Puddings, and daintiest Oakes imaginable. WHEAT CRYSTALS is quite different to Corn Flour, Ground Rice, &e., as it contains much less starch, and quite supersedes such foods. SOLD IN 1 lb. PACKETS. Manufacturers—W. SYMINGTON & CO., LTD., Digestive Food Specialists, Market Harboro’. Established 1827.A GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY BY MARY HARRISON Author of “ The Skilful Cook,” etc. WITH A PREFACE BY THE RIGHT HON. Sir THOMAS DYKE ACLAND.Bart. FOURTH EDITION 1905 LONDON J. M. DENT & CO.' 29 & 30, BEDFORD STREET. W.C./1> / o o 'T'XU Croton 8vo., price 3/6. By THE SAME AUTHOR. THE SKILFUL COOK Crown 8vo., price 3/6. 366 MENUS and 1,200 RECIPES Of the Baron Brisse. In FRENCH and ENGLISH. By Mrs. Matthew Clark. [All Rights Reserved] WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. <&TPREFACE. I have been requested by Miss Harrison to write a few words by way of preface to this book. I am not qualified to express any opinion as a matter of taste or fashion about tho gastronomic art. But I have a very strong con- viction that much good may be done by teaching those whose food supplies are not abundant, to make the most of their scanty means for the health and comfort of their families. I have also on various occasions expressed publicly the opinion, that in order to promote this object, tho best plan is to diffuse among the ladies who are at tho head of families, or who may soon be in that position, an intelligent knowledge of the principles on which the preparation of food depends. I may perhaps be excused if I repeat in writing what I said to the ladies at Exeter at the closo of a course of lectures given there by Miss Harrison. I referred to what Miss Harrison had said in ro|>ly to some criticism on servants—that she had the greatest sympathy with good servants; that the more a mistress knew of house- hold work herself the moro likely was she to appreciate servants who honestly and conscientiously performed their duties. By understanding their difficulties she would be more able to show consideration for those under her. Good cooking of a high class generally requires time and trouble; cleanliness of course is essential. For several dishes much mechanical work, in order to ensure smooth- ness, is indispensable. But for some kinds of food suitable for daily use, or for children, that is not the case. It must be borne in mind that, though cookery is an art, it is based on science. Cookery really is applied chemistry. It especially requires a thorough knowledge of the different ways in which the several elements of foodIV PREFACE. are affected by heat, so as to promote digestibility and nourishment. The skilful cook has to guard against producing tough- ness of one kind of food by excess of heat, or by not applying heat in the proper way, and', on the other hand, she has to secure tenderness and digestibility of some foods (without loss of flavour) by sufficient heat. Speaking generally, all foods containing starch, that is, all farinaceous foods, and nearly all vegetables, must be brought to the boiling point. On the other hand, lean flesh meat containing albumen—that is, the same constituent as white of egg—becomes tough at the boil- ing point if that heat is prolonged more than a few minutes. The intense heat to which fat can be raised—more than double that of boiling water—has also to be understood in order to prevent the injudicious use of the frying- pan, and, I may add, to ensure the proper use of the frying basket. It needs intelligence in comprehending these principles, and practice in applying them, to cook a steak, or an omelet, or a pudding, or to make soup of the simplest kind. But on all these points Miss Harrison’s book is a safe guide, and I heartily wish her success, both in the useful- ness of tho book, and in her important duties in connection with general education. T. I). A. Killerton, Devon.CONTENTS PAG* , Introduction . . . . . . vii The Study of Cookery . . . . 1 Food and Diet ....... 3 Rules for Cooking ...... 7 The Drawing up of a Menu, and 'iyie Order of a Dinner ....... 8 Hints on Table Decorations . . . 11 Kitchen Economies . . . . . .12 The Kitchen . . . . . 16 The Larder . . . . . . .17 The Store Room . . . . . 18 IIow to Clean Stoves and Cooking Utensils . 19 Calendar of Foods in Season . . 22 Rules for Boiling, Roasting, Baking, Stewing, Frying, Broiling, and Braising ... 28 The Choice of Meat, and Cooking of Joints . . 37 Beef ........ 37 Mutton ...... .39 Lamb ........ 40 Venison . ..... 42 Veal ........ 42 Pork . . . . . . 44 How to Choose Poultry and Game ... 48 Trussing Poultry, Boning, and Larding . . . 51 The Cooking of Poultry and Game ... 54 Stocks and Soups . . . . . . . 65 Plain Family Soups ...... 86 Sauces ......... 97 Plain Sauces ...... 97 High-Class Sauces . . . . . 103 Sweet Sauces . . . . . .122 Savoury and Economical Dishes of Meat . . 124VI CONTENTS. Savoury Meat Dishes suitable for Removes, etc. Vegetables ...... Vegetable Entremets and Vegetarian Dishes . Fish Fresh-Water Fish ..... Pastry Cheese-Cake Mixtures ..... Puddings ....... Breakfast Dishes and Beverages . Sick-Koom Cookery ..... Bread and Cakes ...... Entries ....... Cold Entries, Supper Dishes, and Salads Jellies ....... Creams ........ Plain Sweets, and Stewed Fruits E£chauff£s of Cooked Meat .... Indian Curries and other Dishes Souffles, Omelets, and Fritters Hors-d’oeuvres and Savouries Ices ........ Perfumed Ices ..... Sorbets ....... Ice Puddings ..... Sugar-Boiling, Nougat, Meringues, etc. . Fruit Compotes and Salads Purges ........ Summer Drinks and other Beverages . Butters ....... Garnishes ....... Garnishes fop. Sweet Dishes . Forcemeats ...... Potting Meats and Fish .... Various Recipes for Curing Hams, Spicing Beef, etc Preserving. ...... Pickles ....... Store Sauces, Vinegars, and Salad Dressings Miscellaneous Items ..... Menus ....... Index • • , , * , . .< TAGE 142 153 169 182 209 213 237 238 266 276 287 313 339 351 357 368 378 385 391 402 410 414 414 415 418 422 424 426 429 432 439 443 447 448 452 460 463 467 472 475A GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY. INTRODUCTION. That of late years a good deal of interest has been aroused on the subject of cookery, there is no doubt; but whether that interest will result in any permanent benefit to the community has yet to be seen. It must do so, if it leads to the recognition of the fact that cookery is a necessary branch of every woman’s education, for it will then be taken up with a seriousness of attention which is at present most certainly not accorded to it. I am perfectly aware that the “ cookery column ” in the weekly or monthly magazine is a very popular one; but I imagine that the majority of ladies who read those columns do so with a view to ascertain what are the newest dishes, and what is the most fashionable way of serving them. There is no reason why they should not do so; but if a woman’s study of cookery has no more result than to enable her to introduce novelties at her dinners, and to have them served according to the most fashionable modes, it can have no more beneficial effect than the wearing of fashionable clothes. To be fashion- able is, no doubt, very satisfactory; but the satisfaction is almost, if not entirely, self-centred. 1 should therefore like to suggest to my readers one or two reasons why cookery as one, and a very important, branch of domestic economy should be studied with earnestness. The comfort of a home depends on its being managed by a competent mistress, and no woman is competent toviii A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. manage any business of the details of which she knows nothing. As a matter of fact she cannot manage it. Certainly she may be at the head, of it, but she cannot manage it in any real sense of the word. To properly manage a house, a mistress should have a thorough know- ledge of (not merely a bowing acquaintance with) all branches of domestic economy, so that she may not only instruct her servants, and see that they perform their duties properly, but in case of illness may, if necessary, perform those duties herself. It is unworthy of a sensible woman that her household should be disorganized, and the comfort of its members disturbed, in consequenco of her ignorance of domestic matters. “ Good household management,” said Mrs. Ellis, writing on the subject of women’s education fifty years ago, “ is indeed a science worthy of attention. It comprises so much as to invest it with an air of difficulty on the first view ; but no woman can reasonably complain of incapa- bility, because Nature has endowed the sex with percep- tions so lively and acute that, where benevolence is the impulse, and principle the foundation on which they act, experience will soon teach them by what means they may best accomplish the end they have in view.” Tho same writer also says: “ There is an appropriate sphere for women to move in from which the middle-class in England seldom deviate very widely. This sphere has duties and occupations of its own from which no woman can shrink without culpability and disgrace; and the question is— are women prepared for thoso duties and occupations by what they learn at school? For my own part 1 know not how education deserves tho name which does not prepare the individual for filling her appointed station in the best possible manner.” But of late years there has been a great tendency to substitute theoretical for practical knowledge of tho different branches of household management. It is to some extent admitted—and this is a hopeful sign—that they claim attention; but with many persons tho study of books on the subject is deemed sufficient, 'lhis is altogether a mistake, particularly with regard to cook- ery. A practical art can only be acquired practically. No theoretical study can take the place of practicalINTRODUCTION. IX acquirement, in quickening the powers of observation and developing tlie intelligence. Mr. Smiles remarks : “ l’es- talozzi, with his usual sagacity, has observed that half the education of a woman comes through her fingers: there are wisdom and virtue at her finger-ends.” And M i's. Ellis says, on the same subject: “ I believe the feminine qualification of being able to use the hands willingly and well has a great deal to do with the moral influence of woman. The personal services she is thus enabled to render enhance her value in the domestic circle; and when such services are performed with the energy of a sound understanding and the grace of an accomplished mind—above all, with the disinterested kindness of a generous heart—they not only dignify the performer, but confer happiness as well as obligation.” An old clergyman, a friend of my father’s, whom I shall always remember with gratitude for the great interest he took in my work, left directions in his will for the formation of a “ College of Social and Domestic Science for Ladies.” There were legal hindrances to his wishes being carried out, and the matter was commented on in some of the daily papers under the heading, “ An Eccentric Will.” Perhaps in some respects the will was eccentric; but the idea was certainly sensible (one which has long been carried out in Germany) and was intended by the testator as “a corrective of the present defective training of ladies.” “ There is an untold world of dis- comfort and misery,” he said, “ consequent on the in- competence of the ladies of England for the discharge of their duties. So long as this e\il saps the founda- tions of society, social and moral progress will be tardy and unsatisfactory. The whole framework of society is more or less affected by it. Incompetent mistresses make bad servants, and bad servants make bad wives; and bad wives, by their idleness, ignorance, and extravagance, make bad homes, and bad homes drive men to ruin and taint national life.” The truth of these remarks no thoughtful person will deny. No doubt this state of things has been to a great extent the result of mere thoughtlessness; but that does not mend matters. “ Evil is wrought by want of thought as well as want of heart.” It may be urged, that in these days many ladies find their time fully occupied in acquiring that intellectualA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. X culture which is more and more needed to make them, in the highest sense of the word, the companions of their husbands and brothers. But I maintain there is room for both. The lives of really distinguished women, with but few exceptions, testify to the fact that true culture and a due regard for domestic duties invariably go hand in hand. In all educational matters the German women are still, I think, in advance of the English; and yet every German woman, of whatever class, is thoroughly instructed in all branches of household management. If it is not possible to do this at home, she goes to a training college, such as I have mentioned, for quite a year. The late Canon Kingsley, in his “ Lectures on Health and Education ”—lectures which every woman would do well to read and act on—says that “ in Germany you may see young ladies living in what we British would con- sider something like poverty ; cooking, waiting at table, and performing many a household office which here would be considered menial, and yet finding time for the cultivation of the intellect in a way which is unfortunately rare in Great Britain.” But may it not be, as already suggested, that, the so- wonsidered menial duties, so far from being a hindrance to intellectual culture, play au important part in the development of the intellect; and is it not against the spirit of Christianity to call any honest labour menial in the sense of its being mean and servile? St. Paul considered it a matter for honest pride that he had worked with his hands and not been chargeable to any one. “ The honest, earnest man must stand and work ; The woman also—otherwise she drops At once below the dignity of man, Accepting serfdom. Free men freely work— Whoever fears God, fears to sit at ease.”THE STUDY OF COOKERY. “ For good and well-chosen sauces are the most wholesome preparations of meats, and conduce both to health and to long life.” “The preparation of meats and bread and drinks, that they may be rightly handled, and in order to this intention, is of exceedingly great moment; howsomever it may seem a mechanical thing ami savouring of the kitchen and buttery ; yet it is of more consequence than those fables of gold and precious stones and the like.”—The History of Life and Death.—Francis Bacon, Lord Verulam. “ There is a best way of doing everything, if it be but to boil an egg.—Emerson. No one can expect to become proficient in the art, or to understand the science, of cookery who is not prepared to devote considerable time to the practice and study of it. Unfortunately, English people are slow' in realizing this fact; and until they do so, no particular improvement is probable or even possible in the cookery of this country. For cookery, rightly understood, cannot be acquired by the learning of a few' miscellaneous dishes, together with some slight study of the theory. The ability to prepare a few dishes fairly w'ell from recipes does not make a woman a cook in the proper sense of the word. Educated people do not think that the slight knowledge of drawing necessary for the sketching of a few flow-ers (just re- cognizable as such), on a picture-frame, milking-stool, or tambourine, will entitle a woman to be considered an artist; or that the smattering of music with w'hich she shuffles off her hearers’ sodls “ through hurricanes of notes to a noisy Tophet,” gives her claim to rank as a musiciun. A smattering of cookery can be productive of no better results than a smattering of drawing or music. Indeed, it cannot be too strongly insisted on, that no proper or adequate knowledge of cookery can be obtained without as rffid nod honest work as that necessary for any other art2 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. or science; and so long as it is considered possible that English women can learn cookery in a few weeks, or even months, after they leave school, instead of it forming part of their education while at school, so long will they remain far behind the French, and other nations who have brought cookery to any degree of perfection. It is a popular fallacy, that although what are considered the higher branches of cookery may require some con- siderable practice, plain cookery, as it is called, may be quickly and easily acquired. Such a misapprehension arises from ignorance of the subject. It certainly does not take long to acquire a smattering of any subject, but a thorough knowledge of good plain cookery is by no means easily acquired, and certainly was not considered so by Brillat Savarin, who says : “ Cookery is an art, but to roast requires genius.” To cook well requires experience; and that only comes after much practice. “ Progress,” it has been truly said, “ of the best kind is comparatively slow.” These remarks, however, are not intended to discourage those who, realizing the immense importance of good cookery in sanitary and social reform, have now really but little time io devote to its study. A little knowledge of any useful subject is better than none, so long as it is thorough. A little clear, definite knowledge of even the most simple process of cookery will be found of value. But there should be no building without foundations. “ It is better,” said Mr. Smiles, “ to accomplish perfectly a small quantity of work, than half-do ten times as much.” In studying cookery, begin by obtaining a thorough grasp of the first principles and fundamental operations. Until this is done no satisfactory progress can be made. On the importance of the study of first principles I quote the author of that most interesting work, ‘ Kettner’s Book of the Table,’ but what he calls “ the soul of a cook,” I should be inclined to call reasoning power. Ho says : “ If a man or woman has not the soul of a cook, the most minute recipes will only end in failure. Sganarelle is made to say by Muiitre, ‘ roti, bouilli-mdme chose; ’ and it is a literal verity that there aro persons pretending to be cooks who aro as ignorant as Sganarelle, and who cannot tell what is the essential peculiarity of roasting.‘6 THE STUDY OF COOKERY. or why some meats are to be roasted and others only stewed. If, on the other hand, the sonl of the cook is there, it is almost always enough to give general rules and leading principles, and to leavo the cook to make variations according to his taste or his means. Lord Byron, in Italy, gavo the most minute directions for his plum pudding; it came out like a broth, and was served in a tureen. There are cooks in the best kitchens who have been shown ever so often how to clarify broth, yet they fail, and have to try over and ovor again before they can succeed. The great thing, it cannot too often be repeated, is to teach a principle, and then its application to special cases follows as a matter of course. He who has learnt to broil a steak properly does not require a special recipe for broiling a mutton chop.” But with the study of first principles must be combined the practice of fundamental operations. All attempts at learning cookery without a grasp of these operations will, and can, only end in a smattering. If cookery is deserving of study, it should be studied earnestly; and surely it cannot be of small moment if “ The fate ot nations depends on how they are fed.” FOOD AND DIET. “ But for Life the universe were nothing, and all that has life requires nourishment.”—Brillat Savarin. “ It is interesting to observe,” says the author of ‘ The Chemistry of Common Life,’ “ how experience alone has almost everywhere led men to a rude adjustment, in kind and quantity, of the forms of nutritive matter which are essential to the supply of their animal wants under the circumstances under which they are placed. Climate, as well as the temperament of a race, has much to do with the adjustment of foods and dietaries.” There should, however, with the progress of civili- zation, be more than a “ 1 ude adjustment ” of foods and dietaries, and to this end it is important that the chemis- try of food should be one of the ordinary, rather than one of the occasional, branches of education. In the4 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. opening chapter of that interesting work, ‘ Food and Feeding,’ Sir Henry Thompson makes these obser- vations : “ I think I shall not be far wrong if I say that there are few subjects more important to the well-being of man than the selection and preparation of his food. . . No doubt there has long been some practical acknowledgment on the part of a few educated persons of the simple fact that a man’s temper, and, consequently, most of his actions, depend on such an alternative as whether he habitually digests his food well or ill; whether the meals which he eats are properly converted into healthy material, suitable for the ceaseless work of building up both muscle and brain; or whether un- healthy products constantly pollute the course of nutritive supply. But the truth of the fact has never generally been admitted to an extent at all comparable with its exceeding importance. It produces no practical results on the habits of men in the least degree commensurate with the pregnant import contained therein. For it is certain that a practical recognition of the value of proper food to the individual in maintaining a high standard of health, in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of unhealthy life being small gain either to the individual or to the community), and thus largely promoting cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved moral tone, would achieve almost a revolution in the habits of a large part of tho community.” It had not been my intention to have said anything in this book on the chemistry of food, as I consider that those who have time to study the subject will have no need of aid from me ; but 1 have added this chapter because it has been suggested that many who have not time to study the subject may be glad to have a few facts, the knowledge of which is most necessary, brought before them in a simple form. The human body is constantly wearing away; with every movement, every thought, there is some waste of its substance. To repair this waste, and, in the case of children, to give material for growth, it is necessary that we take a certain quantity of food daily. The food taken should consist of such qualities as make flesh and muscle; such as will also keep up the heat of the body, and give force or the power of movement. These foods must containTIIE STUDY OF COOKERY. a certain quantity of liquid and some mineral matters. Foods, therefore, naturally divide into two classes—the flesh-formers and heat-givers, generally spoken of as nitrogenous and carbonaceous foods. To the flesh-formers belong: albumen, chiefly found in eggs, milk, and meat; fibrin, in meat, fish, and cereal grains; gluten, in flour; casein, in the curd of milk; legumen, in pulse; gelatine, chiefly found in meat, bones and gristle. The heat-givers are: sugar in whatever form; fat of all kinds, whether from meat, or as butter or oil; and starch, which is found in most vegetables. These facts are sufficient to show the necessity of a mixed diet; and on this subject Professor Church says of food, that “ it should neither be restricted to vegetable products on the one hand, nor to animal substances (including milk and eggs) on the other. By due admixture of these, and by varying occasionally the kind of vegetables or meat taken, or the modes of cooking adopted, the necessai'y constituents of a diet are furnished more cheaply, and at the same time do more efficiently, their proper work. Now if we were to confine ourselves to wheaten bread, we should be obliged to eat, in order to obtain our daily supply of albuminoids, or flesh-formers, nearly four pounds, an amount that would give us nearly twice as much of the starchy matters which should ac- company the albuminoids—or in other words, it would supply not more than the necessary daily allowance of nitrogen, but almost twice the necessary daily allowance of carbon. Now animal food is generally richer in albuminoid or nitrogenous constituents than vegetable food; so by mixing loan meat with our bread we may get a food in which the constituents correspond better with our requirements ; for two pounds of bread may be substi- tuted by twelve ounces of meat, and yet all the necessary carbon, as well as nitrogen, bo thereby supplied.” Meat is, however, as the Professor goes on to remark, generally expensive, therefore it is as well to know what cheaper foods may be taken in placoof it. Cheese is the usual substitute in England, especially amongst the working classes, and it is, according to Professor Church, twice as rich in nitrogenous matters as butcher’s meat. Oatmeal, haricot beans, peas, lentils, are all rich in albuminoids, and can well be substituted for meat; macaroni is a most nutritious food, and whon well6 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. cooked, very delicious. Semolina, also a preparation of wheat, is very nutritious. Eice contains little flesh- forming matter, but is useful as a heat-giver. So also are cornflour and tapioca, which consist almost entirely of starch. The potato is deficient in flesh-forming consti- tuents, containing a quantity of starch, but its chief value is on account of its salts. Most fresh vegetables are useful for the same reason. Bread is a very valuable food Avhen mado from seconds flour. The whitest flour is from the centre of the wheat grain, which consists principally of starch cells. The seconds flour contains most of the gluten; it is on that account yellower in colour, and does not make so light a bread; but it is much more nutritious, and is more palatable. Whole-meal bread is not so valuable as that made from the seconds flour; undoubtedly it contains more nourishment, but as it is not capable of such perfect digestion, it is not considered by the best authorities on the subject to be as nourishing as ordinary bread. It is very important that diet should be regulated according to the work which has to bo done. Those whose occupations are sedentary—and especially brain- workers—should cat sparingly, and of well-cooked and easily digested foods. Less easily digested foods are more suitable for those whose employments demand much physical exertion. Food which is very readily assimi- lated would with them cause a constant feeling of hunger. Physical exertion of any kind quickens digestion. Children should have plain, wholesome fare. Nutritious foods which contain lime, necessary for hardening their bones, such as bread, oatmeal, macaroni, and semolina, are excellent for them. It is of the greatest importance that young children should have plenty of good milk, (specially lor the first few months of their lives. When it is advisable to give them other foods they should be nutritious and well cooked. Fine oatmeal and baked or boiled flour are the best for the purpose. The im- proper feeding of children is one great cause of infant mortality. On tho subject of the feeding of children, Dr. Fothergill says: “ Children fed on the food of their seniors, or rich cake, and crammed with sweeties, do not as a rule thrive well. They cannot compare favourably with children fed on oatmeal, maize, and milk.THE STUDY OP COOKERY. 7 Oatmeal is recovering its position as a nursery food, after a temporary 'banishment. Oatmeal porridge is the food par excellence of the infants born north of the Tweed, or was, at least, and stalwart people were the results. Drink is needed chiefly as a solvent for other foods, and therefore need not be nutritious. Water is un- doubtedly tho best for the purpose. Few people are the better for the constant use of stimulants. They are not nutritious; and although they stimulate vitality for a time, such vitality is generally followed by a correspond- ing depression. In a lecture on the action of alcohol upon health, Sir Andrew Clark says “ that it is a state which cannot be benefited by alcohol in any degree.” He also says: “ It is capable of proof beyond all possibility of question, that alcohol under ordinary circumstances not only does not help work but is a serious hindrance to work.’ At the same time it must not be overlooked that although health cannot bo benefited by tho use of alcohol, it is in illness very frequently invaluable as a medicine; also that some people of weak constitution find its use in moderation decidedly beneficial. RULES FOR COOKING. Work with method. Order everything required before- hand, that no time is wasted waiting for supplies. Before beginning to cook see that the fire is good and the oven ready, and that all tho utensils required are at hand. Prepare all the ingredients you are going to use before mixing any of them. Clear up as you go along, no one can cook well in a muddle. Bo very exact in measuring quantities; otherwise you will constantly fail. A very little too much flour, or too little milk may make all tho difference between a light or heavy cake or pudding. Be quick in dishing up, and never omit to have the plates and dishes properly heated. Unless this important matter is attended to, a well-cooked dish will be spoiled in the serving. As everything worth doing is worth doing well, bring all your intelligence to bear upon what you take in hand.8 A COMPLETE COOKLUY GUILE. THE DRAWING UP OF A MENU, AND THE ORDER OF A DINNER. Ix drawing up a menu it is necessary to give careful attention to one or two points. The dishes chosen should he in season and contrast pleasantly; there should be an agreeable variety of meats, vegetables, Ac., and the methods of cooking them should differ as much as possible to heighten the contrasts. The best way to set about writing a menu is to take the table of foods in season and from it select the meat, fish, &c., which you think best. You can then decide how each shall be cooked, and with what sauce and garnishes. The soup, if only one is used, should be a light one, especially if the dinner comprises a good many courses. A thick soup or puree is only admissible alone before a simple dinner. Clear soup in its varied forms is par excellence the best with which to commence a dinner. It is stimulating, digestible, and a universal favourite if properly prepared. For valuable hints on the subject of dinners I would recommend the study of Sir Henry Thompson’s able w'ork on ‘ Food and Feeding,’ from which, at the commencement of chapter eight, I make the following extracts. Speaking of dinners of invitation, he says: “No doubt the large dinner has greatly improved of late; but it has by no means universally arrived at perfection. Only a few years .ago excellence in quality and good taste in cuisine were often sacrificed in the endeavour to make a profuse display. Hence, abundance without reason, and combina- tions without judgment, were found co-existing with complete indifference to comfort in the matters of draughts, ventilation, temperature, and consumption of time.” After giving a description of the dinner as it used to be, Sir Henry continues : “ And the largo private dinner is still generally too long, the menu too pretentious. LotTHE DRAWING UP OF A MENU, ETC. 9 me, however, be permitted to record, equally in proof of growing taste and as grateful personal duty, how many admirable exceptions to the prevailing custom are now afforded. Then, of course, it must be understood that while the dinner for six or eight persons is designed as an harmonious whole of few, well-chosen dishes, all of which arc intended to be eaten in their order, the menu of the larger party must offer various dishes for choice to meet the differing tastes of more numerous guests, and it must, therefore, be larger. Let us see how this is to be met. First, the soups: it is the custom to offer a consomme which ought to be perfect in clearness, colour, and savour, and to be served perfectly hot; containing a few vegetables, Ac., variously treated; doubtless the best commencement, as it is the key-note of the dinner; revealing also, as it does, nine times out of ten, the calibre of the cook to whose talent the guest is entrusted. But there is mostly an alternative of 1 white soup/ and this is almost always a mistake. Many persons refuse it, and they are right, containing, as it generally does, a considerable proportion }f cream—an injudicious beginning when there is much variety to follow; excellent sometimes as one of three or four dishes, but dangerous otherwise to the guest who has not an exceptionally powerful digestion. But suppose oysters, vinegar and Chablis have just boon swallowed! A brown puree as of game, or one of green vegetables, less frequently met with, would be safer. Two fish, of course, should always be served; as, for example, a slice of Severn or Christ Church salmon, just arrived from the water, for its own sake, and a fillet of white fish for the sake of its sauce and garnish, which should be, there- fore, perfect. The next dish is, in London, a question under discussion ; viz., the question of proeodenco to an entree or to the piece de resistance. The custom has been to postpone the appearance of the latter until lighter dishes have been despatched or declined. If, however, the English joint is required at a meal already comprehensive in the matter of dishes, and taken at a late hour, it seems more reasonable to serve it next to the fish, when thoso who demand a slice of meat may bo expected to have an appropriate appetite, which will certainly bo impaired equally by accepting the entrees, or fasting partially without them. After the joint, two light entrees mayA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 10 follow, and these must necessarily he either in themselves peculiarly tempting morsels, or products of culinary skill, offering inducement to the palate rather than to an appetite which is no longer keen. Then the best roast possible in season, and a salad; a first-rate vegetable, two choice sweets, one of which may be iced; a light savoury biscuit, a herring-roe on toast, or a morsel of barely- salted caviare, which may be procured in one or two places at most in town, will complete the dinner. For dessert, the finest fruits in season to grace the table and for light amusement after; or simply nuts in variety, and dry biscuits; nothing between the two is toleiable, and little more than the latter is really wanted: only tor decorative purposes fruit equals flowers. But it may be admitted that the diminished number of sweet entremets strengthens the plea for a supply of delicious fruits, lendering tho de>sert useful and agreeable as well as ornamental.” The menu of the dinner thus described by Sir Henry would be written in tho following order, and comprise— Hors-d'oeuvre. Potagcs (2). Poissons (2). Bcleve. Entrees (2). Pot. Entremets (4). Dessert. Generally in England the entrees precede the piece de resistance, but there is no doubt that tho French custom, hero recommended by Sir Henry, is the better airange- ment. Iced punches, or sorbets, are generally served at ceremonious dinners, either before or after the roast. Specimen menus will be found at the end of the book.( 11 ) HINTS ON TABLE DECORATIONS. In these days of rapidly-changing fashions in table decorations it is scarcely possible to give any definite directions on the subject, and indeed a little education “ in those laws of beauty, which are as eternal as any other of Nature’s laws,” is what people chiefly require. A few hints on the subject may, however, be useful. Make the floral decorations as light-looking as possible. 'Whole plants, however pretty and graceful, are to be avoided, as they give a heavy look to the table. Small vases, high or low, filled lightly with a few flowers and ferns, always look well, whatever may be the prevailing fashion. It is best to keep to one or two colours, and to have everything elso as nearly to correspond as possible. The table linen should bo of the best quality, .and faultlessly “ got up,” and the silver and glass should be as bright as possible. The appearance of the table does not depend on its floral decorations only; the silver, glass, and dessert-dishes have much to do with making or marring the offcct. The fashion which, although not now so universal as it was, still very generally prevails, of putting the dessert on the table before the commence- ment of dinner, is not to be recommended, especially when much of the fruit is fresh, as it is by no means so cool and refreshing after being kept sotno time in a heated room. There is no sonso in running counter to prevailing fashions so long as they are good ones, but too slavish an adherence to fashion in every instance, whether sensible or not, is an indication of want of individuality and common sense.12 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. KITCHEN ECONOMIES. To permit extravagance under the idea that it is generous, shows a deplorable ignorance of the meaning of the word. Carefulness is no indication of meanness, neither is extravagance an indication of generosity; indeed, reck- less expenditure is always the result of thoughtlessness, and too often of heartlessness. An extravagant person is seldom capable of much self-denial. That careful house- keeping has come to be regarded to such a large extent, both by mistress and maid alike, as mean is the result of a superficial habit of thought, no doubt attributable to defective education. No education is sound which dwarfs instead of developing reasoning power, and I think it is open to question whether that is not the tendency of much of the so-called education of the present day. It is a matter of ordinary occurrence to hear women complaining that they aro utterly at a loss to account for the great expense at which their households are main- tained ; that they would willingly retrench if it were possible, but that they are quite sure that they have nothing but what is strictly necessary. There is no doubt they really think so, but investigation of the matter would probably lead to the discovery, that as much food is wasted as used in their kitchens, to say nothing of fuel, &c. The daily dinner, for example, will often cost twice as much as necessary, in consequence of the waste of what is considered superfluous material. Let any mistress, not in the habit of superintending her house- hold, look into her domestic affairs, and she wdll invariably find the case to be as I have stated it. Not always, for hero and there will bo found a thrifty, con- scientious servant, who will study her mistress’s interests as her own ; but such servants are becoming more and mo: o rare, and without a mistress’s supervision, waste in the kitchen is certain to be the rule rather than the exception. After a simple dinner comprising, say, such dishes as clear soup, fish, mutton cutlets, game, and custards, let a mistress inquire what has been done with any spareKITCHEN ECONOMIES. 13 materials after its preparation, and this is what she will probably discovor, that the meat used, both for making and clearing the soup, has been deemed of no further value, and given to the cat; that the trimmings of the cutlets, which will be far greater in bulk than the cutlets themselves, will have been put with the cook’s perquisites as fat; that the crusts of i lie bread used for bread-crumbs and bread sauce will have been thrown away; all the whito of the eggs to spare after making custards, will have shared the same fato ; and the vegetable from which a garnish was cut for the soup, will also, have been con- sidered not worth saving. It is probable that nearly as much food will be wasted as consumed. But not only in the preparation, but afterwards the waste will be con- siderable ; tbe carcases of birds, remains of fish, puddings, &c., being thrown into the dust-hole or hog-tub without the slightest compunction, to say nothing of food which will spoil in a neglected larder. But how is this state to be remedied? Simply by every mistress who cannot afford to keep a capable house- keeper to do it for her, looking to “ the ways of her household ” herself, and to do this she must make herself practically acquainted with all the details of household management. She should know, for instance, how much coal on an average should be required during the week. A careless servant will often burn two or three times as much as necessary. No perquisites should be allowed. Servants should have their due in the way of fair wages, and should not be tempted to waste their employer’s goods by way of adding to their own incomes. Then the Aviso ordering of meals is a great aid to economy. Any one can order a meal, but few can do so wisely; for that requires not only thought and judgment, but a practical acquaintance with cookery, and a knowledge of the cost of the materials used. But let us see how the materials spared after the pre- paration of the dishes I have mentioned may be utilized. 'fhe trimmings from mutton cutlets are generally con- siderable, and if they haAre been well shaped and served with a bone to each, there Avill be sufficient scraps of meat to make either a ragout of mutton, meat patties and pasties, or, best of all, that particularly popular dish, Avhen well made, an Irish stewt The fat, of Avjiich there isA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. H always a quantity, will render down, and can then ho used for French frying, plain cakes, and pastry, and for all theso purposes it will be found excellent. Mutton flit is, after oil, the best medium for French frying. All super- fluous fat from ordinary joints should be used in the same way. Meat from which clear soup has been made will still contain gelatine, if the soup has been properly pro- pared—simmered, not boiled—and with the addition of any scraps of vegetable suitable for the purpose, and tho meat used for clearing, will make a fair “ second ” stock, to be the foundation of a plainer soup. The whites of eggs, after the manufacture of custards, &c., may be used for clearing jellies, to lighten puddings and cakes, or they may be made into meringues or lemon sponge. Crusts of bread may be used in boiled or baked puddings, to thicken soups, or dried in a slow oven and pounded for the browned crambs in such frequent requisition in good cookery. Crumb of bread may be used in the same way, making, if carefully dried, white bread-crumbs which will keep well without getting mouldy. The carcase of fish and all fish trimmings are admirable for making fish stock, which will form tho basis of oyster, mussel, lobster, and other fish soups. The remains of cold vegetables may bo re-heated in various ways. Cauliflower, if in sufficient quantity, will make the favourite entremet, cauliflower au gratin, and in the manufacture of this dish crusts of cheese too hard for any other purpose may be utilised; the latter will also bo found useful in savouries of macaroni and rice. Cauliflower is also good served as a salad, with a French salad-dressing of oil and vinegar; so, also, are beans, lentils, and many other vegetables. Peas will re-lieat in a doublo saucepan, or in a jar placed in boiling water, either to be served plain, or as petits pois au beurre. Potatoes may bo mashed and rewarmed in a saucepan, or they may be—and this is by far the better plan—passed through a sieve or potato-masher into a vegetable dish, which should be placed, without disturb- ing the potato, in a hot oven until the top of the potato is lightly browned. Potatoes make, also, an admirable thickening for soups. Sliced and well fried they are a nice accompaniment to roasted or grilled meats. It would, in fact, tako too long to enumerate all the ways in which cold potatoes may bo used with advantage.KITCHEN ECONOMIES. 15 Bones of all lcinds should bo made into stock. The stock-pot. is a great aid to economy when properly managed. Directions for the management of the stock-pot will be found in the Chapter on Soups. Water in which haricot- beans have been boiled should never be thrown away. Having much the same flavour as meat-stock, it may make the basis of a soup or gravy. It is, however, better in the interests of economy to cook the beans so that they absorb all liquor. The French use the water in which green vegetables have been boiled for the foundation of soupes maigres. The liquor from meat, when not too salt, can always be turned to account in purees of beans, peas, lentils, and other vegetable soups. An economical housekeeper will find that by the constant use of soup she can effect a great reduction in her butcher’s bill. Soup-making is one of the most important ai d the least understood of all branches of cookery. The dripping from the ordinary joints should bo clarified. It can then be used for French or other fr>ing, plain cakes, and pastry. It is far better than lard for either purpose. Fat skimmings from stock are far better than butter for frying cutlets and fillets, and arc used for this purpose by French chefs. Now for a word about fuel. The waste of coal in some households is simply terrible. To avoid this the manage- ment of stoves must be thoroughly understood both by mistress and maid, and the fire regulated according to the purpose for which it is required. With an excessive consumption of coal there is generally a corresponding consumption of wood. Fires which are allowed to “ roar themselves out,” need constant relighting or assisting, as they are frequently nearly, if not quite, out when required. Besides advising careful supervision, I would suggest that every mistress provides her kitchen with that most useful article now so rarely seen—a bellows— the right use of which would not only save her wood, but also her candles, sugar, &c., which are often used by ignorant and careless servants to hasten the kindling of a fire. “Know,” says an ancient Buddhist proverb, “that it is not abundance which maketh rich, but economy.” But that wo may be more able to help others, and not for the sake of mere personal gain, shall we economise, when we remember that wo have a Divine command to “ Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.”A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 16 THE KITCHEN. It is most desirable to have a largo and airy kitchen, with its arrangements as convenient as possible. This is the more important when elaborate dishes are expected to be prepared in it. There should be a proper supply of cooking utensils. It often happens that people who are very particular about tho furnishing of their other rooms, are very neglectful of their kitchens. It is not reasonable to expect very delicate cookery to be performed with tho few and common utensils found in many middle-class kitchens. Now that all kitchen appliances are so inex- pensive there is no reason why this should be so. If the kitchen is boarded, it is wise to have it covered with linoleum, as this saves a great deal of trouble in cleaning, and is in every way better than boards. If the cook has no kitchen-maid, and much cooking is expected of her, do not buy a quantity of utensils that require keeping bright, as these involve a great deal of labour, and are likely under such circumstances to be neglected. In furnishing a kitchen points like these require to be taken into consideration. Every kitchen should havo two or three strong tables, convenient cupboards, and a dresser. When buying cooking utensils do not omit to get a proper supply of common plates, basins and cups for cooking purposes. A cook is often much worried from the want of these things, and it leads generally to damages to breakfast and dinner services, which are very likely under such circumstances to be used for culinary purposes. A mistress has a right to expect that the kitchen and all utensils should be kept in clean and orderly condition ; but it is her duty to see that by wise arrangements she makes this possible without over- working those in her employ. On no account allow a kitchen to be overrun with mice and beetles, this is most disgusting, especially as they are sure to get on to food. 1 am afraid keeping a cat is the only way to get ridTHE LARDER. 17 of the former. For tho beetles Penny’s magic paste is worthy of its name. After a lengthy crusade against beetles, in which I tried traps, powders, &c., without appearing to diminish their numbers, I tried the paste, and in four days the house was free from them, and there were, happily, no funeral rites to be pei formed as after the use of traps and powders. It is possible that any phosphorus paste may have the same effect, but I cannot tay; I have twice used the magic paste with perfect success. When it is used keep dogs and cats away. It is true they won’t eat the paste, but they are quite likely to eat poisoned beetles. Note.—In furnishing a kitchen do not forgot a clock. THE LARDER. The larder should be cool and dry, and be kept scrupulously clean. It should be provided with shelves, covers for meat, butler coolers, and a pan for bread. The contents should be inspected each day by the mistress of the house, unless she keeps some responsible person to do this for her. Neglect of this duty often leads to great and culpable waste, especially if the cook is not experienced. 'The condition of meat and poultry should be carefully examined. In hot weather this is especially necessary. Stock too is apt to turn sour very quickly when the weather is sultry if not reboiled. Tainted meat, sour soup, and butter like oil, are sure in hot weather to be the indications, amongst others, of a neglected larder. Most people like bread kept in a pan, it keeps it moist, but, unfortunately, softens the crust. In large houses there are usually several larders, and they are necessary, as game and uncooked meat should not be kept with other foods.18 A COMPLETE COOKEHY GUIDE. THE STORE ROOM. This should be cool and dry, and furnished with shelves and cupboards, also jars and canisters with labels on them. Buy groceries in large quantities, as they are less expensive. But preserved fruits and jams in the coolest part of the room. Keep tea in a lead-lined chest. Onions and any vegetables of that sort should he stored in a separate place; onions are made into ropes, which are suspended from the ceiling. Herbs should he dried and fastened separately in paper hags. Oranges and lemons should each be wrapped in tissue paper; it is not wise to buy them in large quantities. Buy coffee in small quantities, as it quickly loses it aroma. Apples should bo wiped and laid on the floor, but not touching; it is better to store them in an outhouse, as they have an un- pleasantly strong smell. Eggs should be kept by placing them upright, small end down, in sawdust, or on wooden shelves with holes in them made specially for this purpose; biscuits in tightly-fitting tin boxes, or they get soft; currants, sugar, and almost all groceries in canisters labelled with their names.( 10 ) HOW TO CLEAN STOVES AND COOKING UTENSILS. Copper Cooking Utensils. Wash them well in hot water with soda in it; moisten some salt with vinegar, and rub them well with this to remove stains and tarnish. Then wash them quickly with soap and water, and dry them thoroughly; polish with a little powdered whiting, rubbed on with a soi't leather. Hair and Wire Sieves. Wash these thoroughly with hot water with soda in it, and scrub them quite clean with a sieve brush. Dry them thoroughly, and keep them in a dry place. If this is not done, a hair sieve will become mildewed, an iron one rusty, a copper one coated with verdigris, and become poisonous. Copper wire sieves should always have special care. Dish Covers and Jelly Moulds. Wash with soap and water, and diy thoroughly. Powder some whiting, and mix with a little cold water; brush the mixture over the covers and moulds ; when dry, rub off with a plate brush, or soft cloth, or leather. Paste Boards and Rolling Pins. Scrub them well with hot water and sand. Do not use soda, as it will make the wood yellow. Baking Tins. Wash them in hot water with soda in it, and rub with Band until they are bright; rinse and dry well.20 A complete cookery guide. Omelet Pans. Avoid washing omelet pans; rub them well with kitchen paper, and put them away in a dry place. If allowed to get damp, they will stick. Iron Saucepans. Immerse them in a pan of hot water with soda in it, and wash them thoroughly inside and out; taking care that nothing is left sticking to the bottom of the saucepans. If anything has been burnt in them, boil some strong soda and water in them before washing them, and then rub the bottom of the saucepan with sand until it is quite clean. The sand must bo used nearly dry ; if too much wetted it loses its power. The saucepan lids should be thoroughly rinsed and dried. Enamel Saucepans. Wash them thoroughly in hot water with soda in it, using soap if necessary. If anything has been burnt in the saucepan, boil strong soda and water in it before cleaning it, and rub it well with sand; rinse, and dry thoroughly. Anglo-American Saucepans. Clean like enamel saucepans. They should be kept perfectly clean, inside and out. Tin Saucepans. Clean these like iron saucepans. To clean a Roaster. Wash the dripping-pan and inside of the roaster with hot water and soda, to remove all grease, and rub them with sand until thoy are quite bright; rinse and dry thoroughly. Clean the outside of the roaster with whiting, used according to directions given tor cleaning dish covers.21 TO CLEAN STOVES. To clean a Close Stove or Open Range. Scrape out all the ashes, and brush up all tho dust. Then, with a brush, thoroughly clean the flues. Brush the stove over with liquid blacklead, and when it is dry polish with brushes. Then clean any steel about the stove, and the fire-irons and fender, with emery-paper; any brass, with brick dust well rubbed on with a leather. Brush all the dust from the oven, and wipe it round with a cloth wrung out of hot water. To clean a Gas Stove. Wash off any grease that may have been spilled on the stove with a cloth dipped in hot water, and wipe tho inside of the stove, taking care to dry it thoroughly. Wash the dripping pan in hot water with soda in it, and rub it with sand to brighten it; then wipe it quite dry. Brush the stove over with liquid blacklead, and polish it with brushes.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 22 CALENDAR OF FOODS IN SEASON. January. Meat.—Beef, mutton, house lamb, veal, pork, venison. Poultry and Game.—Pheasants, partridges, hares, rabbits, woodcocks, snipes, wild duck, larks, landrails, plover, widgeon, ptarmigan, teal, pintail, poulards, pullets, turkeys, ducks, geese, fowls, capons, chickens, tame pigeons, capercailzie. Fish.—Bream, brill, carp, tench, perch, eels, crawfish, cod, soles, haddock, flounders, brill, plaice, turbot, skate, sturgeon, smelts, whiting, sprats, lobsters, crabs, prawns, oysters, crayfish, gurnets, herrings, halibut, Dutch salmon, shrimps, mackerel, bloaters, dories, dace, pike, mussels, thornback, scallops. Vegetables.—Cabbage, savoys, sprouts, broccoli, spinach, turnips, parsnips, carrots, potatoes, beetroot, cardoons, Scotch kale, celery, endive, leek, onions, salsify, sorrel. Obtainable—asparagus, Jerusalem artichokes, mushrooms, cucumbers, lettuces, &c. Fruits.—Apples, pears, almonds, medlars, grapes, oranges, lemons, bananas, chestnuts, figs, cocoa-nuts, pines, nuts, walnuts, &c. February. Meat.—Beef, mutton, house lamb, veal, pork. Poultry and Game.—Pheasants, partridges, hares, rabbits, woodcocks, snipes, wild duck, larks, landrails, plover, widgeon, ptarmigan, teal, pintail, poulards, pullets, turkeys, ducks, geese, fowls, capons, chickens, tamo pigeons, capercailzie. Fish.—Bream, brill, carp, tench, perch, eels, crawfish, cod, soles, haddock, flounders, brill, plaice, turbot, skate,23 CALENDAR OF FOODS IN SE/ SON. sturgeon, smelts, whiting, sprats, lobsters, crabs, prawns, oysters, crayfish, gurnets, herrings, Dutch salmon, shrimps, mackerel, bloaters, dories, dace, pike, mussels, thornback, whitebait, scallops. Vegetables.—Cabbage, savoys, sprouts, broccoli, spinach, turnips, parsnips, carrots, potatoes, beetroot, cardoons, Scotch kale, celery, endive, leek, onions, salsify, sorrel. Obtainable—asparagus, Jerusalem artichokes, mushrooms, cucumbers, lettuces, &c. Fruit*.—Apples, pears, almonds, medlars, grapes, oranges, lemons, bananas, chestnuts, figs, cocoa-nuts, pines, nuts, walnuts, &c. March. Meat.—Beef, mutton, pork, house lamb, veal. Poultry and Game.—Guinea fowl, partridges, pheasants until the 12th, snipes, plovers until the loth, blackcock, and grey hen, hares, woodcock, widgeon, teal, ruffs and reeves, landrails, ortolans, ptarmigan, prairie-hens, wild ducks, quails, rabbits, fowls, capons, chickens, ducks, ducklings, geese, turkeys, pigeons. Fish.—Bream, carp, tench, turbot, thornback, cod, skate, eels, mullets, plaice, flounders, lobsters, soles, whitings, crabs, crawfish, prawns, dories, ling, mackerel, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, salmon, bloaters, trout, smelts, sturgeon, whiting, whitebait, scallops. Note.—Freshwater fish cannot bo obtained after the 15th. Vegetables.—Carrots, turnips, parsnips, Jerusalem arti- chokes, onions, broccoli, cardoons, beetroot, fennel, celery, endive, radishes, cabbages, savoys, spinach, sea and Scotch kale, potatoes, turnip-tops. Obtainable—asparagus, lettuces, rhubarb. Fruit.—Bears, apples, oranges, almonds, bananas, chest- nuts, cocoa-nuts, pines, &c. April. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, grass-lamb, house lamb. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, capons, ducklings, fowls, guinea-fowl, pigeons, wood-pigeons, leverets, rabbits, ortolans, ruffs and reeves, plover’s eggs, quails. c 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 24 Fish.—Trout, salmon, turbot, soles, skate, mullets, smelts, herrings, crabs, lobsters, prawns, whitebait, mackerel, whiting, flounders, sturgeon, ling, oysters, cod, conger eel, chub, plaice, shrimps, mussels, dory, bloaters, scallops. Vegetables.—Sprouts, broccoli, spinach, fennel, young onions, celery, endive, sorrel, radish, small salad, asparagus, sea-kale, turnip-tops, coming in beans, peas, cucumbers. Fruit.—Apples, nuts, oranges, &c. May be obtained—strawberries, apricots, cherries, &c. May. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, and lamb. Poultry and Game.—Fowls, chickens, green geese, rabbits, leverets, pigeons, plover’s eggs, guinea-fowls, ruffs and reeves, ortolans. Fish.—Crawfish, salmon, turbot, skate, mullets, smelts, herrings, lobsters, crabs, prawns, eels, shrimps, plaice, whitings, whitebait, sturgeon, brill, cod, halibut, ling, mackerel, conger eel, shad, dory, dace, crayfish, haddock, gurnet, bass, scallops, bloaters, trout. Vegetables.—Early cabbage, early potatoes, young . carrots, turnips, parsnips, cauliflower, artichokes, spinach, lettuces, mustard and cress, peas, beans, kidney beans, asparagus, cucumbers, radishes, rhubarb, sea-kale, chervil, &c. Fruit.—Apples, gooseberries, strawberries, melons, forced apricots, and cherries, &c. June. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. Poultry and Game.—Fowls, capons, chickens, green geese, d ucklings, turkey poults, plover’s eggs, wheatears, leverets, rabbits, quails, ruffs and reeves, ortolans. Fish.—Bream, chub, carp, trout, tench, pike, eels, lamp- reys, mackerel, salmon, soles, mullets, herrings, smelts, whitebait, lobsters, crayfish, prawns, crabs, cod, dace, dory, haddocks, gurnets, flounders, whitings, shad, turbot, Balmon-trout, conger eels, whiting, bloaters, brill. Note.—Carp, tench, pike, and perch can only be obtained after the 15th. Vegetables.— New carrots, turnips, parsnips, and potatoes,CI CALENDAR OF FOODS IN SEASON. peas, beans, asparagus, French, Windsor, and kidney beans, cucumbers, lettuce, and all salad plants, leeks, endive, cabbages, cauliflowers, vegetable marrow, onions, rhubarb, &c. Frnit.—Currants, gooseberries, melons, pears, straw- berries, apricots, peaches, nectarines, grapes, pine-apples, and cherries, &c. July. Meat.—Beef, mutton, lamb, veal, venison. Poultry and Game.—Chickens, capons, fowls, pigeons, green geese, ducklings, turkey poults, ducks, wheatears, plovers, leverets, rabbits, plover’s eggs, ruffs, reeves, quails. Fish.—Bream, chub, carp, trout, tench, pike, eels, lamp- reys, mackerel, salmon, soles, mullets, herrings, smelts, whitebait, lobsters, crayfish, prawns, crabs, cod, dace, dory, haddocks, gurnets, flounders, whitings, shad, turbot, salmon-trout, conger eels, thornback, brill, halibut-, bloaters. Vegetables.—New carrots, turnips, parsnips, and potatoes, peas, beans, asparagus, French, Windsor, and kidney beans, cucumber, lettuce, and all 6alad plants, leeks, endive, cabbages, cauliflowers, vegetable marrow, onions, rhubarb. Fruit.—Cun-ants, gooseberries, melons, pears, straw- Ixjn-ies, apricots, peaches, nect n ines, grapes, pine-apples, cherries, raspberries, damsons, nectarines, peaches, &c. August. Meat.—Beef, mutton, lamb, veal, venison. Poultry and Game.—Grouse after the 12th, -wild ducks, wild pigeons, .wild rabbits, moor-game, plovers, larks, fowls, chickens, green geese, ducklings, turkey poults, plover’s eggs, wheatears, leverets, rabbits, snipe, widgeon, teal, woodcock. Fish.—Bream, chub, carp, tench, pike, eels, lampreys, mackerel, salmon, soles, mullets, herrings, whitebait, lobsters, crayfish, prawns, crabs, cod, dace, dory, haddocks, gurnets, flounders, whitings, shad, turbot, conger eel, halibut, brill, bloaters.20 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Vegetables.—Celery, cucumber, mushrooms, potatoes, peas, beans of all kinds, cauliflower, lettuce, and all salad plants, endive, salsify, artichokes, scarlet-runners, spinach, carrots, turnips, cabbages, Ac. Fruit.—Peaches, nectarines, plums, cherries, straw- berries, pears, apples, grapes, figs, filberts, mulberries, gooseberries, currants, melons, pine-apples, raspberries. September. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, venison. Poultry and Game.—Grouse, wild ducks, wild pigeons, wild rabbits, moor-game, plovers, larks, fowls, chickens, turkeys, wheatears, leverets, rabbits, pheasants, partridges, teal, hares, snipe, widgeon, woodcock. Fish.— Bream, chub, carp, tench, pike, eels, lampreys, mackerel, salmon, soles, mullets, herrings, smelts,whitebait, lobsters, crayfish, prawns, crabs, cod, dace, dory, haddocks, gurnets, flounders, whitings, shad, turbot, conger eel, halibut, brill, bloaters. Vegetables.—Celery, cucumbers, mushrooms, potatoes, ] cas, beans of all kinds, cauliflower, lettuce, and all salad plants, endive, salsify, artichokes, scarlet-runners, spinach, carrots, turnips, cabbages. Fruit.—Peaches, pears, plums, apples, filberts, hard nuts, medlars, quinces, morella cherries, melons, pine- apples. October. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, venison. Poultry and Game.—Geese, turkeys, pigeons, fowls, chickens, rabbits, wild duck, teal, widgeon, woodcock, snipes, larks, hares, pheasants, partridges, grouse, pintail, blackgame. Fish.—Halibut, herrings, tench, mullet, gurnets, floun- ders, cels, cod, haddock, crabs, crayfish, mackerel, oysters, soles, shrimps, pike, sea-bream, smelts, perch, whiting, carp, scallops, biill, plaice, turbot, skate, bloaters. Vegetables.—Brussels Bprouts, cauliflower, savoys, par- snips, Spanish onions, tomatoes, vegetable marrows, cucumbers, oelcry, French beans, Jerusalem artichokes, scarlet-runners, spinach, carrots, turnips.CALENDAR OF FOODS IN SEASON. 27 Fruit.—Apricots, pcaclies, melons, pine-apples, apples, pears, nuts, grapes, cocoa-nuts, filberts, bananas, figs. November. Meat.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, venison. Poultry and Game.—Geese, turkeys, pigeons, fowls, chickens, rabbits, wild duck, teal, widgeon, woodcock, snipes, larks, hares, pheasants, partridges, grouse, pintail, blaekgame. Fish.— Halibut, herrings, tench, mullet, gurnets, floun- ders, eels, haddock, crabs, soles, crayfish, mackerel, oysters, shrimps, pike, smelts, perch, whiting, carp, scallops, brill, plaice, turbot, skate, cod, sprats. Vegetables.—Celeriac, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, savoys, parsnips, Spanish onions, tomatoes, cucumbers, celery, Jerusalem artichokes, carrots, turnips, spinach. Fruit.—Apples, pears, grapes, melons, oranges, pine- apples, pomegranates, walnuts, nuts of various kinds, bananas, chestnuts, cocoa-nuts, figs. December. Meat.—Beef, mutton, lamb, pork, venison. Poultry and Game.—Geese, turkeys, pigeons, capons, fowls, chickens, rabbits, wild drick, teal, widgeon, wood- snipe, larks, hares, pheasants, partridges, grouse, pintail, blaekgame, capercailzie, plovers. Fish.—Halibut, herrings, touch, mullet, gurnets, floun- ders, eels, cod, haddock, crabs, crayfish, mackerel, oysters, soles, shrimps, pike, sea-breaui, smelts, perch, whiting, carp, scallops, brill, plaice, turbot, skate, sprats, bloaters. Vegetables.—Celeriac, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, savoys, parsnips, Spanish onions, tomatoes, vegetable marrows, cucumber, celery, Jerusalem artichokes, carrots and turnips, spinach. Fruit.—Apples, pears, grapes, melons, oranges, pine- apples, pomegranates, walnuts, nuts of various kinds, bananas, chestnuts, cocoa-nuts, figs.28 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. RULES FOR BOILING, ROASTING, BAKING, STEWING, FRYING, BROILING, AND BRAISING. Rules for Boiling Meat. Put all meat, with the exception of tough sinewy pieces, and salted meats, into boiling water. Let the water well boil up after the meat is in it, then skim it, and lower the heat of the water to simmering point, and continue to cook it at this lower heat until the joint is tender. The general rule given as regards the length of time to bo allowed for cooking is a quarter of an hour to the pound, but this rule cannot always be followed, because the size and shape of the joint must bo taken into consideration as well as its weight; also whether it has much bone or whether it is solid meat throughout. Meat that has been well hung will cook in a shorter time than meat which has been freshly killed. It is, therefore, impossible to lay down hard and fast rules; experience is the best guide. Salt meat should be put into lukewarm water, to draw out some of the salt, and then be simmered until cooked. Twenty minutes to a pound should always bo allowed in cooking salt meat, as salt hardens the fibre of iho meat; and it therefore requires longer cooking to make it tender. Veal and pork are also allowed twenty minutes to the pound. When boiling meat, remove all the scum from the surface of the water—if this is not done it will settle on the joint and discolour it. The reasons for these rules are these—there is a substance in meat resembling white of egg, called albumen : by plunging the moat into boiling water, the albumen on the outsido is hardened and a casing formed, which serves to keep in, so far as it is possible to do so, the flavour and juices of the joint; the heat of the water29 RULES FOR ROASTING. is then lowered to simmering point, because if kept boiling the joint would be hardened. At simmering point the albumen becomes set without hardening, and the fibre is softened. The old-fashioned plan was to put the joint into cold water, and afterwards boil it quickly, a method which served to make the meat tough, and, to some extent, tasteless, the action of the cold water being to dissolve the albumen, much of which, with other nutritious properties, was drawn out and wasted. Salt meat is put into luke- warm water that some of the salt may be drawn out. Tough sinewy pieces should also be put into lukewarm water, as they soften better than when they are put into boiling water. There is no economy in using salt meat; it may be cheaper than fresh, but in the process of salting, the juices are, to a great extent, lost; again, in cooking it, the lukewarm water into which it must be placed to draw out some of the salt draws out also more of the juices. The gravy for boiled joints, such as leg of mutton and silverside of beef, is usually only a littlo of their liquor poured over them. Roasting. Eon sting is a truly English method of cooking, roast beef being one of our national dishes. It is a great pity that, in consequence of the construction of many modern kitchen ranges, roasting, properly speaking, has to a great extent become a thing of the past, because the flavour of baked meat is never so fine as that which is cooked by the direct action of an open fire. “ In one sense of the term,” says the author of Kettner’s * Book of tho Table,’ “ roasting is something distinct from baking, broiling, and frying; according to another, it includes baking, broiling and frying. In the widest sense, to roast is to cook food by the application to it of a roasting heat, and a roasting heat may be described as the highest degree of heat which will cook food without burning it up and destroying it.” Rules for Roasting. To roast successfully, a clear fire is essential. The firo should be made up, and if necessary to replenish it while the meat is cooking, coals should bo put on at tho backA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 30 and the live embers drawn to the front to avoid any smoke. In case it is sometimes possible to have it, it is well to know that a wood fire is far preferable to a coal fire, both for roasting and broiling. When a roaster is used, it should be placed in front of the fire to get hot before the meat is hung in it. The thickest part of the meat should bo downwards, because the heat is greater from the lower part of the fire. If the joint is not fat, some dripping should be placed in the pan ready for basting. Having fastened the meat to the jack, or worsted, place the roaster close to the fire for the first fifteen minutes, that the extreme heat may at once seal up the outside by hardening the albumen in the surface of the joint; after- wards draw the roaster further from the fire and cook gradually, basting every fifteen minutes. To baste is to pour fat two or three times over the joint. Doing this prevents the meat drying up, and gives it a better flavour. Mr. Buckmaster says that the essential condition of good roasting is constant basting. The general rule as regards length of time allowed for roasting is a quarter of an hour to each pound, but that must only be taken as a guide, not as an absolute ru'e. The size and shape of the joint must be considered, as well as its weight If the rule were strictly adhered to, some joints with a great deal of bone would get dried up while others would not be cooked through. Well-hung meat will cook in a shorter time than that freshly killed. Meat will cook in a shorter time in summer than in winter. Frozen meat will take longer to cook than fresh, and should always bo allowed quite two hours to thaw, and much longer, if possible, before it is put to the fire. Thick joints of veal and pork generally take twenty minutes to the pound. When the steam from the meat draws to tho fire it is generally done enough for most pe tplo’s tastes. To roast well requires the experience gained from practice and observation. The gravy for a joint may be made in two ways; this is one—Take the dripping-pan away half an hour before tho joint is cooked, and put a dish in its place, Four the whole contents of the dripping-pan into a baking-tin or shallow pan and put it in a very cold place, so that the fat will quickly cake on the top of the gravy; it must then bo removed and tho gravy made hot;31 RULES FOR BAKING MEAT. a little salt should be added to it. Pour the gravy round the joint, not over it—as doing so destroys the crisp surface of the meat. It ought to be scarcely necessary to add that roasted meat should be served on a thoroughly heated dish, and, to be in perfection, should be sent to table directly it comes from the tire. This is the more ordinary method of making gravy: just before taking up the joint take away the dripping- pan, put a dish in its place, tilt it and let all the fat run into a basin, then pour into the pan a small quantity of boiling water, and scrape up all the brown glaze which adheres to the bottom of the pan; add a little salt, and, if necessary, colour carefully with a little burnt sugar ; too much of this will spoil the flavour of the gravy. With regard to flouring the joint there are great differences of opinion, some people like it, and others do not. When it is preferred, flour the joint half an hour before taking it up and put it a little nearer to the fire to get brown and cook the flour, but do not let it burn. In all roasting when the joint is nearly cooked put it nearer to the fire again to get a nice crisp surface. When a roasting-jack is not available, use a strong rope of worsted in the place of it. The Dutch oven is most convenient for small roasts. Rules for Baking Meat. In baking meat there are two or three points which should be most carefully attended to. The oven should bo Avell ventilated and kept perfectly clean. The baking-tin must also be scrupulously clean; any juice from fruit or meat gravy which has been spilt in the oven, or on the baking-tin, and not removed, will burn and give an un- pleasant taste to the meat. The baking-tin, if possiblo should be a double one. For the first half-hour the oven should bo hot, afterwards it must bo kept at a moderate heat. If this is not done, the outside of the meat will scorch and dry up before the inside is cooked. The basting should bo as constant as when the meat is roasted. The oven should bo made hot again at the finish to ensure the surface being nice and crisp. TheA COMPLETE COOKEliY GUIDE. 32 common fault in baking is to have the oven too hot, and then the meat gets dried up and wasted. As a general rule twenty minutes to the pound will not be too long if the oven is at the right temperature, but all the conditions mentioned in the rules for roasting must be taken into consideration. Always put the meat on a trivet; do not let it soak in its own fat. Gravy is made as for roasted meat. Rules for Frying.—French or Wet Frying. This is cooking in a largo quantity of fat sufficient to cover the articles fried in it. Oil, lard, dripping, or fat rendered down, may be used for this purpose. Oil is con- sidered the best, as it -will rise to 600° without burning ; other fats get over-heated after 400°, and therefore require greater care in using. Success depends, almost entirely, on getting the fat to the right degree of heat. For ordinary frying the heat required is 345°. Unless this point is carefully attended to, total failuro will be the result. There are signs, however, by which anyone may easily tell when the fat is ready for use. It must be quite still, making no noise ; noise, or bubbling, will be caused by the evaporation of moisture, or water in it. The ex- pression, “boiling lard,” or “boiling fat,” has been mis- leading to many cooks, who, not unnaturally, imagino that when the fat is bubbling, like boiling w'ater, it is boiling and therefore at the right heat. B.ut boiling fat does not bubble, nor is the expression boiling correct. When fat has the appearance of boiling water, it is simply due, as already explained, to the presence of water in it, which must pass away by evaporation, before it can reach the required heat. When it ceases to make auy noise, and is quite still, it should be carefully watched; for very soon a pale blue vapour is seen rising, and then tho fat is sufficiently hot. If, from the position of the stove it is not easy to see this vapour, a piece of bread may be held in the fat as a test; if it begins to turn colour, in about a quarter of a minute, the fat is ready. It should then be33 RULES FOR FRYING. used without delay; since, when once hot enough it rapidly gets over-heated or burnt. Fat is burning when the blue vapour becomes like smoke. Burnt fat has an unpleasant smell, and is apt to give a disagreeable taste to the articles fried in it. With ordinary care fat need not get over-heated. Next to oil, fat rendered down («ee Bendering down Fat) is best for the purpose. If strained after each time of using, and not allowed to burn, it will keep good for months, and may be used for fish, sweets, or savouries, and no taste of anything previously fried in it will be given to the articles cooiced. For this kind of frying, a kitchener, or gas stove, is preferable to an opon range. All kinds of rissoles, croquettes, fillets and cutlets of fish, fritters, &c., should bo fried in this manner, and should not be darker than a golden brown. It is an advantage to use a frying-basket fur all such things as are covered with egg and bread-crumbs ; but fritters, or what- ever is dipped in batter, should be dropped itito the fat. As they become so light that they rise to the top of it, when they are a pale colour on the one side, they should be turned over to the other. Care must be taken to drain everything after frying on kitchen paper, in order to removo any grease. Dry Frying. This is frying in a cutlet or frying pan with a small quantity of fat, and is only suitable for such things as require slow cooking, such as steaks, mutton or veal cutlets, fillets of beef, liver and bacon. Pancakes also are fried in this manner. Success depends, as in French frying, in having the fat rightly heated when tho meat is put in, that the outside of the meat cooked may be sealed up; in this way the juices and flavour will bo retained in it. Make, therefore, the frying-pan hot, then put in the fat; and when that is also perfectly hot, put in the meat to be cooked. When each side has been well sealed up, the heat applied must be moderated so that the cooking may be gradual. The common mistake in this kind of fiying is to put the meat into tho fat when it is but barely melted; the juices of the meat are thus allowed to pscapo, and the meat is toughened.34 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Steaming. It is a pity that this most excellent method of cooking does not become more generally adopted for cooking meat, fish and vegetables. It is a slower process than that of boiling, but far more economical, as there is much less waste of flavour and nutritious properties. Success depends on keeping the water under the steamer briskly boiling. If there is not sufficient force of steam the food gets sodden. Rules for Stewing. Stewing is cooking at simmering point in a small quantity of liquid. It is an economical method of cook- ing, because what is lost from the meat is in the gravy, which is always served with it. Meat to be stewed should be put into a stewpan with enough hot water to cover it, aud kept at simmering point until tender, but no longer. The meat in stews is often as ragged and flavourless as meat from which stock has been made, simply from over- stewing. There can be no reasonable excuse made for such a fault, as the stew may be removed from the fire when ready, and reheated when required without at all deteriorating. It is not like roast or boiled meat which must be served as soon as cooked to be in perfection. The length of time allowed for stewing will entirely depend cn the kind of meat stowed; very tough meat will some- times hike four hours or more before it becomes tender; pieces of meat like ox-cheek or shin of beef always require long cooking. If tough meat is dipped in vinegar before it is stewed the action of the acid on the fibre will cause it to soften more readily. Vegetables are generally stewed with the meat as they improve both the flavour of the meat and the gravy. The secret of success in stewing lies in slow cooking, therefore care should be taken that the gravy is never allowed to boil. A gentle bubble now and again at one side of the saucepan is the indication of simmering heat. A double saucepan is exceedingly useful for stewing, or the stewpan containing the meat may be put to stand in a larger one containing boiling water ; cooked thus thero is no possibility of the stew itself boiling.RULES FOR BROILING AND BRAISING. 85 Rules for Broiling. Broiling is cooking over the fire on a gridiron. The flavour of well-broiled meat is very fine. A clear fire is essential for success. Put the gridiron on the fire to heat and rub the bars with a little fat, then put the meat on it. Place the gridiron close to the fire at first that the heat may rapidly seal up the outside of the meat; when this has been accomplished lift up the gridiron farther from the fire, that the meat may cook gradually without drying up ; I uni it occasionally. The gridiron should be placed on a slight slant, that the fat may not run into the fire. A gridiron with a well is best for the purpose. The French brush over their steaks with salad oil to prevent escape of their juices. Salmon and other fish are often cooked in oiled paper for the same reason. Oil the paper inside and be careful that the fire is particularly clear. In a well-cooked chop or steak the outside will have a slight firmness, but the inside should bo tender and juicy. A broil must be sent to table without delay. Rules for Braising. Braising is a kind of combination of stewing and baking, both operations being carried on at the same time. A braising-pan has a deep cover, on which live charcoal is placed; the lid is air-tight to prevent evaporation, and the meat cooked in this way absorbs all the flavours of the stock in which it is cooked, and also of the vegetables cooked with it. The process should be very slowly conducted. "When putting the meat into the pan proceed thus :— Take different vegetables in suitable proportions, using carrot, turnip, onion, sprig of parsley, thyme and marjoram, a bay leaf, some celery, and if possible some tomatoes. Slice the vegetables and lay them with the herbs at the bottom of the pan, place the meat on the vegetables, and pour in sufficient strong second stock to come half way up the meat. Cook very slowly until the meat is tender. Then place it on a hot dish, strain the stock and boil rapidly to a glaze to pour over. To obtain the effect of braising without a braising-pan,3G A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. put the meat into an ordinary meat-kettle or saucepan in the way that I have described, simmer until tender, then place on a baking-sheet and put it in the oven to brown while the stock is reduced to a glaze. Wine is sometimes added to the stock.( 37 ) THE CHOICE OF MEAT, AND COOKING OF JOINTS. Beef. In England beef is divided thus:—The fore quarter is cut into fore-rib, which consists of 5 ribs; middle rib (4 ribs); chuck rib (3 ribs); the shoulder (or leg-of-mutton piece) ; the brisket (belly part of the ribs) ; the clod (fore shoulder-blade); neck, shin, and cheok. The hind quarter is divided (upper part) into sirloin, rump and aitcli bone,' the lower part is divided into buttock or round, mouse buttock, veiny piece, thick and thin flank (belly part) and leg. To Choose Beef. The flesh of ox beef is the best, and should be a fino red and loosely grained, the fat inclining to yellow and the suet firm. Heifer beef is closer in grain, not quite so bright in colour, the fat whiter and the bones smaller. The choicest and best fed beef will be delicately veined with fat. Avoid buying meat that is coarse in grain and dark in hue. This will probably be bull beef, Avhich will be found rank in flavour and tough. Avoid also beef in which the fat has a hard, skinny appearance and a line of gristly texture running through the meat of the ribs. These are signs of age. Very lean beef should also lie avoided, as it will be found hard and stringy. DA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 38 JOINTS OF BEEF. Sirloin of Beef. This is the primest joint and may he either roasted or haked (see directions). Finely scraped horse-radish should be served with it. Yorkshire pudding is also liked with roast beef. It is sometimes served garnished with potatoes, olives, well-cooked tomatoes, plain or farced, or mushrooms. The sauces which may be served with it are horse-radish, mustard, Bordelaise, brown, mushroom, and tomato. For vegetables, potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes and any green vegetable are suitable. Ribs of Beef. These should be cooked like sirloin and served with the same accompaniments. A neator joint may bo mado by boning aud rolling them. The bones should be used for soup. Rump of Beef. This may be roasted or baked and served as directod for sirloin, or it can be salted and boiled and served with the accompaniments mentioned for aitch bouo and round. It may be also stewed or braisod. Aitch (or Edge) Bone and Round of Beef. These are usually salted and boiled. Carrots and turnips or parsnips, plain or mashed, should be served with them, and for green vegetables cabbage or sprouts. If liked, yeast, Norfolk, or suet dumplings may also be served. These joints may also be roasted. Tho round makes a very economical joint, having bat little bone. It is sometimes divided in half downwards, tho two pieces being called respectively, top sido and silver side.CHOICE OF MEAT ANI) COOKING OF JOINTS. 3'J Brisket. This is host stewed: see recipe in chapter on Savoury Meat Dishes. Shin, Clod, Shoulder of Beet. These aro best stewed: see directions for stewed shin of beef in chapter on Savoury Meat Dishes. They may all be used with groat advantage in the French national dish, the “Pol au feu.” Thick and Thin Flank of Beef. These are generally salted and boiled and served wiih the accompaniments mentioned for aitch bone and round. MUTTON. Mutton is divided into these joints: shoulder, breast, loin (best end), loin (chump end), neck (best end), neck (scrag end), leg, haunch—which consists of leg and chump end of loin. A chine of mutton is two necks; a saddle two loins. To Choose Mutton. The lean should bo firm and finely grained and red in colour, although not so red as that of beef, the fat white and firm. The best mutton is small boned and plump. Avoid mutton with very light-coloured lean and yellowish fat, especially if moisture exudes from it on being pressed. These are suro signs that the meat is not good. Mutton with small bones is considered the choicest. JOINTS OF MUTTON. Leg of Mirtton. This may be roasted, baked, or boiled. If roasted, sorvo rod currant jelly with it, or tomato, mushroom or piquant sauce. The vegetables which accompany it may be potatoes, artichokes, and any green vegetables, also d 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 40 haricot beans and well cooked maccaroni. The latter may bo served plain or as directed for maccaroni cheese. If the leg is boiled, serve caper sauce with it, and potatoes, carrots and turnips. The two latter should be cooked with the meat and may be served plain or mashed. Haunch of Mutton, Loin of Mutton, and Saddle of Mutton. These are always roasted or baked. Serve with the accompaniments directed for roast leg of mutton. Shoulder of Mutton. This should be roasted or baked. Serve Soubise or onion sauce with it, and any of the vegetables directed for roasted leg of mutton. Chine and Best End of Neck of Mutton. These are roasted or baked. Serve with accompani- ments directed for leg of mutton. Scrag End of Neck. This is boiled, and requires long and gentle cooking to make it tender. Serve caper sauce with it, and for vegetables, carrots, turnips, or parsnips, and potatoes. t » LAMB. Lamb is divided into—fore quarter, consisting of the shoulder, breast and neck. Hind quarter, consisting of the leg and loin. Saddle, leg, loin, shoulder, breast and neck.CHOICE OF MEAT, AND COOKING OF JOINTS. 41 To Choose Lamb. Choose it by signs mentioned for choosing mutton. House lamb is that reared in the winter under shelter and considered a delicacy; it is in season from Christmas to Lady-Day. Grass lamb comes into season about Easter time. Fore Quarter, Hind Quarter, Saddle, and Loin of Lamb. These are all roasted or baked. Serve mint sauce and a salad. The lamb may be dished au cresson or with celery or tomatoes. The vegetables which usually accompany lamb are pota- toes, green peas and spinach, but many others are appropriate. Note.—Before serving tho fore quarter of lamb divide the shoulder from the ribs and place between them 1^ ounces of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt. Leg of Lamb. This may be either roasted, baked or boiled. If roasted servo with accompaniments mentioned in foregoing directions. If boiled, with maitre-d'hotel or Bechamel sauce. For vegetables sorve potatoes and any green vegetable, or carrots and turnips. Target of Lamb, and Breast of Lamb. The breast and nock of lamb are sometimes cooked as one joint, called a target; when this is done they are roasted and served with the accompaniments mentioned for fore and liind quarter of lamb. The breast is some- times braised or stewed with green peas or any suitable vegetables. (See chapter on Savoury Meat Dishes.)A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 42 Shoulder of Lamb. This should bo roasted or baked. Servo with the accompaniments mentioned for foro and hind quarter, &c. Lamb Roasted Whole. Cook like sucking pig (see directions), but without the stuffing. It should be served Avith the accompaniments mentioned for fore and hind quarter, and may be dished au crcsson (see Watercress in Chapter on Salads). VENISON (Game). Roast Haunch of Venison. Cover the fat of the haunch with a sheet of woll-greased paper, and over that a cold-water paste about J inch in thickness, then cover the whole of the haunch with tAvo sheets of well-greased paper, sewing it on Avith greased pack-thread. This is to preserve the fat. Eoast or bake it according to directions for cooking meat, and half an hour before serving remove the paper and paste, dredge Avell with flour and Avell brown it. Serve with brown gravy and red currant jelly. If the haunch is large it may take from four to fivo hours to cook Shoulder, Breast, and Neck of Venison. Prepare and cook liko haunch. VEAL. A calf is divided into these parts : loin (best and chump ends), fillet, fore and hind knuckles, best and scrag ends of neck, breast, bladebone, head and feet. It is usual to direct that veal should be chosen for its whiteness, but as this is obtained by bleeding the calfCHOICE OF MEAT, AND COOKING OF JOINTS. 43 before killing it, it is to bo wished that housekeepers would protest agaiust this needless cruelty. The flesh of veal should bo finely grained, and the fat should be firm. JOINTS OF VEAL. Fillet of Veal. Remove the bone and cut with a sharp knifo bet wo ju the fillet and udder. Fill the spaces with veal forcemeat and tie and skewer the fillet into a neat round shape. Roast or bake it, and send boiled ham, bacon or pickled pork to table with it. Use a pint of melted butter instead of water for making the gravy. Lemons cut in quarters lengthwise, should bo handed with it. This dish may be garnished with slices of cut lemon and potato croquettes or with slices of tomato cooked in the oven. The sauces that may be used with roast fillet of veal are tomato, mushroom, oyster, and Polish sauce. For vegetables, serve potatoes, plain or dressed, and any green vegetables, the most appropriate being peas, beans, sprouts and spinach. Fillet of Veal Boiled. Remove the bone and make it into a nice round sliapo. Boil it nicely (see directions for boiling meat) in water or white stock, and servo with oyster, mushroom, tomato, celery or Hollandaise sauce. For vegetables, servo potatoes and any green vegetables. Boiled ham, bacon, tongue or pickled pork should bo sent to table with it. Breast of Veal. This may be roasted or baked and served with any of the sauces and accompaniments for roast fillet of veal. Before roasting fasten the caul over the joint and remove44 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. it half an hour before it is cooked that it may brown For other ways of serving breast of veal, see chapter on Savoury Meat Dishes. Loin of Veal. Turn over the flap, skewer it down securely and roast it (see directions for roasting meat). Serve with the accompaniments mentioned for roast fillet of veal. It is sometimes stuffed with veal forcemeat. Loin of veal is sometimes boiled and served with the accompaniments mentioned for boiled fillet. It may also be braised. Neck of Veal. Roast this and serve as directed for fillet of veal. It may also be boiled. Knuckle of Veal. Boil it gently (in stock if possible), until perfectly tender. Serve with maitre-d’hotel or parsley sauce, and send boiled bacon to table with it. For other preparations for this joint, see Savoury Moat Dishes. Calf’s Head and Feet. See Chapter on Savoury Meat Dishes. PORK. A young pig of porker is divided into—spare rib, leg, hand, belly, fore and hind loin. A chine of pork is cut from a bacon pig. To Choose Pork. The greatest care must be exercised in the selection of pork, as the pig is subject to terrible diseases. The lean should be pale and finely grained, the fat white and firm.CHOICE OF MEAT, AND COOKING OF JOINTS. 45 Kernels in the fat indicate disease. The skin should ho thin, a thick skin is a sign of age. Daiiy-fed pork is the best. Pork should always he thoroughly cooked. Chine of Pork. Score it with a knife and roast or hake it. Servo with apple, gooseberry, piquant, tomato or Robert sauce. Potatoes and any green vegetables may be served with it. The chine is also salted and boiled, and may be served with Turkey. Spare Rib of Pork. This should be scored and then roasted or baked, and served as directed for roast chine of pork. Hand of Pork. Soak it for two or three hours before cooking and then boil it. Serve peas pudding with it. For vegetables, carrots, turnips or parsnips. Cook these with the hand and garnish the dish with them. Potatoes may also be served and any green vegetables. Leg of Pork. This may be roasted or baked and served as directed for roast chino, or boiled and served according to directions given for hand of pork. Loin of Pork. Score the skin. Brush it with salad oil, and roast or bake it. Serve apple or Robert sauce with it. Griskin of Pork. This maybe roasted or baked. The basting must b> very constant or the meat will be hard and dry. A plan sometimes adopted to make it tender is to put it in cold water and bring it to boiling point—then well dry the griskin and roast it.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 46 Pickled Pork. Cook and servo like hand of pork. Ham. Tut it into lukewarm water, to which a pint of old ale has been added and a hunch of sweet herbs and a bay- leaf, and simmer very gently until quite tender. For a ham allow twenty-five minutes to the pound. Let it get cold in the liquor in which it was cooked, this prevents the escape of its juices. Remove the skin and cover with fine brown crumbs or raspings, or glaze it. Fasten a paper frill round the knuckle. Thoham should be soaked for quite twelve hours before cooking. "When very dry it will require even longer. If liked, the ham may be removed from tho meat-kettle an hour before it is cooked, and finished in a slow oven. Remove the skin before baking it and cover with raspings. Bacon. Soak it for quite an hour before cooking, then boil it gently, putting it in lukewarm water. Allow quite twenty minutes to the pound. If a large piece, serve covered with fine brown crumbs or raspings when tho skin is removed. Roast Sucking Pig. Ingredients. 1 sucking pig. Lemon. Sage and onion forcemeat. Pepper and salt. Salad oil. Method.—Stuff tho belly of the pig with the forcemeat, and sew it in. Truss the legs like a hare. Brush it well over with salad oil and roast it at a quick fire with a pig plate or piece of iron hung in the middle —this should be removed when the pig is half cookod. Tho iron is used to allow tho pig to cook gradually, otherwise tho middlo would get burnt.CHOICE OF MEAT, AND COOKING OF JOINTS. 47 Baste very constantly. It will take from one and a half to two hours, according to its age. For dishing it remove the trussing string or cotton and cut it down the middle, place it hack to hack on the dish. Put half a head at each end, and the ears at the sides. The ordinary sauce served with it is made thus :— Take the gravy from the pig and add to it some of the stuffing and the hrains chopped fine and a little lemon peel and juice, pepper and salt and a little cayenne. Make hot and serve in a boat. But brown, apple, tomato, and bread sauce with currants in it may also be served, with many others. Note.—Sucking pig may also bo stuffed with chestnut forcemeat mixed with sausage-meat (see Forcemeats), also with truffles. If more convenient the pig may be baked48 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. HOW TO CHOOSE POULTRY AND GAME: Poultry and Game. In choosing poultry and game one of the simplest tests of ago is to feel the end of the breastbone: when the bird is young this is gristle and bends easily, when old it is quite firm. The feet will be pliable when young. Other tests will be given under the respective headings. T urkeys. Choose these with white flesh and fat. Those with long hairs should be avoided, also those whose baclc and legs have a slight purple tinge. The birds when young have smooth black legs, with (in the cock) short spurs. The feet of young turkeys will be supple. Geese. If young, the lower part of the beak will break off easily, and the pinions and feet will bo very pliable. Choose thoso with light-coloured transparent-looking fat; the feet and bills yellow and the body free from hairs. Ducks. Chooso like geese. Fowls. Feel the end of the breastbone as directed at the beginning of the chapter. Young fowls will havo smooth legs and combs, and the feet are supple. Capons should be very plump and broad-bodied. Old fowls shouldHOW TO CHOOSE POULTRY AND GAME. 49 l:o avoided, as they are only fit for making stock. For roasting choose fowls with black legs; for boiling the legs should bo white. Fowls are at their best just before they begin to lay. Pigeons. If these are young they will have supplo feet, and if fresh the vent firm. Tame pigeons should bo cooked soon, as they lose flavour. Wood-pigeons may bo hung for a few days, earo being taken that they acquire no taint. In old birds the legs aro large, dark-coloured and rough. Hare. Choose these with the cleft in the lip narrow, sharp claws, and with ears that will tear easily. Old hares aro only fit for stewing or soup. When fresh the body will be stiff. Hang a hare by its hind-legs. It is better not to paunch it for four or five days after killing. If however it has been omptied, remove the heart and lungs and fill it with charcoal to prevent it from acquiring a taint while hanging. A hare may hang from ten days or a fortnight in cold weather, but in close muggy weather it will not keep long. Rabbits. There are two kinds, tame and wild. Of the tamo the Ostend are the best. Tame rabbits are larger, and have whiter and more delicate flesh than the wild ones. Choose them by Ihe signs mentioned for hares. Pheasants. These should bo hung until in good condition. The length of time will depend on the weather. In very cold weather they may hang for three v7eeks, in muggy weather they cannot be kept for the same number of days unless there is a specially cool place for hanging them in. By many people four or five days hanging will probably be deemed sufficient. Like all birds they are best young. The hen is the most delicate in flavour.50 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Partridges. When young the legs will bo yellowish, and the feet pliant, and the bill a dark colour. The age of all game may be tested by holding it up by its under bill. If young it snaps in two easily. Woodcocks. Choose by signs already mentioned for choosing game. If fresh its head and throat will be clean, but the contrary if stale. They should be plump. Grouse. Choose like partridges. Snipe. Choose like woodcock. Plover. Choose birds that aro hard at the vent, as that proves them to bo fat. In other respects choose like other birds. Plovers will keep good a long time when the weather is cool. There are two kinds—the grey and golden plover. Wild Duck. Choose like duck. Guinea Fowl, Choose like fowls.( 51 ) TRUSSING POULTRY, BONING, AND LARDING. Trussing Poultry. This art cannot be properly taught by book; a few practical instructions from a poulterer, or other skilled person, will be found of infinitely more value than any printed directions can possibly be. Particular instruc- tions are, however, given for the trussing of a fowl for roasting or boiling, as on these methods most of the others are based, and general directions for the trussing of other birds. To Truss a Fowl for Roasting. The fowl should first be carefully plucked. If it is necessary scald the pinions to get them quite free from any stumps of feathers. Turn the fowl on its breast and cut a slit an inch long in the skin at tho back of the neck, three inches below the head. With the fingers loosen tho skin round tho neck, put a sharp knife under the skin and cut off the neck quite close to the body, then cut the skin, leaving a piece fully two inches long for folding over the back. Eemove the crop and with the fingers loosen the liver and other parts at the breast end of the bird. Place the fowl on its back and cut a small opening at the vent, then with the hand draw out all tho interior of the fowl, taking care not to break the gall bladder, which adheres to the liver. Then, with a damp cloth, wipe the inside of the fowl, and, with a lighted taper, singe off all the hairs. Cut off the claws, scald the legs in boiling water, and peel off the outside skin. Then place the fowl on its breast, pull the piece of skin closely over the back, and cross the ends of the wings over the back of the neck. Take hold of the legs and press the thighs well into tho52 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. sides of the fowl to give it a nice plump shape; pass a trussing-needle and string through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and out through the other thigh. Then turn the fowl on its breast, and pass the needle through the middle of the pinion, fastening with it the skin to the back, and bringing the string out through the other pinion ; pull the ends of the twine tightly and tie them firmly together at the side. Turn the fowl on its back again, pass the needle and thread through the skin, over the bottom of the breastbone, over one leg, then through the back of the fowl, and finally tie it firmly over the leg at the other side. It is not usual now to place the liver and gizzard in the wings; this is a pity, because they were by many accounted delicacies. When they are used, wash the liver and cut away the gall bladder without breaking it. Empty ihe gizzard, and simmer that in a little water or stock for an hour to make it tender. To Truss a Fowl for Boiling. When a fowl is trussed for boiling proceed according to the foregoing directions, with the exception that the legs are cut off at the knee-joint. In doing this, cut the skin round the leg, and then pull it off, bringing with it the sinews. Tut the fingers through the hole made for drawing, and loosen all the outside skin from the thighs, so that the joints of the legs can be pushed quite inside. Then commence trussing as for a roast fowl. Pull the skin well over the breastbono and tuck in the ends of the legs securely, pass the trussing-needle through the skin, and then through underneath at the back, tying the string securely. Choose fowls with black legs for roasting, and white for boiling. General Directions for Trussing. For boiling, all birds should have their legs cut off at the knee-joint, and the ends tucked inas in preceding directions. The wings of geese, ducks, pheasants, partridges, black- game, woodcocks, snipes, and all game and small birds are cut off at the first joint. It is not now usual to leave the heads on pheasants ancjTRUSSING POULTRY, BONING AND LARDING. 53 • partridges, as used to bo the fashion, but they are left on woodcock, plover, and snipe. In trussing these birds, press 'the legs to the sides, and pass the beak of the bird through its body and legs. They are not drawn, and must be very carefully plucked, as the skin is very tender. To Bone a Fowl. Pluck and singe, but do not draw it. Mako a slit in the back of the neck, insert the fingers, and loosen tho skin from the neck, and with a sharp knife cut the neck off close to the body, leaving a piece of skin two inches long to fold over, then with a sharp knife divide the joints between tho pinions and the carcase, and remove tho merry-thought. Having done this, cut off the legs at the knee-joint, removing tho sinews, and then begin to carefully work the flesh oft’ the bones, either with tho fingers or with a sharp small knife, turning the bird, in fact, completely inside out. Tho wings are not boned, but are left on to give tho bird a more natural appear- ance. Care must be taken to get the flesh quite cleanly off the bones, which should be taken out entire, and tho inside of the bird not be allowed to break through- When tho boning is accomplished, the fowl should bo replaced in shape, the leg part being left inside. All small birds may be boned in the same manner. Larding. Larding, although very easy, requires to be seen to bo properly understood. Very hard bacon is necessary, as soft bacon breaks on being passed through the meat. The bacon should be cut into small blocks, and then again cut into even strips, called lardoons. In larding, put a strip of bacon into the needle, and then pass it through the meat, leaving the bacon in tho meat, with the ends showing; this should bo done in even rows, taking caro to keep tho larding as neat as possible. Larding improves the flavour of birds and meat which, not having much fat, would have a tendency to get dry when cooked. When time cannot be spared for larding, a piece of slit bacon is sometimes placed over the moat instead, but the result is not so satisfactoiy.54 A COMPLETE OOOKE11Y GLIDE. THE COOKING OF POULTRY - AND GAME. Roast Turkey.—Ordinary Method. 1 pound of giavy beef. Method.—Tho turkey should ho hung as long as it is possible without acquiring any taint. In cold weather it will keep for quite a fortnight. Draw it carefully. Fill tho breast with the forcemeat, and truss it into a good shape. It will take from one hour and a half to two hours to roast; and should be basted well with butter or good dripping. It is well to cover tho breast with buttered paper or slitted bacon ; this should bo removed half an hour beforo it is finished. It may be served with fried or baked sausages placed round it. To make tho gravy, cut the gravy beef into small pieces, simmer it with tho giblets in the water, with tho onion sliced, for three hours. Thicken it with the flour, and pour a little round the turkey. The gravy from the turkey should bo mixed with it. The remainder should be served in a sauce-boat. A turkey may bo stuffed with chestnut forcemeat (see Forcemeats) or truffles. Required. A turkey. Some veal forcemeat, omit- 3 pints of water. 1 onion. 2 ozs. of flour. ting the suet.55 THE COOKING OF POULTRY AND GAME. It is most excellent stuffed with mushrooms, and served with a mushroom sauce. A boiled ham or tongue should be sent to table with a turkey. The sauces which may accompany a turkey aro, when dressed in the ordinary way, chestnut, celery, tomato, oyster, mushroom. The vegetables to accompany a turkey may be potatoes, plain or dressed, and almost any kind of green vegetables. Boiled Turkey. A young turkey is sometimes boiled (see Directions for Boiling a fowl). Serve it with any of the following sauces—Bechamel, celery, oyster, horseradish, tomato, or Hollandaise sauce. A boiled ham or tongue should be sent to table with it, or little rolls of bacon may be placed round it. Potatoes, plain or dressed, and almost any green vege- tables may accompany it. The turkey may bo stuffed with sausage-meat if liked. A turkey may also be braised (see Directions for Braising). Turkey Poults. Cook like fowls. Roast Goose. Required. A goose. Sage and onion stuffing. 1J oz. of flour. 1 onion. 1 apple. 3 sage leaves. 4 pound of gravy beef. 1 quart of water. Method.—Draw the goose and hang it for several days. Truss it into shape, stuffing the breast with the force- meat. Roast it before a clear fire from one and a half to two hours, according to its size. To make the gravy, simmer the giblets in the water with the beef cut small, the onion, and apple sliced, tho sago leaves, and a little pepper and salt, for threo hours. s 256 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Thicken with the flour, and colour the gravy if neces- sary. * If liked, a glass of port wine may be added. Pour a little gravy round the goose, and serve the rest in a tureen. Apple or tomato sauce are generally handed with goose. Potatoes, tomatoes, and any green vegetables can accompany roast goose. In the West of England the gravy is sometimes made with boiling cider. It is used instead of the water in the ordinary method of making gravy. Green Geese. Cook like geese, but without stuffing them. Servo gooseberry sauce with them. If preferred, dish au cresson (see Watercress for garnish). Roast Duck. Bequired. A duck. Some sage and onion stuff- ing. 1 oz. of flour. 1 onion. 1 apple. i pound of gravy beef. Rather more than a pint of water. Method. —Stuff the duck with the forcemeat and truss it nicely. Roast it from three quarters of an hour to an hour, according to its size. Make the gravy by simmering the giblets in the water with the beef, and onion and apple sliced, and pepper and salt, for three hours. Strain and thicken with the flour. Colour if necessary, and if liked add a glass of port v/ine. Pour a litte gravy round the duck and serve remainder in a boat. Hand apple or tomato sauce. For vegetables, serve potatoes and green peas, or any green vegetables which are suitable. Ducks may bo dished au cresson (see Watercress for garnishes).THE COOKING OF POULTRY AND GAME. 57 Ducklings. Theso aro cooked and served like ducks, but without any stuffing. Roast Fowl. Truss a fowl nicely and roast before a clear fire. A chicken will take about half an hour, a fowl from threo quarters to an hour to cook. The fashion of stuffing fowls with veal forcemeat is out of date, but they may be filled with mushrooms before roasting, and are excellent served with mushroom sauce. To prepare the mushrooms for filling the fowl, peel and rinse them and simmer them in a little butter for fifteen minutes. Place them in the fowl before trussing. The butter in which they aro cooked should be used for the sauce. When plainly roasted, the sauces which may be served with chickens or fowls aro oyster, chestnut, celery, and mushroom. Bread sauce must always be handed. Nicely cooked bacon should be served with roast fowl. The bacon should be streaky and cut in thin slices. Boll these and run a skewer through them. Boast them beforo a clear fire or bake them in the oven These rolls should be placed round the fowl. A chicken or fowl may be dished au cresson (see Watercress for garnish). A nice gravy should always be served with a fowl. The vegetables to accompany may bo potatoes, plain or dressed, peas, beans, cauliflower, or any green vegetables, Boiled Fowl. Truss the fowl nicely. Wrap the fowl in buttered paper. Boil it from half an hour to an hour and a half, according to its age. Serve with oyster, Bechamel, celery, maitre-d’hotel or white mushroom sauce. Boiled ham, bacon, or tongue should be sent to table wi thA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 58 it, or it may be garnished with little rolls of bacon (see directions for its preparation under the heading Eoast Fowl). A little sauce should be poured over the fowl, the remainder handed in a boat. The vegetables which may be served with boiled fowl are potatoes, and any green vegetables. Braised Fowl. See Directions for Braising. Roast Pigeons. Tio pieces of fat bacon across the breasts of the pigeons and roast nicely before a clear fire. They will take from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to their age and size. Serve with the pieces of bacon on their breasts and a nice gravy poured over. For a second course dish servo the pigeons au crcsson (see Watercress for garnish). Boiled Pigeons. Boil and servo like fowls, cooking them fifteen or twenty minutes, according to their age and size. Roast Guinea Fowl. Tie a slice of slitted fat bacon over the breast and cook like roast fowl or turkey. Servo bread sauce and gravy. If liked, they may bo dished au crcsson (see Watercress for gai nish). Boiled Rabbit. Boil a rabbit gently from half an hour to an hour, according to its size. Servo onion or muitre-d’hotel sauce with it. Send pickled pork to table with it. The pickled pork should be cooked with the rabbit.TI1E COOKING OF POULTRY AND GAME. 59 2 rabbits. 4 largo onions. Stewed Rabbits. Bequired. Flour. l’eppor and salt. Water. Method.—Cloanso the rabbits thoroughly. Cut them into neat joints. Slico the onions from the top to tho bottom. Put them into a stewpan and add a little pepper and salt, and covor with tho water. Simmer gently until tho rabbits are tender. They will take from half an hour to an hour, according to their ago. Thicken tho gravy with tho flour, using half an ounce of flour to every half-pint of gravy. Well-boiled pickled pork is a nice accompaniment to stewed rabbit, or pieces of pickled pork may bo stewed with it. 2 ozs. of dripping. Method.—Cut tho rabbit into neat joints and fry them in tho dripping. Slice the onion from tho top to tho bottom, and fry that a light brown ; it must not burn. Put the rabbit and onion and cloves into a stewpan and cover with water or stock. Simmer gently until tho rabbit is tender, then romovo it. Thicken the gravy with tho flour, using three quarters of an ounce of flour for every half-pint of gravy. Boil well and rub through a sievo. Put into a stewpan again, ro-heat tho rabbit in it and servo on an entree dish. Garnish with fried crohtons of broad. Ragout of Rabbit. Bcquired. A rabbit. 1 onion. 2 cloves. Water or stock. A little flour. Pepper and salt.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. GO Jugged Rabbit. Prepared like jugged hare (see Entrees). Roast Rabbit. A rabbit. Some veal forcemeat. .Required. Some nice gravy. Method.—Fill the belly of the rabbit with the forcemeat, and sew it in. Truss it nicely and roast it from three quarters of an hour to one hour, basting constantly. Serve with red currant jelly and gravy, in a tureen. Roast Hare. Prepare it according to directions in preceding recipe, stuffing it with veal forcemeat. The liver of the hare should bo chopped and mixed with tho foicemeat. Roast it from one hour to an hour and a half, accordin'! to its age and size, basting it constantly. Make one pint of gravy, and add to it a glass of port. Tour a little round the hare and servo the remainder in a boat. Red currant jelly'- should be served with hare. Garnish with small fried forcemeat balls. Tho hare may, if liked, bo larded, or it may be roasted with a piece of bacon tied over it. Jugged Hare. See Entrees. Leverets. Cook like hare. Roast Pheasant. Roast tho pheasant before a clear fire, basting almost incessantly with butter. (If tho pheasant is allowed to get dry, it is spoiled.)TIIE COOKING OF POULTRY AND GAME. 6L It will tako from three quarters of an hour to an hour, according to its size. Mako a nice gravy for it, and serve with bread sauco and browned crumbs. It may be dished au cresson (see Watercress for garnish). Boiled Pheasant. Cook it according to the directions for boiled fowl. Serve oyster, celery, horseradish, Hollandaisc, or Bechamel sauce with it. Wild Duck. Boast the duck quickly before a clear fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, basting it. plentifully. Sprinkle over it a little salt and cayenne and t' o juice of half a lemon. If liked, a glass of port wine may bo poured over it. Wild duck must be slightly under-done, but with a rich brown surface. Port wine or Bigarade sauce should be served with it, also half a pint of gravy. If liked, the wild duck may be dished au cresson (see Watercress for garnish). Partridges. Partridges should be nicely roasted boforc a clear fire, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Baste constantly with butter. Serve with gravy and bread sauco, also browned crumbs. Partridge with Mushrooms. Teel and rinse some mushrooms, and gently simmer them in a little butter for about fifteen minutes. Fill the partridges, truss them nicely, and cook as directed for roast partridges. Serve mushroom sauce with them, and use the butter the mushrooms were simmered in for making it.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 62 Old Partridges. Make these into puddings or soups (see Eecipos). Boiled Partridges. Cook and servo like pheasants. Grouse. Boast them before a clear fire, basting almost incessantly with butter. They will probably tako about thirty minutes to cook. Place under them pieces of toast thickly buttered. Dish the grouse on these and garnish, if liked, with watercress (see Watercress for garnish). Servo bread sauce and gravy in boats, also browned crumbs. Ptarmigan. Cook and serve like grouse. Black-Game. Cook and serve like grouse. Widgeon and Teal. Cook and serve like grouse or wild duck. Woodcocks and Snipes. These birds must be carefully trussed, but not drawn. Boast them carefully from fifteen to thirty minutes, basting constantly. Place under them rounds of toasted bread buttered on both sides to catch the trail as it drops. This is con- sidered a delicacy. When cooked placo the toast on a hot dish. Place the birds on it. Dish, if liked, au cresson (see Watercress for garnish). Serve a little good gravy in a boat.TIIE COOKING OF POULTRY AND GAME. 63 Plovers. Coolc like woodcock ; they are not drawn. Pintail. Cook and serve like roast pheasant. A piquant sauce may be served with it. Ortolans. Truss without drawing thorn. Tie a vine leaf over the breast of each and then a pioco of bacon. Iioast them before a quick fire, bastiug constantly with butter; they generally take about fifteen minutes to cook. Dish them on rounds of toast or fried bread, which should have been placed under them when cooking. Garnish, if liked, with watercress. Some gravy should be served in a boat. Browned crumbs must also be served. Quails. Theso birds may be drawn or not, as preferred. Roast and cook them liko Ortolans, serving them in tho same manner. Rooks Are only suitable for pies (see Pastry). Roast Larks. Remove the heads, legs, and tho gizzards. Truss them and run a long skewer through their bodies, fastening with it a small piece of fat bacon on tho breast of each bird. Melt a little butler and pour over them, and then roast them before a very clear tire, basting constantly. Place under them whilst cooking small rounds or squares of toasted bread. Dish them on these in rows or in a circle with a heap of browned crumbs in tho centre of the dish.A COMTLETE COOKERY GUIDE. G4 A good gravy mado from the trimmings should bo hauded with thorn. If preferred larks may bo egged and bread-crumbed; when this is done lightly-browned crumbs should be used for the purpose. Ruffs and Reeves. Truss these like woodcocks without drawing. Run a skewer through them as directed for larks, fastening a vine leaf under each piece of bacon. Roast quickly before a clear fire, basting constantly. Rounds of toasted or fried bread should be placed under them to catch the trail. Dish them on these, and serve good gravy in a boat. If liked, serve au cresson (see Watercress for garnish). Wheatears. Cook liko larks. Bread sauce may be served with them. Landrail. Draw and truss like a snipe, and roast it before a clear fire, basting constantly. Served with browned crumbs round it, and gravy and bread sauce in boats.( 65 ) STOCKS AND SOUPS. Few peoplo succeed in making good soups, for the reason that very few understand the making of 8tool:, the foundation of soups. To make a good soup it is essential the stock he well flavoured. The stock-pot is said to be a great preventive of waste, and it certainly is when properly used, but not when, as is too often the case, materials are thrown into it with as little consideration as they are thrown into the hog-tub. The result of such random cookery is generally to produce a poor, stale- tasting broth, quite unworthy the name of stock. To make stock well there are one or two points to be kept in mind; the first is that when raw meat is used the object to be first attained is the extraction of its juices; when bones or cooked meat, the extraction of the gelatine ; also it is well to remember that when vegetables have parted with their flavour they are worse than useless if left in the Btock, as they impoverish it by absorbing the meat flavours. When making a stock from fresh meat cut the meat up very small and soak it in the water, which must be cold ; add to it a little salt. Cold water loosens the juices of the meat, and salt assists its action. Then put the stock-pot on the fire and simmer for half an hour; add the vegetables and simmer for four hours and a half longer. Full directions for making stock in this way will be found under the heading, First Stock for clear soup. In making that stock no skimming is necessary. The scum which rises to the top is only (provided the stock- pot and vegetables are all, as they should be, perfectly clean) albumen from the meat; this rises before simmer- ing point and brings with it other soluble matters, and the removal of this from the stock impoverishes it. Neither is it necessary to let the steam escape while the stock is in preparation; an escapo of steam means anA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. GG oscape of flavour. I am quite aware that many eminent authorises lay great emphasis on the importance of skimming the stock and allowing some escape of the steam if a perfectly clear soup is afterwards to be made; but my own experience has been that a better stock is produced without skimming, and that the brilliancy of the soup will be in no way affected by the omission of these two operations. The meat used for first stock should not bo thrown away; soaking and simmering extract its juices, but there still remains in it much gelatine, which can only be extracted by boiling. It, therefore, goes into the second stock-pot, in which any remains of meat and bones are used. One quart of water may be allowed to every pound of meat and bones in making second stock, as boiling will cause considerable reduction. The vegetables, herbs, &c., given in the recipe for first stock should be used in proper proportion, with any others that will give an agreeable flavour. When the weather is not too hot, scraps of meat, bones, vegetables, &c., are best collected each day and put on one side to be made into stock the next morning, Avhen they can be used with more judgment than is possible if they are thrown at intervals during the day into the stock-pot. A stock-pot “ always going” is a mistake. When the stock is ready, it should be poured away to free it from the vegetables, which, as I havo already said, are worse than useless after four and a half hours’ cooking. If the stock is poor, it may be put on again, but with f resh stock material. Bones contain a great deal of gelatine, and this can only be perfectly extracted when they are boiled at a higher pressure than is possible in ordinary cookery. The second stock, that is, stock made of any bones and pieces, must therefore be boiled, but gently, not rapidly, as that only causes reduction of the stock. When water once boils, all the force is then expended in making steam, therefore violent boiling produces no higher degree of heat. The boilings from meat should always be used for the foundation of a stock when not too salt; or they may be used in the manufacture of vegetable soups. White stock is made according to the directions given for first stock, using veal or other white meat for tho purpose. Fish stock is made according to the directions for second67 sours. stock, as it is rich in gelatine, fish, or tho hones and trimmings of fish, being used for tho purpose. First Stock for Clear Soup. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 2 lbs. of shin of beef and 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal. 5 pints of cold water. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 1 onion. i head of celery. The white part of a leek. 1 dozen peppercorns. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. A bay leaf. Pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces. Break up the bone and remove the marrow. Put bones and meat into the stock-pot with tho cold water. Let them soak for half an hour. Then put the pot on the fire, with a little salt, and gently simmer the contents for half an hour. Next put in the vegetables sliced, and tho herbs tied together, and peppercorns. Simmer for four and a half hours. Strain into a clean pan, and set aside to get cold. Note.—First stock must simmer only, not boil. (See preceding remarks.) Abroad, a fowl is generally used in addition in making tliis stock. White Stock. This may be made according to the directions given in the preceding recipe, using white meat instead of beef; knuckle of veal is considered the stock meat for white soup. Knuckle of veal and a rabbit or fowl make excellent stock. A very fair economical white stock may bo made by using bonos only in making the stock, and no meat; use a ham-bone, if possible, with the others, as this gives a nice flavour. Second Stock. For this, use any scraps of cooked or uncooked moat, with any bones. Allow one quart of water to every pound of meat and bones, and use vegetables in tho same pro- portion as directed for first stock.68 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Boil the meat and bones gently for one hour, then put in the vegetables and boil for four hours and a half longer. Then strain. Bones may be put on again, with fresh stock material, if broken up, as they may be boiled a long time before the gelatine is thoroughly extracted. When cold, second stock should be a strong jelly. A fuller flavoured stock may be made by frying the vegetables in a little dripping before they are added to the meat. White Stock from Bones Uncooked. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of uncooked bones, with a ham-bone, if possible, amongst them. 5 pints of water. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 1 large onion. Half a head of celery. 1 sprig of parsley. Thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf. 1 blade of mace. Method.—Break up the bones, and put them with the vegetables, sliced, into a stock-pot with the water; boil gently for five hours, adding pepper and salt to taste. Then strain into a pan. Vegetable Stock for Soupes Maigres. Take double the quantity of vegetables given in the foregoing recipe, with the same quantity of water, and half a pint of haricot beans. Slice and fry them in a little butter, and then boil them in the water for four hours and a half. Strain, and when cold remove the fat. The water in which green vegetables have been boiled may be used with advantage in making this stock, or the water in which rice, maccaroni, or haricot beaus havo been cooked. Fish Stock. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of fish, or fish bones and trimmings. 4 quarts of wator. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 2 onions.69 SOUPS. Half a head of celery. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf. 1 dozen peppercorns, 3 cloves. A little salt. Method.—Put the fish or fish bones into a saucepan with the water and a little salt, and boil gently for half an hour. Then put in the vegetables, well cleansed and cut up, the herbs, peppercorns, &c., and oontinue to boil gently for four hours and a half. Then strain. A few tomatoes, when procurable, much improve tho flavour of this stock. This stock may serve as a basis for oyster, lobster, shrimp, prawn, Bouillabaisse, and all fish soups. Consomme, or Clear Soup. 2 quarts of first stock. | lb. of gravy beef. Ingredients. The white and shell of one egg. Method.—Eemove all the fat from the stock. If it is in a jelly, take off as much as possible with an iron spoon, and remove tho remainder by washing the top of tho stock with a cloth dipped in very hot water. Scrape the beef finely, and soak it in two tablespoonfuls of cold water to loosen the juices. Put the stock in a. stewpan, and add the beef to it, the white and shell of tho egg, and a very tiny piece of each kind of vegetable used in making the stock. Whisk over the fire until tho stock begins to simmer. Then leave off stirring, and let it well boil up. Kemove it from the fire, and put it on one side for a crust to form. Tie a clean cloth to a soup-strainer or to the four legs of a chair turned upside down. Pour some boiling water through it into a basin, to ensure it being perfectly clean. Then put a clean basin underneath, and pour all tho contents of the stewpan on to the cloth. The first time the soup runs through it will be cloudy, because the filter made by the beef and egg will not have settled at the bottom of the cloth. Take the soup away ; put a clean basin under the cloth, and pour tho soup slowly through a second time. If this is carefully done, FA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 70 the soup will be quite brilliant the second time of strain- ing, and will not require to go through the cloth again. Consomm^ k la Julienne.—Julienne Soup. This is a clear soup with Julienne garnish. (See Garnishes.) Consomme Royal. This is a clear soup with a savoury custard in it. (For Custard, see Garnishes.) Consomme a la Princesse. Serve small quenelles (see Quenelles of Yeal) made in teaspoons, and nicely poached in the clear soup. Consomme k la Brunoise.—Brunoise Soup. This is a clear soup, with Brunoise garnish in it (see Garnishes). Use half a pint to two quarts of soup. Consomm4 k la Jardiniere.— . Jardiniere Soup. Trim some turnips and the red part of carrots into the shape of peas. Cook them until tender in a little stock. Cook also some green peas, and some asparagus peas, the white part of a cauliflower cut into sprigs, the white leaves of a cabbage stamped into rounds with a cutter the size of a shilling, and a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil. These must all bo cooked with care. To two quarts of soup allow half a pint of theso vcg> tables, measured togethor.71 SOUPS. Consommd aux Perdreaux.—Clear Partridge Soup. Prepare some stock (see First Stock), using half beef ami half partridges (old ones will do). Clarify ns directed for clear soup, and servo small quenelles of partridge in it. Other game soups may be made in tho same manner. Potage aux Crevettes Clair.—Clear Prawn Soup. Shell, wash clean one pint of prawns. Put the shells into five pints of first stock. Simmer for twenty minutes. Clarify (see First Stock) and make tho prawns hot in tho soup. Consomme k la Nivernaise.— Nivernaise Soup. This is a clear soup, with tho red part of carrots cut into the shape of small cloves of garlic, and cookod separately in stock, served in it. Consomme a Ntalienne.—Italian Soup. Take either half a pound of vermicelli, Italian pasto, or macaroni. Throw them into quickly boiling water, boil for five minutes, then throw them into two quarts of boiling clear soup, and cook until tender. The vermicelli must be broken up, tho macaroni cut into half-inch lengths. Hand grated cheese with this soup. v 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 72 Potage de Queue de Boeuf Clair.— Clear Ox-tail Soup. Ingredients. 1 ox-tail. 3 quarts of beef stock. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 1 onion. Half a head of celery. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 20 peppercorns. 2 wine-glasses of sherry. Method.—Cut the tail into neat joints and blanch them. • Put them into a stewpan with the stock, vegetables and seasoning, and simmer three hours. Remove the pieces of ox-tail, and clarify the stock with two whites of eggs. Put it into a stewpan, make hot, add the sherry, and the neatest pieces of tail. Bisque de Homard.—Bisque of Lobster. Ingredients. 2 lobsters. 2 quarts of fish stock (see Recipe) in which the shells of the lobsters have been boiled. 1 oz. of spawn, f pint of rich cream. 4 ozs. of flour. Pepper and salt. Juice of a lemon. Method.—Cut the lobster, when boiled, into small pieces, using the shell to flavour the stock. Strain the stock into a stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil. Rub tire spawn through a hair-sievo, with one ounce of butter. Make a thickening of the flour, stir it smoothly into the soup, and add the spawn ; well boil the soup for five minutes, add the cream, and then the pieces of lobster and lemon juice. Bisque is also made with cray-fish, prawns, and crabs.73 SOUPS. Potage d’Asperges.—Asparagus Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarts of nice while stock. 100 heads of asparagus, i pint of cream. 3 leaves of spinach. Method.—Cook the asparagus in the stock until the ontls are tender. Then remove them and cut off tho tops, which divide in two pieces, and put on one side. Put the remainder of the asparagus hack into the stock, and cook twenty minutes longer. Then rub the eaup, and as much of the asparagus as possible through a hair-sieve. Put into tho saucepan again, add the cream, and boil the soup. Put in the asparagus tops, let them get quite hot, and the soup is ready. Pur^e a la Cressey.—Crecy Soup. 0 large carrots. 3 onions. 1 head of celery. Ingredients. J pint of cream. 2 quarts of light-coloured stock. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Scrape the carrots, and peel off the red part; cut this up small. Slice the onions from the top to tho bottom, and cut up all the white part of the celery. Put these into tho stock, and boil gently until the vegetables are soft. Drain the stock away from the vegetables. Bruise them in a mortar, add them again to tho stock and boil up. Then rub through a hair or tammy sieve. Add the cream to the puree, season with popper and salt to taste, and stir until it boils. Servo fried croutons of bread with it.74 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Potage de Queue de Boeuf Li4.— Thick Ox-tail Soup. 1 ox-tail. 3 quarts of stock. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. Half a head of celery. 1 slice of ham. 2 bay leaves. Ingredients. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 3 cloves. Pepper and salt. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 wineglass of sherry. A few drops of lemon juice. 4 ozs. of flour. Method.—Cut the ox-tail into joints. Fry them in the butter, with the vegetables cut in pieces. Put the tail and vegetables into a large saucepan, with the stock, pepper, salt, and cloves. Boil gently for nearly four hours. Then strain the stock. Remove the pieces of tail, and put them on one side. "When the stock is quite cold, removo the fat perfectly, and put the stock in a stewpan on the fire to boil. When it boils, stir in a thickening made of the flour. Stir, and cook the flour well. Then add the sherry and lemon juice. Servo with tho pieces of tail in it. Potage de Queue de Veau.—Calf-tail Soup. Ingredients. 2 calves’ tails. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 sprig of thyme, parsley, and marjoram. A little celery. 1 small clove of garlic. 1 dozen peppercorns. 4 ozs. of flour. 2 quarts of stock. Salt. Method.—Cut the tails into joints. Tut them in a stewpan, with tho stock. When it simmers, put in tho vegetables, &c., and cook very gently for four hours. Remove tho pieces of tail, and thicken the slock with tho flour. Strain tho soup.75 sours. Serve with the pieces of tail in it. A wineglass of sherry may he added, if liked. Potage aux Abatis.—Giblet Soup. Ingredients. 2 sets of goose or 4 sets of duck giblets. i head of celery. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 2 cloves. 1 b'ade of mace. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 2 quarts of second stock. A few drops of lemon juice, l’epper and salt. Method.—Clean the giblets thoroughly and cut them in pieces. Put them into a saucepan, with the vegetables sliced, and the stock and simmer gently for two hours. Then take out the best pieces of giblet, trim them neatly, and set them aside. Simmer the soup for half an hour longer. Then add to it a thickening of flour, using one ounce of flour to every pint of stock. Boil and cook the flour well, and add pepper and salt to taste. Strain the soup into another saucepan. Add to it the lemon juice, and, if liked, two glassos of Madeira wine ; also the pieces of giblet. Make it quite hot, and it is then ready for serving. Potage a la Bonne Femme.—Bonne Femme Soup. 2 lettuces. 2 leaves of sorrel. 4 sprigs of tarragon. 2 sprigs of chervil. Half a cucumber. Ingredients. 2 pints of whito stock. The yolks of 3 eggs, i pint of cream. The crust of a French roll, i oz. of butter. Method.—Wash the lettuce, tarragons, and chervil well, and shred them finely. Peel the cucumber, and shred it also finoly. Melt the butter, and gently saute the vegetables in it for five minutes, taking care they do not discolour.76 A COMPLETE! COOKERY GUIDE. Boil the stock in another saucepan, and, when boiling, pour it on to the vegetables. Simmer gently until the vegetables are quite tender. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the cream, and when the stock has cooled a little, strain them through a hair- sieve into it. Put the stewpan by the fire, and stir until the eggs thicken, taking care that the stock does not boil, as that would curdle them. Add pepper and salt to taste, and the soup is ready. The crust of a French roll should be served in the soup; it should be baked in the oven, and then cut into fancy shapes. Potage de Likvre.—Hare Soup. 1 hare. 1 lb. of gravy beef. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 bay leaf. Ingredients. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 1 dozen peppercorns. 1 blade of mace and 6 cloves. 2 or 3 ozs. of butter or dripping. 7 pints of water. Method.—Cut the hare into joints, and tho meat into pieces, and fry them in a stewpan in tho butter or dripping. Afterwards fry tho vegetables in the same fat. Then pour in the water, add the mace and pepporcoms, and simmer gently from four to five hours. Strain tho stock and let it get cold. Kemove the fat perfectly, and put it into a clean stew- pan on the fire. When it boils stir in a thickening of flour, using one ounce of flour to every pint of soup. Cook the flour well, and add a little colouring if necessary. Season to taste, and just before serving pour in two glasses of port wine. Some forcemeat balls should be served in the soup. Make them with veal forcemeat, mixed with the liver of the hare finely chopped, and bake thorn in tho oven or fry them.77 gouts. Potage de Lapin.—Rabbit Soup. Ingredients. 1 large rabbit. i pint of milk or cream. 2 quarts of water. 2 good-sized onions. Method— Cut the rabbit into joints. Put them in a stewpan with tbo onions sliced and the water. Stew very gently for three hours. Then strain the stock and remove the fat. Put it into a clean stewpan and add a thickening of flour, taking one ounce of flour to every pint of soup. Stir and cook well. Add the milk or cream and boil it in the soup. Season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve with fried or toasted bread. It is an improvement to this soup to cook a ham-bone with the rabbit or a slice of lean pork. Potage k la Mulligatawny.—Mulli- gatawny Soup. Ingredients. 2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder. 1 rabbit or chicken. 2 quarts of second stock. 1 onion. 1 apple. 4 pint of cream. 2 oz*. of butter or dripping. A few drops of lemon juice. Method.—Cut the rabbit, or chicken, into joints, and fry them in the butter or dripping in a stewpan. Remove them when nicely browned, and fiy the onion, and apple, with the curry powder, for half an hour with- out discolouring. Pour in the stock and put in the rabbit or chicken. Simmer very gently for an hour or more until the meat is tender. Then remove the meat from the stock, and cut it into neat pieces, convenient for serving in the soup, removing all the bone. Thicken the soup with flour, using about one ounco to every pint of stock. Boil the flour well in the stock, and then rub the soup through a wire sieve.78 A COMFLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Put it into a stewpan, add the cream, and let it boil in the soup. Put in the pieces of meat, aud just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve nicely boiled rice with this soup. See Rico for curry. It is an improvement to this soup to add a little cocoa- nut or almond milk. Puree de Pois Verts.--Green Pea Pur^e. Ingredients. 2 pints of shelled peas. A large handful of pea- shells. 2 or 3 leaves of spinach. 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley. A few young onions. A sprig of mint. 1 lump of sugar. 3 pints of second stock. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Wash the shells well and put them with the peas and other vegetables, into boiling water, with tlio sugar. When quite tender drain off the water, and put tho vegetables into tho stock, which should be made boiling. Let it boil up. Then rub through a hair sieve. Make the soup hot, and in serving, add, if liked, a littlo cream or glaze. If tho peas are poor, thicken the soup with two table- spoonfuls of arrowroot. Potage aux Huitres.—Good Oyster Soup. 4 dozen oysters. 3 pints of white or fish- stock. 4 ozs. of butter. 4 ozs. of flour. Ingredients. 1 pint of cream. 1 teaspoon ful of anchovy sauce. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Method.—Beard the oysters and cut them in two. Put tho beards into the stock and simmer them in it for a few minutes.soups. 79 Melt the butter in another stewpan; mix in tho flour smoothly; pour in the stock; stir and boil well. Add the cream and let it boil in tho soup. Strain tho oyster liquor and scald tho oysters in it. Put them in tho soup and add the anchovy sauce and lemon juice. Potage h I’Americaine. Ingredients. 2 quarts of second stock. tapioca. 3 tablespoonfuls of crushed 8 good-sized tomatoes. Method.—Put the stock into a stewpan on tho fire to boil. When boiling stir in the crushed tapioca. Stir and cook for about ten minutes, until it is trans- parent. Pub tho tomatoes through a hair sieve. Add them to the stock. Boil for about fivo minutes and the soup will bo ready to serve. Pur£e de Pommes de Terre.— Potato Pur^e. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of potatoes. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 onions. Half a head of celery. 3 pints of white stock. 1 pint of cream. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—reel tho potatoes, and cut them, as well as tho onion and celery, inlo thin slices. Sweat them in the butter for ten minutes, pour in tho stock and simmer gently until tender. Bub through a tammy-cloth or hair sieve. Add tho cream to the soup, and make it hot. Servo with fried croutons of bread.80 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Potage au Creme de Tapioca.— Tapioca Cream. Ingredients. 3 pints of second stock. The yolks of 4 eggs. 2 ozs. of crushed tapioca. Pepper and salt to taste. 4 tablespoonfuls of cream. Method.—Put the stock into a stewpan on the fire to boil. "When boiling sprinkle in the crushed tapioca. Stir and cook well for about ten minutes. Beat the yolks lightly with the cream and strain them. Let the stock cool a little, and then add two or three tahlespoonfuls of it gradually to the eggs and cream. Pour the eggs and cream into the stock and stir over the fire until the eggs thicken like custard. Caro must he taken that the stock does not boil after the eggs are in it, as that would curdle them. Potage a la Fausse Tortue.—Mock- Turtle Soup. Ingredients. Half a calf’s head. 3 ozs. of butter. 1 shalot. Half a dozen mushrooms. 1 carrot. Half a head of celery. 1 leek. 1 onion. 1 small turnip. 1 bay leaf. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram and basil. 1 blade of mace. 5 cloves. 3 ozs. of flour. 2 wine-glasses of sherry. 1 dozen forcemeat balls. 4 quarts of water. £ lb. of ham. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Wash the calfs head thoroughly. Cut all the flesh from the bones and tie it in a cloth. Put it with the bones and water, into a largo saucepan, and let it simmer gently, stirring occasionally for three and a half hours. Then take out the calfs head and strain the stock into a clean pan. Let it get cold, and then carefully remove all the fat. Then put tho butter into a stewpan, and fry thesours. 81 vegetables, herbs, peppercorns and ham till a light brown, stirring it to keep it from burning. Then pour in the stock and stir till it boils. Add pepper and salt to taste; put it by the side of the tire to simmer for two hours. Remove all fat as it rises. Then strain the stock into another stewpan. Cut part of the calf’s head into neat pieces and add it to the stock. Let the soup just come to the boil, and it is ready for serving. The forcemeat balls should bo made of veal stuffing, and should be either fried or baked. They should not be too large. It is better to make this soup the day before it is wanted. Puree de Celeri.—Celery Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarts of second stock. 4 ozs of flour. 4 heads of celery. h pint of cream or good milk. Method—Wash the celery well and cut it in pieces. Simmer it in the stock for half an hour or more until quite tender. Make a thickening of the flour, pour it into the soup and boil, stirring for three minutes. Then rub through a hair or tammy sieve. Put it into the saucepan again. Add the cream, stir, and let it boil up. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Puree de Topinambour.—Jerusalem Artichoke Soup. Ingredients. 3 lbs. of Jerusalem arti- chokes. 2 quarts of stock; or the liquor mutton or veal has been boiled in. 1 onion. 1 turnip. Half a head of celery. $ pint of cream or good milk. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Peel and cut the artichokes and other vege- tables into slices. Boil them in the stock until tender.82 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. with fried erefltons of bread. Rub through a hair sieve. Add the cream, and boil it in the soup. Add pepper and salt, and serve with fried croutons of bread. Puree de Marrons—Chestnut Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarts of nicely-flavoured white stock. If lb. of chestnuts when peeled. h pint of good cream. Pepper and salt, and a little cayenne. Method.—Split the chestnuts at both ends, and boil them for ten minutes, then skin them, put them in tho stock with tho seasoning, and simmer for half an hour or nioro until the’ chestnuts aro quite soft. Then rub tho soup through a hair sievo, add the cream and stir until it boils. Served with fried croutons of bread. Potage a la Reine.—Rice Soup. Ingredients. 1 head of celery. f lb. of rice. 2 quarts of white made from meat. 4 large onions. stock 1 pint of milk. $ pint of cream. Pepper and salt. Method.—Well wash the rice, then put it into a stew- pan with the stock, the onions sliced from top to bottom, and tho celery cut in pieces, and pepper and salt. Roil gently till the rice is tender, then rub tho soup through a sieve, add tho milk and cream, and stir over the fire until it boils. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Potage d’Amandes.—Almond Soup. Ingredients. 1 lb. of almonds. 3 pints of white stock. 12 bitter almonds. 1 pint of cream. Method.—Blanch the almonds and pound them well, moistening them with a little milk. Mix the paste smoothly with the stock and stir until it boils, add the cream and let it boil once more. Seasou to taste. Servedsours. 83 Bouillabaisse. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of different kinds of fish—soles, whiting, lob- ster, mullet, flounders, &c. Almost any fish may be used for the purpose. 2 quarts of water. 2 Spanish onions. 5 cloves. 1 hay leaf. A sprig or parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 1 shalot. 3 tomatoes. 1 gill of salad oil. Pepper and salt. Method.—Slice the vegetables, cutting the onions from tlxo top to the bottom, and gently saute them in the oil, taking care they don’t discolour. Then add the fish, cut in small pieces, the herbs and the seasoning and water, simmer gently until the fish is cooked. Take the fish up carefully, removing any pieces of vegetables, and pile it on a hot entree dish. Strain the soup into a tureen. When whiting is used, do not put it in until the other fish is partly cooked, or it will go to pieces. Potage de Mulligatawny Clair.— Clear Mulligatawny Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarts of first stock. 2 tablespoonfuls of curry paste. 1 tablespoonful of curry powder. 1 apple. 1 onion. 2 ozs. of butler. Lemon juice. Salt to taste. Method.—Slice the onion and apple. Put them in a stew- pan with the butter and curry powder and paste, and cook for half an hour without discolouring. Pour in the stock and simmer for an hour. Strain the stock and let it get cold. Then perfectly remove the fat and clarify like clear soup (see Directions for Clear Soup). Make hot again beforo serving, and hand rice cooked as for a curry with it.84 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Potage Tortue.—Turtle Soup. (M. Gouffe’s Kecipe.) Take a live turtle, between 90 and 100 pounds’ weight —under this weight they are not considered to be in perfection; have it the day before you intend dressing it. Kill the turtle by cutting the head off, and put it over a pail to bleed all night: in the morning lay the turtle on a table on its back, and separate the shells, by cutting between the two, all round the edge of the belly shell; take this shell oft', and, with a knife, detach all the intestines adhering to the back; remove all the inside, being careful while so doing not to lose any of the green fat, which is mainly found round the inside of the shells; steep this fat in a basin of cold water. Cut off the fins, and remove all the fleshy parts; then saw the shells, each in six or eight pieces ; put them in a large stock-pot full of boiling water, together with the fins and the head.; after a few minutes boiling, take each piece out and remove the thin shell; take it oft- the fins and head also ; put all the pieces in another stock-pot, with plenty of water, and boil them till they become tender', and separate easily from the bones, then take the pieces out; free them of all bones, and lay the pieces between two dishes to get cold; put the bones back in the stock-pot, and reduce tho broth to the turtle consomme as directed further on. For tho consomme, put tho following in a stock-pot:— 15 lbs. of leg of beef. 15 lbs. of knuckle of veal. 2 hens, having previously removed the fillets. The fleshy parts of the turtle. 2 quarts of general stock. 1 pottle of mushrooms. 4 onions. 1 large faggot, containing parsley, 6 bay leaves, and a good sprig of thyme. 4 ozs. of parsley roots. 2 heads of celery. i oz. of whole pepper, i oz. of salt. 8 cloves. 1 bottle of sherry. Put the stock-pot on a good fire, and boil till the liquor is reduced to a glaze; then pour in the broth in which the turtle has been boiled, and fill up with general stock. Boil, and skim the broth carefully; garnish it with onions and carrots, and simmer on the stove corner forSOUPS. 85 five hours; then strain the broth through a napkin ; skim off all the fat, and thicken with a roux, to the con- sistence of thin Espagnole sauce; set the soup on the stove corner to clarify, and skim it till quite clear. Take about— 4 ozs. of green basil. 2 ozs. of marjoram. 2 ozs. of lemon thyme. Put these herbs in a stewpan, with 1 h pint of con- somme, and simmer for one hour; then press them through a tammy cloth and add the puree to the soup. The turtle meat being cold, cut it in pieces about l^incli square and put it in the soup to simmer for half an hour; taste for seasoning, and add some salt or pepper if necessary; skim the soup carefully, and put it in basins, in quantites sufficient for twelve persons. Blanch the green fat; drain, and divide it equally in each basin. When wanted warm up the soup; add some chicken quenelles, two glasses of Madeira, a little lemon juice, and cayenne pepper, according to taste. Observations.—It is seldom that the requirements of even a large household enable a cook to dress a whole turtle, unless on some very special occasions, therefore, in ordinary cases, some consomme should be prepared as directed above, and two or more quarts of turtle meat should be procured from a wholesale turtle dealer, where it can always be had in perfection ; thus avoiding un- necessary expense, and producing as satisfactory a result. Dressed turtle can only be kept a limited time. Purees of Game. See Purees.—When used for soup they should bo sufficiently diluted with stock made from Game. 1 handful of parsley. 1 small sprig of thyme. 066 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. PLAIN FAMILY SOUPS. Onion Soup. Ingredients. 0 Spanish onions. 3 ozs. of butter or dripping. 2 quarts of water. 3 ozs. of flour. i pint of milk or cream. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Peel the onions, and cut them in slices from the top to tho bottom. Fry them in the butter, but do not let them discolour. Then boil them in tho water until quite soft. Pub them with their liquor through a hair sieve. Put this puree into a stowpan on the fire to boil. When boiling stir in a thickening of the flour. Stir and cook well. Then add tho milk or cream, pepper and salt to taste. Let the soup boil up, and it is ready. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Turnip Soup. Ingredients. 1 quart of stock or the boil- ings from mutton or veal. 2 lbs. of turnips. 1 large onion. Method—Put the bread to 1 pint of cream or good milk. 2 large slices of bread. Pepper and salt to taste. soak in a little cold stock. Peel the turnips and onions, and cut them in pieces. Boil them gently in tho stock, adding (when well soaked) the bread. When the turnips are cooked, rub the soup through a wire sieve. Put it again into tho saucepan. Add to it tho cream or milk, pepper and salt to taste; and let it well boil up. Servo with fried or toasted croiitons of broad.PLAIN FAMILY SOUPS. 87 Parsnip Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarls of stock. If possible $ pint of cream. 2 lbs. of parsnips. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Slice the parsnips and put them into boiling stock. Simmer them for one hour, or more, until quite tender. Then rub the soup through a wire sieve. Add the cream to it, and pepper and salt to taste. Put it into a clean stewpan. Boil up once more, and it is ready. Serve with friod croutons of bread. 2 or 3 large crusts of bread soaked in water. 2 quarts of water. Pepper and salt to taste. Red Lentil Soup. Ingredients. 1 pint of Egyptian lentils. 1 large carrot. 3 onions. 2 lbs. of parsnips. 1 sprig of parsley. Method.—Wash the lentils well. Boil them with the vegetables, cut in slices, and the bread, for two hours or more, stirring occasionally when the lentils are nearly cooked, as they are apt to stick to the bottom of the saucepan and burn. Bub the soup through a wire sieve, adding pepper and salt to taste. Make it hot again, stirring all the time, and it is ready to serve. Egyptian Pur6e or Lentil Soup. Ingredients. seed tied in a piece of muslin. 2 quarts of water or liquor from a leg of mutton. Pepper and salt. 1 pint of Egyptian lentils. 1 good-sized onion. Carrot and turnip. ^ head of celery, or one dessert-spoonful of celery- Metliod.—Wash tho lentils thoroughly. Then boil them in the water with the vegetables, cut in o 288 A COMPLETE COOKERY GtJIDE. small pieces, from two to three hours, stirring occasionally; when quite cooked, rub through a wire sieve; season to taste. Make the soup hot in a stewpan, stirring all the time. Serve with fried crohtons of bread. Note.—This soup is much improved if it is rubbed through a hair sieve, after it has been through the wire sieve. Pea Soup. Make according to directions given in preceding recipe, substituting split peas for lentils. Haricot Soup. Ingredients. 1 quart of haricot beans. 2 onions. 3 quarts of water. 1 pint of milk. h oz. of dripping. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Soak the beans over-night in cold water. Boil them with the onion, dripping, pepper and salt, in 3 quarts of water, from three to four hours, until quito soft. Rub them and their liquor through a wire sieve. Add the milk, and make the soup hot, stirring it over the fire until it boils. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Note.—This soup is much improved if it is rubbed through a hair sieve after it has been through the wire sieve. Ox-Cheek Soup. Ingredients. 1 ox-check. Some cold water, allowing 1 quart to every pound of meat and 1 quart over. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 2 onions. Half a head of celery. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 2 bay leaves. Pepper and salt. Flour. If possible, a ham-bone. A few drops of lemon-juice. Method.—Cut tip the cheek, and put it with the bone and vegetables into a stock-pot to boil gently for five hours.89 PLAIN FAMILY SOUPS. Then strain the stock into a clean pan and set it asido to get cold. When cold, carefully remove all the fat. Put the stock into a stewpan on the fire to boil. When boiling, stir in a thickening made of the flour mixed smoothly with cold water. Use one ounce of flour to every pint of stock. Stir and boil the flour in the stock for three minutes. Add to it a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve the soup with neat pieces of the cheek, about one inch in size, in it. The remains of tho cheek may be reboiled, with fresh vegetables, to make a plain second stock. Pot-au-Feu. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 4 lbs. of ox-cheek without the bone. 2 large carrots. 1 head of celery. 3 onions. 2 turnips. 3 sprigs of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 3 cloves. 6 quarts of water. 2 ozs. of crushed tapioca or sago. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Tie tho meat firmly into shape with string, Put it into a large saucepan with the water. When it boils add a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer the meat gently for nearly two hours. Clean tho vegetables thoroughly, tying tho celery, parsnips, and carrots together. Add them, with the exception of the cabbage, to the meat, and simmer gently for two hours more. Then add the cabbage, cleaned and trimmed; it should bo cut in two, and tied together with string. Simmer it until it is tender, adding pepper and salt to taste. The meat is then served with the carrots, turnips, and parsnips as a garnish, and a little of tho liquor poured round for gravy. The cabbage is served in a vegetable dish. To make the soup, put two quarts of the liquor into a saucepan. When it boils sprinkle in tho sago, or tapioca, and cook for fifteen minutes stirring occasionally.90 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Dr. Kitchener’s Broth. Ingredients. 4 ozs. of Scotch barley. 4 ozs. of sliced onions. 2 ozs. of dripping. 3 ozs. of bacon. 4 ozs. of oatmeal. 5 quarts of the liquor from meat. Method.—Wash the barley anrl soak it in -water for two hours. Put the meat liquor on to boil. When boiling, add the barloy and the onions. Let it boil gentty for an hour and a half. Then put the dripping into another saucepan and fry the bacon in it. Then add, by degrees, the oatmeal; stir until it forms a paste. Then pour in the broth. Season with pepper and salt to tasto, and set it by the side of the fire to simmer for thirty minutes: the soup is then ready. Crowdie. Ingredients. 1 gallon of liquor from meat. 1 onion, i pint of oatmeal. Popper and salt. Method.—Fut the liquor into a saucepan on the fire. Mix tho oatmeal to a paste with cold water. Pour it into the liquor when boiling. Stir until it thickens. Add the onion, finely chopped, and pepper and sa't to taste. Boil gently, stirring occasionally for half an hour. Tapioca Soup. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of tapioca. | 4 pints of second stock. Method.—Wash the tapioca well, and throw it into tho stock when boiling. Simmer gontly for half an hour, stirring occasionally.91 rLAIN FAMILY SOUFS. Sheep’s-Head Soup. Ingredients. 1 sheep’s head. 3 quarts of water. 1 large carrot. 1 largo turnip. 1 large onion. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 1 head of celery. 4 ozs. of flour. 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. 2 tablespoonfuls of bread - crumbs. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Method.—Split open the head, and clean it thoroughly. Kemove tho tongue and brains, and blanch the head by putting it into cold water, and bringing it to the boil. Throw the water away, and rinse tho head well. Put it into a largo saucepan with the 3 quarts of water .and the vegetables, cut in small pieces. Boil gently for five hours. Then strain into a basin, and rub the meat and vege- tables through a wiro sieve. When cold, romovo tho fat from the stock, and add tho pulped vegetables and the meat. Make the soup hot, and stir in a thickening mado of tho flour. Boil tho flour well, stirring all tho time. Serve the soup with forcemeat balls in it. To make the forcemeat balls.—Boil tho tonguo and brains separately. Chop them up, mix them with tho bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and tho minced parsley, and bind with tho egg. Make into balls, and roll them in flour, place them on a greased baking-sheet and bake until brown. Put them in a soup tureen, and pour tho soup over them. Curry Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarts of stock or liquor from meat. Juico of a lemon. 2 ozs. dripping. Peel and slice tho onion and applo, and fiy 2 apples. 2 onions. 1 tablespoon ful curry powder. 4 ozs. flour. Method.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 92 them in the dripping with the curry powder for twenty minutes ; do not let them brown. Pour in the stock or boilings, and simmer for half an hour. Add a thickening of the flour, cook well and then rub through a hair sieve. Reheat and servo with well cooked rice. Squeeze in the lemon juice just before serving. Gravy Soups. These are made with nicely flavoured uncleared stock', and may be finished off in any of the ways suitable for clear soup. Vermicelli, Macaroni, and Italian Paste make very nice garnishes for gravy soups. One half- pound to every 2 quarts of stock. First blanch them by throwing them into boiling water and boiling for five minutes and then finish cooking them in the boiling stock. Hotch Potch. Ingredients. 3 quarts of mutton broth. 2 lbs. of vegetables, consisting of equal quantities of carrot, turnip, and onions, cut into dice. 1 pint of green peas. A teaspoon ful of finely chopped parsley. Some shredded lettuce. Method.—Put the carrot, turnip, and onion into half the broth, and simmer till tender. Cook the peas and lettuce in the remainder of the broth, and then mix all together. Sprinkle in the parsley just before serving. Some small chops off the neck may be cooked and served in the Hotch Potch, if liked. Cocky Leeky. Ingredients. 1 chicken. $ lb- of rice. 2i quarts of white stock. Pepper and salt to taste. 12 leeks. Method.—Boil the chicken in the stock till tender.93 PLAIN FAMILY SOUPS. Remove it and add to tlie stock the rice, well washed, and the white part of tho leeks cut into one-inch lengths. Boil gently till the rice is tender. Cut neat pieces of the chicken, make hot and servo in the soup. Fish Soup. 2 lbs. of fish. 2 quarts of water. 3 onions. 1 bunch of parsley. 1 bead of celery. Ingredients. 3 cloves. 1 bay leaf. 20 peppercorns. Salt. 1 blade of mace. Method.—Boil the fish in the water with tho vegetables, &c., until cooked. Then remove it, cut off the flesh, and put the bones and trimmings back into the saucepan and simmer gently for an hour. Then strain. But the fish cut into neat pieces into tho soup and make it hot. If liked, a wineglass of sherry may bo added. If preferred, this soup may be thickened with flour. Scotch Broth. Make like Ilotcli Potch, omitting tho peas and cooking six ounces of Scotch barley in it. Before adding the barley to tho soup put it in cold water and bring to tho boil. Simmer for a few minutes and then strain and rinse well. Vegetable Soup Maigre. Ingredients. Half a small cabbage. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 onions. 3 leeks. 1 head of celery. 3 ozs. of dripping. 2 quarts of water. Slices of toasted bread. Method.—Shred the vegetables finely, and put them to fry gently in the dripping for a quarter of an hour. Pour in tho water and boil gently for about one hour. Put the toasted bread into a tureen and pour tho soup over.01 A COMPLETE COOKEPvY GUIDE. Tomato Soup. Ingredients. 1 tin of tomatoes. 2 quarts of stock or boilings from meat. 2 large onions. 4 ozs. of rice. 2 ozs. of dripping. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—reel and slice the onions from the top to the bottom. Fry them in tho dripping, but do not let them discolour. Fut them into a stowpan with the tomatoes, the rico well washed, tho stock or boilings and a little pepper and salt. Cook gently for an hour and then rub through a wire sieve. Make hot again and serve toasted or fried bread with it. Haricot beans may be substituted for the rice and make a very agreeable soup. They will require much longer cooking. Potato Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarts of stock, liquor from meat, or vegetable stock. Half a head of celery. 2 lbs. of potatoes. 3 onions. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Peel and slice the vegetables. Put them in the stock with pepper and salt, and boil gently for an hour. Rub through a wiro sieve. Make hot and serve with toasted bread. The soup is more digestible if tho onions aro blanched before using. Semolina Soup. Ingredients. 1 quart of stock or meat 2 ozs. of Semolina, liquor. Method.—Put tho stock or liquor on the fire to boil. When boiling shake in the semolina; stir until it boils, and then simmer for half an hour.rLAIN FAMILY SOUPS. 95 Plain Oyster Soup. Ingredients. 2 quarts of fish stock, meat stock, or tho liquor from meat. 5 ozs. of flour. i pint tin of oysters. 1 teaspoon ful of anchovy sauce. Juice of a lemon. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Strain tho liquor from tho oyster tin through muslin to remove any grit, add it to the stock or meat liquor and put it in a saucepan on the lire to boil. When nearly boiling add a thickening of the flour, faking care it is quite smooth, stir and boiL well for three minutes. Add tho oysters, lemon juice, and anchovy sauce, and season to taste. Plain Lobster Soup. Proceed as in forogoing recipe, using a tin of lobster instead of oysters. Shrimp Soup. Make liko oyster soup, using half a pound of picked shrimps instead of oysters; wash tho shrimp skins and simmer them twenty minutes in tho stock before using it. Strain carefully before thickening tho soup. Mussel Soup. Make liko oyster soup. See directions for preparing Mussels. Croute au Pot. This is tho broth from the Pot au Feu served thus :— Cut tho bottom crust of a tinned loaf. Stamp into rounds with a cutter the same sizo as a crown piece. Put them on a greased tin into tho oven until crisp and dry. Then put them on soup plates with a small heap of tho vegetables cooked in tho Pot au Feu on each, and pour tho soup over.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. % Turkey Soup. Ingredients. Remains of a cold turkey. Water. 2 or 3 slices of ham. Half a head of celeiy. Some carrot, turnip, and onion. The white part of a leek. Some crushed tapioca or semo- lina. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut the turkey in pieces and put it in a saucepan with some water, allowing one pint to every pound of meat and hones and one quart over. Add the vegetables sliced and a little pepper and salt. Boil gently for three hours and then strain; put the soup into a saucepan and when it boils sprinkle in the rice, crushed tapioca, or semolina. Cook gently, stirring occasionally for half an hour. When ready to serve throw in a little very finely chopped parsley. This is a very good way of using up the carcase of a turkey. Cheap Mock Turtle. Ingredients. 2 quarts of stock made with scrag end of mutton (see Stocks). 1 cow-heel. 1 wineglass of sherry or Madeira. 1 onion 2 sprigs of basil. A blade of mace. 1 slice of raw ham. The thin rind of a lemon. Pepper and salt. Method.—Thoroughly cleanse the heel and put it in a large saucepan with the stock, ham, sherry, onion, mace, basil, lemon rind, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer for five hours, until the meat will readily leave the bones, then cut it into neat pieces. Thicken the soup with a little flour. Strain it, put in the pieces of heel and make hot again ; add the juice of half a lemon and also egg and forcemeat balls.( 9? ) SAUCES. Be careful in making any sauce with flour in it to well cook the flour, otherwise it will have a raw pasty taste, which is anything hut agreeable. The consistency of a sauce should depend on the purpose for which it is in- tended. Such as oyster and lobster are served fairly thick ; a sauce for coating quenelles or fillets, etc., just thick enough to cover without disguising them. Proportions are given for each sauce in the following recipes; but, as different flours vary as to the quantity of moisture they will absorb, sometimes a little more liquid may be found necessary, or sometimes a little less than the quantity stated. Exact weights and measures should however be taken in the first instance; the “ rule of thumb ” is ever a cause of failure. The high-class sauces are simmered for some time after they are made, and the butter in them is skimmed off as it rises to the surface. They are then rubbed or wrung through a tammy cloth, to make them very smooth and creamy. The washing of the tammy cloths should bo very perfect, other- wise they will be liable to give an unpleasant taste to the sauco. The seasoning of the sauces must be carefully attended to. PLAIN SAUCES. English Melted Butter. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 pint of warm water. | oz. of flour. Pepper and salt. Method.—Melt half the buttor in a stowpan, mix in theA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 98 flour smoothly, add the water, and boil the sauce for three minutes, stirring all the time. Season with pepper and salt, and, just before serving, mix in the remainder of the butter, off tho fire, cut in small pieces. Melted Butter. Put the butter required into a stewpan and dissolve it with a very gentle heat that it does not lose its creamy appearance. Add a little pepper and salt. Black Butter. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Pepper and salt. Method.—Put the butter into a stewpan and colour it a light brown, but do not let it burn. Then remove it from the fire and let it cool. Put the vinegar into another stewpan ; reduce it to half quantity. Strain in tho butter and add pepper and salt, and warm for use without boiling. Economical Family Sauce. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of flour. I 1 pint of water. 1 pint of milk. | ozs. of butter. Method.—Mix the flour veiy smoothly with a little water. Put the rest of the water with the milk into a saucepan on the fire to boil. When it boils put in tho flour, stirriug until tho sauce is cooked. Add pepper and salt to taste; if liked, a few drops of lemon-juico or vinegar may be added. Just beforo serving add the butter cut in small pieces. This should oe stirred in off the fire. This sauce will form tho basis of many other plain sauces. To use with fish, put in a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce. Onion sauce is made by adding cooked and chopped onions when the sauce is ready; caper sauce by adding capers, or, as a substitute, chopped gherkin. This sauce may be made still more economically by using water only instead of milk.SAUCES. 09 Plain White Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. A few drops of lemon juice. 11 ozs. of flour. Pepper and salt. 1 pint of milk. Method.—Melt the butter in a small stewpan; mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk. Stir and cook well. Then add the lemon juice and seasoning. A little cream may be added if desired. Parsley Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 1^ ozs. of flour. 1 pint of milk. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. 2 clessert-spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley. Method.—Melt the butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk; stir and cook well.' Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and chopped parsley. Plain Egg Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. H ozs. of flour. 1 pint of milk. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. 3 hard-boiled eggs. Method.—Melt the butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smootldy. Add the milk, and stir and cook well. Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and the chopped whites of tiro eggs. 1 f a very thick sauce is required, take 2 oz. of flour. Cream may be added if desired. Plain Brown Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter, ozs. of flour. A small piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. Method.—Put the butter A mushroom. 1 pint of good stock. A few drops of lemon juice. Seasoning to taste. into a stewpan and fry theA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 100 vegetables in it. Then mix in the flour and fry that, but don’t burn it. Add the stock; stir and cook well. Squeeze in the lemon juice and add the seasoning. Strain through a fine strainer. Plain Dutch Sauce. i pint of plain white sauce. A little cayenne pepper and salt. Ingredients. The yolks of 4 eggs. A few drops of lemon juice, or tarragon vinegar. Method.—Put the white sauce and eggs into a jug, which must be placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir until the mixture thickens, being careful it does not curdle. When quite ready add the lemon juice or vinegar. Plain Lobster Sauce. 1 small lobster. 1 Some spawn. 1^ ozs. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. Ingredients. J pint of milk. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Method.—Remove the flesh from the body and claws of the lobster, and cut it in small pieces. Then boil the shell, broken small, in the milk. Rub the spawn with ^ oz. of butter through a hair- sieve. Melt tho remaining butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly, and then add the milk, strained. Stir until it thickens. Put in the spawn butter, and continue stirring until the flour is well cooked. Then add the cream—let it boil in tho sauce—and lastly, the lemon juice, pepper and salt and lobster. Cheap Lobster Sauce. Part of a tin of lobster. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. £ pint of milk. Ingredients. A few drops of lemon juice or half a teaspoonful of vinegar. Pepper and salt. Method.—Cut up the lobstor. Melt the butter in a small 6teAvpan.101 SAUCES. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk; stir and cook well. Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and pieces of lobster. Plain Shrimp Sauce. Remove the heads, tails, and skin from half a pint of shrimps; prepare some sauco as directed in the first or second recipe for lobster sauce, substituting the shrimps for the lobster. Plain Oyster Sauce. Ingredients. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. ^ pint of milk. 1 dozen oysters. A few drops of lemon juice. Salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Method—Remove the beard and hard white part of the oysters, and cut each one in two. Strain the liquor through muslin, and Bcald the oysters in it (i.e., put the liquor with the oysters in it in a sauce- pan, and just bring it to the boil). Put the beards and hard white parts in the milk and simmer them to extract the flavour. Then melt the butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Strain in the milk and oyster liquor, and stir and cook well. Lastly add the oysters, pepper, salt, and lemon juke. Plain Apple Sauce. Ingredients. G large apples. 1 tablespoonful or more of 1 oz. of butter. moist sugar. £ gill of water Method.— Peel, core, and slice the apples. Stew them with the water, sugar and butter until tender, then beat to a pulp with a fork. u102 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Onion Sauce. Ingredients. 4 or 5 fair-sized onions. £ pint of plain white sauce or melted butter (1st recipe). Method.—First blanch the onions by putting them in cold water and bringing it to the boil. Throw the water away. Put the onions in fresh water and boil for an hour or an hour and a half until quite tender. Chop them finely and add them to the sauce or meltol butter. Plain Mint Sauce. Ingredients. 3 tablespoonfuls of finely- 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, chopped fresh mint, £ pint of vinegar. Method.—Mix all together and let the sauce stand before serving. Plain Horse-Radish Sauce. Ingredients. 1 stick of horse-radish. £ gill of cream. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. £ gill of milk. 1 teaspoonful of ready made mustard. 1 tcaspoonful of castor sugar. Pepper and salt. Method.—Scrape the horse-radish finely and mix with all the other ingredients. If cream is not to bo had, use milk thickened with a little cornflour, but it is not so good. Plain Caper Sauce. Add to one pint of English melted butter or white sauce three tablespoonfuls of chopped capers and ono dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Gherkin Sauce. Make like caper sauce, using chopped gherkins instead of capers.103 SAUCES. Plain Curry Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter or dripping. 1 onion. 1 apple. Juice of half a lemon. 2 dessertspoonfuls of curry pow- der. 1 pint of stock. Salt to taste. Method.—Peel and slice the onion and apple, put them in a stewpan with tho butter or dripping and curry powder, and fry without discolouring for 20 minutes. Mix in the flour smoothly, and add tho stock and salt. Stir until it boils, and let it simmer for 20 minutes before serving. Last of all add the lemon juice. Chutney and red currant jelly may be added if liked. Milk may be used instead of slock, if the sauce is for curried eggs, but stock is better. Note.—If tho sauce is liked smooth, it may bo rubbel through a sieve. Cucumber Sauce. Ingredients. 2 young cucumbers. Pepper and salt. 3 oz3. of butter. A little flour. i pint of good vinegar. Method.—Pare and slice the cucumbers and gently stow in tho butter for about half an hour. Put in about a tea- spoonful of flour. Add the vinegar, bring it to the boil, and the sauce is ready. Bread Sauce. This sauce will bo found with high-class sauces, as thcro is but one recipe. HIGH-CLASS SAUCES. Espaniol or Brown Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 1$ ozs. of flour. 1 pint of nicely flavoured stock. 2 mushrooms. 1 slice of carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 tomato. A few drops of lemon juice, and pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Melt tho butter in a stewpan, and fry the vegetables in it; but do not burn them. h 2104 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Then mix in the flour, and fry that, taking care not to burn it. Add the stock and seasoning, and stir and cook well. Then let the sauce stand by the side of the fire, and cook gently for twenty minutes. All the butter should be taken off as it rises. Add the lemon juice, and strain through a tammy cloth. Note.—For a plain sauce for everyday purposes, a gravy strainer may bo used instead of a tammy. The tomatoes and mushrooms may then be omitted, and tlio sauce used after three minutes’ boiling only. Veloute Sauce. Ingredients. 21 ozs. of butter. 11 ozs. of flour. 1 pint of white stock made from chicken or veal. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly, add the stock and seasoning and cook gently for ten minutes, skimming carefully. Strain through a tammy cloth, and before using, add the lemon juice. Bechamel Sauce. Make like veloute, using milk in which a fewr button mushrooms have been simmered, to flavour it, instead of stock ; add also a little cream. Poivrade Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 oz. of lean ham. 1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 stick of celery. 1 large mushroom. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Method.—Cut the ham, ca; 12 peppercorns. 1 blade of mace. £ pint of brown sauce. 1 wineglassful of sherry. I teaspoonful of anchovy sauce 1 a wineglassful of vinegar. Pepper and salt to taste. :ot, turnip, onion, celery, andSAUCES. 105 mushroom into dioe, and fry them in the butter with the herbs, mace, and peppercorns. Add the sherry and vinegar, and reduce to half the quantity. Pour in the sauce, and add the anchovy sauce. Let it stand by the side of the fire, and boil gently till all the fat has been thrown up. This should be skimmed carefully off the surfaco as it rises. Add pepper and salt to tasto, and strain through a tammy. White Poivrade Sauce. Make like poivrade sauce, using veloute instead of brown sauce. Italian Sauce. Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped shalot. 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped mushroom. 1 bay leaf. 1 tablespoonful of mushroom catsup. 1 glass of sherry, f pint of brown sauce. 1^ ozs. of butter. L teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. $ oz. of glaze. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—-Fry the shalot, mushroom, and bay leaf very gently in the butter for a quarter of an hour, taking care they do not discolour. Remove the bay leaf, and pour in the sherry and catsup. Reduce to half the quantity, then pour in the sauce. Let it boil gently by the side of the fire until the butter is thrown up, and remove it as it rises. Then add half an ounce of good glaze, and the sauce is ready. Matelote Sauce. 1 pint of brown sauce. 1 small onion. 1 shalot. Ingredients. 1 bay leaf. 2 wineglasses of Burgundy or claret. Method.—Slice the onion and put it with the shalot, whole and bay leaf into a stewpan with the wine.106 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Simmer until tlio onion is cooked, then add the sauco. Eeduce until it coats the spoon. Strain through a tammy cloth. Robert Sauce. Ingredients. 2 small onions. 1 oz. of butter. 1 gill of PTench white wine, i pint of brown sauce. 2 teaspoonfuls of French mus- tard. 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 1 oz. of glaze. Method.—Cut tho onions into small dice, and fry in the butter for fifteen minutes. Add tho wine, and boil gently for four minutes. Add the sauce and glazo. Boil gently for twenty minutes, skimming the butter off as it rises. Just before serving, stir in the mustard. Pepper and salt are added to taste. If liked, tarragon or plain vinegar may bo substituted for tho wine. It makes a sharper-tasting sauco. Piquant Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of brown sauce. 2 tablespoon fills of capers. 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped gherkin. 1 dessertspoonful of very finely chopped shalot. 1 pint of vinegar. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Put the capers, shalot and gherkin in tho vinegar, and simmer until tho shalot is quito soft. Pour in the sauce and let it boil up. Add pepper and salt to taste. Supreme Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. ozs. of flour. $ pint of chicken stock. 4 pint- of cream. Method.—Molt tho butter The juice of half a lemon. 1 dozen of white button mush- rooms. Popper and salt to taste, in a stewpan. Mix in tho flour smoothly. Add the stock, cream, and mushrooms.SAUCES. 107 Cook tho sauco well, and strain it through a tammy cloth. Add tho lemon juico, and season to taste. Bread Sauce. Ingredients. 4 ozs. of broad crumbs. 1 pint of milk. 12 peppercorns. A slice of onion. 4 tablespoonfuls of cream or 1 oz. of butter. Salt and cayenne. Method.—Soak tho onion and peppercorns in tho milk for twenty minutes. Then put it on to boil. Take out the onion and peppercorns, and sprinkle in tho bread crumbs. Put tho sauco by tho firo for six minutes, thon boat to boiling point, and add tho cream or butter. Season to taste with salt, and add a very little cayenne. Oyster Sauce. Ingredients. 2^ ozs. of butter. 1 gill of cream. 2 ozs. of flour. 2 doz. of oysters. i pint of milk or white stock. Method.—Remove tho beards and hard white part, and cut each oyster in two pieces. Put the beards in tho milk or stock, and simmer to ex- tract tl.o flavour. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix in the flour smoothly ; strain in the stock or milk and oyster liquor, and stir until tho sauce boils. Let it stand by the sido of the fire until all tho butter is thrown up; remove it carefully as it rises. Then tammy, make hot again with tho cream, and add the oysters and lemon juice. When for fish, fish stock may bo used to make this sauce. When there is much liquor from tho oysters, less stock or milk should be used. The sauce should bo the consis tcncy of a mayonnaise.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 108 Horse-Radish Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of beaten cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed mus- tard. Pepper and salt. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. 1 stick of horse-radish. Method.—Scrape the horse-radish and grate it finely, then mix with the other ingredients. Mint Sauce. Ingredients. 4 tablespoonfuls of finely 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, chopped mint. 4 pint of French vinegar. Method.—Mix together, and let it stand for a short time before serving. Port Wine Sauce. Ingredients. 2 wineglasses of port wine. Juice of half a lemon. 1 finely chopped sbalot. Method.—Boil together and strain. Egg Sauce. To one pint of veloute or Bechamel sauce, add the whites of four hard-boiled eggs cut in small dice. Maitre-d’Hotel Sauce. To one pint of veloute or supreme f auce, add two dessert- spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley. When this sauco is used for new polatoes, it must bo very thin. v Lobster Sauce. 1 lobster. sauce. 1 pint of veloute or supreme 1 oz. spawn or coral butter. Method.—Boil the sauce with the spawn or coral butler 1 ill it is a bright red, and add tho best part of the lobster meat cut into small pieces.SAUCES. 109 Soubise Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of supreme or Bechamel sauce. 4 or 5 medium-sized onions. Method.—Blancli the onions, and then boil till tender ; rub them through a hair sieve and make hot in the saueo, reducing it a littlo, if necessary. Reform Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of brown sauce. 1 wineglass of port wine. 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce. 2 teaspoonfuls of Harvey sauce. 2 tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly- Method.—Boil all the ingredients together, and the sauce is ready. Apple Sauce. Ingredients. G good-sized apples. 1 oz. of butfer. 1 tablespoonful or more of castor sugar (according to taste). i gill of water. Method.—Wash and slico the apples, and cut them in pieces. Put them in an enamelled slowpan, or jar, with the sugar and water; cook gently, stirring occasionally until quite tender; then rub them through a hair sieve. Make hot again, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of very thick cream. Tomato Sauce. Ingredients. 8 ripe tomatoes, i lb. of bacon. 1 piece of carrot, turnip and onion. 1 bay leaf. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 1 teaspoonful of vinegar. Salt and pepper to taste. £ oz. of flour. fry it; then put fry them, dredge in the Method.—Cut the bacon in slices and in the flavouring vegetables andA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 110 flour and fry slightly, put in tho tomatoes, sliced, and cook all together for a few minutes. Then empty the contents of the frying-pan on to a hair siove, and rub the tomatoos through. Put tho sauce into a stowpan, add the vinegar and seasoning, and make the sauce boil. If the sauce is too thin, reduce it by boiling. It may be enriched with the addition of a little glaze. Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients. 2 raw yolks of eggs, perfectly freed from the germs. i piut of best salad oil. 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon, French, or plain vinegar. Pepper and salt. Method.—Put the yolks into a basin with a little salt, and stir them quickly with a whisk, or wooden spoon, dropping the oil on them drop by drop, until the sauce is as thick as butter in the warm weatlior, then add tho vinegar and remainder of seasoning. Note.—Success in making this sanco will depend on adding the oil very gradually to tho yolks. It should also be made in a very cool place to prevent the sauce curdling. If this does occur, put a yolk in another basin and pour the curdled sauce slowly on it. This will bring it smooth again. When the sauce is made it is well to mix a tablespoonful of warm water with it; this will effectually prevent it curdling. This sauce, when properly mado, should be of the con- sistency of very thick cream. When it is intended for coating cold entrees, &c., mix with it, before using, half a gill of liquid, but quite cold, aspic jelly. Note.—Some people mix oil and vinegar together in making this sauco, using a tcaspoonful of vinegar to every seven of oil; but I think tho plan mentioned in this recipe is the best. Tartare Sauce. Make like mayonnaise, adding to every half-pint one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of chopped capers and gherkins, and a teaspoonful ol mixed mustard.SAUCES. Ill Genoese Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of brown sauce, 1 glass of port or Burgundy. 1 dessertspoonful of mushroom catsup. 1 tablespoonful of finely- chopped parsley. £ teaspoonful of anchovy essence. li ozs. of butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Add the wine, catsup, and anchovy essence to the brown sauce, and boil together for five minutes; then add the parsley, and work in the butter by degrees. Bearnaise Sauce. Ingredients. 5 yolks of eggs. 5 ozs. of butter. 1 tablespoonful of chopped tarragon. 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Pepper and salt. Method.—rut the yolks, with one ounce of butter and a little pepper and salt, into a stewpan ; stir until the yolks begin to thicken. Kemove from the fire, and add anothor ounce of butter. Stir over the fire for two minutes; remove from the fire again and stir in another ounco of butter. Continue in this way until all the butter is worked in. Add the tarragon and vinegar. Groat care must bo taken in making this sauce not to curdle the yolks. It must be made just before serving, and be of the consistency of mayonnaise. Mustard Sauce. Ingredients. ^ pint of brown sauce. 1 teaspoonful of English or French mustard, mixed. 1 dessertspoonful of chilly vinegar. 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Salt to taste. Method.—Make all the ingredients hot together. Melted butter may bo substituted for the brown sauce.112 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Fennel Sauce. 1 handful of fennel. Ingredients. i pint of velouto sauce or melted butter. Method.—Pick the fennel from the stalk, wash thoroughly and boil quickly until tender. Drain, and chop finely, and mix it with the volouto sauce or melted butter. Cardinal Sauce. Mix with velouto or supreme sauce enough coral butter to turn it a bright red colour. Ravigote Sauce. Ingredients. ^ pint Bdchamel sauce. 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 1 tablespoonful of tarragon 1 tablespoonful of finely-chopped vinegar. parsley. 1 teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. Method.—Put the* vinegar, anchovy, and Harvey’s sauce into a stewpan, and reduco to half the quantity. Add the Bechamel sauce and stir in the parsley. Note.—The Bechamol sauce used for this purpose should be made thick. Hollandaise Sauce. Ingredients. 4 tablcspoonfuls of vinegar. 4 ozs. of butter. 1 tablespoonful of water. Popper and salt. Yi>lks of 5 eggs. Method.—Put the vinegar into a saucepan and reduce it three fourths. Add the water and yolks, and stir until the sauce thickens. This is best done in a double saucepan. Now add in small pieces (off the tire) the butter. Flavour with pepper and salt. Note.—jf allowed to get too hot the sauce will curdle.113 SAUCES. Bordelaise Sauce. Ingredients. 1 wineglassful of Bordeaux. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. 1 slialot finely minced, and a clove of garlic bruised. 1 dessertspoonful of ' finely- chopped parsley. A little mignonette Pepper and salt. Method.—Blanch and chop the shalot and simmer it with the garlic and pepper in the wine for a quarter of an hour. Add the sauce, simmer for twenty minutes. Tammy, and make hot again, and just before serving add the parsley. Bigarade Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. | 1 large orange. Method.—Reduce the Espaniol sauce one-fourth. Take thin parings of the yellow part of the orange peel. Cut these into thin shreds. Blanch them, and add them to the sauce. Mix in also the strained juice of the orange. Sauce for Venison. Ingredients. 1 glass of port wine. A small pot of red currant jelly. 1 inch of cinnamon. The thin rind of a lemon. Method.—Boil these together for eight minutes, and strain. Allemande Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of veloute sauce. The yolks of 3 eggs. i oz. of butter. Method.—Reduce the veloute sauce one-fourth, add tho yolks and butter, and stir over a slow tire until the yolks thicken. Then strain through a tammy cloth. Note.—This sauce must not boil after tho yolks are in it, or it will curdle.114 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. D’Uxelles Sauce. Mushrooms, parsley, shalots. Some butter. Ingredients. Brown sauce. Method.—Blanch the shalots and thoroughly cleanse the mushrooms and parsley. Chop them all finoly, using a double quantify of mush- room. Cook them in a stewpan over the fire in some butter for ten minutes, or until the mushrooms and shalots are quite tender. Add the mixture to brown sauco in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls to each pint of sauce. Perigueux Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. A slice of lean ham. 4 mushrooms. 6 truffles. Method.—Cleanse the mushrooms, and add them and the ham to the sauce, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Then strain through a tammy cloth, and add the truffles, finely sliced or chopped. i oz. of butter. A teaspoouful vinegar. of tarragon Venetian Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of Allemande sauce. A dessertspoonful of tarragon leaves blancLel an 1 shred- ded. Method.—"When the sauco is ready, mix in the tarragon, butter, and vinegar. Financikre Sauce. Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful of chopped truffles. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. 1 oz. of butter. mushrooms. 1 tablespoonful of chopped Method.—Simmer the mushrooms and truffles in butter for ten minutes. the115 SAUCES. Add the sauce, let it stand in a hot place for quite twenty minutes, to absorb the flavour of tho vegetables. Then strain through a tammy cloth. Poulette Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of veloute sauce. 2 mushrooms finely chopped. 2 yolks of eggs. Method.— Simmer the mushrooms in the sauce for fifteen minutes, adding a little stock if it gets too thick. Then thicken with the yolks of the eggs, taking care tho sauce does not boil after they are in. Strain through a tammy cloth. Good Melted Butter. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of butter. It pint of warm water. 1 oz. of flour. Pepper and salt. Method.—Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in tho flour and mix it thoroughly. Pour in tho water, and stir and cook well. Then, just before sexwing, stir in the butter off the fire, cut in small - pieces. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Provengale Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of brown stock. 2 ozs. of lean ham. 2 dessertspoonfuls of capers. 1 clove of garlic. 1 sprig of thyme and parsley, and a hay leaf. Pepper and salt. 2 ozs. of butter. H ozs of flour. ^ oz. of glaze. Method.—Melt tho butter in a stewpan. Fry the ham, cut into dice, and all the vegetables in it. Then mix in the flour. Pour in the stock. Stir and cook the sauce for twenty minutes, skimming it well. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Pub it through a tammy, make it hot again, and mix in tho glaze.116 A COMPLETE COOEEKY GUIDE. Polish Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of Allernande sauce. £ a gill of finely-grated horse- radish. i 07.. of glaze. Method.—Ileat the sauce, ingredients. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. The juice of half a lemon. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 teaspoon ful of castor sugar. and add to it all the other Shrimp Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of Bdchamel sauce. £ pint of shrimps, shelled. 1 oz. of lobster butter. Method.—Colour the sauce with the lobster buttor, and add the shrimps. Make quite hot before serving. Portuguese Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. £ pint of sherry. 1 blade of mace. G peppercorns. 1 sprig of thyme. A bay leaf. The thin rind of half a lemon. Method.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan together, reduce gently, and strain through a tammy. Neapolitan Sauce. Ingredients. ■J pint of brown sauce. 2 ozs. of glaze. £ pint of Burgundy. 2 tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly. 2 tablespoonfuls of grated horse- radish. Method.—Put all the ingredients into a saucepan together and simmer for fifteen minutes. Then pass through a tammy.SAUCES. 117 Gooseberry Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of young gooseberries. melted butter. i pint of Bechamel sauce or 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Top and tail the gooseberries, put them into an enamelled stewpan or jar, and simmer until they are soft. Then drain and rub through a sieve. Mix the pulp with the Bechamel sauce and sugar, and make hot. Good Brown Caper Sauce. To 1 pint of Espaniol sauce, add 2 tablospoonfuls of the caper vinegar. lieduce it for ten minutes, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped capers. Gherkin Sauce. Make like caper sauce, using chopped gherkins instead of capers. Good Cucumber Sauce. Cook two young cucumbers like vegetable marrows. When tender, rub through a sieve, and mix with half a pint of Bechamel sauce. Mushroom Sauce. Thoroughly cleanse 1 dozen medium-sized mushrooms, and cut them in pieces. Simmer them in a good brown stock until tender. Then strain away the stock, and with it make an Espaniol sauce. Before serving make the mushrooms hot in the sauce. White Mushroom Sauce. Make according to preceding recipe, using 2 dozen button mushrooms, and white, instead of brown, stock; which afterwards make into veloute or Bechamel sauce, and add the mushrooms to it. iA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE 118 Celery Sauce. Ingredients. The white part of 5 heads of celery. A little white stock. 1 pint of veloutd sauce. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 2 ozs. of butter. Method.—Cut the celery in pieces, put them into a stowpan with the butter and stock enough to cover them, and a very little salt. Simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour, then add the sauce, and season to taste. Simmer for twenty minutes or longer, skimming the butter off. Add the cream and tammy the sauce. Asparagus Sauce. Cut the points from young and tender asparagus, cook them until tender, and mix them with Allemande sauce. This should bo done just before the sauce is served. French Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 oz. of flour, f pint of milk. Method.—Melt the the flour smoothly, thoroughly. Then add the cream, 1 pint of cream. Yolks of 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. butter in a small stewpan, mix in add the milk, and stir and cook and make it boil in the sauco. Then stir in the yolks of the eggs ; let them thicken, but without the sauce boiling, or they will curdle. Add the lemon juice and seasoning, and the sauce is ready. Good White Caper Sauce. Make like brown caper, using Bechamel instead of Espaniol sauco. Chestnut Sauce. Ingredients. 4 lb. of chestnuts. i pint of double cream. The thin rind of a lemon. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 pint of white stock. Method.—Take off the brown skin and throw the chest- nuts into boiling water.119 SAUCES. Simmer for two or three minutes, then drain, and peel off tho second skin. Put them into a stewpan with the stock and lemon peel, and cook thorn for an hour or longer until thoy are quite soft. Hub them and tho stock through a sieve, lie thru to the stewpan again, add tho cream, season to taste, and make quite hot. Good Curry Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder. 1 . dessertspoonful of curry paste. 1 good-sized onion. 1 apple. 1 pint of cocoanut or almond milk (fee recipe), a pint of nice stock. 1 teaspoonful of chutney. 1 teaspoonful of red currant jelly. The juice of half a lemon. 1 oz. of flour. Salt to taste. Method.—Slice the apple, and also the onion, tho latter from the top to the bottom. Put them in a stewpan with the butter, and tho curry powder and paste. Fry gently, without discolouring, for half an hour. Then mix in tho flour, add the stock and a little salt. Stir until it boils, and then put it whore it will cook gently, without burning, for half an hour. Then add the cocoanut or almond milk, the chutney, jelly, and lemon juice, and the sauce is ready. Note.—If more convenient, this sauce may be made without the almond or cocoanut milk; but it will not bo so good. Lime juice should be used instead of lemon when . possible. Green Mayonnaise Sauce. Blanch and chop 1 tablespoonful each of tarragon, chervil, burnet, and parsley. Pound them in a mortar, and rub through a sieve; then add to them half a pint of mayonnaise sauce. Red Mayonnaise Sauce. Wash and pound somo lobster coral, rub it through a sieve, and add it to tho mayonnaise sauce. i 2120 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Remoulade Sauce. Make half a pint of mayonnaise sauce, add to it a dessertspoonful of French mustard, and a dessertspoonful of chopped capers. Aspic Mayonnaise. Ingredients. pint of liquid aspic jelly (just on the point of setting). Some salad oil. Lemon juice and vinegar. A little finely-chopped tarragon and chervil. Method.—Put the aspic in a basin, and put it to stand on ice. Whip it with a whisk, adding drop by drop, oil and vinegar. Whiten it with lemon juice, and, boforo using, add tho tarragon and chorvil. This sauce is used for masking cold fish, and other, entrees. Sauce for Broiled Meats. Ingredients. Equal quantities of Espaniol A little cayenne pepper, and a and tomato sauce. little vinegar. Method.—Boil the ingredients together, and the sauce is ready. Anchovy Sauce. Add sufficient anchovy essence to flavour nicely, to good melted butter. Bretonne Sauce. Ingredients. 2 onions. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. 2 ozs. of butter. Method.—Slice the onions and fry them a golden brown in the butter. Pour in the sauce, simmer gently for twenty minutes, then rub through a tammy.121 SAUCES. Glaze. Boil down one or two quarts of second stock (which will jelly when cold) until it is quite thick, and coats a spoon. One quart may he boiled down to a quarter of a pint. Pour it into a jar. When wanted for use, put tho jar to stand in a saucepan of boiling water until it is dissolved. Glaze is used for enriching gravies and soups, and for glazing meat. Brown Chaud-Froid. Ingredients. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. 1J gills of aspic jelly. i oz. of good glaze. Method.—Add the aspic and glaze to the sauce, and reduce until it is the thickness of ordinary brown sauce. White Chaud-Froid Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of veloute sauce. | 11 gills of aspic jelly. Method.—Add the aspic to the sauce, and reduce until of the thickness of double cream. Note.—In making these sauces, care should be taken to get them the right consistency. If too thin, they do not look well, and if too thick, they give a clumsy look to anything coated with them. If aspic is not available, a little good gelatine or isinglass may be dissolved in tho saxice, but this must bo done cautiously, too much will make the sauces hard when cold. Half Glaze. This is glaze which is only half the consistency of that required for glazing meat, or fur adding to sauces.122 A COMPLETE COOKEIIY GUIDE. SWEET SAUCES. Wine Syrup Sauce. Ingredients. 2 glasses of sherry. 4 pint of water. 2 ozs. of lump sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of jam. Juice of half a lemon. A few drops of cochineal. Method.—Put the sugar and water in the stewpan on the fire to boil, and reduce to half the quantity. Add tire sherry, lemon juice, jam and cochineal. When the jam is dissolved, strain the sauce, and it is ready to use. Jam Sauce. Make according to preceding recipe, using double the quantity of sugar and water, and omitting tho wino. German Sauce. Ingredients. 4 yolks of eggs. I sugar. 1 tablespoonful of castor | 2 wineglasses of sherry. Method.—rut all tho ingredients into a saucepan and stir with a whisk until the sauce froths. Care must bo taken not to curdle it. For Christmas pudding use brandy instead of sherry, and 5 yolks. Wine Sauce. To J pint of plain English melted butter, add a tablespoonful of castor sugar, and half a wineglass of sherry. If the sauce is for plum-pudding, use brandy instead of sherry. Damson Sauce. Ingredients. 1 pint of damsons. I 4 ozs. of lump sugar. i pint of water. Method.—Stone the damsons, put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar.123 SAUCES. Stir occasionally, until the damsons are cooked. Then rub through a hair sieve. All sauces made from stone fruit are prepared in tJio same manner. Sweet Lemon Sauce. Ingredients. 1 dessertspoonful of arrow- 3 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, root. 1 pint of water. hind and juice of a lemon. Method.—Put the water, with a little thin lemon-rind, on the fire to boil. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with a little cold water. "When the water in the saucepan boils, pour in the arrowroot, and stir until it thickens and add the sugar. Strain and add the lemon juice. Sherry or brandy may be used in this sauce, instead of lemon juice. Vanilla Sauce. To half a pint of plain white sauce, add a few drops of vanilla, half a wineglass of brandy, and castor sugar to taste. Almond Sauce. Make according to preceding recipe, using almond essence instead of vanilla. Orange Sauce. Ingredients. 5 large oranges. G lumps of sugar. 1 wineglass of cura^oa. 1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot. Method.—Rub the sugar on the oranges to absorb the zest. Put it into a stewpan, and add the strained juice of the oranges. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cura^oa, and mix in. Boil the sauce, and it is ready. If too thick, add mciti orango juice.124 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. SAVOURY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OF MEAT. Beef Steak Broiled. The steak should be cut from well-hung beef. ltump is the best part for the purpose. It should not be less than three quarters of an inch in thickness. Broil it according to the directions given for broiling meat. It will probably take about ten minutes to cook. Serve at once, very hot, with, if liked, maitre-d’hotel butter, or mushroom, piquant, oyster or horse-radish sauce. Beef Steak Fried. Put a very little butter or dripping or some of the fat skimmings of the stock-pot into a frying-pan, and make it quite hot, put in the steak and fry it for one minute on either side. Then moderate the heat, either by lowering the gas if a gas-stove be used, or removing the pan further from the lire. Cook it gently, turning occasionally for about fifteen minutes. The flavour of fried steak is not so fine as that of broiled. It may be served with any of the sauces recommended for broiled sleak. Fried or sauteed potatoes are an excellent accompani- ment to broiled or fried steaks, so are also tomatoes cut in slices, and cooked in the oven. A steak which is to be broiled or fried, must be tender to be satisfactory. On this poiut'it is wise to take the advice of a reliable butcher.SAVOURY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OP MEAT. 125 Beef Steak Stewed. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of beef steak (less tender steak will answer for stewing). 1 carrof. 1 turnip. 1 onion. Half a head of celery, or a teaspoonful of celery-seed tied in muslin. 1 sprig of pai sley, thyme, mar- joram, and 1 bay leaf. 2 pints of hot water. 2 ozs. of dripping. 2 ozs. of flour. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Fry the steak in the dripping, either whole, or cut in pieces, then put it into a stewpan with the vegetables, hot water, and pepper and salt. Simmer gently until tender (see Rules for Stewing). It will take from two to four hours to cook, according to the kind of steak used. “When tender, place it on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with the flour, and strain over the steak. . If liked, the steak may ho garnished with vegetables prepared as for Julienne soup; or, when economy has to be studied, the vegetables stewed with the steak may be served with it, the herbs being removed. Oysters are very good served with stewed steak, and may he prepared thus :— Beard the oj'sters, and stew the beards with the steak to extract the flavour. These must afterwards he strained out of the gravy. "When the gravy is ready to serve, scald the oysters in it, and serve them on the top of the steak. In economical stews, tinned oysters may he used, and need not he bearded. The gravy for the steak will he improved if half a wineglassful of porter, or ale, is cooked with it. Shin of Beef Stewed. This may he cooked according to the directions given for stewed steak. Being gelatinous, it makes an excellent stew. Follow particularly the Directions for Stewing Meat, hut do not fry it.126 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Stewed Ox-cheek and Cow-heel. Ingredients. Half an ox-cheek and half a cow-heel. 1 largo carrot. 1 large turnip. 2 onions. | head of celery, or 1 tea- spoonful of celery-seed lied in muslin. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, an.l marjoram. 2 hay leaves. Gold water. Pepper aud salt to taste. Method.—Cut the ox-cheek and heel into pieces, put them in a stewpan with the vegetables, and cover with cold water. Add a little pepper and salt, and stew gently until tender. This stew generally takes from four to five hours to cook (see Rules for Stewing). When tender, thicken the gravy with the flour, using the proportion of 1 oz. of flour to every pint of gravy. The cheek can bo stewed alone, without the cow-heel. Stewed Ox-cheek with Spinach. Bone and roll the ox-clieek and fasten it with broad tape. Stew it according to directions in preceding reeij c, omitting the cow-heel. When cooked, place it on a hot dish, remove the tape, and fasten with silver skewers. Garnish with well-cooked spinach. Strain and thicken the gravy, and serve it in a tureen. Beef k la Mode. Ingredients. 3 or more lbs. of rump steak. Some good stock well fla- voured with vegetables and herbs. 1 doz. or more medium-sized mushrooms. 2 or 3 ozs. of good dripping. A little flour. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Make the dripping hot in a stewpan. Faston the meat into a nico shape, and flour it; fry it a nice brown on either side.SAVOURY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OF MEAT. 127 Then ponr in enough stock to barely cover it, add tho mushrooms, which should be peeled and rinsed, and cut in half. Simmer gently from threo to four hours, until the meat is quite tender (see Rules for Stewing). Then place it on a hot dish, with the mushrooms round it. Remove any fat from the gravy, thicken it with tho flour, and pour it over the meat. Beef as Mock Hare. 4 lbs. of shin of beef. 2 quarts of water. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 2 onions. G cloves. Ingredients. I sprig of parsley, [thyme, and marjoram. 1 wineglass of port. 3 ozs. of flour. Pepper and sait to taste. Method.—Put the beef into a saucepan, with tho vegetables cut in pieces, the herbs, cloves, seasoning and wine. Cover with the water and simmer gently (see Stewing), from three to four hours, until quite tender. Then make a thickening of the flour. Stir it in and cook well for two or three minutes. For serving, place the beef on a hot dish, and strain tho gravy over the moat. Stewed Brisket of Beef. Ingredients. 4 or 5 lbs. of beef. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 2 onions. 1 head of celery. 1 sprig of parsley, marjoram, and thyme, 2 bay leaves. 6 cloves. 1 doz. peppercorns. 3 quarts of hot water. Method.—Put the meat into a saucepan with tho vegetables and other ingredients, and simmer gently for three hours. Serve on a hot dish with some of tho liquor for gravy. The remainder can bo made into soup. If to be eaten cold, romove tho bones and press tho beef.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 128 Strain the meat liquor and boil it down to a glaze. Brush the meat over with it, giving it as many coats of glaze as necessary. Breast of Mutton Rolled. Breast of mutton. Veal forcemeat. Ingredients. A beaten egg. Method.—Bone the mutton. Brush it with egg, and cover it with the forcemeat, and roll it up. Secure it firmly with broad tape. Cook it very gently in water or stock (the latter, if possible), until tender. Then press it until cold. Garnish with parsley. Cow-heel. Thoroughly wash the heel, and scald it with boiling water, scrape off all the hairs, and remove all the fat from between the claws. Put it into cold water, and bring it to the boil. Throw the water away and well wash the heel. Cut it into four pieces. Put them into a saucepan with an onion and a few sprigs of parsley, a little pepper and salt, and cover it with cold water. Simmer for four hours or more, until tender. Place it on a hot dish and serve with piquant, tomato, or parsley sauce. If the latter, use the liquor from the heel for making it. If no vegetables are used in cooking the heel, the stock may be clarified for a jelly. Sheep’s Head plainly Boiled. Ingredients. 1 sheep’s head. G sago leaves. 2 ozs. of butter or dripping. Pepper and salt. 1^ ozs. of flour. Method.—See that the head has been properly prepared by the butcher, and the nostrils removed.SAVOUIIY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OP MEAT. 129 Soak it well in salt and water, and cleanse it tho- roughly. Cut out the tongue, remove the brains, and tie the head into shape with string. Put it and the tongue into a saucepan of cold water, and simmer from three to four hours, until quite tender. Ten minutes before it is cooked, put in the brains. These should be thoroughly cleansed, and bo tied in muslin. Boil the sage leaves till tender. Place the head on a hot dish and remove the bonos without disfiguring it. (If the head is sufficiently cooked, these will come away easily.) Make a sauce by melting the butter or dripping in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly and pour in 1 pint of the brotli from the head. Boil well, season with pepper and salt, and add the brains and sage leaves, which should be chopped -sepa- rately. Pour the sauce over the head. Sheep’s Head au Gratin. Ingredients. 1 sheep’s head. 2 tablespoonfuls of browned bread-crumbs. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of dried and powdered thyme and marjoram. A little lemon juice. A oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the head according to the directions in preceding recipe. When cooked, remove the bones, carefully preserving the shape, and lay it on a greased baking-tin. Sprinkle over it the crumbs, parsley, and herbs, with a few drops of lemon juice, and a little pepper and salt. Put the butter in little pieces about the head, and brown it in a quick oven or before the fire. Serve with the brain sauce mentioned in the foregoing recipe. Mutton Chops. Broil over a clear fire (see Directions for Broiling) ; they will take from six to eight minutes.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. l.'lO Serve immediately on a liot dish, with or without half au oz. of maitre-d’liotel butter on each. Bullock’s Heart Roasted. Ingredients. I bullock’s heart. quantify given in the recipe). Some veal stuffing (double the Gravy. Method.—Wash the heart thoroughly in salt and water. Take care that it is perfectly clean and free from blood. Wipe it quite dry. Cut off the flaps, and fill the cavities with the stuffing. Grease a piece of paper with dripping, and tie it securely over the top of the hoart, to keep in the force- meat. Boast it according to the Directions for Boasting Meat. It will take from one aud a half to two hours to cook. Serve with a little gravy round it, and the rest in a boat. Bed currant jelly may bo handed with it. Some peoplo boil the heart for three quarters of an hour before roasting. When this is done it will take less time to roast Gravy for the Heart. Ingredients. 1 pint of stock. The trimmings from the heart. 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. A little Harvey’s sauce or catsup. A little colouring, if necessary. Pepper and salt. Method.—Put the trimmings into a saucepan with the onion and stock, and simmer gently while the heart is cooking. Then melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly, and add the stock strained. Stir and boil for three minutes. Then add the sauce, pepper and salt, and colouring.SAVOURY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OF MEAT. 131 Tripe and Onions. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of dressed tripe. 3 good-sized onions. 2 ozs. of flour. Pepper and salt. 2i pints of milk. Method.—Put the tripe into cold water, and bring it to the boil. This is to blanch it. Blanch the onions likewise, and throw the water away. Cut the tripe into neat pieces, put them into the milk with the onions cut in halves, and pepper and salt. Stew gently for an hour. Then take out the onions and chop them. Remove the tripe and put it on a hot dish. Make a thickening of the flour and boil it well in the milk, and add the chopped onions. Dish the tripe in a circle, one piece resting on another, and pour the sauce over. A more economical dish may bo prepared by substitut- ing water for the milk. Tripe will make a more savoury dish if cooked in nicely- flavoured stock. 1 pint of hot water. Method.— Cut the bacon into slices, and remove tho rind. Cut the liver in slices and dip them in the flour. Fry the bacon slowly in a frying-pan. Then remove it and fry the liver in the bacon fat, adding a little dripping, if necessary. When the liver is cooked, place it on a hot dish. Dredge the frying-pan with about 1 oz. of flour. Fry the flour brown. Then pour in 1 pint of boiling water. Stir and boil for one or two minutes, adding pepper and salt to taste Liver and Bacon. Ingredients. 1 lb. of fat bacon. Some flour. Pepper and salt.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 132 Place the liver in a circle in the middle of a hot dish. Put the bacon round it, and strain the gravy over. Sea Pie. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of steak. ^ head of celery. onions. I carrot. 1 turnip. S lb. of flour, i lb. of suet. 1 tcaspoonlul of baking-powder. Pepper and salt. Cold water. Method.—Cut the meat into pieces, and the vegetables small. Season with pepper and salt. Put them into a large saucepan, and just cover thorn with water. Put the saucepan by the side of the fire, for the contents to simmer gently. Chop the suet finely. Add to it the flour and baking-powder, and mix with cold water to a stiff paste. Poll it to the size of the saucepan. riace it over the meat and simmer gently for about two hours, or more if the meat requires it. For serving, remove the crust with a fish-slice. Put the meat and vegetables on a hot dish. Cut the crust into neat pieces, and place round them. Irish Stew. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of potatoes. 2 onions. 1 lb. of scrag end of mutton. Pepper and salt. Method.—Peel and slice the potatoes and onions. Cut the meat into small pieces, and season with pepper and salt. Put a layer of meat in the bottom of a saucepan, then a layer of potatoes and onions, placing the ingredients in alternate layers. Pour in half a pint of water and stew gently, stirring occasionally, for one hour and half.SAVOURY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OF MEAT. 133 Sheep’s Head Curried. Ingredients. 1 sheep’s head. 1 pint or more of stock. 1 large onion. 1 large apple. The juice of half a lemon. 1 tablespoonful of curry powder. 1 oz. of flour. 1 oz. of dripping. Salt to taste. Method.—Thoroughly cleanse the head. Slice the onion from the top to the bottom, and fry it in a stewpan, in the dripping, with the apple and curry powder. Pour in the stock. Add a little salt. Cut the meat from the hones and divide it into small pieces. Put these into the curry sauce, and simmer gently for three hours or more, until quite tender. Then thicken with the flour. Reduce the sauce, if necessary. To do this remove the meat and boil the Bauce rapidly, with the lid off the saucepan, until of the right consistency. Serve the curry in an entree dish, and hand rice boiled for curry with it. The tongue may be cooked in the curry sauce, but the 6kin must be romoved before serving. The brains should be perfectly cleansed and cooked separately (see Sheep’s Head plainly Cooked). They can be added to the curried meat at the last moment. Sheep’s Hearts. Cook these according to the directions for bullock’s heart, cooking them for about three quarters of an hour. Brown sauce may be handed with them, and red currant jelly. Stewed Sheep’s Hearts. Sheep’s hearts. Sage and onion stuffing. Some nice stock. Ingredients. A little dripping. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Method.—Thoroughly cleanse the hearts and cut away the pipes. KA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 134 Stuff them with the forcemeat and fasten them up with a trussing-needle and string. Fry them brown in a stewpan in the dripping, then pour in enough stock to cover them. Add a little peppor and salt, and simmer them gently for about two hours. Put them on a hot dish and remove the string. Remove the fat from the gravy, thicken with flour and add a squeeze of lemon juice, and seasoning to taste, and pour it over the hearts. Sheep’s Trotters Stewed. Procure thorn from a tripe-shop half dressed. Blanch them by putting them into cold water, and bringing it to the boil. Throw the water away, wash the feet and put them into a saucepan with some stock. Simmer for about tlireo hours, until the bones will come out easily. Then put them on a hot dish and pour tomato sauce over, or hand piquant sauce in a boat. Pig’s Fry (Harslet) as Mock Goose. Ingredients. 1 lb. of harslet. 3 lbs. of potatoes. 1 onion. 1 apple. A little dried and powdered sage. Pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the potatoes until half cooked. Then cut them and the fry in slices. Chop the onion and apple small. Grease a pie-dish, and put a layer of sliced potatoes at the bottom of it. Placo on thorn a layer of pig’s fry, sprinkle it with somo of the onion, apple, powderod sage, and pepper and salt. Cover with another layer of potatoes, and put on that some more of the fry. Sprinkle again with the onion, apple, sage, pepper and salt. Proceed in this way until the dish is full, letting tlie last layer be potatoes.SAVOURY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OF MEAT. 135 Pour in half a pint of water, and cover with a piece of pig’s caul, or paper spread with dripping. Bake in a moderate oven for ono hour and a half. It may he served in the pie-dish, or on a hot dish. Pig’s Harslet (West-Country Fashion). Ingredients. 1+ lbs. pig’s fry. i pint of cider. S< une dried and powdered sage. Pepper and salt. Some chopped onion and apple. Method.—Cut the fry in slices, thread the pieces on a long skewer. Lay it on a greased baking-tin and sprinkle with the onion, apple, sage, pepper and salt. Cover with the caul, and cook in a moderate oven until tender. Then place the fry on a hot dish, remove the skewer, make'the cider boiling, and pour over the fry. Toad in the Hole. Ingredients. 1 lb. of very tender beef steak. ^ lb. of ox kidney. 8 ozs. of flour. 2 eggs. 1 pint of milk. Pepper and salt. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the middle, put in the eggs and mix gradually, add the milk by degrees. Beat well and add the pepper and salt. Cut Iho stealc into pieces the way of the grain, and also cut up the kidney; put them in a well-greased Yorkshire pudding tin and pour tho batter over. Bake from yne and a quarter to one and a half hours. If the steak is not likely to bo a tender one, it should be cooked, before using. Sausages are excellent for toad in tho hole, also under- done cooked meat. Mutton kidneys are also very good. Mushrooms and oysters are sometimes put in the pudding with the meat. k 2136 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Stewed Giblets. Ingredients. 1 or 2 sets of giblets. 1 or 2 onions. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, marjoram. 1 bay leaf. 1 blade of mace. Some stock. Flour. Method.— First prepare the giblets. Feathers can easily ho removed if the giblets are scalded. To remove clots of blood wash them in salt and water and rub with salt. Take the gall bladder from the liver without breaking it. Scald and skin the feet and the gizzard, open the gizzard and empty it. Then thoroughly wash the giblets in two or three waters. Cut the liver and gizzard in .two pieces, and chop the legs and pinions in two. Chop the beak from the head, and divide the head from the neck. Put the giblets in a stewpan with the stock and the vegetables, cut in small pieces. Simmer from one and a half to two hours, until quite tender, then thicken the gravy with the flour. Put the giblets on a hot dish and strain the gravy over. Garnish with fried or toasted sippets of bread. Note.—It is well to stew the gizzard for an hour previously to the cooking of the giblets as it takes a very long time to get really tender, When this cannot be done, it should not be served with the giblets. Lamb’s Fry. Wash the fry thoroughly and simmer, all but the liver, in stock or water for a quarter of an hour, then dry and slice it. Flour and fry in butter or dripping until cooked and brown. Put the fry on a hot dish, pour a little stock or water (stock is best) into the frying-pan. Stir and boil well, and then strain over the fry. Garnish with fried parsley.SAVOURY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OF MEAT. 137 Calf’s Pluck (West-Country Fashion). Thoroughly cleanse the pluck and prepare and stuff the heart as directed for roast bullock’s heart, roasting or baking it. Simmer the lights with half the liver in a little stock. Then mince them small. Thicken the stock in which they stewed with flour. Season nicely with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, then put in the mince, and keep hot. Fry the remainder of the liver with bacon, as for liver and bacon. Then lay the mince in the centre of tho dish with tho fried bacon and liver neatly round it. Serve the heart on a separate dish, and hand red currant jelly with it. Calf’s Liver Stewed. Ingredient*. 1 calf’s liver. 1 onion. 1 blade of mace. ] dozen peppercorns. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Some stock. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Larding bacon. Method.—Lard the liver and put it in a stowpan with the vegetables and enough stock to come half way tip it. Cover with buttered paper and set it in a slow oven, if convenient, if not, cook over the fire. When tender put tho liver on a baking-tin, and let the lardoons crisp in the oven. Meantime thicken the gravy with tho flour, and boil well. Place the liver on a hot dish, and strain tho gravy over. Hand lemons, cut in quarters lengthwise, with it, and garnish the dish with little rolls of bacon toasted. If liked, mushrooms may bo cooked with tho liver, and they should bo served round it. Rolled Beef to taste like Hare. Inside of a sirloin. 4 glasses of port wine. 2 glasses of vinegar. Ingredients. A teaspoonful of mixed spice and some veal forcemeat. Red currant jelly.138 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Method.—Take the inside of a sirloin of beef and soak it for six hours in two glasses of port and one of vinegar. Lay on it some veal forcemeat and fasten it up securely. Eoast it before a clear fire, basting it with wine and vinegar, in the proportions already mentioned, in which the spice has been mixed. Hand red currant jelly with it. Haggis. Ingredients. A lamb’s paunch and pluck. 10 onions, i lb. of suet. 1 lb. of the best Scotch oat- meal. If liked, a little allspice and pounded mace, or a little chopped parsley and powdered thyme. $ pint of milk or liquor from the pluck. Pepper and salt. Method.—Thoroughly cleanse the paunch, letting it soak in salt and water, and tie up any holes with string. Wash the paunch thoroughly and scald and dry it. Blanch and chop the onions, chop also the suet finely. Boil the pluck for two hours. Drain the pluck, dry it and mince it finely, then mix it with the other ingredients, and fill the paunch three quarters full. Tie it up and then fasten it in a cloth. Boil it gently for three hours. If there is any over, it may be cooked as Pan Haggis. Haggis from a sheep is prepared in the same manner, but wants longer cooking. Pan Haggis. Put the mixture for the Haggis into a stewpan with a little more liquor from the pluck or stock, and simmer until it is tondor. Note.—The oatmeal for both these Haggis is often toasted or baked a golden brown beforo using.SAVOUHY AND ECONOMICAL DISHES OE MEAT. 130 Stewed Lamb’s Head. Ingredients. 1 lamb’s head. pint of fresh mushrooms. ^ pint of oysters. Some good stock. Veal forcemeat. Pepper and salt. A blade of mace. Method. —Well cleanse the head, soaking it in salt and water. Then dry and bono it, removing the brains and tongue. Place the veal stuffing in the centro of the head, and roll it round it. Fasten it into a neat shape with tape, and place it in astewpan with the oysters, mushrooms and blade of mace. Simmer about two hours until the head is cooked. Then place it on a hot dish, -thicken the stock nicely with flour, and pour round it, placing the oysters and mushrooms in heaps. The brains should be tied in muslin, and boiled for about five minutes, then fried in Kromesky batter and used as a garnish. The tongue should be cooked with the head and skinned and slice l for a garnish. Sheep’s head may be cooked in the same way. Lamb’s Head (a Plainer Way). Prepare and stuff a lamb’s head as directed in preceding recipe, and boil it gently for two hours or more until quito tender. Boil the brains, tied in muslin, and three sago leaves. Chop the brains and leaves, and add them to half a pint of melted butter or white sauce. Place the head in a dish and pour the sauce over. Garnish with the tongue. It should bo boiled with the head, and then skinned and sliced. Rolled Beef Steak. Ingredients. Beef steak. Veal forcemeat or sausage- meat. Some stock. Pickled mushrooms. A little catsup. Pepper and salt to taste.A complete cookekY guide. 140 Method.—Take care that the steak is a tender one, and beat it well with a bat or rolling-pin. Lay on it the forcemeat or sausage-meat, and roll it and secure it with skewers. Fry it brown in a frying-pan in a little dripping, then put it into a stewpan with the stock, mushrooms and catsup, and a little pepper and salt, and simmer until the steak is tender. Put on a hot dish, remove the tape. Secure with Hatchlet skewers, and pour the gravy over. If preferred, the steak may be roasted ; baste thoroughly. Haricot Mutton. Ingredients. 8 mutton cutlets. 1 pint of stock or gravy. 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion. 3 sticks of celery. 1 oz. of flour. Pepper and salt. 2 ozs. of dripping. Method.—Fry the cutlets a nice brown in the dripping. Mix the flour smoothly with the stock, and boil it for two or three minutes. Then put in tho cutlets and the vegetables cut in neat pieces. Stew gently for three quarters of an hour. Dish the cutlets in a circle, with the vegetables round them, and strain the gravy over. This dish may be made more economically by using tho scrag end of the neck, and water instead of stock. Pig’s Fry, or Harslet, Fried. Ingredients. Pig's fry. 3 or 4 sage leaves. Stock or gravy. Salt and pepper. 2 or 3 onions. Method.—Chop tho onions and sage, and simmer in the stock until tender. Slice and flour the fry, and fry in a frying-pan in a little dripping. When cooked, placo it on a hot dish, pour the stock into the pan, stirring it well, boil for three minutes and pour over the fry.BAVOtJKY AND fiCOKoMlOAL DISHES OF MEAT. 141 Bath Chaps. These should he soaked in cold water for five hours and then boiled gently from one and a half to two hours. Kemove the skin and cover with raspings. These are good cold for breakfast dishes, or hot served with greens.142 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. SAVOURY MEAT DISHES SUIT- ABLE FOR REMOVES, ETC. Fillet of Beef Larded and Braised. Ingredients. 4 lbs. fillet of beef. Larding bacon. 3 large mushrooms. 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, mar- joram, and 1 bay leaf. Some stiff second stock. Pepper and salt. Method.—Roll up the fillet and tie it securely with string, lard it neatly (see Directions for Larding). Put it in the braising-pan and cover it with buttered paper; put in the vegetables, and enough stock to come half way up the fillet. Cook it gently, keeping it well basted. It will take two hours or louger. When cooked place it on a hot dish in the oven. Strain the gravy and rapidly boil it to a glaze. Remove the string from the fillet and substitute silver skewers. Pour the glaze over, and garnish tastefully with vegetables. The following vegetables may be used as a garnish: Carrots and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, cooked and glazed. A macedoine of vegetables. Sauteed mushrooms or truffles nicely cooked. Cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, asparagus, peas, &c. Serve half glaze in a sauce-boat. Braised Ox-cheek. Ingredients. 1 ox-cheek. ^ lb. sausage-meat or veal stuffing. About 1 quart or more of stiff second stock. 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion. 1 sprig parsley, thyme, mar- joram, and 1 bay leaf. If possible, 3 tomatoes or half a head of celery. Pepper and salt to taste. Some vegetables for a garnish.SAVOURY MEAT DISHES SUITABLE FOR REMOVES. 143 Method.—Remove all the bone, and lay the forcemeat on the inside of the cheek and roll it up, secure it firmly •with string. Cut the vegetables in pieces and lay them in the bottom of a braising-pan, and put the meat on them. Pour in enough stock to come half way up the meat, cover it with buttered paper and braise (see Directions for Braising) for three or four hours until the meat is tender. The meat should be constantly basted while cooking. Put it on a hot dish inside the oven to keep it hot. Strain the stock into a stewpan, and boil it rapidly down to a glaze. Remove the string, and put, if necessary, silver skewers in the place. Tour the glaze over, and garnish with vegetables. The vegetables used may be carrots and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, cooked and glazed; small mushrooms sauteed in butter, or spinach. Braised Saddle of Lamb. 1 saddle of lamb. Some veal forcemeat. Ingredients. Some strong second stock. Method.—Bono the saddle very carefully. Stuff and cook it according to directions given for braising loin of veal (see Galantine of Veal). Press it in the same manner. For serving make it hot in stock, taking care it does not boil. When dished, pour glaze over it, and garnish with truffles, mushrooms, cockscombs, or carrots and turnips, cut in fancy shapes and glazed (see Garnishes), or it may be served with baked tomatoes. Half glaze should bo handed in a boat. If served cold, it may bo decoratod with aspic and garnished with salad plants. Shoulders and legs of lamb may also bo braised, following directions for braised log of mutton.14 i A COMPLETE COOEEEV GUIDE. Leg of Mutton with Oysters. Ingredients. Leg of mutton. Veal stuffing. Oysters. One or two anchovies, boned, washed, and chopped small. Brown oyster sauce. Method.—Chop some oysters and mix with the veal forcemeat and anchovies. Stuff tho leg under the skin at the thickest part and also near the knuckle. Roast it. Serve brown oyster sauce with it. Make the sauce according to directions for oyster sauce using brown stock. Haricot of Lamb. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of neck of lamb cut into cutlets. 2 ozs. of butter or dripping. Some nicely flavoured stock. Half a cabbage with a nice heart. 1 cos lettuce. i peck of peas (not too young). ^ a large cucumber. Method.—Fry the cutlets a nice brown in the butter or dripping. Then put them into a stewpan. Shred the cabbage and lettuco, and cut the cucumber in slices of a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put all the vegetables but the cucumber in with tho cutlets, cover with the stock, and stew for about three quarters of an hour. Add the cucumber when the haricot has cooked for twenty-five minutes. Arrange the cutlets in two rows down the dish with the vegetables on either side. French beans and cauliflowers may. ako be usod in making this dish. Ox Tongue. When the tongues have been smoked and hung for some time, they will require quite twenty hours’ soaking in cold water to soften them. When not so long hung, six hours will be sufficient. When fresh from pickle, they need not be soaked unless they have been verySAVOURY MEAT DISHES SUITABLE FOR REMOVES. 145 much salted, or have remained longer than necessary in the pickle. Put a tongue fiesh from pickle into lukewarm water, simmer it until quite tender; this will take three hours or more. If a smoked tongue, put it into cold water and bring very gradually to simmering point; it will probably take four hours to cook. 'When cooked remove it and take the skin off carefully. To truss it into shape place a table close to the wall and put on it a board, place another on this, upright against the side of the wall. Trim the tongue carefully. Then place it with the root against the upright board and with two forks fasten it to the under board making it into a nice shape. When cold remove the foiks. If to be used hot, put the tongue on a baking-tin, avcII cover it with buttered paper, and. heat it thoroughly in a very moderate oven (taking care that the tongue does not get dry), or it may be heated in stock. Then place it on a dish, put a frill round the root and cover the tongue with glaze or raspings. Italian, piquant, tomato, tartare and Bearnaise sauce may be served with hot dressed tongue. When the tongue is served cold, it should be glazed, unless it is only for a plain breakfast-dish, when raspings may be substituted. Calfs Head au Naturel. Ingredients. Half a calfs head. 2 or 3 sage leaves. Fried bread-crumbs. Plain white or veloutc sauce. Method.—Thoroughly clean half a calfs head and take out the brains, then with a sharp knife remove the bones. Boll up the head and tie it with broad tape. Then fasten it securely in a buttered cloth and boil it in water or white stock for three and a half or four hours. Then take it up, remove the tape, and place the head on a dish. Fringe the ear with a pair of scissors. The tongue, which should be removed from the hoad and cooked with146 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. it, must also be skinned, cut in slices, and placed round tho hoad. Cover tlie bead with nicely fried bread-crumbs and serve brain sauce in a boat. Prepare it thus:— Thoroughly cleanse the brains, removing all the skin ; tie them in muslin, and boil for ten minutes. Boil the sage leaves until tender, and chop the brains and leaves separately, and then mix them with a plain white or veloute sauce. Nicely boiled bacon or pickled pork should bo sorved with the head. Parsley may be substituted for the sage-leaves if pre- ferred. Calf’s Head au Naturel (Another Method). Thoroughly cleanse half a calf’s head, bone it, and cut it neatly into four pieces. Cook it in white stock from three to four hours, until tender. Then dish it neatly on a napkin and garnish with the tongue, which should be boiled until tender, skinned and cut in slices, and the brains also nicely cooked, or these may be served in sauce as directed in tho foregoing recipe. If brain sauce is not used, either of those mentioned iD tho recipe for Ox Tongue may bo handed in a boat. Calfs Head en Tortue. Ingredients. Half a calf’s head. Some nicely flavoured white stock. 1 head of celery. A blade of mace. 2 ozs. of chopped suet. 12 mushrooms. A hunch of herbs, consisting of 2 sprigs of basil, mar- joram, lemon thyme, and a little pennyroyal. 2 shalots. The juice of half a lemon. 12 olives. 6 hard-boiled eggs. 8 gherkins. G truffles. 3 cockscombs. 3 Cray-fish. 1 pint of brown sauce (reduced for 15 minutes with ^ wine- glass of Madeira and 1 oz. of glaze). 2 braised sweetbreads (fee recipe). Pepper and salt. Method.—Blanch the head and bone it. two-inch pieces and trim them neatly. Out it intoSAVOURY MEAT DISHES SUITABLE FOR REMOVES. 147 Put them, with tho ear (using another if possible) and the tongue, into the stock, with the suet, celery, lemon juice, herbs, shalots, and a little pepper and salt, and cook gently until tender; this will probably take two and a half hours or longer. Keep the pot well skimmed. Meantime, prepare the sauce. Cleanse the brains and remove the skin, tie them in muslin and cook them for about ten minutes. Drain the cooked head and put it into a stewpan with the sauce, the olives turned and the mushrooms, which should be cooked. Remove the skin from the tongue and cut it into scallops, then add these to the sauce. Place a fried-broad croustard on a dish, and placo the pieces of head closely round it, then pour over tho sauce, etc. ; put the brains in the centre, and the ears, fringed, at each end. Put the cray-fish, cockscombs, and some truffles on three silver skewers and stick them in the croustard. Garnish round the dish prettily with the braised sweet- bread cut in slices, the yolks of eggs and the gherkins cut into balls, and the truffles. For directions for preparing the truffles, cockscombs, olives, &c., see Garnishes. Fricandeau of Veal. Ingredients. 3 lbs. of the fleshy end of the fillet of veal. Some larding bacon. 2 carrots. 2 onions. 2 bay leaves. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, mar- joram. Some very nicely flavoured second stock. Pepper and salt. Method.—Bono and trim tho fillet neatly and lard it. Put tho vegetables, cut in pieces, and the herbs with tho trimmings of tho veal and bacon into a stewpan, and placo the veal on them. Cover it with buttered paper and pour in enough stock to come half way up the veal, simmer for two hours, or until the meat is tender. Then put it on a baking-tin in the oven, to brown the veal and dry tho larding.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 148 Strain the stock and boil it rapidly to a glaze; put the veal on a hot dish and pour the glaze over. Serve with a puree of spinach, sorrel or endive. When a braising-pan is used, it will not be necessary to brown the meat in the oven. Galantine of Veal. Ingredients. 1 loin of veal with three neck bones attached to it. Some sausage-meat. 2 veal kidneys. 6 truffles. Some strong second stock. Method.—Bone the veal, cut the kidneys and truffles into dice ; mix them with the sausage-meat. Lay the force- meat on the veal, fold the veal round it and secure it in shape with a broad tape. Itoll it in a napkin, again fastening it securely with tape, and boil gently in stock from three to four hours. Then remove it from the stewpan, take off the cloth and roll it in a clean one, fastening it in securely. Put a dish with a weight on it to press it. When cold remove the napkin, trim the meat neatly and glaze it. Garnish and decorate like galantine of fowl or turkey. Breast of Veal as a Galantine. Bone the veal and prepare according to directions in the foregoing recipe. Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. Bemove the bone carefully from the shoulder and fill the space left with veal stuffing (see Forcemeats). Boll it up and fasten it together with a truseing-ncedle and string. The joint may then be roasted or braised. (See Directions.) Another Method. Bone the mutton and fill the cavity with bearded oysters. Boll it up and fasten very securely. Put it in a stewpan with the trimmings of the oystersSAVOURY MEAT DISHES SUITABLE FOR REMOVES. 140 and cover with good stock. Cook gently according to the directions for boiling meat. Serve with oyster sauce made from the stock the meat was cooked in. If liked, mushrooms may bo substituted for oysters as forcemeat and in the sauce. Braised Leg of Mutton. Ingredients. 1 leg of mutton. Veal and pork forcemeat. 4 truffles. Some pieces of tongue. Some strong second stock. 1 large carrot and turnip. 3 tomatoes. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, 2 bay leaves. 1 onion. Method.—Bone the leg of mutton, then fill the cavity with forcemeat, with which the truffles and tongue, cut into dice, have been mixed. Tie it into a nice round shape. Put the vegetables, cut in pieces, at the bottom of a braising-pan ; place the meat on them, and pour in enough stock to come half-way up the meat. Braise (see Braising) from two to three hours. Then put the mutton on a hot dish. Strain the stock, boil it to a glaze and pour it over it. Serve with a garnish of small tomatoes cooked in the oven and glazed. Fillet of Veal Stewed. Ingredients. Fillet of veal. Veal forcemeat (see Force- meats). Half a pint of oysters. Good stock. A little mushroom catsup. Lemon peel. Larding bacon. Method.—Beard and chop up the oysters, mix them with the forcemeat, and stuff the fillet in the usual manner, skewering it firmly. Lard it, and grate lemon peel lightly over it. Place it in a stewpan with enough good stock to como half-way up it. Put the veal in a slow oven until cooked, basting it constantly, or cook it over a slow fire. Then place the veal in a baking-tin in tho oven, to brown it and crisp the lardoons. i.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 150 Meantime, strain the Btock into another stewpan, and add to it half a pint of cream and a quarter of a pint of oysters bearded and scalded, the liquor of the oysters strained and enough flour mixed with a little butter to make the gravy the consistency of thick melted butter, and add to it a few white bread-crumbs. The oysters should be added last of all. Squeeze in some lemon juice and a little mushroom catsup. Pour a little of the sauce over it, and serve the re- mainder in a boat. Stewed Rump of Beef. Ingredients. Rump of beef. ■£ pint of beer. 3 or 4 spoonfuls of vinegar. 2 spoonfuls of mushroom catsup. A little powdered mace. 1 bouquet garnie. An onion stuck with 3 cloves. A little cayenne pepper. Pepper and salt. Method.—Ilalf-roast the rump, then put it in a largo stewpan with the beer, vinegar, catsup, herbs, &c., and enough water or stock to cover it. Stew gently until the meat is very tender. Then put on a hot dish, strain and thicken the gravy, and pour over. Oysters or pickled mushrooms are a nice finish to this dish. Calr’s Feet. If not properly prepared by the butcher, scald and scrape them until all hairs are removed. Thoroughly cleanse them and blanch before cooking. Simmer them in water or stock (the latter is preferable) from three to four hours. Serve with tomato, piquant, or other suitable sauce. They may be pressed, cut in pieces, curried, or fried in batter. Beef-Steak Pudding. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 4 lb. of bullock’s kidney. i or'i lb. of suet. Seasoning. l.J lbs. of beef or rump steak.SAVOURY MEAT DISHES SUITABLE I'OR REMOVES. 151 Method.—Chop the suet finely, mix well with the flour, adding a pinch of salt. Mix to a paste with cold water. Eoll it out, and line a greased quart basin, reserving one-third for the cover. Cut the steak into thin strips, and the kidney into slices. Mix some pepper and salt on a plate, and season the meat nicely. Eoll each piece of meat round a tiny piece of the fat, and place the rolls and the pieces of kidney in the basin. Pour in rather more than a quarter of a pint of water. Eoll out the remaining piece of paste. Wet the edges of that in the basin, lay the cover on, and trim round neatly. Tie over a well-scalded and floured cloth, and boil for four hours. Oysters are sometimes put in these puddings; they should be bearded and the hard white part removed. Eabbit or chicken puddings may be made in the same manner. To these add a quarter of a pound of lean ham or bacon. Where economy must be studied, less suet may be used in making the crust. Serve the pudding in the basin with a napkin folded round it, and directly the pudding is cooked pierce the crust Avith a fork to prevent the steam bursting it. Note.—This pudding will be nicer if the basin is only lined half way down with the crust. Partridge Pudding. Ingredients. 1 brace of well-kept partridges. Suet crust as for beef-steak pudding. lb. of rump steak. 1 pint of good stock, made from partridge bones if possible. Pepper and salt. Method.—Skin the partridges if they are old, and cut them into neat joints. Slice the rump steak thinly. Line a dish as for beef- steak pudding. Put the steak in the bottom of the basin and lay on the partridges, Avhicli should be Avell seasoned. Pour in the gravy and finish as for beef-steak pudding. L 2A COMPLETE COOKEftY GUIDE. 152 Boil from three to four hours, according to the age of the partridges. Mushrooms are a great improvement to the flavour of this pudding. All game puddings are made in the same way. Mutton Pudding. Make like beef-steak pudding, using any mutton which is suitable, putting in mushrooms, oysters, or kidneys. Beef-Steak and Lark Pudding. Make like beef-steak pudding, putting in, instead of the ox kidney, larks boned and stuffed with imitation foie gras. Chicken and Mushroom Pudding. Make like beef-steak pudding, using a chicken and one dozen mushrooms in place of the steak and kidney. A few slices of ham are an improvement. Make the gravy of chicken bones. Yeal may be used in the same manner. Rabbit Pudding. Make like beef-steak pudding, using a rabbit and a little pickled pork, or sausage meat, instead of the 6tcak and kidney. All these puddings should be served in the basin, which it is better to line only half way down with paste.( 153 ) . i • VEGETABLES. To Prepare Vegetables for Cooking. TnonoucnLY wash them, letting them soak in cold water for a shoit time, to draw out the insects. Spinach requires washing in four or five waters to perfectly free it fiom grit; let it float in water for a short time,stirring it occasionally with the hand. Tho stalks of spinach must be pulled off. Potatoes and all root vegetables must be scrubbed and rinsed before peeling. Potatoes must bo peeled as thinly as possible; the turnip thickly, to get below the woody fibre, but the turnip parings may bo used to flavour soups. Carrots should be thoroughly but lightly scraped. The skins of new potatoes are rubbed or scraped off according to the age of the potatoes. Celery, sea-kale, and other stalk vegetables must be washed, using a brush if necessary, care being taken that no insects are left concealed in the stalks. The strings of French beans must be removed and tho beans cut across in diamonds or in thin slices. Throw all vegetables as they are prepared into cold water. To have vegetables in perfection they must be cooked very soon after they are taken from the ground. Market vegetables must bo freshened and crisped by being allowed to romain in cold water a little time before cooking. Further directions will be found under the different headings. Rules for Boiling Vegetables. All vegetables are put into boiling water to which salt is added in tho proportion of half an ounce to every two quarts of water. If tho hardness of tho water is duo to lime in it, half a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda may bo used with this proportion of water. The lime discolours vegetables, and tho use of soda is to throw this down. Be very careful not to uso top much or the colour of the154 • A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. vegetables will bo preserved at tho expenso of their ilavour. All vegetables must bo boiled, not simmered, and they must bo cooked with the lid off the saucepan; if the steam is kept in, it will discolour them. Peas must be gently boiled; rapid boiling would break their skins. Young and old peas must not bo boiled together, or tho young ones will boil to a mash before the old ones aro cooked. Large and small peas must not be cooked together for tho same reason. While the vegetables are cooking remove all scum from the surface of the water. Tho length of time green vegetables will take to cook will depend entirely on their age and size. Young vegetables may take from ten to twenty minutes, older ones from twenty to thirty-five minutes. Loot xregetables take longer to cook than green ones. Carrots, turnips, and parsnips, should be cooked with the meat with which they are served, as their flavour is thereby improved. Yegetables should be taken up directly they are cooked, as they spoil if left in the water. Rules for Steaming Vegetables. Vegetables will take rather longer to steam than boil. They should bo prepared as for boiling, put into the steamer and sprinkled with salt. Tho water under the steamer must be kept boiling; if there is not a good force of steam, the vegetables will get sodden. Baked Vegetables. Tomatoes and mushrooms cook very well in the oven. Potatoes aro excellent cooked in this way. Vegetable marrows and beetroots have a finer flavour if baked, but require gentle cooking. To Boil Potatoes. If boiled in their skins, scrab them perfectly clean, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them; add a little salt, and boil them gently for half an hour or more until very nearly tender, but not quite. Then pour the water away.155 VEGETABLES. Tccl the potatoos, replace them in tho saucepan, sprinkle salt upon them, cover them with a cloth and put the lid on tho saucepan. Let them stand by the side of tho fire to finish cooking in their own steam. Caro must bo taken that tho potatoes cooked in this way are free from disease. One tainted potato would destroy the flavour of tho others. If cooked without skins, pare them thinly and treat them in the same manner; pour off the water when they are very nearly tender, and finish cooking them in their own steam. If the potatoes are good and are cooked according to these directions, they will be perfectly dry and floury. Choose potatoes of the same size to cook together. To Steam Potatoes. Put the potatoes in the steamer and sprinkle them with salt. Keep the water in the saucepan underneath quickly boiling the whole time the potatoes are cooking. If tho potatoes are cooked in their skins, peel them when very nearly tender, put them back into the steamer again, having first poured all the water from tho under- saucepan, cover with a cloth and put them by tho side of tho fire to finish cooking in their own steam. Steaming is one of tho simplest and best ways of cooking potatoes. If the potatoes are good, and tho water is kept briskly boiling, this method cannot fail to be successful. To Cook New Potatoes. Scrape or rub tho skins off and put the potatoes into boiling water, to which is added a little salt. Boil them gently for twenty minutes or more, according to their age. When very nearly tender, pour off the water, cover them with a cloth, and set the saucepan by the side of tho firo, that they may finish cooking in their own steam. A small sprig of mint is sometimes boiled with now potatoes.156 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Baked Potatoes. Choose nice potatoes, not too large, and scrub them perfectly clean. Bake them in a quick oven for about three-quarters of an hour or longer Trick them when half cooked with a fork to lot out the steam, or they may burst. Serve them hot on a folded napkin. Potato Snow. Tass well-cooked floury potatoes through a sieve oi American potato-masher into a hot vegetable dish. Brown the top with a salamander or in a quick oven, and servo very hot. Mashed Potatoes. Bub well-cooked floury potatoes through a wire siovo or potato-masher. Put them in the saucepan again and add some butter, pepper and salt, and if possible a little cream. Mash together and make very hot. Servo in a mound or pyramid shape in a vegetable- dish. Brown, if liked, with a salamander or in a quick oven. Some people like a little milk also with the potatoes, but this makes them too moist for ordinary English tastes. Mashed Potatoes (a Plainer Way). Add to the potatoes while in the saucepan some buttci or dripping and pepper and salt. Beat with a fork until perfectly Binooth and free from lumps. When economy must bo studied, nice drij>ping will be found a good substitute for butter. Potato Balls. Form some potatoes mashed as above into balls. Brush them over with beaten egg. Tut them on a baking-tin and bake in a quick oven until brown,157 VEGETABLES. Fried Potatoes. Those may bo cut in slices, straws, or small fancy shapes. Throw thorn as they are cut into cold water to removo the outside starch. Before frying dry them well in a cloth : nothing wet will fry crisp. Fry them in hot fat (see French Frying). Draw tho fat to one side of the fire, that the potatoes may coolc slowly without discolouring from five to ten minutes, according to their size. Thon remove them and make the fat quite hot again. Plunge the potatoes in and fry a golden brown colour. When tho potatoes are cut in very thin slices for potato chips, they may be fried crisp at once. Fried Potato Souffles. Cut the potatoes in thin slices, lengthwise, the eighth of an inch in thickness. Throw them into cold water and then dry them in a cloth ; put them into hot fat that has not quite risen to frying point, and let them cook in this for seven minutes. Then remove them and let them get cold. Heat tho fat to frying point (see French Frying) and put tho potatoes in again; they will then inflate like small balloons and become a golden brown. All potatoes do not answer equally well in making this dish. Potato Ribbons. Peel the potatoes, and tako very thin parings. Twist them into knots and fry them in hot fat (see French Frying) until crisp and a golden brown colour. Drain thorn on kitchen paper and serve at once. Sauteed Potatoes. Cut the potatoes into olive or other shapes. Parboil them and dry them in a cloth. Then saute them in plenty of clarified butter until a golden colour.158 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Potato Croquettes. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of potatoes. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 (wrs. ^ '’oa3' Pepper and salt. Some white bread-crumbs. Method.—Boil tlio potatoes and nib them through a wiro sieve. Mash them well with tho butter, pepper, and salt. Mix in one egg well beaten. Flour the hands very slightly, and form the mixture into balls or any other shape preferred. Brush them over with beaton egg and cover with crumbs. Slightly mould them again when the crumbs are cn them. Fry in a frying-basket in hot fat (see French Frying). Garnish with fried parsley. Cabbage. Take off tho outer decayed leaves and soak the cabbago well in water, to draw out any insects. If very largo, cut it in quarters. Put it into boiling water to which salt should bo added in the proportion of half an ounce of salt to every two quarts of water, and if the water is hard, half a saltspoon- ful of carbonate of soda. Boil it with the lid off the saucepan for half an hour or more until tender. Drain in a colander before serving. It is an improvement to put a little butter on the top before sending to table. Brussels Sprouts. Select those of tho same size, trim and wash them well. Put them into boiling water, adding half an ounce of salt to every two quarts of water. Put in also a little sugar, and, if tho water is hard, half a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda. Boil them with tho lid off the saucepan from ten to twenty minutes, according to the ago and size of the sprouts.159 VEGETABLES. When tender drain them quite dry in a colander. Dry the saucepan and put them back with a very littlo butter and pepper aud salt. Shako them over the fire for a minuto or two, and serve on a hot dish. Cauliflower and Brocoli. Soak it in cold water and well wash it, and trim off the outside leaves and pai t of the stalk. Cut the stalk across twice that it may cook more quickly. Put the cauliflower head downwards into a saucepan of boiling water, with salt added to it in the proportion of half an ounce of salt to every two quarts of water, and cook it from twenty to thirty minutes, according to its ago and size. Drain it on a sieve or colander. If liked, it may bo served with white or French sauce poured over it. Turnip Greens. Well wash and trim them, and boil them according to the directions for cooking green vegetables. They will probably take from fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Drain well before serving. Boiled Lettuces. Well wash the lettuces, remove the damaged leaves and cut off ihe stalks. Boil them according to the directions for cooking green vegetables, for fifteen or twenty minutes, according to their age and size. Drain well before serving. If lilted, they may be chopped and mixed with a little white sauce. Green Peas. Tut them into boiling water with a littlo sugar and a sprig or two of mint. Boil gently with the lid off the saucopan for twenty minutes or more, according to their ago and size. Drain them in a colander. Then put thorn into the saucopan again with a littleA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 1G0 piece of butter, a little castor sugar, and a little popper and salt, and shake them over the fire a minute or two. Rapid boiling of peas will break their skins. French Beans. Remove the strings and cut the beans into Blices or across into diamonds. Put them in plenty of boiling water with salt in it (see Directions for Cooking Vegetables), and boil for fifteen minutes or longer, according to their age. Drain in a colander. Then put them back into the saucepan with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt, and shake over the fire for a minuto or two. Spinach. Pull off the stalks and-wash the spinach well in several waters to remove tho grit. If young, put it into a saucepan without any water but that which adheres to tho leaves after it has been washed. If old, put it into boiling water with salt. Cook with the lid off tho saucepan until tender, stirring it occasionally if no water is used. Drain it in a colander and wring it dry in a cloth. Then chop it or rub it through a -wire sieve—the latter modo is preferable. To dress it mix it in a saucepan over tho fire with a little butter, pepper and salt. Cream may bo used also, taking care not to make the spinach too moist. Press it into shapo as a mound or pyramid in a vege- table dish, and garnish with friod croutons of broad or sauteed potatoes. Spinach Plainly Dressed. Cook like turnip greens. Drain well. Vegetable Marrows. reel the marrows thinly and cut them in quarters, removing the seeds. Put thorn into boiling water, with salt in tho proportionVEGETABLES. 1(51 of half an ounce to every two quarts of water, and boil gently until tender. They may be served if desirod with French or white sauce poured over them. The marrows have more flavour if boiled unpeeled. The peel can be removed before serving. Broad Beans. Put them when shelled into boiling water, to which salt should be added in the proportion of half an ounce to every two quarts of water. Boil gently from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to their age and size. When tender pour the water away, and shako them in a saucepan over the fire with a little butter or dripping, pepper and salt. Carrots. Scrape them lightly but thoroughly, and cut them in quarters lengthways. Put them into boiling water to which salt has been added in the proportion of half an ounce to every two quarts of water. Boil them gently with the lid on the saucepan until they are quite tender. New carrots will take about twenty minutes, old ones an hour or more, according to their ago and size. W hen they are served with boiled meat, they are cooked with it, as their flavour is thereby improved. New carrots are sometimes boiled in strong second stock, which is afterwards boiled rapidly down to a glaze and poured over them. Turnips. Boil according to directions given for cooking carrots. Turnips generally take about half an hour, but the time depends on their age and size. If liked, they may be mashed or rubbed through a sieve and mixed with butter, popper and salt. Jf they are to be served with boiled meat, cook them with it.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 162 Parsnips. Cook like carrots. They may be served plain or mashed, with butter, pepper, and salt. Spanish Onions. Blanch them by putting them in cold water and bringing it to the boil. Then throw away the water. Itinse the onions, sprinkle some salt over them, and put them into fresh water. Boil gently from two to three hours, until perfectly tender. Drain them and serve, if liked, with French, Italian, or white sauce poured over them. Spanish onions are sometimes boiled in stock, which is afterwards used to make the sauce. Sea-Kale. Tie it in bundles and put it into boiling water, with a little butter, and salt in the proportion of half an ounco to every two quarts of water. Boil with the lid off the saucepan until the sea-kale is tender. Drain well before serving. French or white sauce may be handed with it. Sea-kale is sometimes boiled in milk, which is used afterwards to make the sauce. Celery. Cook and serve like sea-kale. Asparagus. Cut the asparagus all the same length and scrape the white part lightly. Tie it together and put it into boiling water to which salt has been added in the proportion of half an ounco to' every two quarts of water. Add also half an ounco of butter.VEGETABLES. 163 Boil gently with the lid off the saucepan, for half an hour until the green part is quite tender. Very young asparagus will not take so long. Dish on a napkin. Hand oiled butter with it. Jerusalem Artichokes. Throw them directly they are peeled into cold water, with salt and lemon juice in it to prevent them dis- colouring. Then throw them into boiling water, to which salt is added in the proportion of half an ounce to every two quarts of water. Boil gently, with the lid on the saucepan, for about fifteen or twenty minutes until quite tender. Drain them well and send them to table quickly, as they soon lose colour. They may be served plain, or with French or white sauce poured over them. Haricot Beans. Soak them in water over night. Then put them into boiling water, with a small onion and a piece of dripping and a little salt. Boil gently until quite tender. Sometimes they take quite four hours to cook. Drain them well, and before serving, toss them over the fire in a little butter, with pepper and salt, for a minute or two. Somo people like a little finely-chopped parsley sprinkled over. Tomatoes. These aro better baked than boiled: boiling destroys their flavour. Put them on a baking-tin greased with a little butter or dripping. Sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, and cover with greased paper. Put them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour.164 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Mushrooms. Peel the mushrooms; rinse them to remove any grit, and cut off the ends of the stalks. Put them on a greased baking-tin, with the stalks up- wards, and put some little pieces of butter on each mush- room, with a little pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper, and cook in a very moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, or until tender. Serve on toast, with the liquor from the tin poured over them. Cardoons. Cut the cardoons in three-inch lengths. Eemove tho prickles, and blanch them in boiling water for fifteen minutes. Scrape off the skin. Tie them in bundles, and cook like sea-kale until tender. Drain well, and serve with either oiled butter, brown, or Allemande sauce handed in a boat. Sorrel Plainly Cooked. Eemove the stalks from the sorrel, and wash it in several waters. Put it into a saucepan; cover with boiling water and boil gently, stirring occasionally until tender. Then drain thoroughly and chop it finely. Make it hot again, and serve. When used for a garnish, mix it with some Allemande sauce. Globe Artichokes. Thoroughly wash them; cut off the stems and some of the lower leaves, and cut off tho points of all. Cut the artichokes in quarters and remove the chokes. Put them into quickly boiling water with salt in it, from half an hour to two hours, according to their age and size* When they are cooked tho leaves will come out readily Serve oiled butter, French melted butter, Hollandaise, or Allemande sauce in a boat.VEGETABLES. 165 Artichoke Bottoms. Trim and boil thorn until the inside comes easily away. Then trim them neatly; put them back into the boiling water, with a little butter and salt, and cook until tender. Then drain them. They may be served with Italian, poivrade, or any other suitable sauce. Lentils. Well wash the lentils in four or five waters, until they are quite free from mud. Boil them gently in three times as much water, with a little dripping and pepper and salt, from one to one and a half hours. Keep them carefully stirred whilst cooking. Boiled Cucumber. Cook like vegetable marrow, but without removing the seeds. Serve with the same sauces. Boiled Leeks. Remove the coarser leaves from the leeks, trim them and tie them in. bundles. Cook and serve like celery. Beetroot. Wash the roots thoroughly, taking care not to scrape or cut them. Throw them quickly into boiling water with salt in it, and cook them from ono hour to two hours and a half, according to their age and size. When cooked wipe off the skin and cut into slices. Beetroot may be served cold, if liked, with vinegar poured over or mixed with other salad. It makes an excellent pickle. Beetroot has more flavour if baked in a slow oven. MA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 1GG White Beetroot. Cook and serve like red beetroot. Boiled Endive. Thoroughly cleanse it and take off the outer leaves. Cook it according to the directions for boiling green vegetables; it will take from fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Drain well, then chop it finely or rub through a wire sieve ; the latter mode is preferable. Make hot again in a stewpan with a little butter, pepper and salt, and serve like spinach. For endive as a garnish, see Chapter on Garnishes. Aubergines. These may be cooked in any way suitable for vegetable marrow. Celeriac. This vegetable, which has the same flavour as celery, may be boiled in water or stewed in stock. It may bo served with a white or French sauce. Flageolets. Cook and dress like peas. Boiled Salsify. Well wash the roots and scrape them thoroughly. Throw them at once into a pan of cold water, with salt and lemon juice in it to keep their colour. Cook in boiling water or stock, to which some lemon juice, a little butter and some salt havo been added, for three-quarters of an hour or more, until quite tender. Drain well, and dish on a napkin. Hand white or brown sauce with it. For various ways of dressing salsify, see Chapter on Vegetable Entremets ill107 VEGETABLES. Rice for a Curry. Well wash some Patna rice. Throw it into plenty of boiling water with salt in it, and boil quickly until nearly, but not quite, cooked. This will take from seven to ten minutes. Strain the rice on a sieve and pour hot water over it, rinsing it thoroughly. Then finish cooking it either by putting it in the sauce- pan again and placing it by the side of the fire, or by putting the sieve in a very moderate oven. Success depends on thorough washing (and this is best done with warm water) to get rid of the rice flour, which makes it stick. Secondly, on cooking quickly in boiling water. Thirdly, on taking it up at the right moment, on thoroughly rinsing it and on the drying being perfect. liice for a curry should be dry (but not dried up), and each grain distinct and separate. There should be a slight firmness—not hardness—about it The rice will take longer to finish in a saucepan. A little butter should bo run round the saucepan to prevent it sticking. If finished in the oven, put the sieve to stand on a plate, and lightly move the rice occasionally with a fork. If wanted quickly, dry it in front of the fire. Rice for Children. Well wash some rice, and put it into a saucepan and pour in some hot water, about a quart of water to five ounces of rice. Let the rice cook gently until soft and the water absorbed. More water may possibly bo required. llice cooked thus may be used as a vegetable with meat for children, or with sugar, jam, or treacle. Cooked as for a curry, thero is great waste of its nutritious properties. n 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUlDfl. It is also good with curry. 168 Boiled Macaroni. Throw the macaroni into boiling tvater, with salt in it, and boil it quickly for ten minutes to blanch it. Have ready another saucepan of boiling water. Brain the macaroni in a colander, and throw it into the second saucepan. Boil it quickly from fifteen to twenty minutes or longer, according to the kind used. Note.—Macaroni should be always thrown into boiling ivater and boiled, otherwise it gets sticky. Take care not to over-cook it. Like rice for a curry, there should be a slight firmness about it when finished. Macaroni cookod thus is excellent as a vegetable with roasted meats.< 169 ) V VEGETABLE ENTREMETS AND VEGETARIAN DISHES. Cauliflower au Gratin. Ingredients. 1 cauliflower. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. 1 gill of water. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 2 ozs. grated Parmesan or other cheese. Pepper and salt, and a littb cayenne. Method.—Boil the cauliflower and remove the green leaves. C-*■ Place it with tho flowor upwards in a vegetable dish, and press it to an oval shape. Melt the butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add the water, stir and cook well. Then add the cream and 1 oz. of Parmesan cheese, popper, salt and cayenne. Pour the sauce over the cauliflower. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over it, and brown cither with a salamander or in a quick oven. Note.—When economy' must be studied, uso one gill and a half of milk for the sauce instead of the water and cream. Tomatoes au Gratin. Ingredients. 1$ lbs. of tomatoes. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 pint of bread-crumbs. Pepper and salt. Method.—Slice the tomatoes and put a lay or of them in the bottom of a buttered pie-dish. Cover with crumbs and season well with popper and salt, and place small pieces of butter on them. Then put another layer of tomatoes, covering them in the samo way with crumbs.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 170 Use up all the tomatoes and crumbs in this manner, letting the last layer be crumbs. Bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Salsify Patties. Ingredients. Some patty cases made as for oysters. i lb. salsify. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. ■& pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper and salt and a little cayenne. Method.—Cook the salsify in milk or water (see Direc- tions for boiling salsify). Then cut it into small pieces. Melt the butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Then add the milk, stir and cook Yell. Mix in tho cream, and let it boil in the sauce. Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and salsify. Fill tho patty cases with the mixture, and put a lid on each. Stewed Mushrooms. Peel and rinse the mushrooms, and cut off the ends of tho stalks. Stew them gently in water, stock, or milk, until quite tender, adding pepper and salt to taste. Then thicken the gravy with a little flour, cooking it well. Before serving stir in a little butter or cream. Tomatoes Farcie. Ingredients. C or 8 ripe tomatoes. 1 oz. of butter. £ oz. of flour. 1 gill of stock or milk. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped cooked ham. 1 dessertspoonful of grate'd Par- mesan cheese. 1 large cooked mushroom finely chopped. A few drops of lemon juico. Some white and brown bread- crumbs. Pepper and salt. Method.—Melt tho butter in a small stewpan.171 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS, ETC. Mix in tho flour smoothly. Then add the stock or milk; stir and cook well. Then mix in sufficient white crumbs to slightly thicken the mixture. Add tho parsley, mushrooms, cheese, ham, lemon juice, and seasoning. Scoop out the top of each tomato. Tile a little of the stuffing on each and sprinkle a few browned crumbs over. Put the tomatoes on a slightly greased baking-sheet and cook them in a moderate oven for about a quarter of an hour. Macaroni and Cheese. i lb. of macaroni. 4 ozs. of grated cheese. 1 pint of milk. 2 ozs. of butter. Ingredients. 1 cz. of flour. Pepper and salt and a little cayenno. Method.—Bieak the macaroni into small pieces, and boil it as directed for boiled macaroni, and drain well. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Tour in the milk, and stir and boil well. Then put in the macaroni and seasoning and half the cheese. Put the mixture into a buttered pio-dish or into buttered scallop-shells. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over. Put small pieces of butter about it, aqd brown in a quick oven. Savoury Macaroni. Ingredients. i lb. of macaroni. 1 quart of nicely flavoured stock. 14 ozs. of butter. 3 ozs. of grated cheese. 1 teaspoon fill of mixed mustard and a little pepper and salt. Method.—Break the macaroni, and throw it into quickly boiling water, with salt in it, and boil it for ten minutes quickly. Drain it, and throw it into tho stock when boiling. Cook for about twenty minutes,A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 172 Malco a smooth thickening with the flour; add it to the gravy, and cook well. Mix in two ounces of the cheese, the mustard, and pepper and salt. Well butter a pie-dish, put the macaroni in it, and put the remainder of the butter in small pieces about it. Brown in a quick oven. ' A’ more ornamental dish is made by serving tho macaroni in scallop-shells. Vegetable Pie. Ingredients. Equal quantities of carrots, turnips, mushrooms, and celery. Half the quantity of onion. Some flaky or other pastry. Pepper and salt and a little dripping or butter. Method.—Cleanse and slice the vegetables, and gently saute them in the dripping or butter for ten minutes, but do not let them discolour. Then partly cook them in a very little water. The carrots must be cooked before the other vegetables are put in, as they require a much longer time. Let them get cold. Then put thorn into a pie-dish and cover with pastry. Glaze and decorate as for a meat pie. Bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Mushroom Pie. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of mushrooms. Pepper and salt. 2 lbs. of potatoes. Some flaky or other pastry. A little butter or dripping. Method.—Put a layer of mushrooms, when peeled and rinsed, at the bottom of a pie-dish. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and put little bits of butter about them. Cover with slices of potato, seasoning them in the same way, and continue to place the mushrooms and potatoes in layers until the dish is full. Cover with pastry, and bake in a quick oven for aboqt three quarters of an hour.L VEGETABLE ENTREMETS, ETC. 173 Vegetable Marrows with Minced Meat. Ingredients. Vegetable marrow. I Browned crumbs. A mince of meat. Method.—Boil the marrows until tender. Cut them in half and then into pieces three inches across. Cut these flat at the bottom, so that thoy will stand, and trim them to a round shape. Hollow out the centre, and fill with a mince-meat, and sprinkle browned crumbs over the top. Make them hot in the oven before serving. Potato Beignets. Ingredients. 1 lb. of cooked potatoes. The yolks of 3 eggs and whites 2 ozs. of butter. of 4. Salt and pepper. Method.—Rub the potatoes through a sieve, mash them with butter, pepper and salt, and beat in the yolks thoroughly, and mix in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Drop the mixture in pieces about the size of a walnut into hot fat (see French Frying), and fry for five minutes, taking care tney do not take too dark a colour. Drain well, dish on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Croustard of Mushrooms. Ingredients. 1 lb. of 6Tnall mushrooms. 2 ozs. of butter. £ oz. of flour. A pinch of pounded mace. Pepper and salt. A little lemou juice. Some stale bread. Method.—Peel, rinse, and dry the mushrooms. Melt the butter in a stewpan and put in the mushrooms, with the mace and a little pepper and salt. Gently fry them without discolouring, for fifteen minutes.174 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. > Then mix in the flour thoroughly, add the stock and simmer the mushrooms until tender. Then add the lemon juice. Whilo the mushrooms are cooking, cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness. Cut it into a round or oval shape with a vol-au-vent cutter. Scoop out the centre evenly, leaving the sides and bottom a quarter of an inch in thickness. When the mushrooms are ready, fry the bread case in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain well and fill with the mushrooms. Serve at once. Stewed Onions. Ingredients. Some Spanish onions. Flour. Stock. Pepper and salt. Dripping. Method.—Peel the onions. Flour them, and fry them a light brown in some dripping. Then put them into a stewpan, cover with slock, and boil gontly from two to three hours, until they are quite soft. Then thicken the gravy with a little flour, and season to taste. Serve on a hot dish with the gravy poured over them. Neapolitan Rice. Ingredients. Some well-cooked rice. Some butter. Some tomatoes. Fepper and salt to taste. Some grated cheese. Method.—Cook tho rico as directed for a curry. Melt some butter in a stewpan; add the rice to it. Rub two or three ripe tomatoes through a hair sieve. Add tho pulp to the rico and two or threo spoonfuls of grated cheese, with pepper and salt to taste, and a little cayenne. Stir all together over the Are, and servo very hot.VEGETABLE ENTREMETS, ETC. 175 Neapolitan Rice (Another Way). Ingredients. 3 ozs. of rice. i pint of tomato puree. 2 ozs. of streaky bacon. Pepper and salt. ^ pint of stock. Method.—Well wash the rice, and parboil it for three minutes, then well drain and dry. Cut the bacon into small dice, fry them in a stewpan, then add the rice and fiy until yellow. Pour in tho stock and cook gently until the rice is nearly cooked ; season well with salt and pepper. Then add the tomato puree and continue to cook until it is absorbed. Serve piled on a hot dish. Cold meat, game, poultry, fish, or sausages may be sliced and reheated in rice prepared in this way. Riz a la Milanaise. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of rice. 1 pint or more of stock. A little saffron. 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan or other cheese. 1 small onion. 3 ozs. of butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Well wash the rice, throw it in boiling water and boil for four minutes. Well drain and then fry in a stewpan in 2 ozs. of butter, with an onion finely shredded, until it begins to colour. Pour in tho stock coloured with a little saffron, and let it gently cook until it has absorbed all tho stock and become quite soft. Add more stock if necessary. When ready, season well with pepper and salt, and stir in the remainder of the butter. Pile on a hot dish and dust tho cheese well over it. Indian Rice. Prepare the rice as in foregoing recipe.176 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Cook with it a dessertspoonful of curry powder, and leave out the cheese. Mix in a few prawns which havo been shelled, washed, cleaned and sauteed in a little butter. Vegetable Curry. (See Indian Curries.) Haricot beans and rice are excellent curried alone or together. Lentil Fritters. Boil some lentils (see Directions) with a finely chopped onion mixed with them. When nicely cooked and dry, season with pepper and salt. Add a little butter and beaten egg, taking care not to make the mixture too moist. Form into balls, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot oil or fat. Haricot Fritters. Make in the same way, mashing the beans when cooked. Mushroom Rissoles. Ingredients. Pastry. I Egg and bread-crumbs or ver- Mushrooms. I micelli. Method.—Stew some mushrooms according to directions given in recipe. When cooked, mince them and pour them on a plate to cool. Iioll out the pastry very thinly, it must not be thicker than a shilling. Stamp into rounds with a paste cutter, brush the edges of tho paste with beaten egg, and put some of the mush rooms in tho centre. Double tho paste over, pressing tho edges together. Brush with beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs or crushed vermicelli. Fry in hot fat (see French Frying) and garnish with fried parsley.177 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS, ETB. Mushroom Pudding. Ingredients. Some suet paste. | Mushrooms. Method.—Peel and rinse the mushrooms, and prepare the paste as for beef-steak pudding. Fill the paste-lined basin with the mushrooms, which should be seasoned with pepper and salt. Pour in a little water. Cover and finish otf as directed for beef-steak pudding, and boil for two hours. Curried Macaroni. Boil some macaroni according to directions, drain well, and make hot in plain or good curry sauce (see Sauces). Mushroom Pasty. Ingredients. Some short or flaky crust. rooms and potatoes. Equal quantities of mush- A little onion. Method.—Peel and well rinse the mushrooms, and peel and slice the potatoes. Cut them both into small dice, and chop the onion finely. Mix them together, and season with pepper and salt. Boll out the pastry, cut into rather large rounds. Wet the edges of the paste rounds with water, and put the vegetables in the centre. Draw the edges of the pastry together, and goffer them ■with the fingers. Put them on a slightly greased baking-tin, and bake for an hour. Salsify a la Supreme. Cook the salsify as directed for boiled salsify. Cut it into one inch and a half lengths, and mix with sufficient supremo sauce to moisten well. Pile in the centre of a dish, and garnish with fried croutons of bread or sauteed potatoes.178 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Fried Salsify. Cook the salsify as directed for boiled salsify. Then drain and diy well. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). If preferred, the salsify may bo covered with frying batter instead of tho egg and crumbs. Dish on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Scalloped Salsify. Prepare tho salsify as for salsify a la supreme. Put it in buttered scallop-shells. Sprinkle with browned crumbs, and put little pieces of butter about it. Brown in a quick oven, or with a salamander. Cheese Pudding. Ingredients. 1 oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. A little cayenne. Method.—Put the crumbs into a basin. Boil the milk, pour it over them, and let them soak. Then add tho yolks of the three eggs, tho grated cheese and seasoning. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly. Pour the mixture into a greased pie-dish, and bake in a quick oven until well thrown up and brown. Hominy Porridge. Pour boiling water on tho hominy over-night. Put it on the next day, with more milk or water if it requires it. One ounce of hominy generally takes about half a pint of liquid. Cook for half an hour in a doublo saucepan if possible ; if not, it must be stirred constantly. A little butter or cream may be stirred in, if liked. 6 ozs. ol bread-crumbs. 1 pint of milk, t lb. of grated cheese. 3 eggs.VEGETABLE ENTREMETS, ETC. 179 Hominy porridge may be eaten alone or with, sugar, jam, or treacle. Hominy Fritters. Ingredients. Hominy porridge. Terror iJool Bread-crumbs. Method.—Pour some hominy porridge to tho depth of half an inch on a baking-tin. When cold stamp it into rounds, egg and bread-crumb them and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). These make a nice sweet-dish with jam, or a savoury one with a nice thick gravy. Plain Savoury Rice. Ingredients. 1 onion. 1 pint of boilings from meat. 3 ozs. of rice. Pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the onion until tender, then chop it finely. Wash the rice, and boil it in tho meat liquor with tho chopped onion until tender. Add pepper and salt to taste. Cheese Sandwiches. Ingredients. i lb. of grated cheese. The yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. 4 slices of thin bread. 3 ozs. of butter. Pepper and salt. A little cayenne. Method.—Beat the yolks well with tho butter, add tho cheese and seasoning. Spread the mixture on two pieces of buttered bread and placo the others over. Rice Stewed with Cheese. Ingredients. h lb. of rice. 2 ozs. of grated cheese. 2i pints of water. Pepper and salt. 1 pint of milk. Method.—Boil tho rico gently in the water for half anA COMPLETE COOKER^ GUIDE. iso hour, then add the milk and cheese, and boil gently fol1 half an hour more. Asparagus Iced. Cook the asparagus as directed in Chapter on Vegetables. When cool put it in an ice-case until wanted, and serve with iced cream. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. Ingredients. 1 lb. of cooked potatoes. 2 ozs. butter. A dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon. Method.—Slice the potatoes and fry them in the butter. Sprinkle in the parsley, with salt, pepper and lemon juice, and serve very hot. Pain de Topinambours. Ingredients. 2^ lbs. of artichokes. 5 eggs. i pint of double cream. Pepper and salt. Method.—Cook the artichokes and rub them through a hair sieve. Beat the eggs thoroughly, and the cream to a stiff froth. Mix with the artichokes, and season to taste. Well butter a border mould and fill with the mixture, and steam for about an hour. When cool, ice it. Garnish with aspic, cucumber, and beetroot. Fill the centre with beaten cream which has been seasoned with pepper and salt and lemon juice, and iced, or mayonnaise sauce may be served with this dish. Eggs h. la Suisse. Ingredients. 8 eggs. Gruydre or other cheese. Cream. Pepper and salt. Method.—Butter the bottom and sides of a silver dish. Cover with very thick cream.181 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS, ETC. Lay on this some thin slices of Gruyere, or sprinkle with other grated cheese. Break the shells of the eggs and slip them one by one gently on to the dish, taking great care not to break tho yolks. Season well with pepper and salt. Pour some more cream on tho top, and cover with cheese. Put the dish in the oven long enough to set tho eggs without hardening them. Salamander the top. Serve thin dry toast with this dish, cut in neat strips. Baked Potato Souffles. Ingredients. 1 doz. of small round potatoes. 1 oz. of butter. 4 gill of milk. Method.—Well scrub the potatoes, and bake them. When cooked, cut a slice off the top of each and scoop out all the inside. Bub it through a sieve and weigh three ounces of it. Put the milk and butter in a saucepan on tho fire to boil. When they boil add the three ounces of potato, and pepper and salt to taste. Beat in off the fire the yolks of three of tho eggs and add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. These must bo mixed in lightly. Partly fill the potato skins, and bake in a quick oven, until tho souffles are well thrown up and of a light golden brown; servo immediately. For potato croquettes and fried potato souffles, see Chapter on Vegetables. 4 eggs. Pepper and salt. N182 A COMPLETE COOKEIiY GUIDE. FISH. How to Choose Fish. FiiESH fish may bo known by the brightness of the eyes and gills, and the firmness of the flesh; there should be little or no smell, and that not disagreeable. When the flesh is flabby and the odour offensive, tho fish is not fit for food. Tho best cod are round and plump, with firm white flesh. The sound and the glutinous parts about the head are much esteemed. Mackerel must be eaten perfectly fresh, as it spoils very rapidly. Eed mullets are ^better for being kept a short time. Choose them short, very red, and with firm flesh and bright eyes. The grey mullet should be cooked when quite fresh. When plaice is in good condition, the body is thick and firm, and the eyes bright. Salmon to be in perfection should be cooked as soon as possible after it is caught: when this is done, there is a white creamy substance between tho flakes which is highly esteemed; this molts when tho fish is kept longer. Skate is better if kept a day or two, and it must always be skinned before using. Crimping should be done directly the fish is dead; when crimped it does not keep well. Smelts should be quite fresh. They should be silvery in appearance, and smell like freshly cut cucumber. Soles are best fresh, but will keep a day or two in cold weather.183 FISH. Tuibot should be thick and of a creamy colour. Rod spots may be removed with salt and lemon-juice. The best cuts are from the middle of the back. Tho fins aro considered a dolicacy. Whitebait must be as fresh as possible, so also must bo whiting. Mussels must be eaten very fresh. Be careful to remove the beard which looks like seaweed. Lobsters and crabs when unboiled should be lively and heavy. The flesh of the cock is better than that of the hen, but the hen is valued on account of the coral and spawn. Most spawn is found in tho lobster in May and June. To test the freshness of boiled lobsters, pull tho tails; if fresh they will go back with a spring. Oysters must be perfectly fresh, their freshness may be (ested by the force with which they close on tho knife, when they open they aro stalo or dead. Natives aro to be obtained at the beginning of September. There is a saying that oysters and mussels should not be eaten in any month which has not an R in it. In buying fish, choose those which aro in season. Dr. Bavy say's on this subject— “ The quality of fish as an article of food is influenced by the act of spawning, and presents considerable varia- tions at different periods. It is just previous to spawning that tho animal is in its highest state of perfection. Its condition altogether is then at its best point. The animal is fatter than at anyr other period, and of a richer flavour for eating. During the process of spawning its store of fatty matter is drawn upon, and it becomes poor, thin, Avatery and flabby. It is now said to be out of season, and requires time to arrive in condition again. In fish like the cod, where tho fatty matter accumulates especially in the liver, this organ presents a striking difference in volume and condition before and after spaAvning; Avhilst in such as tho salmon, herring, &c., Avhere the fat is dispersed amongst tho flesh, it is tho body which affords the chief evidence of change. As salmon enters tho river from the sea for the purpose of depositing its spaAvn, it is plump and Avell provided Avith fat. On its return the contrast in its condition is very great. It is now so exhausted and thin as to be looked upon as unfit for ! food.” N 2184 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. How to Clean Fish. Empty tlie fish without cutting to disfigure it, wash it thoroughly, examining it carefully to see that no blood is left on the bone, scrub this if necessary. The sound may bo cleansed -without removing it, the liver must be carefully washed, tho gall bladder taken away without breaking. Slime on fish may be removed by rubbing them with salt and then thoroughly washing. Scales should be scraped off and then the fish must be thoroughly rinsed. Fresh- water fish are verjr difficult to scale unless they are first plunged in boiling water. To remove the muddy flavour which fresh-water fish have, wash thoroughly and rub salt down the bone of the fish. Soak in strong salt and water for some hours before cooking. The red mullet is not drawn. Pull out the gills, and all that it is necessary to remove will oome with them. Smelts should be drawn by the gills. Whitebait should be very lightly handled, or the appearance will be spoiled. To Skin Fish. Soles are skinned from the tail. Scrape tho skin from it, and with the thumb loosen the skin round tho edge of the fish, then take a cloth, hold the fish firmly with it in one hand and with the other pull the skin sharply off. Plaice are particularly difficult to skin in this way. When filleted tho skin should be cut off with a sharp knifo, if it is wished removed. Haddocks, whiting, &c., are skinned from the head to the tail. Cut off the fins. Slip the finger under the skin close to the head and draw the skin downwards to tho tail. If skinned from tail to head the flesh would come away in flakes. How to Fillet Fish. To fillet a solo, proceed thus:—After skinning it on both sides, cut down the middle of the back with a sharp knife, and then remove the flesh on either side as cleanly as possible from the bone. From each sole there will botosil. 185 four fillets. All flat fish are filleted in the same way Whiting, mackerel, haddock, &c., are filleted by removing the flesh cleanly from the bones on either side of the fish. It is wise to take a few lessons from a fishmonger or other competent person in skinning and filleting fish. Rules for Boiling Fish. All fish, with the exception of salt fish and mackerel, should be put into boiling water or court bouillon. If boiled in water, add salt in the proportion of one table- spoonful to every two quarts of water, and, if liked, a tablespoon ful of vinegar to that quantity of water. Acid helps to keep the flesh of tho fish firm. The fish must be placed on a strainer. Boil it gently for a minute to set the albumen on the outside of the fish, then lower the heat of the water to simmering point, and keep it at that heat (175°) until the fish is cooked. All scum must be removed from the surface of the water as it rises, otherwise it will settle on the fish and disfigure it. It is a wise precaution to wrap the fish in a piece of muslin. For a thick piece of fish eight minutes to the pound and eight minutes over is the time usually allowed; but no hard and fast rule can be laid down, because the time it will take to cook will depend not only on its weight, but on its shape and size. When the fish is cooked it will have an opaque appearance, and on being pulled will leave the bone readily. Great care must bo taken to cook it sufficiently, but not to over-cook it. Under-cooked fish is very unpleasant, while over-cooked fish is flavourless, and breaks to pieces. Salt fish is put into lukewarm water, that some of the salt may be drawn out, and simmered until cooked. Mackerel should not be put into boiling water as the skin easily breaks. When the fish is cooked, remove it immediately from the water and place the strainer across the kettle that the fish may get thoroughly drained, cover it with a hot cover, and leave it in that position for a few minutes. Then dish on a folded napkin or on a strainer. Garnish tastefully and serve with an appropriate sauce.1S6 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Small cod, salmon, &c., if boiled whole should be trussed in the form of the letter S. Steamed Fish. For this method of cooking a fish-steamer will be required, unless the fish is small, where an ordinary steamer or saucepan may be used. Keep the water under the steamer boiling briskly all the time the fish is cooking, otherwise thero will not bo sufficient force of steam, and the fish will be sodden. Steamed fish is said to lose less in weight and flavour than boiled fish. It takes, however, longer to cook. Baked Fish. The oven must be kept at a very moderate heat, that the fish may not be dried up. Small fish, fillets, cutlets, &c., may be cooked with great advantage in the oven, if covered with buttered paper, which will keep them moist, and prevent any baked flavour. The fish must be placed in a slightly buttered saute-pan or baking-tin. Fried Fish. Small fish, such as whiting, smelts, dm., are generally fried whole. Larger fish, such as salmon, and cod, &c., are fried in the form of cutlets or fillets. Fish to be fried must be covered with eggs and crumbs, batter, or flour. A stewpan or fish-frier, half full of fat, and not a frying-pan, should be used for the purpose (see French Frying). The bread-crumbs for frying should bo made by rubbing stale bread through a wire sieve. The egg should be well beaten, otherwise it will not adhere to the fish. Woll dry the fish in a cloth before preparing it for frying. Turbot. Cook it according to tho Directions given for Boiling,FISH. 1S7 Si earning, or Baking Fish. It usually takes from half an hour to an hour. It should he dished on a folded napkin. Garnish with cut lemon, parsley and lobster coral. Serve lobster, shrimp, Hollandaise, Genoese, tartare, horseradish, or any other suitable sauce with it. Note.—The fins are not removed, they are considered a delicacy. Cook a small turbot in the oven (see Baking Fish). Brill. Cook and serve like turbot. Salmon. Cook according to the Directions given for Boiling, Steaming, or Baking Fish. Truss a small salmon in the form of the letter S. Dish on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley and coral. Serve with lobster, Hollandaise, or any other suitable sauce. Cod. Cook according to the Directions given for Boiling, Steaming, or Baking Fish. A small piece is often served with thick white sauco poured over it and garnished with the yolk of a hard- boiled egg rubbed through a sieve, or lobster coral and parsley. Serve with oyster, lobster, shrimp, egg, or any other suitable sauco. Hake, Halibut, and Ling. May all be cooked like cod. Shad. Cook and servo like salmon. Mackerel. Cook according to the Directions given for Boiling, Steaming, or Baking Fish.188 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. As the skin easily breaks, it is put into hot, not boiling water. Servo with melted butter, fennel, or caper sauce. John Dory. This fish may be cooked and served in the same manner as turbot. A fish over eight pounds in weight is apt to be coarse and strong in flavour. Haddock. This fish may be boiled, steamed or baked, and served with melted butter, anchovy, or any other appropriate sauce. Soles. These may be boiled, steamed, baked or fried. The appearance of boiled soles may be obtained with a far finer flavour by cooking them on a buttered baking- tin covered with buttered paper, in a very moderate oven. The liquor from the fish should be used in any sauce served with them. Fried Sole. Cover the sole with beaten egg and fine white bread- crumbs ; flatten these on with a knife, and fry in a deep frying-pan or fish-frier (see French Frying). Moderate the heat when brown, that the sole may cook 1o the centre without drying or becoming too dark a colour. When cooked, drain well, either on a fish-drainer or kitchen paper, and dish on a paper or napkin. Garnish with fried parsley. A sole generally takes from three to six minutes to fry. Fried Fillets of Sole. Egg and bread-crumb the fillets; flatten on the crumbs with a broad-bladed knife, roll the fillets up lightly with18D FISH. the side from which the skin was removed inside, or they may he cooked unrolled, giving them a slight twist as they are placed in the fat. Put them in a frying-basket, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain well and dish on a folded napkin. Garnish with fried parsley. When rolled the fillets take from three to six minutes to fry, according to the thickness of the fillets. When slightly browned lower the heat, that they may not take too dark a colour. Sole au Gratin. Ingredients. 1 large sole. 1 wineglass of sherry or white wine. $ pint of Italian sauce. Some browned bread-crumbs. Finely chopped parsley. Butter. Pepper and salt. Method.—Well butter a gratin-disb, sprinkle it with parsley and pepper and salt. Notch the skin of the sole here and there with a knife, to prevent it contracting; this is the white skin, the other should be removed. Lay the sole on the gratin-dish and pour over the wine ; cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven. Remove the paper, and pour over the sauce, cover thinly with the crumbs and pass a salamander over before serving. Sole au Gratin (Another Method). Ingredients. 1 sole. 1 dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley. G button mushrooms finely chopped. 1 shalot very finely chopped. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. $ oz. of butter. 1 oz. of good glaze and a few brown bread-crumbs. Method.—Butter a gratin-dish, and sprinkle on it half of the parsley, shalot and mushrooms, with a little lemon juice, pepper and salt. Lay the sole, prepared as directed in preceding190 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. recipe, on tlie mixture, and sprinkle the remainder of the parsley, &c., over it. Put the butter about it in small pieces. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes, according to the sizo of tho sole, and serve on the dish on which it was cooked (this should be placed on another), with the glaze poured over it. Fillets of Sole a la Rouennaise. Ingredients. 2 or more soles. Lemon juice. Lobster cutlet mixture. Finely chopped truffle. i pint or more of veloute sauce (prepared if possible with stock made from the bones and trimmings of the soles). Method.—Eemove both skins from the soles and fillet them (see How to fillet fish). Spread some of the lobster cutlet mixture on the one half of each fillet and fold it over. Place them on a greased baking-sheet and sprinkle with lemon juice. Cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven from seven to twelve minutes, according to the thickness of the fillet. Dish the fillets in a circle, and pour over the sauce mixed with chopped truffle. Decorate the fillets by placing on them alternately a pinch of chopped truffle and prepared lobster coral. The fillets may bo dished, if liked, on a border of lobster cutlet mixture. Note.—In preparing any fillets of sole for cooking, roll or fold them with the side from which the skin was taken inside. There is still on this an under-skin which con- tracts in cooking, and unless they are folded in this way the fillets will not keep in shape. Fillets of Sole a la Supreme. Fillets of 2 or more soles. Lemon juice. Ingredients. £ pint of supreme sauce. Method.—Poll or fold tho fillets with tho side from which the skin was taken inside. Place them on a buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle lemon juieo over, and cover with buttered paper.FISH. 191 Cook in a moderato oven as directed for solo a la Pouennaise. Dish in a circle, and cover with the sauce. Maitre-d’hotel, Italian, Genoese, cardinal, and many other sauces, may be used with fillets of solo in the same manner, and the sauce will give its name to the dish. Sole a la Colbert. Fry the sole according to the directions given for fried sole. When cooked carefully, remove the bone without breaking the fish. Put some maitre-d’hotel butter in the cavity, and serve before it is melted. Garnish with fried paisley and cut lemon. Sole a I’Orley. Ingredients. Some fillets of sole. The juice of a lemon. A few sprigs of parsley. 1 small onion sliced. A little pepper and salt. Some frying batter (see Frying Batter). Method.—Put the fillets in a basin with the lemon juice, onion, parsley, pepper and salt, to marinade for two hours, then draw each fillet through the batter, and fry them in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with Ilollandaise, tomato, or any other suitable sauce. Grilled Salmon. Cut the salmon in slices about one inch in thickness, rub them over with the best salad oil, if very thick wiap in oiled paper, and broil gently over a very clear file, turning them every five minutes. They will probably take about twenty minutes to cook. When done the fish will leavo the bone on being pressed. Tartare sauce is a favourite one with grilled salmon, biit brown, caper, horseradish, poivrade, Italian, and many others may be used.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 192 Fillets of Salmon k I’lndienne. Ingredients. Salmon. Good curry sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Method.—Cut the salmon in thin slices lengthwise, and trim them to a pear shape. Egg and bread-crumb them, flattening the crumbs on with a knife, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain well, and dish in a circle, with the curry sauce poured -over them. Garnish prettily with powered lobster coral and chopped gherkin. Cold Salmon with Mayonnaise Sauce. Boil the salmon according to the Directions for Boiling Fish, cool it, and when cold coat it with mayonnaise sauce, to which somo liquid aspic jelly has been added, in tho proportion of half a gill to every half-pint of mayonnaise. Decorate prettily with anything suitable, such as lobster coral, truffle, parsley, cucumber, olives, anchovies, capers, Indian pickles, and gherkins. A border of chopped aspic makes a nice finish to the dish. For mayonnaise of salmon, see Salads. Fried Fillets of Mackerel. Split the mackerel in two, removing all bone, trim into pear-like shapes, egg and bread-crumb them and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Dish in a circle and serve with brown, caper, browned butter, gooseberry, Ilollandaise, or tartare sauce. A more economical dish may be made by frying the halves of mackerel entire or simply cut in half. The roes should bo carefully washed, cooked in tho oven, and put in the centre of tho dish. Broiled Mackerel. Split tho mackerel in two, carefully remove the bone, rub them over with good salad oil, with which a littleFISII. 193 salt and pepper has been mixed, and, if liked, a little cayenne. Broil them over a very clear fire. Serve with browned butter, gooseberry, mustard, or any other suitable sauce. They are very good with tarragon butter spread ou them just before serving (see Tarragon Butter). / Soused Mackerel. Ingredients. For 6 large mackerel take 1 2 doz. peppercorns. pint of vinegar. A little cayenne and salt. 1 pint of water. Boil the vinegar and other ingredients for an hour, and let it get cold. Boil the mackerel according to the Directions for Boiling Fish; put them into a pie-dish, and pour the vinegar, <fcc., over them. Cover close and let them steep for twelve hours. Place them on a flat dish for serving, and garnish with fennel. Red Mullets in Cases. Ingredients. Bed mullets. Equal quantities of finely chopped parsley. Shalot and mushroom. A little lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Method.—Wash each mullet carefully, and cut off the fins. The mullet must not be drawn. Oil some stiff sheets of paper, sprinkle over them some of the parsley, &c., with a little lemon juice and salt. Lay the mullets on this and cover them with the remainder of the parsley, &c. Fold the papers securely, and put the mullets on a greased baking-tin or saute-pan. Cook them in a very moderate oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes. They are served in the paper.194 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Red Mullets Grilled. Score the mullets on both sides and rub them over with salad oil. Season with a little pepper and salt. Grill carefully over a very clear fire, and servo with piquant, maitre-d’hotel, Italian, tomato, Genoese, or any other suitable sauce. Red Mullets au Gratin. Ingredients. 3 mullets. 1 wine-glass of sherry. 1 teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 1 oz. of butter. 1 medium-size mushroom or truffle very finely chopped. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful of very finely chopped shalot. Juice of half a lemon. A little flour. Pepper and salt. Method.—Lay the mullets on a buttered gratin-dish, pour over the wine, and add the other ingredients ex- cepting the flour. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a very moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Pour the liquor into a saucepan and thicken with a little flour mixed with butter, boil well and pour over the mullets. Cover with brown raspings and put in the oven for a few minutes longer. Grey Mullets. These may be boiled, steamed, baked or broiled, and served with Hollandaise, maitre-d’hotel, anchovy, or any other suitable sauce. Whitings. Tlieso may be boiled, steamed, baked, fried, or broiled. They are rather insipid when boiled. Fried Whiting. Method.—Skin the whiting, and fasten the tail between the jaws with a small wooden skewer. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in hot fat (see French Frying).195 fish. Garnish with fried parsley. Any suitable sauce may be handed with them, oyster, lobster, shrimp, Hollandaise, maitre-d’hotel, &c. If preferred, tho whiting may be dipped in beaten egg, and then in flour instead of crumbs, before frying. Whitings with Genoese Sauce. Skin some small whitings, and fasten the tails in the jaws with small wooden skewers. Lay them on a buttered saute-pan or baking-tin, and cover with buttered paper. Cook in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes, or longer; then dish them up. Pour a little Genoese sauce over, and serve tho re- mainder in a tureen. Sturgeon. This is a fish rarely in the market. It may be dressed and served in every way suitable for salmon. Before cooking, the skin must be removed, as tho oil in it is apt to give an unpleasant flavour to the fish. Boiled Skate. Remove any skin, and boil or steam the skate according to the Directions for Boiling and Steaming Fish. Serve with anchovy, shrimp, piquant, browned butter, or any suitable sauce. Crimping Skate. Skin tho skate, and cut the fish in strips about an inch wide and the length of tho fish; roll them up and tie them with thread. Tho crimping should be done as soon as possible after the fish is dead. The practice of crimping the living skate is barbarous. Crimped skate may be boiled, steamed, baked, or fried, and served with any sauce suitable for fish. Fried Smelts. Smelts are generally fried. Wash well and dry them.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 196 Cover them with beaten egg, and then dip them in crumbs or flour. _ Fry them (see French Frying), and when well drained dish them on a folded napkin, and garnish with friod parsley. Servo piquant, anchovy, tomato, Hollandaise, Italian, or any suitable sauce with them. Smelts au Gratin. Prepare like soles au gratin. Servo in the gratin-dish placed on another one. Conger Eel. This is a fish very little used, although its flesh is really wholesome and nourishing. It may bo boiled, stewed, baked, or fried (see Directions for these methods), and served with any sauce suitable for fish. Red Herrings. These may be cooked in various ways. If boiled or steamed (see Directions), serve with horse- radish, shrimp, maitre-d’hotel, or piquant sauce, and garnish with parsley, scraped horseradish, or capors. They will probably take from ten to twelve minutes to cook. Whitebait. Ingredients. Whitebait: 1 Flour. Method.—Carefully look the whitebait over, to see that it is free from weod, &c., but avoid touching it more than necessary. To fry well it must be perfectly fresh, and must bo kept until required in very cold water with a lump of ice in it. Tut oil or other fat in a stewpan to get hot (see French Frying). Lay a cloth open on a tray, and put a heap of flour in the centre.pish. 197 When the fat is hot enough, throw a small handful of the bait into the flour. Take hold of the cloth at each end and shake it rapidly, until the bait is well floured. Empty the bait without the least delay into a frying- basket. Shake that vigorously to let the loose flour drop out, and plunge into the hot fat. Fry until quite crisp. Then drain and serve at once, with thin brown bread and butter, and lemons cut in quarters lengthwise. If a large quantity is to be served, after they have all been fried, put them in the basket again, make the fat very hot and plunge in again for a few seconds. It is better, however, to send them to table in relays as soon as fried. Note.—Success in frying the whitebait dopends on quick flouring and very hot fat. If the flouring is made a lengthy process, the moisture of the bait makes a paste with the flour, and causes the bait to stick together, a common fault. If the fat is not very hot, the bait will not be crisp. Properly fried whitebait is perfectly crisp, and each fish distinct and separate. Although the bait must be crisp, care should be taken that it is not over-fried and dried up. Devilled Whitebait. Fry the Whitebait; well pepper it with white pepper, or slightly with red, and plunge again into the hot fat. Broiled Herrings. Scale and gut the fish without opening, and score them on either side : rub them over with salad oil and a little pepper and salt, broil over a very clear fire. Cook the roes in the oven and serve with them. Serve with a little maitre-d’hotel butter on them. Broiled Herrings (Another Method). Remove the heads and tails, split them down the back, and remove the bones; egg and bread-crumb them, and broil them. oA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 198 Garnish with fried parsley. Use light brown crumbs for this purpose. Fried Herrings. Scale and gut the fish without opening them. Egg and bread-crumb them, or egg and flour them, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Garnish with fried parsley. Some people like fried onions with herrings. To cook tho onions, cut them into thin rings, and fry them a dark brown in a little butter or dripping. If preferred, the herrings may be divided in halves and fried. Baked Herrings. A few herrings. Ingredients. A little butter or dripping. A few browned bread-crumbs. Method.—Open the herrings and remove the backbone ; roll them and lay them on a greased baking-tin. Cover with greased paper, and cook them in a moderate oven. Dish on a folded napkin, with a line of browned crumbs on each roll of fish, and garnish with fried parsley and the roes of the herrings, which should also be cooked in the oven. Cod Sounds Boiled. Ingredients. Some cod sounds. Veloute sauce. . Milk. Pepper and salt. Water. Method.—Soak the sounds in water for about six hours. Then boil them in milk and -water for half an hour or longer, until tender. If very salt, change the milk and water when half cooked. Cut them in pieces about two inches square, and make them hot in the veloutd sauce. Tile them on a dish in the form of a pyramid, with slices of lemon, hard-boiled eggs, and potato croquettes, for a garnish.FISH. o 2 19!) For a more savoury ilisli, substitute a more highly- flavoured sauce, such as Hollandaise, tomato, poivrade, &c. Marinaded Cod Sounds. Cod souuds. Milk. Water. Oil. Vinegar. Ingredients. Shalot. Parsley. Batter. Pepper and salt. Method.—Soak the cod sounds in water for about six hours, and then boil them in milk and water until tendor. Cut them in pieces an inch and a half square. Mix together equal quantities of oil and vinegar. Add to them one shalot and a little parsley finely chopped. Steep the sounds in the marinade. Just before serving, dip each one in Kromesky batter, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Dish in a circle, and pour over some piquant sauce {see Sauces). Decorate with truffle and coral. Plaice. This fish may bo boiled, baked, or fried. It is, how- ever, vei’y flavourless when boiled, and when not too large should be cooked in the oven in preference (see Baked Fish). Fried Fillets of Plaice. Fillet the plaice {see How to fillet Fish); divide each fillet, if large, in two. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain them on a drainer or kitchen paper, and serve on a folded napkin, garnished with fried parsloy. Fillets of Plaice a la Maitre-d’Hotel. Trim the fillets neatly and double them in two, or fold them in a fichu shape, with the flesh outside. Place them on a greased baking-tin and cover them200 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. with paper greased with a little butter* or dripping, and cook them gently in a moderate oven. Dish them in a circle, one leaning on the other, and pour maitre-d’hotel sauce over. Garnish each fillet with a small pinch of finely-chopped parsley. Genoese, Italian, tomato, and many other sauces may also be used. Salt Cod. Soak the cod, if very salt, in water for quite twelve hours, changing it twice. Put it in cold water and simmer until cooked. Serve with egg sauce and boiled parsnips cut in quarters or mashed, or as a puree. Parsnip Puree for Salt Cod. Mash the parsnips, when cooked, through a sieve, add a little thick cream, or a little butter and milk. Season with pepper and salt. Make hot again before serving. Cod Stuffed and Baked. Stuff a middle cut of cod with veal stuffing. Place it i n a buttered baking-sheet, and place some pieces of butter on the top of it. Cook it in a slow oven, basting it with its own liquor. \\ hen cooked, place it on a hot dish and put in the oven again. Strain the liquor from the tin into some brown sauce. Boil quickly for three minutes. Pour some of the sauce round the cod, and hand the remainder in a boat. Hand also lemons cut in quarters lengthwise. Haddock Stuffed and Baked. Ingredients. 1 teaspoonful of dried and powdered herbs. Pepper and salt. Part of an egg, or a little milk to bind the stuffing. 1 haddock. 3 tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped uarslev.201 FISH. Method.—Mix til6 crumbs, parsley, herbs, pepper ami salt, with the egg or milk. Put the stuffing in the haddock, and fasten it with a small skewer. Then truss it with string, or two skewers in the form of the letter S. Place it on a greased baking-tin, and put a few pieces of butter or dripping on it. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. To serve, place it on a dish and remove the skewers. Garnish it with potato olives Note.—Small cod, shad, and gurnet may all bo cooked in the same manner. Paupiettes of Soles. Ingredients. 3 soles. 1 pint of oyster sauce made with 3 doz. oysters. Some whiting forcemeat. Lemon juice. Batter. Method.—Skin the soles on either side and fillet them. Spread the side from which the skin was taken with the forcemeat, and roll them round. Place them on a buttered baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper,> and cook them in a modeiute oven. Dish them in a circle. Place an oyster from the sauce on each, the remainder of the oysters in the centre, and pour the sauce over the fillets. A little pinch of lobster coral on the top of each oyster gives a bright appearance to the dish. Lobster Cutlets h I’lndienne. Ingredients. Lobster cutlets (prepared according to recipe for lobster cutlets). Curry sauce. A border of whiting forcemeat (see Borders for Entries). Method.—Dish the cutlets when fried, on the border of forcemeat, and pour curry sauce round them.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 202 Fillets of Mackerel with Caper Sauce. Remove the fillets of four mackerels. Cut them in halves. Place them on a buttered baking-tin, and cook them in the oven, covered with buttered paper. Dish in two rows, one leaning on the other, and pour caper sauce over. The liquor from the tin should bo mixed with the sauce. Whole mackerel may be cooked in the same way and served with Venetian, Genoese, Hollandaise, and other suitable sauces. Fillets of Turbot with Genoese Sauce. Cut a turbot into neat little fillets. Lay them on a buttered baking-tin, and cover them over with buttered paper, and cook them in the oven. Dish in a circle, one leaning on the other, and pour Genoese sauce over. Decorate each fillet with lobster coral, or other suitable garnish. The centre of the dish may be filled with pieces of lobster made hot in some of the sauce. Lobsters. These must be put into fast-boiling water, to destroy life instantly, and boiled gently for about twenty minutes or longer, according to their size. If boiled too long, the flesh will be stringy. When cooked rub them over with a little salad oil. Lobster Cutlets. Ingredients. 1 hen lobster, li ozs. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. 1 gill of cold water. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. A few drops of lemon juice. Method.—Remove the flesh from tho lobster, and cut it up. Cayenne. Pepper and salt. Some spawn or coral, Egg and bread-crumbs. Parsley.203 FISH. Pound the coral in a mortar with half an ounce of butter, and then rub through a hair sieve. If spawn is used, it need not he pounded. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix in the flour smoothly, and add the water and stir until it thickens. Add the coral butter, and stir and cook well, add the cream and let it boil in the sauce ; then the lemon juice, pepper, salt and cayenne, and the lobster. Spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When cool, make into cutlets, e«g and bread-crumb them, flatten the crumbs on with a knife, and shape them nicely. Fry them in hot fat to a golden brown (see French Frying). Dish on a folded napkin, with a piece of the feeler stuck in each cutlet to represent a bone, and garnish with fried parsley. Or the cutlets may be dished in a circle, on a border of whiting quenelle-meat, or mashed potatoes, without the napkin, and Indian sauce (see Sauces) poured round and over them, and hot Indian pickles placed in the centre of the dish. Lobster en Coquille. Prepare some lobster cutlet mixture as in preceding recipe. Add one tablespoon ful more of cream to it. Butter plain or fancy scallop-shells, and put the mixture in them, cover with browned bread-crumbs, and put a tiny piece of butter on each, put the shells into a quick oven for a few minutes. Dish on a folded napkin, garnish with quarters of lemon, and a little parsley. Mayonnaise of Lobster. See Salads. Lobster Croquettes. Prepare a mixture as for lobster cutlets, form it into balls or egg shapes; egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying), Garnish with fried parsley.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 204 Crabs. Boil like lobsters, and rub a little sweet oil over the shell to improve their appearance. Dressed Crab. Ingredients. 2 crabs. 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard. 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. A little pepper and salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Method.—Pick out all the meat from the crabs, remov- ing the apron and gills, and mix thoroughly with the other ingredients. Clean one of tho large shells, and put the mixture in it. Dish on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley and the claws of the crabs. Prawns. Throw them into quickly-boiling water, with salt in it, and boil for six or eight minutes. Take all scum from the water and drain them well when cooked. Shrimps. These are boiled like prawns, and take about six minutes to cook. Oysters to Serve. Open carefully and arrange on a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley. Thin brown bread and butter, and lemon cut in quarters lengthwise, are handed with them. Oysters must bo served directly they are opened, as their flavour rapidly deteriorates. When served as hors-d’oeuvres, put three for each guest. Oysters en Croquille. Ingredients. 2^ doz. of oysters. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour, i pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Method.—Beard the oysters, and cut each one in two.205 FISH. Strain tli© oyster liquor through muslin. Simmer the beards in the milk, and scald the oysters in it. Melt the butter in a small stowpan, and mix in the flour smoothly, add the oyster liquor and strained milk, and stir and boil well, then add the cream, and boil in the sauce. Lastly add the lemon juice, seasoning, and oysters. Butter some scallop-shells, and sprinkle with bread- crumbs, fill them with the mixture and sprinkle more crumbs over. Brown in a quick oven. Serve on a folded napkin, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Oyster Patties. 6 pa tty-cases. 2^ doz. of oysters. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. Ingredients. i pint of milk, i jiiut of cream. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Method.—Beard the oysters, and cut each one in two. Strain the oyster liquor through mus’in, and scald the oysters in it. Put the beards in the milk, and simmer them to extract the flavour. Then melt the butter in a stowpan, mix the flour smoothly, and add the milk strained and oyster liquor. Stir and boil well, then add the cream and let it boil in the sauce. Lastly, add the seasoning and oysters. Fill the patty-cases with the mixture, and put a lid on each. Serve hot or cold. Decorate with powdered lobster coral, and dish on a folded napkin, garnished with parsley. The same mixture is used for a vol-au-vcnt of oysteis. Bloaters. Cut the bloaters down the back, and bone thorn. Lay them one over the other with the insides togethor ; broil them slowly over a very clear fire, turning them occasionally. If preferred, they may be broiled unboned.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 206 Broiled Dried Haddock. Soak it in cold water for an hour before using. Broil it slowly over a clear fire until it is quite hot, turning occasionally. Bub a little butter over it, and serve it quite hot. Fried Sprats. Wash the sprats well, draw them at the gills, and dry them in a cloth. Put a little flour in a dry cloth, throw the sprats on to it, and shake them till they are all floured. Fry them in hot fat (see French Frying), or they may be fried unfloured in a frying-pan witli very little fat. Drain well before serving. Broiled Sprats. Draw the sprats at the gills, clean and dry them well. Thread them on a skewer, and broil them over a clear fire, turning occasionally. Serve very hot. Baked Sprats. Prepare like baked herrings. Mussels to Cook. Soak the mussels in water, and then clean them thoroughly. Put them into a stewpan, sprinkle a little salt over them, and shake them over the fire. Take care they do not brown. Take them off the fire directly the shells open. Yery carefully remove the beard, which looks like a bit of sea-weed, and also any small stones, if there are any inside. Periwinkles. To remove the mud and sand, these must be thoroughly cleansed. Wash them in several waters and soak them in207 FISH. fresh, water for an hour, then wash them again. Shake them well, to make them draw into their shells, and then put them into a saucepan of boiling water (sea water if possible), and boil them quickly for about twenty minutes. Scallops Scalloped. Open perfectly fresh scallops, remove them from the shells and cut off the beards and black part, and wash thoroughly. Scrub the deeper shells clean, rinse and dry them, Butter them well and sprinkle with bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, lay on the scallops, three in each shell and cover with a sprinkling of crumbs and a little pepper and salt. Place small pieces of butter on tho top, and brown quickly in a very quick oven or before the tire. Dish on a folded napkin, and hand cut lemon, or vinegar, with them. If liked, the scallops may be minced and mixed with the crumbs. Scallops as a garnish for fish should be boiled in milk and water. Curried Fish. Break any cooked fish suitable for the purpose into small pieces, and remove all tho bones. Make it hot in sufficient curry sauce to moisten it, and serve with well- cooked rice. Scalloped Fish. Ingredients. Cooked fish. Butter. White sauce. Lemon juice. Bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. Method.—Break some cooked fish into flakes, and remove the bone, mix it with enough white sauce to moisten it, and season well with lemon juice, pepper and salt. Well butter some deep scallop-shells, sprinkle over them some bread-crumbs and fill with tho mixture. Cover again with crumbs, and put little bits of butter on the top, and bake in a quick oven. Serve on a folded napkin, garnished with parsley and cut lemon.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 208 Fish Cakes. Ingredients. 1 lb. of cooked fish (cod, haddock, ling, and hake are best for the purpose). 1 lb. of boiled potatoes. 1 oz. of butter. 2 or 3 eggs. Some white crumbs. Parsley. Pepper and salt. Method.—Eub the potatoes through a sieve. Break the fish into flakes and remove the bones. Mix the fish and potatoes with the butter, pepper and salt and one egg well beaten. Form the mixture into balls or cakes, egg and bread- crumb them. Ee-shape them after the crumbs are on, and fry them in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain well and serve on a folded napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Fish Pudding. Prepare a mixture as for fish cakes. Put it on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven; shape it like a fish. Brush over with beaten egg and bake for half an hour. Fricassee of Cooked Fish. Some cooked fish. Some plain white, veloule, or supreme sauce. Method.—Break the fish Ingredients. T.emon juice. Pepper and salt. 1 hard-boiled egg. into flakes and remove the bones, make it quite hot in sufficient sauce to moisten it, and pile it on a hot dish. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon cut in quarters. A more savoury rechauffe of cooked fish may be made by using Italian, Genoese, or tomato sauce. * Well-cooked rice may be served with the fish. Mayonnaise of Cooked Fish. Prepare like mayonnaise of salmon (see Salads) ; cod, haddock, &c., that will break into flakes are very suitable for this purpose.209 FISH. Kedgree. Ingredients. 2 llis. of cooked fish, such as cod, haddock, &c. 1 lb. of wcll-cooked rice. 4 ozs. of butter. Pepper and salt. 3 hard-boiled eggs. Method.—Break the fish into flakes, removing all the bones. But it into a stewpan with the butter, rice, and hard- boiled eggs cut in pieces (reserving some for garnish) and pepper and salt). fcjtir over the fire till quite hot, then pile in the centre of a hot dish, and garnish with cut egg. Rub some of the yolk through a wire sieve on to the top of the kedgree and servo garnished with lemon cut in quarters. As a plain dish for children less butter may bo used. FRESH-WATER FISH. Bream. This fish may be cooked in any way, but is best if broiled or baked. For broiling, cleanse it thoroughly, but do not scale it, and broil it either whole or in halves, according to its size. Baked Bream. 'thoroughly cleanse the fish, and stuff it with veal forcemeat, fastening it in securely with small skewers or a trussing-needle and string. Place it on a buttered baking-tin; cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Serve melted butter (French or English) with it. Carp. Wash them thoroughly, remove the gills, and soak them in salt and water to remove any muddy taste. They may be boiled, steamed, baked, grilled or fried {see Directions).210 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Any sauce suitable for fish may be served with it; Genoese is perhaps the best. A small stone, called a gall-stone, should be removed from the head of this fish, as it would give a bitter flavour. Skin, and well cleanse the eels, cut them in pieces about three or four inches in length; egg and bread- crumb them twice, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Serve with tartare, piquant, Bearnaise, or other suitable sauce. If the eels are large, partly cook them in a little stock before frying. 1 tablespoonful of flour. Method.—Cut the eels in pieces about three inches in length and fry them in the butter, then put them in a stewpan with the stock, wine, and seasoning, and stew until tender. Then remove them from the stock and put on a hot dish. Thicken the stock with the flour, add the lemon juice, and pour over the eels. Eels with Hollandaise Sauce. Skin and cleanse the eels, and put them on a buttered baking-tin, or saute-pan and cover well with buttered paper. Cook them in a moderate oven, from twenty minutes to half an hour, until quite tender. Pile them up in the centre of a hot entree dish and pour Hollandaise sauce over. Sprinkle over the top some chopped gherkin and lobster coral. Fried Eels. Stewed Eels. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of eels. 1 pint of stock. 1 wineglass of port. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper and salt and cayenne. 2 ozs. of butter.FISH. 211 Potted Eels. Eels. Ingredients. Pepper, salt and cayenne. Batter. Method— Skin tho eels and cut them in pieces. Put them into a jar in layers, sprinkling each with pepper, salt and cayenne, and putting little pieces of butter about. Cover the jar closely, and put it to stand in a saucepan of boiling water for two hours. When cold, this will be a strong jelly. Water Souchy. Ingredients. Any suitable fish ; flounders, perch, tench, and eels are best. 2 or 3 young parsley roots. A few sprigs of parsley. Peppercorns and salt. Method.—Put enough water into a saucepan to cover the fish if it were in it, and add to it salt to taste, and to every quart one dozen peppercorns, and the parsley roots shredded. Simmer until the roots arc tender, probably in three quarters of an hour, then lay in the fish, which should be cut into neat pieces. Let the fish simmer gently until cooked, then put it into an entree dish with the parsley roots, and pour over it the liquor. Some finely chopped parsley should be added ono minute before the fish is taken up. Tench. This fish, like carp, is apt to be muddy in taste, and requires to be thoroughly washed and soaked in salt water. The gills, which always give a muddy flavour, should be removed. It may bo boiled, steamed, baked, fried, or grilled (see Directions), and served with Genoese, Hollandaise, an- chovy, melted butter, or any other suitable sauce. Tench may also be stewed in stock, with a little port wine and some mushrooms and oysters, and served with fried sippets of bread.212 A COMPLETE COOKEHY GUIDE. Trout. This is a very delicious fish, and may be broiled, steamed, baked, grilled or fried. When the fish is preferred simply dressed, it is better to bake it (see Baked Fish), as boiled trout is rather insipid. Genoese, Ilollandaise, caper, melted butter, mushroom, piquant, and may other sauces may be served with it. Broiled Trout. Thoroughly cleanse and dry the trout and split them down the back; season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, lemon juice, and rub them over with a little salad oil. Broil over a very clear fire from five to ten minutes or more, according to the size of the fish. Serve browned butter, or any suitable sauce with it. Fried Trout. Split the fish in half and remove the bones; egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Servo any sauce suitable for fried fish with it. Garnish with fried parsley. Perch and Bass. This fish may be cooked in any way suitable for trout, eels, carp, &c. Bartle, Roach, and Dace. These may be cooked in any way suitable to carp or tench, but they are much better fried. Pike and Jack. These are the same fish at different ages, the jack being a pike of not more than three pounds in weight. They may bo cooked in any way (see Directions for Cooking Fish), and served with piquant, caper, or any suitable sauce. Pike is very good stuffed and baked like cod. Grey Gurnet. See preceding Directions for pike and jack.( 213 ) PASTRY. To be successful in making the ordinary kinds of pastry it is necessary that the following rules should bo carefully attended to. Make the pastry in a cool place, not in a hot kitchen. The board or slab, rolling-pin, and hands should be as cold as possible. Handle it very lightly. The colder pastry is kept during making the lighter it will be, because it will contain more air. Cold air occupies much less space than hot. The colder the air the greater consequently will be its expansion when put into a hot oven. The paste must be handled and rolled lightly. Heavy rolling and handling expels the air. Puff paste is a kind of fine sandwich. There should be a certain number of layers of dough and layers of butter. Take every care, therefore, to prevent the butter breaking through the dough. Be specially careful to follow the directions given for making this pastry. Its manufacture requires patience, because if it is not pro- perly cooled between the turns the friction of rolling will melt the butter and cause it to smear into the dough. In making short crust rub the butter or fat lightly into the flour with the tips of the fingers, and do not use more water than possible in mixing it. This is a common mistake and deprives the paste of its shortness. Short paste is the best for children and people of weak diges- tion ; the flour in it being more thoroughly incorporated with the fat gets better cooked. It is also more capable of mastication than flaky crusts, which are liable to be swallowed in flakes. However well the pastry may be made, success will not be attained unless the oven is rightly heated; the very lightest crusts will be totally spoiled in the baking if this important point is not carefully attended to. If the oven is not very hot the fat will melt and run out of the X'A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 2H pastry before the starch grains iu the flour burst; con- sequently, they cannot afterwards expand, however hot the oven may be made ; and in this way the paste will become heavy. Take great care, therefore, that the oven is very hot when the paste is put into it. Watch the paste carefully that it does not take too dark a colour. When it is well thrown up and nearly cooked, it may be removed to a more moderately heated part of the oveu, if it should appear to be browning too quickly. Ovens in which the heat comes from the bottom are decidedly the best for either cakes.or pastry ; but no one should expect'to bake well in an oven they do not thoroughly understand. There is so much difference in ovens, that the hottest part of one may be the coolest in another. To bake well requires practice and ex- perience, and no one should bo discouraged by a few failures. Petit choux and such pastries are really more of the nature of cakes. Brioche is used in a variety of ways, as a cake or iu small fancy shapes. Jam is sometimes put into it, and sometimes Parmesan and Gruyere cheeses. It is also used to enclose rissoles, and also in soups. Its manu- facture requires great care, and, as it requires long stand- ing, it should bo made the evening of the day before it is wanted Puff Paste. Ingredients. Equal quantities of Vienna Enough water to mix the flour flour and butter. into a nice lithe dough. A few drops of lemon juice. Method.—Eub the flour through a wire sieve. Make a well in the middle, and squeeze in a few drops of lemon juice. Mix very gradually with very cold water, taking care that the dough is not too stiff, then knead and work well until quite smooth. Set it aside for a few minutes to get quite cold. Squeeze the butter in a cloth to press out all the water. Iioll out the dough, and place tho butter, flattened to a third of its size, in tho middle. Then fold the dough from either side over it, pressing the edges together. Turn it with its edges towards you, and roll out very gently (care must be taken that tho butter docs215 pastry. not break through the dough). Fold it again in three, and put it aside to cool for quite a quarter of an hour. The colder it is kept the better. Then turn its edges towards you and roll it out again; fold evenly in three, and roll and fold again in the same manner} each roll and fold is called a turn. Cool the paste for another quarter of an hoxir. Then give it two more turns. Let it cool again ; and at the seventh roll it will probably be ready for use. It is, however, wise to bake a small piece of the paste beforo using the whole quantity. If the maker has a very light hand, it sometimes happens that eight or even nine turns may be necessary to roll the butter sufficiently in the flour. Patty-Cases. Roll the puff paste, when ready, to rather more than a quarter of an inch in thickness. Take a fluted cutter about the size of the top of a tumbler, and cut the paste into rounds with it. Mark the middle of these rounds with a cutter about three sizes smaller. Roll out the remainder of the paste to half the thickness of the cases. Stamp out some rounds for covers with a fluted cutter two sizes smaller than that used for the cases. Put the cases and covers on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. When cooked, lift the lid and scrape out the soft inside carefully. VoI-au-Vent. Follow the directions given for cutting patty-cases, using vol-au-vent cutters. The paste should be rolled to about three quarters of an inch in thickness, and particular care must bo taken that it is rolled very evenly. If this is not done, the case will not be shapely. After cutting the case mark the oentro with a small cutter that will come within three quarters of an inch of the edge of the paste all the way round and, press this half through The case will take about half an hour to bake, and must not be removed from the oven until the sidos are quite set, or it will fall and lose its lightness. r 2216 A COMPLETE COOKEllY GUIDE. When nearly cooked brush over the top with beaten egg to glaze it. When quite ready remove it from the oven, lift the lid, and then carefully remove the soft paste in the centre. Fill it just before serving and then replace the lid. If preferred, a separate lid may be cut, as directed for patties. Care must be taken that the case does not take too dark a colour in baking. Good Short Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. Enough water to mix rather 3 lb. of butter. stiffly. A pinch of salt. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour until like fino bread-crumbs. Mix with cold water, using as little as possible (if too much is used the crust will not be short). Roll gently to make the paste biud. If this paste is used for tarts, add one dessertspoonful of castor sugar to the flour. Plainer Short Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. £ lb. of butter, f lb. of lard. Method.—Make according ceding recipe. But as there water will be necessary. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Water enough to bind. to directions given in pre- is not so much butter, more Economical Short Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. ^ lb. of clarified dripping or Enough cold water to mix. lard. Method.—Make according to the directions for short crusts.217 PASTRY. Flaky Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. Enough cold water to mix the ^ lb. of butter or dripping. paste. A pinch of salt. Method.—Eubone half of the butter into the flour, as for short crust. Mix with the water, and roll it out very thinly. Put the remainder in little pieces on the paste. Fold in three, and then in three again. Koll out to the size required. Cream Pastry. Ingredients. 12 ozs. of flour. 0 ozs. of butter. 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. Some cream, probably more than 1 pint. A pinch of salt. rather Method.—Eub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, and mix lightly but thoroughly with sufficient cream to mix it. If cream cannot bo procured, use three yolks of eggs bea'en with a little milk. Rough Puff Paste. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. Salt. 1 lb. of butter, lard, or Cold water, dripping. Method.—Break the fat into the flour in pieces. Add a pinch of salt. Mix with a little cold water. Turn on to a board, roll and fold four or five times. Flaky Dough Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of bread dough. | Some butter, lard, or dripping. Method.—Eoll out the dough very thin, and spread with the fat,A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 218 Fold in two, spread again with fat, fold in two and spread once more with fat. Fold again, and set aside for one hour, then roll out and use. This crust is very light and not at all like bread. Cold Water Paste for Raised Pies. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 1 egg (this can be omitted). 4 ozs. of butter. A teaspoonful of salt. Some water. Method.—Eub the butter into the flour, add the salt, and mix into a paste with the egg and enough water to bind. Hot Water Paste for Raised Pies. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. pint of hot water. 4 ozs. of butter or lard. £ oz. of salt. Method.—Put the flour into a basin and add the salt. Put the butter and water into a saucepan and bring to the boil. Mix the flour with them into a compact paste. This paste must be moulded when warm. Suet Paste for Boiled Puddings. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. A little salt. 6 or 8 ozs. of suet. Cold water. Method.—Shred the suet vory finely and mix with the flour, add the salt and mix stiffly with cold water. Use more suet if a richer crust is required. A Very Fine Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of dried and sifted flour, i lb. of butter. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. Yolks of 3 and whites of 2 eggs. Method.—Dent the butter to a froth in a basin. Mix with it by degrees the flour and sugar, then add219 PASTRY. the eggs well beaten and strained, taking care not to make it too moist to roll. An Excellent Short Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of dried and sifted flonr. The yolks of 2 eggs and a little 3 ozs. of butter. cream. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. Method.—Rub tho butter into the flour until like lino crumbs. Then mix into a paste with the two yolks and some cream, it will probably take about half a pint. A Light Paste. $ lb. of flour. ^ lb. of butter. Ingredients. The white of an egg. Method.—Beat the white of egg to a strong froth. Then mix it with a little water, sufficient to mix tho flour to a paste. Handle it very lightly. Roll it out thin and lay the third part of the butter about it in little pieces. Dredge it with flour and roll it up. Roll out again, and put in the same proportion ot butter. Do this once more and the paste is ready. Flead Crust. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. | 8 ozs. of flead and a little salt. Method.—Removo the skin and shred the flead, mix it with tho flour and add a little salt and sufficient cold water to make tho mixture bind. Then lay it on a board and beat it with a rolling-pin until the fat is well mixed in. Flead is the leaf of a pig before it is rendered down for220 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. lard and makes lighter paste. A little butter rolled in after it is made, as in flaky crust, makes this paste extremely light. Beef-Steak Pie. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of nice beef steak. $ lb. of bullock’s kidney. 1 lb. of flaky or rough puff paste. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 4 pint of water. Pepper and salt. Method.—Eoll the paste to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Invert the pie-dish, and cut the paste to the sizo and shape of the under side of it. Eoll out the remainder, cut a band one inch wide. Wet the edge of the pie-dish and place this round it. Cut the beef into thin strips, dip them in flour, and season with pepper and salt. Eoll each of the strips round a tiny piece of fat. Put them in the pie-dish alternately with pieces of kidney. Eaise them in the middle of the dish in a dome form, and pour in the water. Wet the edges of the paste lining the the dish, and lay the cover over. Press the edges lightly together, and trim round with a knife. Make a hole in the middle of the paste to let the gases from the meat escape. Brush the crust with beaten egg, and decorate with leaves cut from the trimmings. Bake for about two hours. The pie should be put into a quick oven until the pastry is cooked; the heat must then be moderated to cook the meat thoroughly without drying up the pastry. If possible finish cooking the moat on the top of the oven. Some people prefer stewing the meat before using it in the pie. If this is dono, it must be allowed to get cold before the pie is made. It is an improvement to the pio to put layers of ■ oysters, bearded, alternately with the rolls of beef; or larks may be put in, boned and stuffed with imitation foie gras.PASTRY. 221 Rabbit Pie. Ingredients. 1 rabbit. £ lb. of salt pork. 1 lb. of rough puff or flaky paste. £ pint of stock or water. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Pepper and salt. Method.—Prepare the paste as for beef-steak pie, lining the dish in the same manner. Cut the rabbit into neat joints, season them with pepper and salt, put them in the pie-dish alternately with the pork, and eggs cut in quarters. Pour in the water and cover with the paste. Brush over with beaten egg and decorate with paste leaves. Make a hole in the middle for the gases to escape. Bake for about an hour, attending to directions given for baking beef-steak pie. Mutton Pie. Ingredients. li lbs. of mutton. 3 sheep’s kidneys. 1 shalot. About $ piut of stock or water. Some finely chopped parsley, or 2 mushrooms cut in small pieces. Some rough pull or flaky crust. Method.—Cut the mutton (any part will do that is not loo fat) into neat pieces. Skin the kidneys and cut them into slices, lengthwise. Mix equal quantities of pepper and salt and flour on a plate, and season the meat and kidneys. Place them lightly in a pie-dish edged with pastry, and sprinkle each layer of meat with chopped parsley or mushroom, and some shalot, very finely chopped. Pour in the water or stock, cover with pastry, and decorate with loavos. Make a large hole in the centre of the paste for tho gases from the meat to escape. Glaze with beaten egg. The pie will take about two hours to cook. The shalot and mushroom may be omitted, if liked,A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 000, Rook Pie. 8 young roots. 1 lb. beaf steak. Some stock or water. Ingredients. A little butter. Flaky or other crust. Pepper and salt. Method.—Skin the rooks without plucking thorn. Cut away tlio spine and tho flesh on either side of it, as this would give a bitter taste to the pie. It is best to use the breasts only. Cut the steak into neat pieces and season them and the rooks with pepper and salt. Edge a pie-dish with pastry, and lay the steak and breasts of the birds in it. Put little pieces of butter about the meat, and pour in about half a pint of stock or water. Cover with pastry, decorate with paste leaves, and make a hole for the gases to escape. This pie will take about two hours and a half to cook. It is really better to stew the rooks before putting them in the pie. Glaze when nearly ready by brushing over with beaten egg- Pigeon Pie. Ingredients. 4 pigeons. 1 lb. of rump steak. Yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs. Pepper and salt. Some puff or other paste. Some good stock. Method.—Prepare the pie-dish, and roll out the paste as for beef-steak pie. Draw the pigeons and cut them in halves. Cut the steak into thin strips the way of the grain. Season the steak and pigeon nicely, and put them into tho pie-dish with tho hard-boiled yolks. Pour in tho stock. Cover with tho paste, and finish like a beef-steak pie. Wash and clean the legs of two pigeons and stick them in the hole in the top of the pie. Bake for about an hour and half.PASTRY. 223 Veal and Ham Pie. Ingredients. 1 lb. of veal cutlet. ^ lb. of ham. 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 1 lemon. The yolks of 6 hard-boiled cggs. Pepper and salt. Water or stock. Some puff, flaky,'or other pastry, made with 1 lb. of flour. Method.—Roll out the paste, and prepare the dish as for beef-steak pie. Cut the veal into neat pieces, season them well and sprinkle them with parsley and lemon juice. Put them in the pie-dish with the yolks of egg. Pour in the stock or water. Cover with paste, and decorate like beef-steak pie. Bake for two hours. If possible, always use nice stock instead of water; it may be thickened with flour. Chopped mushrooms give a nice flavour to this pie. Method.—Cut the hare into neat joints and bone them, then flour them and fry them in the butter. Set them on one side to get cold. Mince the veal and bacon, and mix them together; season with a little pepper and salt, and chopped parsley. Line a mould with the pastry, and put in a layer of veal and bacon at the bottom. Season each piece of hare with pepper and salt, and place them in the mould alternately with the veal and bacon and some forcemeat balls. Pour in a good gravy which will jelly when cold. This should be made from the bones of the hare. Cover with paste, decorate with paste leaves, and bake carefully. It will take probably about three hours to cook. Glaze when nearly ready with beaten egg. Raised Hare Pie. Ingredients. 1 well-bung bare. $ lb. of veal. 4 lb. of fat bacon. Some cold raised pie-crust. Forcemeats). 2 ozs. of butter or dripping. Pepper and salt. Some veal forcemeat balls (seeA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 224 Caro must bo taken that it does not take too dark a colour (see Directions for baking pastry). If served cold, serve with chopped aspic and parsley. Raised Pheasant Pie. 1 well-bung pheasant. Some forcemeat. Some slices of fat bacon. Ingredients. Pastry. Pepper and salt. Some good gravy. Method.—Bone a well-hung pheasant, stuff it with some forcemeat, and half roast it, basting it well. Put it on one side to get cool. Then line a mould with pastry (raised pie crust) and lay at the bottom slices of fat bacon. Lay the pheasant on this and put in the remainder of the forcemeat. Cover with slices of bacon. Put a paste lid over, and decorate prettily. Bake from two to three hours. \\ hen cooked, pour through tho hole in the centre of the pie some good gravy that will jelly when cold. The bones of the pheasant should bo used in making it. Forcemeat for the Pie. Ingredients. 2 lb. of fillet of veal. 4 lb. of fat bacon. G ozs. of bread-crumbs. 3 ozs. of lean ham. G truffles or 4 medium-sized mushrooms. 1 or 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. Method.—Chop the veal, bacon, and ham finely and mix them with the crumbs, the truffles or mushrooms, cut in pieces, and pepper and salt. Bind them well with beateu egg. Use half of this to stuff tho pheasant. Raised Chicken Pie. proceed according to directions for pheasant piepastry. 225 Cornish Pasties. Ingredients. Some plain short crust. 1 onion finely chopped. Equal quantities of beef steak Pepper and salt, or beef skirt and potatoes. Method.—Cut the meat and potatoes into small dice and mix them with ihe onion, pepper and salt. Roll out the pastry. Stamp it into rather large rounds with a large cutter or the lid of a small saucepan. Wet round the edges of the paste and place a small heap of meat and potatoes in the middle of each round. Double the paste, bringing the edges to the top. Golfer round them with the fingers to form a frill. Place the pasties on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven from three quarters of an hour to an hour. Note.—Any meat suitable for the purpose, chicken and ham, lamb, game, sausage-meat, may be put in the pasties without the vegetables. Sausage Rolls. Ingredients. Some puff or flaky crust. Sausages. 1 egg. Method.—Parboil the sausages. Skin them, cut them in halves and let them cool. Roll out the paste, cut it into squares. Brush the edges with beaten egg. Lay a half sausage on each piece of paste, and roll tho paste round it, pressing the edges together. Brush the rolls with beaten egg. Lay them on a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a quick oven for fifteon or twenty minutes. Pork Pie. Ingredients. Hot or cold water crust for Sage. raised pies. Pepper and salt. Pork. Method.—If no mould is used, hot-water crust must be taken for this purpose. Mould it quickly while the paste226 A COMPLETE COOKEItY GUIDE. is warm. Cut up the pork, season nicely with pepper and salt, and a little dried and powdered sage. Fill tho pie, cover it according to directions for raised pics, and bake from one hour and a half to two hours or more, according to the size of the pie. Make some strong gravy from the bones, and pour in when cooked. Serve the pie cold, garnished with parsley. Note.—After tho first quarter of an hour the oven must be very moderate. It is most important that pork shall be thoroughly cooked. Apple Tart. 2 lbs. of apples. 3 ozs. of moist sugar. Some pastry. Ingredients. 5 cloves, or a little grated rind of lemon, i pint of water. Method.—Make some pastry according to directions given for short or flaky crust. Foil out the paste in an oval shape to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Invert a pint pie-dish, lay the paste over it, and cut it the size and shape of tho under side of the dish. Boll out the remaining pieces, and cut in strips about one inch wide. Wet tho edges of the pie-dish, and lay them evenly round it. Feel, core, and quarter tho apples. Put them into the pie-dish, mixing them with the sugar. File them up well in the middle of tho dish, pressing them to an oval shape. Four in the water, and sprinkle over the lemon rind or cloves. Wet the edges of the pastry lining the dish, and put over the piece reserved for the cover. Tress the edges lightly together, and trim with a knife. Make a small hole with a skewer on either side of the cover to let the steam escape. To glaze, brush over with the white of egg and dust with castor sugar. Bake from half to three quarters of an hour. Tho oven should bo very quick at first and moderate afterwards.PASTRY. 227 Fruit Tarts. Any fruit tart may bo made in the same manner as apple tait. Sugar must be added according to the acidity of the fruit used. Open Cherry Tart. Puff paste. Some stoned cherries. Ingredients. Sugar. Method.—Well grease an open tart-mould, and lino with the pastry. Place the stoned cherries in it as close together as possible. Shake sugar over and bake for about half an hour. Open Damson Tart. Proceed as in foregoing recipe. Apricot and apple tart may be prepared in the same way. Apricots must be stoned and cut in halves and apples sliced. Puff pastry. Mincemeat. Mince Pies. Ingredients. Castor sugar. White of 1 egg. The Mincemeat. 1 lb. of suet. 1 lb. of apples. 1 lb. of sugar. 1 lb. of currants. Ingredients. 1 lb. of raisins. 1 lb. of candied peel. The grated rind of 3 lemons. x lb. of ratafias soaked in brandy. Method.—Chop the suet, wash and dry the currants. Stone and cut the raisins in halves. Peel, core, and mince the apples. Chop the candied peel. Mix all tho ingrodients well together. Put them into a stone jar, cover closely and keep for a month.228 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. To Make the Pies. Roll the paste out, and stamp it into rather large rounds with a fluted cutter. Lay half the rounds on patty-pans. Wet the edges of the pastry, and put some mincemeat in the middle of each round. Cover with the remaining rounds, pressing the edges lightly together. To glaze, brush them with a little white of egg and dust with castor sugar. Rake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Cheese Cakes. Ingredients. Some remains of puff paste. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 lemon. Half a sponge cake. 1 whole egg and 1 yolk. Method.—Cream the butter in a basin. Add to it the castor sugar. Beat well together, adding one by one the yolks of the eggs. Then mix in the grated lemon peel, and the lemon juice, also the sponge cake, rubbed through a wire sieve. Lastly, stir in lightly half the white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth. Roll out the pastry. Stamp into rounds with a fluted cutter. Lay the rounds in patty-pans and put a little dummy of dough or bread in the middle of each. Bake them in a quick oven. When nearly cooked, remove the dummies and fill their places with the cheese mixture. Return them to the oven until the pastry is cooked and the cheese-cake mixture has taken a pale colour. Tartlets. Ingredients. The remains of puff pasfe. | Some preserve. Method.—Roll out the paste, and stamp into rounds with a fluted cutter. Lay the rounds on patty-pans,PASTRY. 229 place in tlie middle of each a dummy made of dough or bread. Bake in a quick oven. When the pastry is cooked, remove the dummies, and fill the places with jam. Plainer tartlets may he made with short, flaky, or other pastry. Cheese d’Artois. Ingredients. Remains of puff paste, or some flaky crust. 1 oz. of butter. 1 whole egg and 1 yolk. 2 ozs. of Parmesan cheese. A little cayenne pepper and salt. Method.—Cream the butter well in a basin. Beat in the eggs, and add the grated cheese. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Divide the pastry into two portions, and roll them out as thinly as possible. Lay one piece on a greased baking-sheet. Spread it over with the cheese mixture, and lay the other on the top. Mark it with the back of a knife in strips one inch wide and three inches long. Brush over with beaten egg and bake in a quick oven until the paste is cooked. Cut out the strips with a sharp knife. Dish them on a folded napkin and sprinkle them with grated cheese. Gooseberry Turnovers. Some gooseberries. Sugar. Ingredients. Short crust Method.—Pick off the heads and tails of the goose- berries. Poll out the pasto and cut into rather large rounds. Wot the edges and put some gooseberries in the middle of each round, with a teaspoonful of sugar. Fold tho pasto over and press the edges together. Decorate the edges with a fork or spoon. Put the turnovers on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. QA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 230 Eclairs. Ingredients. Petit choux pastry. Whipped cream. Chocolate icing or caramel. Method.—Put some petit clioux pastry into a forcing- l>ag with a plain pipe. Force it on to a greased baking- sheet in lengths of three and a half inches and not quite one in width. Bake them for about an hour. They want a quick oven at first to throw them up, and afterwards a moderate one to set them. When cooked glaze them with chocolate icing or caramel. When cool open them at the side and fill with whipped cream. Any glace icing may be substituted for the chocolate or caramel. Make like gooseberry turnovers, substituting minced apple for gooseberries. Method.—Pare the apples and remove the cores, fill the holes with sugar. Take pieces of paste large enough to cover the apples. Do not roll them but draw the paste over the apples. Wet the edges to make them join. Place the dumplings on a greased tin and bake for about three quarters of an hour or one hour. The length of them will depend on the kind of apples used. Apple Turnovers. Apple Dumplings. Ingredients. A little moist sugar. Cheese Straws. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of flour. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan The yolk of an egg. A little cayenne pepper and salt. cheese. Method.—Rub the butter lightly into the flour.FASTllY. 231 Add the grated cheese and seasoning, and mix with the yolk of egg. If necessary add another yolk hut no water, ltoll out and cut into fingers about a quarter of an inch wide and two inches long. Lay them on a greased baking-sheet. Stamp out with a cutter, tho size of an egg-cup, some rounds, and make them into rings by stamping out the middles with a smaller cutter. Bake the rings and straws a pale fawn colour, and serve them with a bundle of straws placed in each ring. Genoese Pastry. Ingredients. 6 oes. of flour. 8 ozs. of castor sugar. 6 ozs. of butter. 7 eggs. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, and brush over a saute-pan or shallow cake-tin with it. Line the pan with paper, and brush that also with the melted butter. Break the eggs into a basin. Add to them the sugar, and beat with a whisk for about twenty minutes until they rise. The basin containing them may be placed on a sauce- pan of hot water, but care must be taken that the heat is not too great, as that would cook the eggs. When the eggs are sufficiently beaten, stir in the flour and butter very lightly. If beaten in, the pastry will not be light. Pour tho mixture into a pan and bake for about an hour. Genoese Sandwiches. Ingredients. Genoese pastry. | Jam. Method.—Cut the Genoese pastry into slices. Spread them with jam. Lay the slices one on the other and cut them in trian- gular shapes. q 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GU1DB. 232 Genoese Iced Cakes. Ingredients. Genoese pastry. Grated coacoa-nut. Jam. Iceing. Method.—Stamp out small cakes of Genoese pastry with a round cutter. Spread the sides thinly with jam. Roll the cakes in the cocoa-nut. Ice round the top of the cakes, and put some jam in the middlo of the icing. Genoese Preserve Cakes. Ingredients. Uncooked Genoese pastry. Some preserve. Some syrup of sugar and water. Hundreds and thousands. Chopped pistachio kernels. Grated cocoa-nut. Method.—Partly fill small well-buttered dariol moulds with the Genoese mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When done and sufficiently cool, cut a small circular piece from the bottom of the cakes. Scoop out some of the inside, and fill them with preserve. Replace the small circular piece. Brush the cakes over with the syrup, and roll them in the hundreds and thousands, chopped pistachio and cocoa-nut. They should be entirely covered with the decorations. Pile them prettily on a dish and decorate them with holly leaves. Almond Cakes. Ingredients. Genoese pastry. The white of 1 egg. Almonds. 1 oz. of castor sugar. Method.—Stamp out the Genoese pastry into small cakes, with round cutters. Beat the white of egg and mix it with the castor sugar, and spread it over the cakes. Sprinkle them well with almonds blanched and chopped. Put them into a moderate oven to take a pale fawn colour.PASTRY. 233 Petit Choux. Ingredients. 5 ozs. of flour. 2 ozs. of butter. 3 whole eggs. £ pint of waler. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. Method.—Hub the flour through a sieve. Put tho butter and water on to boil. When boiling, stir in the flour and sugar. Beat well over tho fire, until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and beat in three eggs. Shape like eggs, with two dessert-spoons and a knifo dipped in hot water. Lay the pastry on a greased baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven fur one hour. To serve, open the cakes at the side and insert a little whipped cream or preserve. Decorate by brushing them over with white of egg or a syrup of sugar and water, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio kernels, grated cocoa-nut or hundreds and thousands. Method.—Sift the flour through a sieve into a basin. Mix the yeast with the gill of warm milk. Make a well in tho centre of the flour and mix in tho yeast and milk gradually. Then cover the basin and put it in a warm place until the sponge has doubled its size. Then beat in tho eggs and butter. Work thoroughly and then put to riso for an hour. Well butter the savarin moulds, sprinklo them with chopped almonds, and half fill with the mixture. Fasten a band of buttered paper round each mould and put them to riso in a warm place until the moulds are full. Then bake, in a moderately quick oven. Savarin may be served hot or cold with a syrup poured over. Savarin Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 6 eggs. 10 ozs. of butter. 4 oz. of castor sugar. 1 oz. of yeast. 1 gill of milk. A saltspoonful of salt.234 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 1 lb. of lump sugar. 1 pint of water. Syrup. Ingredients. 1 wineglassful of rum. Method.—Boil the sugar and water to half the quantity, and then add the rum. Brioche. 1 lb. of flour, i oz. of German yeast. 14 gills of water. 12 ozs. of butter. Ingredients. 7 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. 1 saltspoonful of salt. Method.—Sift the flour and put about three quarters of it into a basin and stir in the warm water mixed with the yeast. Mix it to a soft dough, cover it and put it in a warm place to rise. Then make a woll in the remaining flour, add the sugar and salt, the butter and the eggs one by one, beating the mixture well. When the sponge has risen to double its original size, mix it thoroughly with the paste. Then put it in a basin in a warm place for about three hours. Then make into rolls, buns, &c., or it may be baked in tins or moulds. Glaze witli beaten egg. Bake from about twenty minutes to half an hour. Nouilles. Ingredients. 4 lb. of flour. I 4 oz. of butter. 3 eggs. I Salt. Method.—Hub the butter into the flour, then make a well in the centre, put in the eggs and a pinch of salt, and mix into a paste. Cut the paste into three or four pieces and roll it very thin with a rolling-pin. Then let it dry and cut each piece into strips about half an inch in width and cut these into shreds. Put them in plenty of boiling water with a little salt in it and boilPUDDINGS. 230 To Steam a Pudding. When a pudding is steamed it must bo placed in a well- greased mould or basin, and covered with buttered paper. If a steamer is not available for the purpose, put the pudding into a stewpan with just sufficient water to come half-way up tho mould, and keep the water at simmering point until the pudding is cooked. A custard pudding, or any pudding containing custard, must be very carefully steamed, as extreme heat would curdle the eggs and make the custard watery. To Bake a Pudding. Milk puddings require a moderate oven, otherwise both the eggs and milk in them will curdle, the milk also will scorch. Any pudding of the nature of a Souffle will require a quick heat to throw it up. A batter pudding must also be baked in a hot oven, or it will not be light. Custard puddings and all those containing custard must be very slowly cooked. The best way of cooking either large or small custards is to put them in a Yorkshire pudding tin which contains sufficient hot water to come half-way up the dish or moulds. If they are placed thus in a slow oven, they will cook without curdling. The Preparation of the Ingredients for Puddings. Suet should be chopped finely, raisins stoned and cut in halves. Currants should be washed in lukewarm water, and then rubbed thoroughly in a cloth to dry them and rub off the stalks. Drop a few at a time on a plate to discover by the sound if there are any stones amongst them. Sultanas should be rubbed in flour and the stalks picked off. Candied peel should be cut in thin slices, Moist sugar is best for sweetening purposes, as less is required; but castor should be used for all light puddings.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 210 To Turn a Pudding out of its Mould or Cloth. First lift it from the saucepan by taking it firmly on a fork. Reverse the saucepan-lid and let the pudding rest on it, holding them both obliquely that the water may run away. Then lift it on to a plate, untie the cloth and cut the string. Remove the cloth carefully, then take the basin in the hands, holding a cloth round it to prevent it burning them. Shake it gently to ascertain that the pudding is quite free from the mould, then reverse it on a dish, and remove the mould carefully. In turning out a pudding, guard against impatience or haste. Turning it out too quickly, without being sure that it is free from the mould, will sometimes cause it to break and have an unsightly appearance. When the pudding is in a cloth, untie the strings and draw the cloth a little from the sides of the pudding, then reverse it on a hot dish, and draw the cloth carefully away. In turning baked puddings out of the tins, cut them first into neat squares, and then slip a knife under them, to be quite sure they are free from the tin before re- moving them. Yeast Dumplings. Required: Some bread dough ready for baking (see Bread). Method.—Make the dough into small round balls. Drop them into fast-boiling water, and boil quickly for twenty minutes. Serve immediately, either with meat or with sweet sauce. Suet Pudding. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. A pinch of salt, and, if liked, a 4, 6, or 8 ozs. of finely tenspoonful of baking-powder, chopped suet. Method.—Mix the flour and suet lightly together. Add the salt. Mix to a rather stiff paste with cold water.PUbDtttGS. 211 Then boil in a well-scalded and floured cloth lor three hours. Jam Roly-poly Pudding. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 4, G, or 8 ozs. of suet finely chopped. Some red jam. A pinch of salt. 1 teaspoonful of baking-powdei-. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, and add to it the suet and baking-powder. Mix it with a little cold water, roll it out and wet the edges. Spread it with jam, and roll it up in the form of a bolster. Scald and flour a cloth and sew or tie the pudding securely in it. Boil for two hours. Treacle roly-poly is made in the same way. Apple Charlotte. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of apples. Slices of bread. ^ lb. of moist sugar. Some clarified butter. Grated rind of a lemon. Method.—Peel and core tho apples, and stew thorn with the sugar, lemon rind, and a quarter of a pint of water, until reduced to half the quantity. Take a plain round tin, holding about a pint and a half. Cut a round of stale bread, about one-eighrn of an inch thick. Dip it in clarified butter and lay it on the bottom of the mould. Line the sides with slices of bread cut about an inch wide and one-eighth of an inch thick, and also dipped in butter. Pour the apple mixture into the mould. Cover with another round of bread dipped in butter; and bake in a moderately quick oven for three quartors of an hour. For serving, turn it on to a hot dish, and sprinkle castor sugar over it.242 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Biscuit Puddings. Ingredients. 4 eggs. A dessertspoonful of orange- Their weight in castor sugar flower water, and ground rice. Method.—Beat the eggs well. Then stir in gradually the castor sugar and ground rice, and add the orange- flower water. Partly fill well-buttered cups, or moulds, with the mixture, and hake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Serve with a wine or sweet sauce (see Sauces). Apple Pudding. 1 lb. of flour. 6 or 8 ozs. of suet. A pinch of salt. 1 teaspoonful of powder. Ingredients. Some apples. 3 tablespoonfuls or more of moist sugar. baking- The grated rind of a small lemon. 2 or three cloves. Method.—Prepare the paste, and line a basin as for beef-steak pudding. Put in the apples, which should be pared, cored and quartered, and sprinkle in the sugar and lemon-rind. Put on the cover of paste, and tie over it a well-scalded and floured cloth. Boil for one hour or longer; the length of time will depend on the fruit used. Plain damson, gooseberry, currant, or any fresh fruit puddings, aro made in tho same manner. Note.—All these puddings are nicer if they are served in the basin, which can then be lined half-way only with the paste. Yorkshire (or Batter) Pudding. Ingredients. ^ lb. of flour. 2 eggs. 1 pint of milk. A pinch of salt. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, make a hole in the middle and put in the eggs unbeaten.243 PUDDINGS. Stir smoothly round with a wooden spoon, adding tho milk very gradually. If it is to he served with meat, hake it in a haking-tin, which should he well greased with quite one ounce of hutter or clarified dripping. When the meat is roasted it may he finished under it. Boiled Batter Pudding. 4 eggs. 1 pint of milk. Ingredients. 8 ozs. of flour. Method.—Beat the eggs and milk together, and strain them. Put the flour into a hasin, make a well in the centre, and mix the flour very gradually with the milk and eggs, keeping the hatter quite stiff at first. Put the hatter in a well-greased basin, or a scalded and floured cloth, and boil it quickly for an hour and ten minutes. Batter puddings must be served immediately, or they become heavy. Dust it well with castor sugar and serve with a sweet sauce. Black Cap Pudding. Proceed as in foregoing recipe, hut cook the batter in a mould, dropping into it at the last moment four ounces of currants. Good Vermicelli Pudding. 1 pint of milk. 2 ozs. of vermicelli. 3 eggs. 1 oz. of butter. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. The grated rind of half a lemon, or a little orange-flower water. Method.—Put the milk on to boil, and when boiling drop into it very gradually the vermicelli, first breaking it into pieces. Stir the milk while doing this, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring frequently.244 A COMPLETE COOKEtlY GUIDE. Then add the butter and sugar, and turn the mixture into a basin. Stir occasionally, and when cool add the eggs, well- beaten, with the grated rind of half a lemon or a little orange-flower water. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish and bake for about thirty-five minutes, until the pudding is set. The oven must be very moderate (see Directions for Baking Custards). Boiled Rice Pudding. 5 ozs. of rice. 1 i pints of milk. 4 ozs. of castor sugar. Ingredients. A few drops of almond essence. 4 eggs. A little grated lemon rind. Method.—Cook the rice very gradually in the milk until quite thick (a double saucepan is best for this purpose). Then add the sugar, lemon-rind, almond essence, and the eggs well beaten. When cool pour it into a basin, and boil for quite an hour. Let it stand for five minutes before turning it out, and serve it with a jam sauce. Baked Rice Pudding. 1 pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of rice. Ingredients. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Method.—Wash the rice and put it in a pic-dish with the sugar. Pour the milk over it, and let it soak for an hour. Then bake in a slow oven for two hours or more, until the rice is quite cooked. If eggs are used, the rice must be simmered in the milk before they aro added, and then poured into the pie-dish. More milk will then be required. Baked Tapioca Pudding. Make like a rice pudding.215 PUDDINGS. Evelyne’s Pudding. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of rice, li pints of milk. 3 ozs. of suet. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 oz. of candied peel. 5 ozs. of sultanas. 3 eggs. Method.—Put tlio rice in the milk, and simmer until it is cooked and dry (this is best dono in a double sauce- pan). Chop the suet finely and add to the rice, when cooled, with the other dry ingredients, and mix with the eggs well beaten. Boil in a well-buttered mould for two hours, and serve with a sweet sauce. Raspberry Pudding. Ingredients. 1 pint of raspberries. Thin slices of bread. 3 ozs. of sugar. A little milk. Method.—Pick the stalks from the raspberries and mix them with the sugar. Put them and the bread in alternate layers in a pie-dish, moistening the bread with a little milk. Bake for half an hour. Note.—This pudding is very good served with cream or custard. The bottled raspberries may be used instead of ripe fruit. Albert Pudding. Ingredients. 3 eggs. butter, flour, and sugar. Their weight in each— The grated rind of a lemon. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream. Mix in gradually the flour and sugar, alternately with tho eggs, which should be well beaten. Then add the grated lemon rind. Steam for three hours. R24G A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Semolina Pudding. Ingredients. 1 pint of milk. 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of semolina. An egg, if liked. Method.—Simmer the semolina in the milk with the sugar, stirring until it thickens. Then heat in the egg. Pour into a pie-dish, and bake for half an hour. A lighter pudding may he made by adding the yolk and white separately, the white whipped to a stiff froth. Custard Pudding. Ingredients. 1 pint of hot milk. 2 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. A little flavouring essence. A little pastry. Method.—Line a pie-disli with paslry. Beat the eggs thoroughly, and pour the milk almost boiling on to them, stirring quickly. Strain into the dish, and add the sugar and flavouring. Bake in a slow oven for one hour or until set (see Directions at beginning of Chapter). Note.—A richer custard may be made by using five yolks and one whole egg. Bread-and-Butter Pudding. Ingredients. Some slices of bread and butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 pint of milk. A few currants, nicely washed. 1 or 2 eggs, if liked. Method.—Put some thin slices of bread-and-butter in the bottom of a pie-dish. Sprinkle each slice with sugar and currants. Pour over the milk, and let it soak for half an hour. Then bake until set. If eggs are used, heat the milk almost to boiling and stir on to the eggs, and then pour over the bread-and- butter.rUDDINGS. 247 Ground Rice Pudding. Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful of ground rice. 1 pint of milk. 2 ozs. of sugar. 1 or 2 eggs (these omitted if liked). A little grated lemon flavouring essence. may be rind, or Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar. Mix the rice smoothly with a little cold milk. Pour it into the boiling milk, and stir until it thickens. Add the eggs well beaten, and the flavouring. Pour into a pie-dish, and bake for about thirty minutes. A lighter pudding may be made by dividing the yolks and whites and adding them separately—the white beaten stiffly. Cold Tapioca Pudding. Ingredients. 5 tablespoonfuls of tapioca. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 quart of milk. Lemon or some other flavouring. Method.—Soak the tapioca all night in cold water. The next day pour away the water, and put it with the milk into a large stewpan with the sugar. Simmer gently for one hour. Then pour into a wetted basin, or mould. When set, turn it out and serve with stewed fruit, jam, or treacle. Steamed Rice Pudding. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of whole rice. 2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 pint of milk. Method.—Wash the rice well and put it into a saucepan of cold water. Bring it to the boil, and then pour off' the water. Pour in the milk and add the sugar. Simmer until the rice is quite soft. Kemove it from the fire, and when cooled a little stir in the yolks of the eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff' froth, and stir them in lightly. Put the mixture into a well-greased pudding-mould, and steam for about thirty minutes. u 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 218 Steamed Semolina Pudding. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of semolina. 1 pint of milk. 2 eggs. 2 ozs. of moist sugar. A little flavouring essence. Method.—Boil the semolina in the milk with the sugay until quite soft. Then add the flavouring essence and the yolks of the two eggs. Beat the whites up stiffly and mix them in lightly. Pour the mixture into a greased pudding-mould, and steam for one hour. Serve with a sweet sauce jam or stowed fruit. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, add to it a pinch of salt. Make a well in the middle, and put the two eggs into it; mix them smoothly with the flour, and add the milk very gradually. Melt the lard or dripping. Well season a small frying-pan, about the size of a cheese- plate. Put into it a teaspoonful of the melted fat, and let it run well over the pan. Then pour in enough batter to cover the pan thinly, and fry it brown, shaking the pan occasionally to keep it from burning. Then toss it on to the other side, and when that is fried turn it on to kitchen paper. Sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice and roll it up. Keep it hot while the remainder of the batter is fried in the same way. If the maker cannot toss the pancakes well, they may be turned with a broad-bladed knife. If they are fried in a large pan, more fat must be used. Pancakes. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 2 eggs. 14)int of milk. Some lard or dripping for frying.249 PUDDINGS. Macaroni Pudding. Ingredients. i lb. of macaroni. I 1 or 2 eggs. £ lb. of sugar. | 1 quart of milk. Method.—Break the macaroni into pieces, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil for ten minutes, and then strain off the water. Pour in the milk ; add the sugar, and boil gently for five minutes. Beat up the eggs and stir them in. Put the mixture into a buttered pie- dish, and bake for about thirty minutes. Baked Plum Pudding. % Ingredients. i lb. of finely-chopped suet, i lb. of flour. 1 lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped. f lb. of currants. 2 ozs. of candied peel. 2 ozs. of moist sugar. 1 egg. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder. 1 gill, or more, of milk. Method.—Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, and mix with the egg and milk ; it must bo quite stiff. Bake in a greased baking-tin for one hour. For serving, cut into squares, and dust them over with castor sugar. Stale Bread Pudding. Ingredients. i lb. of scraps of bread. 2 ozs. of sugar. 1 quart of boiling milk. £ lb. of currants. 2 eggs. Method.—Soak the bread in cold water until soft. Squeeze it quite dry and beat up with a fork. Pour the boiling milk over. Stir in the sugar and eggs, well beaten. Then stir in the currants. Bake in a pie- dish for one hour, or until nicely set and browned.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 250 i lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of finely-chopped suet, i lb. of castor sugar-. Boiled Orange Pudding. Ingredients. The grated rind of one orange and the juice of two. 2 eggs. Enough milk to mix it. .. Method.—Put the bread-crumbs and suet into a basin, ihi sugar, grated orange rind and juice. tix the pudding with the two eggs, well beaten, and a Jr little milk. .Boil it fur one hour and. a half. This pudding may be served with an orange, wine or sweet sauce (see Sauces). Poor Knight ’s Pudding. Ingredients. Some small square slices of stale bread. Castor sugar. Method.—Fry the bread in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain on kitchen paper. Dish in tne form of a wreath, the one leaning on the other, and put a little jam on each. Treacle Pudding. Ingredients. 1 lb. of (lour. h lb. of finely-chopped suet, h lb. of treacle, h oz. of ground ginger. 1 egg. 2 ozs. of moist sugar. 1 gill of milk. 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Method.—Put the dry ingredients into a basin. Mix w-ith the treacle, and egg well beaten, with the milk. Boil in a greased basin for two and a half hours. The egg may be omitted, if liked. Gooseberry Fool. Ingredients. I i pint of water. | 1 pint of milk or cream. 1 quart of gooseberries. $ lb. of moist sugar.251 PUDDINGS. Method.—Take the tops and stalks from tho gooseberries, and boil them with the sugar and water until soft. Rub them through a hair sieve. Mix in the milk, or cream, gradually, and serve on a glass dish. Sago Pudding. Ingredients. 1 pint of milk. I 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of sago. | 1 egg. Method.—Simmer the sago in the milk until it thickens. Add the sugar and the egg well beaten. Put it into a pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. The egg may be omitted if preferred, or the pudding may be made ligh^pr by adding yolk and white separately, the white well beal^n. Economical Bread Pudding. Ingredients. ^ lb. of scraps of bread, f lb. of finely-chopped suet. 2 ozs. of moist sugar. 1 lb. currants. 1 egg- Method.—Soak the bread in cold water until soft; squeeze it quite dry. Beat it up with a fork. Add to it the suet, sugar, and currants, which should be well washed and dried. Mix with the egg, well beaten. Boil in a greased basin for an hour. Economical Fig Pudding. Ingredients. 1 err". 3 ozs. of moist sugar. i lb. of scraps of bread, i lb. of finely-chopped suet, i lb. of figs. Method.—Soak tho bread in the water until quite soft. Squeeze it quite dry. Add to it the suet, sugar and figs, chopped quite small, and mixed with a beaten egg. Boil in a greased basin for an hour.252 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Economical Ginger Pudding. Ingredients. 4 lb. of scraps of bread, t lb. of finely-chopped suet. 2 ozs. of moist sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle. 3 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. Method.—Soak the bread in the water until quite soft. Squeeze it diy and beat with a fork until quite fine. Add the suet, sugar, and ginger, and mix with the treacle. Boil in a greased basin for an hour. Cornflour Pudding. Ingredients. 2 tablespoon fills of cornflour. 1 pint of milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 1 egg if liked. Method.—Put the milk on to boil. Put the cornflour into a pie-dish with the sugar. Mix smoothly with a little cold milk. Pour on it the boiling milk, stirring quickly until it thickens. Add the egg, well beaten, and a little flavouring essence. Bake in a pie-dish for about thirty minutes. Flaked Hominy Pudding. Ingredients. 3 tablespoonfuls of flaked 1 pint of milk. hominy. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Method.—Mix the hominy with a little cold milk, and make the remainder boil. Then stir in the hominy, and cook until it thickens. Add the sugar, pour into a greased pie-dish, and bako for half an hour. If liked, one or two eggs may be added to the pudding, with a little flavouring essence.253 rUDDIKGS. Fruit Pudding with Cornflour Blancmange Cover. Ingredients. Some cornflour blancmange. | Stewed fruit. Method.—Put any nice stowed fruit in a pie, or glass, dish. Prepare some cornflour blancmange and pour OArer. Let it stand until cold. Ground rice, semolina, &c., may be used instead of corn- flour. The Children’s Pudding. Ingredients. Any fruit that will stew nicely. 1 quart of milk. G ozs. of rice. Sugar. Method.—Simmer the rice in tho milk until quite cooked and thick. Mix in sugar to taste. Put the fruit well sugared into a pie-dish. Cover with the rice, put on roughly, and bake for about half an hour. A little cream or butter mixed in with the rice is a great improvement. Prince of Wales Pudding. i lb. of raisins chopped. lb. of flour. 5 eggs. Ingredients. lb. of butter. 2 ozs. of citron. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. Method.—Peat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar, and beat for ten minutes. Add the eggs one by one, beating them well in. Then mix in the flour and raisins, beating all well together. Boil in a mould for three hours. Servo with a sweet sauce. Angel Pudding. Ingredients. 4 ozs. of flour. £ pint of new milk. 1 oz. of castor sugar. 1 whole egg and 1 yolk. 2 ozs. of butter. Method.—Put tho flour into a basin; add to it the sugar.254 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Melt tile butter, and add it to the milk. Make a well in the centre of the flour, and put in the eggs. Mix gradually, add the milk by degrees, beat well. Partly fill greased patty-pans. Bake for twenty minutes or half an hour in a quick oven. Serve with jam or a sweet sauce. Claydon Puddings. Ingredients. 5 ozs. of bread-crumbs. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 eggs. A little flavouring essence. 3 ozs. of butter. % Method.—Cream the butter and the sugar, beating them for ten minutes. Beat in the eggs thoroughly, and add the crumbs and flavouring. Partly fill greased dariols or cups, and bake for about a quarter of an hour. Serve with a sweet sauce. Punctual Pudding. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. i pint of cold milk. 2 eggs. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the eggs, beat them in thoroughly. Then mix in the flour smoothly, and add gradually the milk ; add also a little flavouring essence. Pour into a greased pie-dish. Bake in a quick oven for three quarters of an hour. Plain Sultana Pudding. 1 lb. of flour. 0 ozs. of suet. 4 lb. of sultanas. Method.—Clean finely. Ingredients. Milk. 1 teaspoon fill of baking-powder, the sultanas, and chop the suet veryPUDDINGS. 255 Mix tho dry ingredients well together, and then add sufficient milk to form into a stiff paste. Boil in a scalded and floured cloth for four hours. Marmalade Pudding. Ingredients. 6 ozs. of bread-crumbs. 6 ozs. of suet. 6 ozs. of marmalade. 6 ozs. of sugar. 4 eggs. Method.—Chop the suet finely, and mix with the bread- crumbs, sugar and marmalade. Beat and strain the eggs, and mix them thoroughly with the other ingredients. Boil for two hours. For a plainer pudding use two eggs and a little milk. Boiled Jam Pudding. Make like marmalade pudding, using an}' suitable jam in place of tho marmalade. Children’s Plum Pudding. Ingredients. i lb. of flour. i lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of currants, i lb. of suet. i lb. of moist sugar. A little grated lemon peel. A little milk. Method.—Prepare all the ingredients. Then mix with a little milk, and boil for three hours. Apple Snowballs. Large cooking apples. Bice. Ingredients. Sugar. Method.—Well wash some rice, and boil it for ten minutes. Well drain it, and spread on small floured pudding- cloths. Peel and core the apples and fill the centre with sugar. Place them on the rice and tie them in tho cloths.256 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Boil for half an hour or longer, according to the apples used. Serve with sugar dredged over them. Make orange snowballs in the same way, boiling for one hour. Boiled Rice and Raisin Pudding. Ingredients. 8 ozs. of rice. I 1 lb.'of raisins. Method.—Well wash the rice and stone the raisins. Mix them well, and tie in a scalded and floured cloth, leaving room for them to swell. Boil for two hours. Serve the pudding with a nice sweet sauce (see Sauces). Boiled Apple Dumpiings. Ingredients. Cooking Apples. Suet crust or other suitable Marmalade or sugar. pastry. Method.—Peel and core the apples without dividing them. Fill the centres with marmalade or sugar, and cover- each with pastry. Boil in small scalded and floured cloths for about three- quarters of an hour. A Nice Fruit Pudding. Ingredients. Stale bread and sugar. | Some raspberries and currants. Method.—Take equal quantities of raspberries and currants. Prepare them as for a preserve, and boil them with sugar, using the proportions of three-quarters of a pound to every pound of fruit. Dip a plain mould or basin in cold water, and line it en- tirely and closel}’ with thin slices of stale crumbs of bread. Then pour in some of the boiling preserve. Cover with a layer of bread, and continue placing the fruit and bread in layer’s, until the mould is full, letting the last layer be bread. Place a plate and weight on tho top.257 PUDDINGS. Tco the pudding, or put it in a cold place for twelvo hours. Then turn it out and serve it with cream or custard. Note.—This pudding is excellent made with rhubarb ; it is also good with black currants, or apples and plums. If more convenient, it may be made with preservo made boiling hot. Superior Puddings. Good Cabinet Pudding. $ oz. of angelica. 2 ozs. of glacd cherries. 4 penny sponge cakes. 2 ozs. ratafias. 5 macaroons. 1 oz. of candied peel. Ingredients. 4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs. pint of milk. ^ pint of cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. A tablespoonful of brandy. A little almond flavouring. Method.—Well butter a round quart pudding-mould. Decorate tastefully with the cherries and angelica, cutting the cherries in halves, and pressing the cut side against the mould. Slice the spongo cakes and candied peel. Place the sponge cakes in the mould, alternately with the biscuits, sprinkling them with the candied peel. Beat the eggs thoroughly with the milk and cream. Strain them, and flavour with the brandy and almond flavouring. Pour them over the cakes, and steam the pudding for about one hour and a quarter. Let it stand for six minutes before turning out, that it may not break. Serve with a brandy sauce. Viennoise Pudding. Ingredients. 5 ozs. of stale crumbs of bread cut into dice. 3 ozs. of sultanas. 1 lb. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of candied peel. Grated rind of a lemon. 1 wineglass of sberry. ^ pint of milk. 2 whole eggs. 1 oz. of lump sugar. Method.—Put the one ounce of lump sugar into saucepan, and burn it to a dark brown. an oldA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 258 Pour in the milk, and stir until it is well-coloured, and the sugar dissolved. Beat the eggs well, strain the coloured milk on to them, and add the sherry. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, and pour the eggs, milk, and sherry over them. Let the pudding soak for half an hour. Then put it into a well-greased pint mould. Cover with buttered paper, and steam for one hour and a half. This pudding is to be served with German sauce (see Sauces). Apple 8 apples. ozs. of butter. 3 ozs. of moist sugar. Amber Pudding. Ingredients. Rind and juice of one lemon. 3 eggs. A little pastry. Method.—Wash the apples (they need not be peeled or cored) and cut them into small pieces. Put them into a stew pan with the butter, sugar, lemon rind and juice, and stew until tender. Then rub through a hair-sieve; the sieve keeps back the peel and pips. Beat the three yolks into the mixture, and put it into a pint pie-dish lined with a little pastry. Bake in a moderate oven until set. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and heap on the top. Put it again into a cool oven, until the whites are set. This pudding may be served either hot or cold. Jaune-Mange. i oz. packet of isinglass. pint of water. £ piut of white wine. Ingredients. Rind of half a lemon. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 4 yolks. Method.—Soak the isinglass in the water with the lemon rind. Then put it in a saucepan with all the other ingredients.PUDDINGS. 259 Stir ovei the fire until the custard thickens, but on no account let it boil. Then strain into a wetted mould. Gateau a la Creme. A round sponge cake. Some glace. Ingredients. Preserve of different kinds. Method.—Cut the cake into slices, and stamp out the centre with a circular cutter. Spread with different coloured jams. Replace the cake in shape. Cover all over with a white or coloured glace (see Garnishes) and decorate with leaves of angelica or cherries. When about to serve, place in the centre half a pint of whipped cream, sweetened with castor sugar. Baked Lemon Pudding. Ingredients. Yolks of 4 eggs. i lb. of butter. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. Some pastry. 1 large lemon. Method.—Cream the butter, and add the sugar and the eggs one by one. Then mix in the grated rind of the lemon and strained juice. Line a small pie-dish with pastry, and pour in the mixture; bake half an hour. Diplomatic Pudding. Ingredients. ± pint of sweet jelly. 2 ozs. of ratafias. 1 pint of milk. 1 whole egg and 4 yolks. Not quite % oz. of isinglass. 2 ozs. of sugar. 2 sponge cakes. A little flavouring essence. Method.—Soak the isinglass in a little milk. Break the sponge cakes and ratafias, and put them into basin. Boil the milk with the sugar. Beat the eggs, and pour the milk on them.2G0 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Strain them into a jng, put it to stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the custard coats the spoon. Then melt the isinglass, and add it to the custard, and poor it at once over the cakes. While the mixture cools, pour a little jelly, coloured with cochineal, into a plain round tin. When it is set, place a jam-pot, or a smaller tin, on it, and pour some jelly round the sides. When it is quite firm, pour some boiling water into the jam-pot, or tin, and remove it quickly. When the custard and cakes are cold, hut not set, add the essence, and pour into the mould. When quite firm, dip the tin in hot water for a second or two, and turn the pudding on to a glass dish. Cold Pineapple Pudding. Ingredients. oz. of amber less than half isinglass, lb. of pineapple. gelatine or ounce of an i pint of double cream. 1 tablespoonfnl of castor sugar. 1 tablespoonfnl of brandy. Method.—Soak the gelatine in a quarter of a pint of water for half an hour. Chop the pineapple finely. "Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and mix with it, and add the brandy and sugar. Dissolve the gelatine, and mix thoroughly with the pineapple, etc. Pour into a ■wetted mould. When firm, turn out, and pour a cold boiled custard round it. Cold Apricot Pudding. Ingredients. 11 pint of milk. 1 pint of cream. 1 oz. of isinglass. 1 lb. of apricot jam. Method.—Dissolve tho isinglass in the milk over the fire, and -when it boils stir in the cream and strain into a basin. , Kub the jam through a sieve, add it to the cream andPUDDINGS. 261 Btir occasionally until cold, but not set. (If this is not done, the jam will sink to the bottom of the mould.) Then pour into a wetted mould, and when tirm, turn on to a glass or silver dish. A few finely-chopped pistachio kernels may be sprinkled over for a garnish. Good Christmas Pudding. 3 lbs. of raisins. 1 lb. of suet, j lb. of candied peel. ^ lb. of flour. i lb. of bread-crumbs. i lb. of moist sugar. Ingredients. A little mixed spice. Half a nutmeg grated. A little lemon rind grated, i pint of milk. 4 eggs. Method.—Put the dry ingredients into a basin, and mix with the eggs well-beaten and the milk. Put into a well-greased basin, and boil ten hours, if possible. This pudding may be mixed with beer and a little treacle instead of eggs and milk. Use only sufficient to mix very stiffly. A Favourite Pudding. Ingredients. 1 pint of raspberries. $ pint of milk. 5 ozs. of sugar. Puff or other pastry. 3 tggs. Method.—Line a pie-dish with pastry. Remove the stalks from the raspberries and mix with three ounces of the sugar. Lay these at the bottom of the pie-dish. Beat the eggs thoroughly, boil the milk and strain on to them. Mix in the sugar, pour over the raspberries, and bake in a very moderate oven until the custard is set. If this pudding is served cold, whipped or clotted cream may be heaped on the top. 8A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 2G2 Plum Pudding. Ingredients. i lb. of finely-chopped suet, i lb. of currants, i lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped. G ozs. of flour. G ozs. of bread-crumbs. G ozs. of candied peel. 3 ozs. of sugar. 1 gill of milk. 2 eggs. 2 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Method.—rut the dry ingredients into a basin, and mix with the eggs and milk, well-beaten together. Boil in a cloth or basin for four hour's. Caramel Pudding. G ozs. of lump sugar. A little lemon juice. 1 pint of milk. Ingredients. 5 yolks and three whole eggs. 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. A little vanilla. Method.—Put the lump sugar, crushed, into a plain round mould with the lemon juice. Lot it stand over the fire, stirring carefully until it takes a golden-brown tinge. Then turn the mould round and round until it is well-covered, and dip the outsido into water to set the caramel. Beat the eggs well. Put the milk on to boil, when nearly boiling, pour on to the eggs, stirring them quickly, add tho sugar and vanilla, and strain into the mould. Then cook it for an hour (see Directions for cooking custard at commencement of chapter). Little Custard Puddings. 3 2 Bequired. eggs. tablespoonfub of castor sugar. h pint of milk. A fewdropsof almond flavouring. Some glace cherries or angelica. Method.—Beat the eggs and milk well together. Add the sugar and flavouring, and strain tho custard. Pour it into well-buttored dariols, and place these in a Yorkshire pudding tin with sufficient hot water in it to come half-way up tho moulds.PUDDINGS. 2(33 Cook these in the oven until tho custard is firm in tho centre. They will take twenty minutes. Slip a small knife round the custards and turn them on to a hot dish. Decorate each one with cherries or angelica, and pour over them a wine syrup sauce (see Sauces). Queen Pudding. Ingredients. 1 pint of milk. h pint of cream. 4 yolks and 3 whole cgg^. 3 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. A few drops of vanilla essence. Method.—Put the milk and cream on the fire to boil with the sugar. , When nearly boiling, pour on t> tho eggs, which should have been well-beaten and straiuod, stirring quickl}r. Stir now and again till cold, then add tho vanilla. Pour into a ■well-buttered mould, cover with buttered paper and steam for an hour, or until the custard is firm in the centre. Lot it stand for six minutes before turning out. Serve with a wine or jam sauce poured over it. Cr§me Frite. 1 whole egg. 1 white. 4 yolks. 1 gill of cream. Ingredients. 1 gill of milk. 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. Flavouring to taste. 3 ozs. of cake-crumbs. Method.—Cream the yolks and white well together with tb.o castor sugar. Add cream, milk, and flavouring. Strain this custard into a greased pudding-basin, and steam very gently until firm. Let it get quite cold, then turn it out. Cut into slices, one-third of an inch thick. Stamp into round or fancy shapes. Egg and cake-crumb them. Fry in a frying-basket in hot fat Serve on a dessei t-paper and sprinkle with castor sugar, coloured pink. s 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 204 The rind and juice of 2 orangt s. 2 ozs. of cake-crumbs rubbed through a sieve. Orange Pudding. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. 3 eggs. 1 gill of milk or cream. Method.—Put the crumbs in a basin, with the sugar. Add the grated rind of one orange, and the juice of two. Beat in the yolks of three eggs, and add the milk or cream. Whip the white of one egg to a stiff froth, stir in lightly. Line a pie-dish with a little good pastry, pour the mixture in. Bake until set and of a light-brown colour. General Satisfaction. 3 sponge cakes. 2 tablespoonfuls of strawberry or other jam. Rather more than half a pint of milk. Ingredients. 1 wineglass of sherry. 4 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of sugar. A little pastry. Method.—Line a pie-dish with a little pastry. Spread the jam at the bottom and lay on it the sponge- cakes cut in halves. Pour over the sherry. Beat one whole egg and three yolks well together. •Mix with the sugar and milk, and pour over the sponge- cakes. Bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. Beat the three whites stiffly, and lay on the top of the pudding. Put into a cool oven until the whites are set, and of a pale fawn colour. This pudding may be served hot or cold. $ pint of milk, n oz. of bread-crumbs. Grated rind of a lem n. 3 eggs. Snow Pudding. Ingredients. 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 2 tablespoonfuis of strawberry or any other jam. A little pastry. Method.—Put the bread-crumbs into a basin.PUDDINGS. 2G5 Boil tlio milk, and pour it over them. Mix in the sugav, one whole egg and two yolks well- beaten, and add the lemon rind. Line a pie-dish with a little pastry. Spread the jam at the bottom and pour the mixture over. Bike in a moderate oven until set. Beat the remaining whites to a still' froth, with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and heap it lightly on the top just before serving. Portuguese Bars. 3 ozs. of rice. 1 pint of milk. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. Yolks of 2 eggs. Ingredients. A little lemon essence. 1 whole egg. Some bread crumbs. Some red jam. Method.—Simmer the rice in the milk with tho sugar until soft (this is best done in a double saucepan), gently stirring occasionally. Then remove from the lire, and when cool beat in the two yolks, and add the lemon essence. Then spread on a flat dish to cool. When quite cold, cut into bars. Brush over with the beaten egg, and cover with bread- crumbs. Fry in hot fat until lightly coloured. There should bo an equal number of bars. Spread one half of them with jam, and lay the others on the top. Little Rice Puddings. Put the mixture (prepared as in preceding recipe) when hot into well-greased tartlet-tins. Make a small hole in the middle and put in a littlo jam. Cover with some more of tho rice mixture, and let them get cold. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat.266 A COMPLETE COOKEP.Y GUIDE. BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. Coffee. To have coffee in perfection it must bo freshly roosted and freshly ground, as coffee very quickly loses its flavour. The cuffee must not be boiled but only infused in boiling water. Boiling causes the escape of the aroma. It can, however, be made more economically when boiled, and therefore a recipe is given for its preparation in this manner. Chicory is sometimes mixed with coffee in the proportion of two ounces of chicory to every pound of coffee. Coffee, to Make. Ingredients. < r 3 07.s. of coffee. | 1 pint of boiling water. Method.—Make the coffee-pot hot, then put in the coffee and pour over the boiling water. Set it to stand for ten minutes. "Whatever cafetiere is used, it should bo one in which the straining in perfect, and one, also, which allows the water to remain long enough on the coffee to extract its flavour. The old-fashioned percolator is not good for this purpose. Coffee can be made in a hot jug. It should be covered close and put to stand near the fire for twenty minutes. It must be well-strained before using. The proportions given in the recipe will make strong coffee. Cafe au Lait. Mix together equal quantities of strong coffee and boiled milk.BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 2(37 Cafe N oir. This is very strong, served without milk. Sugar is handed with it.* Burnt Coffee. This is strong coffee sweetened with sugar. Brandy is poured on the top and then lighted. When half con- sumed, it is blown out. The coffee must be very hot.* Coffee, Economical Method. Ingredients. •f lb. of coffee. | 2 quarts cold water. Method.—Put the coffee into a large muslin bag, tie it securely. Put it into a saucepan or kettle of cold water, heat gradually, and boil for ten minutes. Strain well before using. This will make strong coffee, which can be diluted with boiling water as required. Tea. The water for tea should be, if pos-ible, freshly boiling. Water that has boiled for any length of time gets flat and insipid from loss of its gases. It is essential that it shall be actually boiling at the timo it is poured on tho tea. For people of weak digestion the tea should not be infused longer than fivo minutes, after that timo the tannin is extracted in sufficient quantity to have an injurious effect on the nervous system. When tea has to be kept hot for any length of time, the leaves should bo removed from it. If left on them, it not only becomes unwholesome, but nauseous and bitter in taste. It is a good plan to infuse the tea in one pot and then pour it into another heated one, which should then bo covered with a cosy; or the tea may be put in a muslin bag large enough for tho leaves to have plenty of room to swoll; ibis can be easily removed, and the tea can then be kept hot without any deterioration of its quality. * These preparations of coffee are served after dinner—not for breakfast.268 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Tea, to Make. Measure one teaspoonful to each person and one over. Make the pot hot by pouring into it boiling water. When well heated, pour the water away and put in the tea. Fill the pot at once with boiling water. Cover with a cosy, and let it infuse. Tea should never be boiled. Cocoa from the Nibs. Put a quarter of a pound of nibs into two or three quarts of cold water, and simmer gently for five hours. Strain, and when cjld remove the fat before reheating for use. Cocoa from the Husks. This can be made at half the cost of cocoa from the nibs. It is prepared in the same manner. Tinned Cocoa. Prepare from directions given on the packets. It is, however, always better to boil it. Chocolate. This is a thicker preparation of cocoa, made in the same manner or with the cukes of chocolate. Milk should be used for making it. Dry Toast. Cut the bread into thin slices and remove the crust. Toast it slowly, holding it at a little distance from a clear fire. Put it into tho rack directly it is ready. If laid flat on the table it loses its crispness and becomes soft. Buttered Toast. Cut the bread about half an inch in thickness. Toast it quickly before a bright clear lire, spread the butter onBreakfast dishes and beverages. 2C9 quickly and thickly, taking care not to scrape it. Tut the toast on a hot plate, and serve quite hot It is wise to serve it on a hot-water plate. Toasted Bacon. Cut the bacon in thin slices, and toast it before a clear fire until the fat is transparent. This may be done in a dutch-oven or with a toasting-fork. The flavour of toasted bacon is far finer than when it is fried or baked. It is wise to serve it on a hot-water dish. Fried Bacon. Cut the bacon in thin slices, and fry in a little dripping if very lean. It is cooked when the fat is transparent. It must not be cooked too quickly or the fat will get scorched and wasted. Serve on a hot-water dish if possible. Eggs and Bacon. Toast or fry the bacon. Lay a n:cely-poached egg on each slice of bacon. Sometimes the bacon is laid on nicely- toasted bread. To Cook Eggs. Put them into boiling water. Cover them and let them stand by the fire for twelve minutes. hew laid eggs will take two minutes longer. 'When cooked in this way the white is more digestible. If the weather is very cold, warm the eggs before putting them into boiling water, otherwise they may crack. The ordinary way of cooking eggs is to put them in boiling water and boil for three minutes—new laid eggs four minutes; or the eggs may be put into cold water and will be cooked when it boils. To boil an egg hard, boil steadily for ten minutes. Poached Eggs. Fresh eggs only will poach well. Break the shell, and slip them quickly into boiling water which has a little270 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. salt and vinegar in it. Draw the pan to one side of the fire, until the Avhites aro nicely set. Kemove them with a si ce, trim them neatly and dish on rounds or squares of hot-buttered toast. Poached Eggs with Gravy. Poach some eggs according to directions in foregoing recipe. Dish them in the same way and pour a nice thick gravy over them. Toasted Kidneys. Well wipe the kidneys and split them lengthwise without, dividing them. Toast them quickly before a clear fire; a hot dish should be placed under them, to catch the gravy. Place some nice pieces of toast on the dish, and put the kidneys on it. Sprinklo a little pepper and salt over them, or put a little maitre-d’hotel butter (see Putters) on each. Sauteed Kidneys. Ingredients. Kidneys. Clarified butter. Toasted bread. Method.—Skin the kidneys. Cut them into slices and then into dice. Gently saute them in a little butter. Serve quite hot on toast. Dust them with a little pepper and salt. Broiled Kidneys. Well wipe the kidneys, split them open lengthwise, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve on toast with a little maitre-d’hotel butter (see Butters) on the top of each kidney. Kidneys & la Tartare. Toast or broil the kidneys and serve tartare sauce in a boat.BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 271 Fried Sausages. Ingredients. Sausages. | Toasted bread. Method.—Prick the sausages. Put them in a frying- pan with a little dripping and let them heat gradually. Fry them until they are nicely browned, turning them so that they cook equally. Serve on toasted bread with nice thick gravy in a sauce-boat. Some people like the toast soaked in the fat, but this is a matter of taste. If the sausages are put into a hot pan, they will burst. Baked Sausages. Prick the sausages and put them on a greased baking- sheet. Bake until they are nicely browned in a moderate oven. Serve on toast with a nice gravy in a boat. Oxford Sausages. Put sausage-meat in little heaps on a greased baking- tin and bake in a quick oven. Serve on toast with a good gravy. Fried Sausages, Another Method. Parboil the sausages, then egg and bread-crumb and fry in hot fat (see French Frying); serve with fried parsley. Brawn. 1 pig's head. 2 or 3 hard-! oiled eggs. 2 onions. G cloves. Ingredients. 1 blade of macc. 1 dozen ] e| percorns. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Method.— Clean the head well and put it in pickle for three days (see Pickles for Meat). Then boil very gently from three to four hours, until the flesh will leave the bones easily. lake out the tonguo, skin it and cut it in slices, stamp them into fancy shapes with a paste cutter.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 212 Wet a plain round mould, and decorate with them and the eggs cut in slices. Cut the meat into large dice. Take one quart of the liquor in which the head was boiled, put the bones in it with the herbs, onions, peppercorns, and cloves, and boil down for half an hour with tho lid off the saucepan. Season the pieces of meat with pepper and a little salt, if necessary. Strain the broth, and mix them with it. Boil all together for about three minu'es, and then put it into the prepared mould. When cold, turn on to a dish and garnish with parsley. Pig’s Cheek. Wash the cheek and pickle for three days, then put it in lukewarm water and simmer gently until tender, ihis will take about three hours, sometimes longer. When cooked remove tho rind and cover with browned bread-crumbs or raspings. If the cheek is dry, soak it for four hours before cooking. Ham and Bacon. (See Joints.) Tongue. (See Savoury Meat Dishes.) Veal Cake. Ingredients. The remains of cooked veal. Slices of cooked liam. 2 or 3 hard-boiled oggs. Some nice second stock. A little gelatine. Some veal forcemeat balls. Pepper and salt. Parsley. Method.—Well butter a plain mould or basin, decorate it with slices of egg and tho forcemeat balls. Cut the veal and ham into neat pieces, season them with pepper and stilt and a little chopped parsley. Place them in the mould and fill up with strong secondBREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 273 slock. If the stock is not stiff enough, mix with it a little melted gelatine, taking care not to use (oo much. Cover the mould and put it into a slow oven for half an hour. Then put it on one side until cold, turn it out and garnish with parsley. Buttered Eggs. 2 ozs. of butter. 4 eggs. Ingredients. Pepper and salt. Method.—Beat tho eggs well and season with pepper and salt. Melt tho butter in a saute or stewpan. Tour in the oggs and stir tho mixture quickly until it is a soft yellow mass; take caro it does not get hard. Spread quickly, on hot buttered toast and serve at once. Well-cooked green peas, asparagus, mushrooms, or ripe tomatoes, cut into dice, may be mixed with the buttered eggs, if liked. A more savoury dish is made by spreading anchovy paste on the toast before putting on the eggs. Omelets. (See Omelets and Souffles.) Egg Cutlets. Hard-boiled eggs. White bread-crumbs. A good rich gravy. Some sausage-meat. Ingredients. Some boiled potatoes mashed with butter. Pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the eggs in halves, lengthwise, and spread the flat side with the sausage-meat. Egg and bread-crumb them and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, and pour a rich brown gravy over. Fried eggs are very good with stewed mushrooms.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 274 Curried Eggs. Ingredients. 8 hard-boiled eggs. 4 p'nt of plain curry sauce (see Boiled rice. Sauces). Method. Cut the eggs in pieces, reserving some slices and two yolks for a garnish. Make them quite hot in the curry sauce. Pile thorn in the centre of a dish and put a wall of well-cooked rice round them (see Rice for Curry), and sprinkle over them the two yolks, rubbed through a wire sieve. Place the sPccs of egg round and serve hot. Oatmeal Porridge. 4 lb. of coarse oatmeal. 1 quart of water. Ingredients. A little salt. Method.—Put the water on to boil. "When it boils sprinkle in the oatmeal, stirring all the time. Continue io stir until it thickens, and then set it by the side of the fire to cook for quite three quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally. When the time can be allowed, three hours is not too long a time to cook oatmeal, the longer it is cooked the nicer and more digestible it is. It is a good plan to make the porridge in a double saucepan, the water in the under saucepan must be kept boiling. After the porridge has well thickened, it will require no stirring, as cooked in this manner it will bo in no danger of burning. Porridge made with medium oatmeal can be used after O twenty minutes or half an hour’s cooking, but it will be better if cooked kmger. Butter, cream, milk or trcaclo may le served with the porridge. Note.—Bo careful to get the best oatmeal or the porridgo will not bo nice. If oatmeal is allowed to get damp it will acquire a bitter taste.BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 275 Wheatmeal Porridge. Make it like oatmeal porridge, but it will require longer cooking. Hominy Porridge. (See Vegetable Dishes.) Mushrooms and Bacon on Toast. Toast or fry some bacon cut in neat pieces, and toast some squares of bread nicely. Dip each piece of toast into the bacon-fat in the pan. Place them on a hot dish. Put a piece of bacon on each, and on the top a nicely fried or baked mushroom. Dust over with a little pepper and serve hot. Serve if possible on a hot-water dish. Mock Brawn. Ingredients. 2 neat’s feet. | The belly piece of pork salted. Method.—Boil the feet until tender, and then take the meat off. Boil also the pork until the bones will come out. Season with pepper, and roll the feet and pork together and fasten round them a cloth. Bind it with broad tape. Then continue to boil for half au hour longer. Press, and remove the cloth when cold. Pig’s Feet and Ears. Cleanse them very thoroughly and soak them for somo hours. Then boil them until they are tender. Add a little vinegar and salt to some of tho water in which they boiled, and when cold pour this over thorn. When ready to cook them, dry them, cut tho feet in two, and slice the ears.270 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Dip them in frying batter and fry them in hot fat (see French Frying). Pour over them a little butter just melted, with which a little mustard and vinegar have been mixed, with a little salt and poppor. For other dishes suitable for breakfast, see gules, herrings, bloaters, dried haddock, kedgree, fish oakos, soused mackerel, rissolos, Cornish pasties, meat patties, &c. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. The Preparation of Dishes for Invalids. Beef-tea should never be boiled, but only simmered. Boiling hardens the albumen and fibrine, anil makes the tea less digestible. The safest way of cooking it is to put beef and water into a double saucepan, or beef extractor; or, failing either of these, into a jar, which should be covered closely, and put to stand in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours. Cooked in this way the tea cannot boil. Carefully follow the directions given for making this tea. The soaking of the meat in cold water is most important, as the albumen and other nutritious properties are thus drawn out. Pump, beef, or buttock steak make a far more nutritious tea than shin of beef, which contains a great deal of gelatine. Gruel is a most valuable preparation, very nutritious, and, when well cooked, very digestible. It must be made from the best oatmeal. Oatmeal should always be kept in a perfectly dry place. If allowed to become damp it gets a bitter taste. Arrowroot is not nutritious, it is almost a pure form of starch, and, therefore, heat-giving and force-producing only. It is, however, easily digested, and mixed with milk is very palatable; but the milk gives the dish its dietetic value. Barley water is a very nourishing drink, and a very pleasant one if nicely made. Pice water is considered of value in cases of diarrhoea.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 277 Treacle posset and white wine whey are good remedies for colds, hut as they quickly promote perspiration they should only he taken when in hed. Lemonade, apple-water, and such drinks, are refreshing and useful in fever, hut contain no nourishment. One very important point to atten 1 to when nursing the sick is to have their meals ready directly they are able to take them. Delay often causes exhaustion. Never ask your patients what they would like if you can avoid doing so. They rarely like to he consulted on the subject, and it is generally possible to find out their preferences in other ways. Make as great a change in their diet as you can, and especially bear in mind that quietness, cheerfulness, and well-cooked food are great aids to recovery. There is much sound sense in the old proverb which says that the three best doctors are Doctor Quiet, Doctor Diet, and Doctor Merryman. Raw Beef Tea. Ingredients. Equal quantities of raw beef and cold water. Method.—Scrape the meat finely, soak it in water for half an hour or more, stirring occasionally. When all the juices are drawn into the water, and it has become a deep red colour, strain it, pressing the meat well. This tea should be made from the best rump or beef steak. It is not advisable to make it in too large quantities, especially in hot weather. This tea is a most valuable remedy in many cases of extreme exhaustion. Quick Beef Tea. Ingredients. h lb. of beef. | J pint of water. Method.—Make like raw beef-tea, then put it into a jar and place that in a saucepan of boiling water until the tea is cooked. TA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 278 Beef Tea. Ingredients. 1 lb. of rump or beef steak. | 1V pints of cold water. Method. Cut the meat into small pieces, removing all the fat. lut it in the water and let it soak fur half an liourj this will loosen the juice of the meat. 1 hen put the meat and water into a jar, cover closclv, and put it to stand in a saucepan of boiling wat r for three hours. A double saucepan may be used, or a beef-tea extractor. The great point to be attended to in making beef-tia is never to allow it to boil. See Introductory Remarks. Savoury Beef Tea for the Convalescent. Proceed as in foregoing recipe, cooking with the tea a piece of carrot, turnip, and onion, and a small bunch of herbs. Chicken Broth. Ingredients. 1 chicken. 1 quart or 3 pints < f water. Pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the chicken into pieces and put it into a saucepan with the water, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer very gently from three to four hours. Strain and remove the fat. The broth may be thickened, if liked, with rice, pearl barley, crushed tapioca or arrowroot. A more savoury broth will be obtained if the chicken is roasted for a quarter of an hour before the broth is made. A sliced onion cooked in the broth will also make it more savoury. The legs and inferior parts of a fowl used for other purposes, may be taken instead of a whole chicken for making the broth.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 279 Essence of Different Meats, a Good Restorative. Ingredients. Equal quantities cf 1 eef, mutton, and veal. Method.—Cut the meat into very small piec es ; put them into a beef-tea extractor, a double saucepan, or stone jar, without any water. If a jar is used, cover it with paper, and put it to stand in a saucepan of boiling water, until all the goodness is extracted from the meat. Then strain and add salt, if allowed. A small quantity only should be given at a time. Beef Jelly. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of bee!'. Method.—Scrape and mince up the beef finely. Put it in a jar and cover closely. Put the jar to stand in a tin of water, and put that into a slow oven for six hours. Then pass the meat and liquid through a sieve and strain it through filtering paper until char. Veal Broth. Make like chicken broth, using a pint and a half of water to every pound of veal. Mutton Broth. Ingredients. 1 lb. of scrag end of mutton. 2 tablespoon fids of rice. 2 pints of water. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.— Cut up the mutton and put it into a saucepan with the water and a little pepper and salt. Simmer gently for four hours, then strain from tho meat and put it on one side to cool. When cold remove tho fat and put the broth into a clean saucepan. x 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 250 Put it on to toil, and when boiling throw in the rice, which should be well washed. When the rice is cooked the broth is ready. Pearl barley or crushed tapioca may be substituted for the rice. A more savoury broth may be made by cooking with the rice some carrot, turnip, and onion cut into small dice. Before serving this broth, throw in a little chopped parsley. I e irl barley, if used for thickening, must be cooked ns lot g as the meat, and should be blanched first. Clear Barley Water. Ingredients. 4 ozs. of pearl bailey. I 1 quart of boiling water. A little thin lemon peel. | Sugar to taste. Method.—Wash the barley and put it in a jug with the lemon peel. Pour boiling water over and add the sugar. Let it stand till cold and then strain it. Thick Barley Water. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of pearl barley. I A little thin lemon peel. 1 quart of water. | Sugar to taste. Method.—Wash the barley and put it into a saucepan Avith cold water. Boil for ten minutes. Then throAv tho Avater away, and wash the barley. This is to blanch it. If this Avere not done the barley Avater would have a dark-coloured, unpleasant appearance. Put it into a saucepan Avith the quart of water, and boil gently for tAvo hours. SAveeten to taste and then strain it. This is very nutritious.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 2S1 Rice Water. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of rice. I 1 inch of cinnamon. 3 pints of water. [ Sugar to taste. Method.—Wash the rice well, and throw it into three pints of boiling water with the cinnamon. Boil gently for two hours. Sweeten to taste, and strain. Apple Water. Ingredients. 2 large apples. 1 pint of boiling water. A little thin lemon peel. Sugar to taste. Method.—Peel and cut up the apples ; put them into a jug with the lemon peel and sugar. Pour over boiling water, and cover close until cold, then strain it. Lemonade. 2 lemons. 4 lumps of Sugar. Ingredients. 1 pint of boiling water. Method.—Tako the yellow part of the lemon peel, cut very thinly, from one of the lemons. Then remove the skin completely from them both. Cut them into slices and remove the pips. Put the sliced lemon, thin peel, ami sugar into a jug, and pour over the boiling water. Cover until cold, and then strain. A Cup of Arrowroot. i pint of milk. Castor sugar. Ingredients. 1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot. Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan on the fire to boil. Mix the arrowroot very smoothly with a little cold milk. When the milk boils, pour in the arrowroot and stir until the milk has thickened. Add sugar to taste.282 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. For Water Arrowroot substitute water for milk. Nourishing on acoount of tho milk only. Arrowroot Pudding. Ingredients. Cup of arrowroot, as in fore- A little vanilla or other going recipe. flavouring. 1 or 2 eg^s. Method.—Beat the yolks one by one into the arrowroot, and add flavouring to taste. ' Beat tho whites up stiffly, and stir them in lightly. Pour the mixture into a greased pie-dish. Bako for a few minutes until browned, and servo as quickly as possible. Nourishing on account of the milk aud eggs only. Treacle Posset. Ingredients. pint of milk. | i pint of treacK Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan on the fire to boil. When boiling, pour in the treacle. This will curdle the milk. Let it boil up again and then strain it. White Wine Whey. Ingredients. ^ pint of milk. Sugar to taste. 1 wineglass of sherry. Method.—The samo as foregoing recipe. Sweeten to taste. Both tho foregoing drinks are good remedies for colds. As they promote perspiration tlioy should bo taken in bed. Orangeade. Ingredients. 2 oranges. 3 lumps of sugar. 1 pint of boiling water. Method.—Tako the rind thinly from an orange, pul it into a jug.SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 283 Pool tho oranges and slico them, removing the pips ; pnt them into the jug. Tour the boiling water over, add sugar, and cover closely until cold, then strain. Toast and Water. Ingredients. Toasted bread. | Wat r. Method.—Toast a piece of crust of bread nicely, being careful not to burn it. Plunge it into a jug of cold water and let it stand for thirty minutes. Thou strain tho water from it. Sago Gruel. Ingredients. i oz. of s^go. | 2 lumps of sugar. $ pint of water. Method.—Wash the sago and let it soak in the water for thirty minutes. Then simmer for about thirty minutes. Add the sugar, and it is ready. Prune Drink. 2J ozs. of prunes. 1 quart of water. Ingredients. 1 oz. of sugar. Method.—Cut the prunes in two. Boil them with tho sugar in the water for one hour. Strain and cover till cold. Rice Milk. Ingredients. 1 oz. of lice. j Sugar to taste. 1 pint of milk. Method.—Wash tho rice and simmer in tho milk with the sugar for one hour. Tapioca milk may be made in the same way. The crushed tapioca is tho best. A nutritious drink.284 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Suet and Milk. Ingredients. 1 pint of milk. | 1 oz. of suet. Method.—Chop tli6 suet finely. Tie it loosely in muslin, and simmer in the milk for three quarters of an hour, then strain. Useful in colds and disorders of the chest. Invalid’s Soup. Ingredients. 1 pint of beef tea. I 1 oz. of crushed tapioca, semolina, The yolks of two eggs. | or sago. Method.—Put the beef-toa into a saucepan on the fire. When it boils, sprinkle in the tapioca, stir, and boil for about fifteen minutes. Then add the yolks of the eggs; stir until they thicken, but do not let the soup boil after the yolks of the eggs are in if, as that would curdle them. Gruel. Ingredients. 1 pint of water. | 2dessertspoonfulsof fine oatmeal Method.—Put the water on the fire to boil. Mix the oatmeal smoothly with cold avater. When the water in the saucepan boils, pour in the oalmeal, and stir well till it thickens. Then put it by the side of the fire, and stir occasionally, cooking it for quite half an hour. One of the most valuable invalid dishes. Bran Tea. Ingredients. 3 tablespoonfuls of good bran. 1 oz. of gum nrabic. 1 quart of water. 1 tablespoonful of honey. Method.—Boil the bran in the water for ten minutes. Dissolve the gum and honey in it and strain it through muslin. This is a remedy for hoarseness.285 SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Linseed Tea. Ingredients. 4 tablespoon fills of linseed. G lumps of sugar. 1 quart of boiling water. 1 lemon. Method.—Put the linseed and sugar into a jug with the thin rind and juice of the lemon. Pour boiling water over. Let it stand, and then strain. If the tea is preferred thick, two tablespoonfuls of the linseed may bo boiled in the water. This is a good remedy for cold on the chest and coughs Boiled Apple Water. Ingredients. 3 good-sized apples. 1 quart of water. 2 ozs. of sugar. A little thin lemon rind. Method.—Wash the apples and slice thorn. Tut them, with the sugar and lemon rind, into the water. Boil gently for one hour. Then strain and cover close until cold. Sole for an Invalid. Crease a baking-sheet with butter, lay the solo on it. Cover with greased kitchen paper, and put it into a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes, according to tho size of the sole. If properly cooked, the sole will bo as white and delicate as if it had been boiled. It may be served with or without a plain white sauce. Whiting, plaice, smelts, &c., may bo cooked in the same way. Chicken Fillet for an Invalid. Cut some nice little fillets from the breast of a chicken, and cook them according to the directions in preceding recipe. °A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 2SG Sweetbreads Plainly Boiled. Soak tlie sweetbreads in cold water for two hours. Then put them in boiling water for six minutes. Soak them agnin in cold water for twenty minutes. Put them into boiling water or broth, and simmer them gently for thirty minutes or more, until quite tender. Serve with or with- out a plain white sauce. Other dishes suitable for the convalescent will he found under tho following headings:—Boiled Chicken, Mutton Chop, Boiled and Poached Eggs, Lamb’s Head, Cow Ilecl, Pigeons, Pheasants, Partridges, Custard Pudding, Sago Pudding, Rico Pudding, Savoury Custard, Clear and Gravy Soups.( 287 ) BREAD AND CAKES. A Quartern Loaf. Ingredients. 3Hbs. of flour. From 1^ to H riots of warm 1 dessertspoonful of salt. water. 1 oz. of German yeast. Method.—Put tho flour in a warm dry pan. Mix tho ytast very smoothly with tho warm water, taking only one pint and a quarter. There must bo no lumps of yeast. Make a well in tho centre of tho flour, pour in tho yeast, mix with tho hand from tho centre, drawing tho flour in gradually. If necessary, use a little more warm water, but do not make tho dough net, as then it will bo heavy and difficult to make into loaves. Knead tho dough a little, and then dust the top with flour to prevent a crust forming. Throw a cloth over the top, and placo tho pan on a chair in a warm but not hot place, and out of a draught. 'When it has well risen, knead it until it is quite smooth and does not stick to tho hands or pan.* Then put it to rise again for about three quarters of an hour. Then make quickly into loaves, put them on floured tins and bake them. To Shape the Loaves.—A Cottage Loaf. Divide tho dough into two pieces, ono less than a fourth tho size of tho other. * In making bread iu small quantities it is necessary to guild against over kneadiug.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 288 Make thorn both smooth and round, drawing tho edges underneath. Place tho small one on the top of tho largo and press down the centre of it with a floured finger. Mark the sides of the loaf here and there with a knife, drawing it upwards and slightly cutting them. A Coburg Loaf. Make tho loaf into a largo smooth ball by drawing tho edges underneath. Cut tho top of tho loaf across twice. A Tinned Loaf. After kneading the bread, put it into a floured tin, which it should only half fill. When it has risen to the top bake it. Time allowed for the Dough to Rise. This will vary according to circumstances. In hot weather it will rise more quickly than in cold. If the yeast is good atid all conditions favourable, tho dough for a quartern loaf should be light in about two hours. Should tho yeast bo poor and the weather very cold, it may take two or three times that length of time to rise. Experience is necessary to enable anyone to judge when the dough is ready. A practical bread-maker will know by tho look of tho dough when it is sufficiently risen. Anyone wishing to become perfect in tho art of making bread should practise making it in small quantities until the necessary knowledge is gained. It is quite true that it is easy to make bread, but it is quito as easy to spoil it, and as tho time of rising will vary greatly accord- ing to circumstances, following rulos strictly as to time will l e quite as likely to cause failure us to ensure success. If the bread is allowed to rise too long—to “ over-prove ”— it will be spoiled.289 BREAD AND CAKES. Where the Dough should be placed to Rise. This should be in a warm, not hot place. It may go in the front of the oven or boiler, but not directly in front of a hot fire. Extreme heat will throw up the dougli quickly and give it an appearance of lightness, but will make the dough moist, sticky and heavy when baked. It is, however, most essential that the dough shall be kept warm. If cold, it will not rise. The Heat of the Oven. This should be of a steadily decreasing heat; quite hot at first, to throw up the bread, and by killing the yeast, arrest its growth; slow afterwards, to cook the bread to the centre without baking a hard crust on the outside. “When the oven is too slow, the bread will continue to “prove” long after it is in the oven, and will be full of holes like a sponge. When the bread is baked in an ordinary kitchener or gas oven, make it into small loaves, as they bake better. Have the oven quite ready for the bread, so that there is no delay when the dough is in condition for baking. Time for Baking. From one to two hours, according to the size of the loaves. When they aro cooked they will ring hollow if knocked on the under crust with the knuckles. A full- sized quartern loaf takes about two hours. Bread for a Family. Ingredients. 1 atone of flour. 3 ozs. of German yeast. From 5 to G pints of warm 3 ozs. of salt, water. Method.—Put the flour and salt into a warm dry pan, mix 2^ pints of warm water smoothly with the yeast. Make a well in the centre of the flour, but not quite to the bottom; pour in the yeast, drawing smoothly from the290 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. sides enough flour to make a batter—there must bo no lumps. Throw a little flour over tho batter, cover the pan with a cloth and let the sponge rise in a warm place for about one hour or longer. When bubbles appear between the flour and the sponge looks light, pour into tho sponge tho remainder of the water warm, and then knead all the flour in. When a dough is mixed, continue to knead it by draw- ing the edges of the dough over the middle, and continue doing so until it is quite smooth and docs not stick to the hands. Then sprinkle flour over it, cover with a cloth, and let it stand until it has well risen, which vrill be in about two hours, if conditions are favourable. Then make it quickly into loaves, and send it to the oven. Noik.—Put tho tub or pan in which the bread is made on a chair in a warm place, out of a draught, while rising. Bread for a Family, Another Method. 1 stone of flour. About 3 quarts of water. 1 oz. of salt. Ingredients. 4 tablespoon fnls ( f good brewer's yeast or 3 ozs. of German yeast. Method.—Make as directed in the recipe for a quartern loaf, taking care that the dough is firm. When risen, knead it. Half-fill tins with the dough, and when it has risen to the top of tl cm, bake the bread. Do not use all the water unless necessary (see Eeruark in recq c referred to). Brown Bread. Make like ordinary bread. What is generally called brown bread is only flour with the bran in it. Whole-Meal Bread. This is also made like other bread, but it requires rather more yeast to lighten it.BREAD AND CAKES. 291 Steamed Bread. Bread can be steamed successfully according to direc- tions given for steaming puddings; that is, water should be only half-way up the tin. For this purpose the water must boil. Tl c tins in this case must bo greased instead of floured to prevent tho dough sticking. A firm crust is formed all over the loaf, and, if preferred brown, it can be put into a sharp oven for a few minutes when cooked. Steamed bread is lighter than baked bread. Note.—For all bread it is essential that the yeast be good; otherwise the bread will not be light. Brewer’s yeast is not so close as German yeast. As a general rule two tablespoon fills of fresh yeast are equal to one ounce of German, but no hard and fast rule can Le laid down. Vienna Bread. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of Vienna flour. 1 pint of milk. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 1 oz. of German yeast. Method — Bub the butter well into the flour, and add the salt. Mako tho milk lukewarm, and mix smoothly with the German yeast. Make a well in the middlo of the flour, and stir in tho milk smoothly. Knead vo'iy lightly for a minute, and then put the dough to rise in a warm place for two hours. When it has well risen, mako it into rolls or fancy- twists. Set them to rise on floured tins for about ten minutes. Then bake in a quick oven from ten to twenty minutes, according to their size. When nearly cooked, brush them with a little milk or white of egg to glaze them. If for dinner or breakfast, they must be rasped, not glazed. Unfermented Bread. Ingredients. 2 heaped teaspoonfuls of I 1 lb. of flour, baking powder. j Enough water to mix a dough.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 292 Method.—Put the flour in a pan. Add the baking- powder and mix with the water. Make it into small loaves quickly, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. This bread must be kneaded as little as possible. The Preparation of Materials for Cakes. The flour for cakes should be dried and sifted. The currants must bo washed and dried before they are used, and dropped a lew at a time on a plate, to discover if tbe:e are any stones amongst them. Sultanas should be rubbed in flour and the stalks picked off. Candied peel should be shredded. When the whites of eggs are beaten separately from the jolks, remove the germ and beat them to the strongest possible froth. To cream butter, beat it in a basin with a wooden spoon or the hand, until it is of the consistency of cream ; add the sugar, and beat both together until quite light, from ten to fifteen minutes. If this is not done, heavy streaks will appear in the cakes. When baking-powder, soda, &c., are used, put them in just before mixing the cake and bake at once, otherwise the effervescence passes off and the powder is valueless. Be careful not to mix cakes in which the fat is rubbed into the flour too wet. This is a common mistake and makes them heavy. In follow ing any of the recipes given in this bock, do not grease the tins unless specially directed to do so, but line them with paper, following the directions for doing so exactly. Grease makes the crust of the cake liable to burn, but it is sometimes necessary. Cakes should bo put in the hottest part of the oven first, to throw them up and make them light. When this is done, place them in a more moderately heated part, and let them cook slowly. An inexperienced cook may test a cake, to see if it is cooked, by running a skewer into the centre. If it is cooked, the skewer will come out quite clean.BREAD AND CAKES. 293 Ginger-bread cakes and biscuits must bo baked in a very slow oven, as they burn quickly in a hot ono. To Prepare Cake-Tins. Reverse the tin, and place a piece of foolscap or thick paper over the bottom. Press it well round the edges to get the size, cut it a very little larger, and then press it into the bottom of the tin. Cut a band of paper high enough to come an inch above the tin and place it round the sides. This must be carefully done, there must bo no possibility of tho cake mixture squeezing through to the tin, or it will make the cake stick, and therefore break when turned out. The appearance of oven plain cakes is greatly im- proved if they are baked in a well-papered but not greased tin. Good Pound Cake. 10 ozs. of flour. 8 ozs. of butter. 8 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of candied peel. Ingredients. i lb. of sultanas. 4 large eggs. Grated rind of a lemon. A pinch of salt. Method.—Rub the flour and sugar through a sieve. Beat the butter to a cream in a basin. Mix in a little flour and sugar, then a well-beaten egg. Next more flour, sugar, and another egg. Continue mixing in the same way until the flour, sugar, and eggs are all well blended together. Add the other ingredients, and put into a cake-tin lined with paper. Bake for two hours. 8 ozs. of flour. 8 ozs. of butter. 8 ozs. of sugar. 4 eggs. Queen Cakes. Ingredients. A few currants. Grated rind of lemon. A pinch of salt. Method.—Cream the butter. Mix in the flour, sugar, and eggs, according to directions given in preceding recipe. uA COMPLETE COOKEliV GUIDE. 291 Add the lemon rind, and partly fill small well-greased Qneen-cake tins with, the mixture. Sprinkle a few currants on the top of each. Bake in a moderately quick oven for about a quarter of an hour. Rock Cakes. 1 lb. of flour. 6 ozs. of butter. 6 ozs. of castor sugar. 1 lb. of currants. 2 ozs. of candied peel. Ingredients. 1 teaspoouful of baking powder. 2 eggs. Grated rind of a lemon. A pinch of salt. Method.—Bub the butter into the flour. Add the sugar, currants, and other ingredients. Mix very stiilly with the eggs, well beaten. Put in rough heaps on a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. A Nice Light Cake. 8 ozs. of flour. 1 lb. of butter, i lb. of castor sugar. 5 ozs. of currants. 1 oz. of candied peel. Ingredients. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. $ gill of milk. Grated rind of a lemon. A pinch of salt. Method.—Bub the butter well into the flour. Add all the other diy ingredients. Mix with the milk and yolks of the eggs, well beaten together. Beat the whites of ihe eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly. Put the mixture in a papered cake-tin. Bake for about one hour and a half. Plain Rock Cakes. 1 lb. of flour, i lb. of moist sugar. i lb. of currants. 1 egg- Ingredients. ± lb. of butter, laid or dripping. A little milk. A pinch of salt.BREAD AND CAKES. 295 Method.—Rub the butter or dripping into the flour. Add all the other dry ingredients. Mix stithy with the egg well beaten, and a little milk. Fut in little rough heaps on a well-greased baking-tin. Bake in a quick oven for about a quarter of an hour. This cake may bo made with milk only. Plain Seed Cake. Ingredients. 10 ozs. of flour. 4 ozs. of butter or clarified dripping. 3 teaspoonfuls of caraway seeds. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 tc ispoonfuls of baking powder. 1 egg. J gill of milk. 4 salispoonful of sab. Method.—Rub the fat well into tho flour. Add all the other dry ingredients. Mix with the egg and milk, well beaten. Bake in a lined cake-tin for about an hour. Plain Plum Cake. 1 lb. of flour. 4 ozs. of dripping, i lb. of currants. 4 pint of milk. Ingredients. 1 lb. of siig ir. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. A i inch of .-alt. Method.—Rub the dripping into tho flour. Add the other dry ingredients. Mix with the milk. Bake in a cake-tin lined with paper, for about one hour and a quarter. Dough Cake. Ingredients. i quartern of dough. | f lb. of clarified dripping. f lb. of currants. ! A pinch of salt. * lb. of moist sugar. Method.—Put tho dough into a basin. Beat in tho dripping, sugar, and currants. These should bo well washed and dried. Place in a slightly-greased tin, and set to rise for ono hour. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. U 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 296 Currant Cake. 10 ozs. of flour. i lb. of currants, i lb. of sugar. 6 ozs. of butter. 1 egg. Ingredients. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. i pint of milk. A little grated lemon peel. A pinch of salt. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour until like fine bread-crumbs. Add the sugar and currants (the currants should be well washed and dried), also the baking powder and lemon rind. Mix with the beaten egg and milk. Bake it at once in a cake-tin lined with paper, for one hour and a half. Rice Cake. Ingredients. 8 ozs. of ground rice. Grated rind of a lemon. 6 ozs. of castor sugar. A pinch of salt. 4 eggs. Method.—Beat the eggs well with a whisk. Mix in gradually the castor sugar and rice, and add the lemon rind. Bake in a cake-tin lined with paper, for about one hour. Cornflour Cake. i lb. of cornflour. 1 lb. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of butter. Ingredients. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream. Then mix in the sugar. Add the two eggs, and beat all well together. Lastly, stir in the cornflour, and add tho baking powder. Put the mixture into a cake-tin lined with paper, and bake for about three quarters of an hour.297 BREAD AND CAKES. Gingerbread. Ingredients. 1} lbs. of flour. 1 lb. of treacle, i lb. of moist sugar. 3 eggs. ^ oz. of carbonate of soda. 8 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of ginger. 1 pint of milk. 2 ozs. of candied peel, Method.—Put the flour, sugar, ginger, candied peel, and carbonate of soda into a basin. Warm the treacle, milk, and butter in a saucepan. Mix with the dry ingredients, and add the eggs, well beaten. Partly fill a well-greased Yorkshire -pudding tin. Smooth over with a knife dipped in hot water, and score with a knife. Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour and a half. 16 ozs. of flour. % oz. of yeast. 1 pint of milk. 2 ozs. of sugar. Buns. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of sultanas. 2 ozs. of butler. 1 egg. A little salt. Method.—Put 10 ozs. of the flour into a basin. Mix the yeast smoothly with the milk, which should be made lukewarm. Stir into the flour. Beat for five minutes, and set to rise in a warm place for about two hours. Then beat in the remainder of the flour, sultanas, sugar, butter, and the egg. Set to rise for about two hours more. Then form into buns. Place them on a floured tin, and set them to rise for about ton minutes. Bake in a very quick oven for about five minutes, until nicely coloured. Boil half an ounce of sugar with half a gill of water, and brush the buns over with this to glaze them.298 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Seed Cake. Ingredients. £ gill of milk. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 2 egss. A pinch of salt. £ lb. of flour. 4 ozs. of butter. 4 ozs. of castor sugar. 4 ( z. of caraway se(ds, Method.—Rub tlio butter into the flour. Add the castor sugar and seeds. Mix with the yolks and milk beaten together. Beat the whites stiffly, and stir in lightly. Bake in a nicely prepared tin for about one hour and a half. Almond Drops. Ingredients. i lb. of flour. 3 ozs. of butter. 3 ozs of almonds. Grated rind of a lemon. 1 eg'. A l.ttle miik. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 3 ozs. of sugar. A little salt. Method.—Bub the butter iuto the flour. Add the sugar, grated lemon rind, baking powder, and the almonds blanched and chopped. Mix with the egg, well beaten, and the milk. l'ut the mixture in little heaps on a greased baking- tin. Bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. Oatmeal Biscuits. Ingredients. 7 ozs. of flour. 3 ozs. of oatmeal. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 3 ozs. of lard, dripping, or butter. f teaspoonful of baking powder. 1 CJg. 1 tablespoon ful of water. £ saltspoonful of salt. Method.—rut tho flour, oatmeal, sugar, and baking pow'der into a basin. Mix them with the fat melted, and tho egg beaten with the water. Knead lightly into a dough. Boll it out, and cut into round cakes.299 BREAD AND CAKES. Place them on a greased baking-tin. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Yorkshire Tea-Cakes. I lb. of flour. 1$ gills of milk. 1 oz. of butter. Ingredients. 1 cgS- i cz. if German yiasfc. A pinch of salt. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, and rub the butter into it. Make the milk lukewarm, and blend it with the yeast. Strain it into the flour. Add the egg. Beat all well together for a few minutes. Knead lightly. Then divide the dough in two. Mako oach part into a ball, and put them in floured cake-tins. Put the cakes in a warm place to rise for one hour, and then bake them for twenty minutes. Brush them over with a little milk or white of egg to glaze them. Plain Ginger Biscuits. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour: 2 ozs. of butter, lard, or dripping. i oz. of ground ginger. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. 1 A little milk. ■£ tcaspoonful of baking powder. Method.—Eub the butter into the flour until it is like fine bread-crumbs. Add the sugar and the baking powder, and mix with the egg, well beaten, and as much milk as necessary to mako it bind. Poll out and cut into small round cakes. Put them on a greased tin. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes.300 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Orange Rock Cakes. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 0 ozs. of butter. 4 ozs. of castor sugar. Grated rind of one orange and juice of two. 2 eggs. If necessary, a little milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. A pinch of salt. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour. Add tho sugar, baking powder, orange rind and juice. Mix with the eggs, well beaten, and as much milk as necessary ; the mixture should be very stiff. Put it in little rough h#aps on a well-greased baking- tin. Bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. Soda Cakes. I lb. of flour. 1 lb. of butter. 4 ozs. of sugar. 2 ozs. of candied peel. Grated rind of a lemon. Ingredients. 2 whole eggs. If necessary, a little milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda. Method.—Rub the butter well into the flour. Add the sugar, peel, lemon rind, and soda. Mix -with the egg, well beaten, and, if necessary, a little milk; the mixture must be very stiff. Put it in little rough heaps on a greased baking-tin. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Gingerbread Cakes. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 6 ozs. of butter, lard, or dripping. 1 oz. of ground ginger. 4 ozs. of moist sugar, f lb. of treacle. Method.—Put tho sugar, treacle, and fat into n saucepan, and melt them. Put tho flour and ginger into a basin. Mix with tho other ingredients. Roll out and cut into cakes. Bako on a greased baking-tin, in a slow oven for ton or fiftocn minutes.BREAD AND CAKES. 301 Rice Buns. 1 lb. of ground rice. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of butter. Ingredients. 1 egg. ^ teaspoonful of baking powder. A little flavouring essence. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar. Then add the egg, well beaten, and stir in the ground rice. Partly fill littlo greased patty-pans with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Let them cool before turning out of the pans, as they aro apt to break. Nice Plum Cake. | lb. of flour. | lb. of butter, lard, or dripping. i lb. of sugar. Ingredients. i lb. of currants. 4 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, A l.ttle grated lemon rind. Method.—Bub the butter into the flour. Add all the other dry ingredients, and mix with the eggs, well beaten. Put in a lined cake-tin, and bake for about an hour and a quarter. A Good Raisin Cake. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 4 ozs. of butter, lard, or dripping. 8 ozs. of sugar. C ozs. of raisins, stoned and chopped. Method.—Burn the sugar saucepan. 8 ozs. of candied peel, sliced thinly. 3 eggs. 1 pint of milk. 2 tea spoonfuls of baking powder. 1 oz. of lump sugar. to a dark brown in an old Pour in tho milk, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; then strain, and let it get cold. Bub tho fat into the flour; add all the dry ingredients. Whip tho whites of the eggs to a still' froth. Bout tho yolks and milk togo'her, and mix the cako. Then stir in tho whites as lightly ns possible. Put tho mixture in a prepared cake-tin and bako fur ono hour and a half.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 302 Abernethy Biscuits. 1 ? lbs. of flour. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of butter. Ingredients. 1 egg. About ^ pint of milk. 1 tcaspoonful of caraway seeds. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour. Add tbo sugar and seeds and mix with the egg and milk, well beaten together. Make into small balls, roll out, and prick with a small fork. Bake in a fairly quick oven and let them dry well afterwards. Currant Drop Cakes. G ozs. of flour. G ozs. of butter. G ozs. of sugar. Ingredients. 2 eggs. 3 ozs. of currants. A little grated lemon peel. Method.—Cream the butter thoroughly. Add the sugar ; beat together till light. Add tho eggs one by one, and lastly the currants, peel, and flour. Put in a forcing-bag with a plain p'pe and drop them on baking-tins lined with greased paper, in pieces about the size of a marble. Bake in a moderately quick oven for a few minutes. Macaroons. 1 lb. of sweet almonds. 1 lb. of castor sugar. Ingredients. 5 or 6 whites of eggs. Method.—Blanch the almonds and pound with ono or two whites of eggs in a mortar. Then add the sugar and remaining whites, and pound all well together. . Tut the mixture into a forcing-bag and plain pipe, and fo: ce out on to wafer paper in small rounds. Dip a finger in water and wet the top of each to make them shine. Bake in a moderately quick oven.303 BKEAD AND CAKES. Sometimes more whito of egg is required; it will depend on the size of tlio eggs. If tlio mixture is very stiff, add a little more. Very Good Seed Cake. Ingredients. $ lh. of butfer. i lb. of flour. ^ lb. of sugar. 2 to ispoonfuls of caraway sccils. 4 eggs. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream; add tho sugar, and beat both until light. Beat in the eggs one by one. Add the flour and seeds very lightl}r. Put in a lined cake-tin and bake for about an hour. Milk Rolls. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 2 heaped teaspoon fuls of baking 2 ozs. of butter. powdor. About half a pint of milk. Method.—Put the flour into a pan, and rub in tho butter. Add the baking powder and a little salt, and mix into a dough with the milk. Form quickly into little rolls. Put them in floured tins, and bake them in a quick oven. Glaze them when half cooked by brushing them with milk. This dough should bo kneaded as lightly as possible. Scones. 1 lb. of flour. 3 ozs. of butter, i oz. of cream of tartar. Ingredients. i i easpoonful of carbonate of soda. Sufficient milk to mix into a dough. Method.—Put tho flour into a pan ; rub the butter into it; add the soda and cream of tartar, and mix with tho milk into a dough.304 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. ITandlo the dough as lightly as possible. Divide in two parts. Form each into a hall, and roll them out to thrco- quarters of an inch in thickness. Divide in four pieces, and hake for about twenty minutes. Glaze with a little milk. Genoa Cake. 10 ozs. of flour. £ lb. of butter, i lb. of castor sugar. 4 eggs. i lb. of sultanas. Ingredients. 1 lb. of currants. 10 ozs. of candied peel. 4 ozs. of almonds. Grated rind of a lemon. 1 teaspoon'ul of baking powder. Method.—Blanch the almonds and cut them in pieces. Wash the currants and clean the sultanas. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, beat until light. Add the flour, and beat in the eggs one by one. Then add tho fruit and baking powder. Paper a shallow pan, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven from an hour to an hour and a half. When cooked, brush the top of tho cako with white of egg, and strew with chopped almonds. Short-Bread. Ingredients. 1 lb. of flour. 1 oz. of candied peel, i lb. of sugar. 8 ozs. of butter. Method.—Put tho flour into a basin, and rub into it tho butter. Add tho candied peel and sugar. Would it into tho usual shapes, pinching tho edges, and place a piece of peel on the top of each. Buko in a modorato oven for about twenty minutes.305 BREAD AND CAKES. Bath Buns. 1 lb. of flour. 4 lb. of butter. 5 eggs. Ingredients. 1 oz. of yeast. i pint of lukewarm milk. 4 ozs. of castor sugar. Method.—Bub the butter into tlio flour, and beat in the eggs, and the milk mixed smoothly with the yeast. Mix thoroughly and put to rise from one and a half to two hours. Then mix in the sugar. Form into buns and dust with castor-sugar, and sprinkle over the top of each some co.trsoly pounded lump sugar. Let them rise for a few minutes, and then bake in a quick oven. Shrewsbury Cakes. Ingredients. 6 ozs. of castor sugar. 8 ozs. of flour. 6 ozs. of butter. 1 large egg. Method.—Hub the butter and sugar into the flour, and mix with the egg. Loll out and cut into rounds with a circular cutter. Place on carefully-greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. If the one egg is not sufficient, use a little more. Pound Cake. 1 lb. 2 ozs. of flour. 1 lb. of castor su^ar. 1 lb. of butter. 8 eggs. Ingredients. 1 wineglass of brandy. 1 lb. of currants. The grated rind of a lemon. Method.—Whisk the eggs until quite light. Then add by degrees the sugar, beating well all the time. Then mix in very gradually the flour, which should be rubbed through a wire sieve, and the grated rind. Lastly add the butter dissolved but not hot, it must also be added by degrees.306 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Add the brandy and the currants, and put the cake into a prepared cake-tin. It will take from an hour to an hour and a half in a moderately heated oven. Madeira Cake. Ingredients. 6 eggs. i lb. of butter. 10 ozs. of Vienna flour. A little grated lemon rind. 12 ozs. of loaf sugar. Method.—Boil the sugar with half a gill of water to a syrup. Put the eggs in a basin with the syrup and beat for twenty minutes; add the butter melted and mix in the flour very lightly with the grated lemon rind. Prepare a mould as for sponge cake, and bake the cake for about one hour in a moderate oven. Sponge Biscuits. 4 eggs. 6 ozs. of castor sugar. Ingredients. 4 ozs. of Vienna flour. Method.—Divide the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Beat them with the sugar for flfteen minutes, until quite light. Beat the whites to a firm froth, and rub the flour through a sieve. Mix the flour and whites very lightly with the yolks and sugar. Brush a sponge-biscuit mould with warm butter and dust with castor sugar. Partly fill the biscuit spaces with the mixture and sprinkle them with castor sugar. Bake them in a moderately quick oven. When removed from the oven, lay them on a sieve, with the top side downwards to prevent them shrivelling. . Sponge Cake. Ingredients. i lb. of flour. I ? lb. of castor sugar. 8 eggs. I A little grated lemon peel. Method.—Divide the yolks from the whites of the eggs,MtEAD AND CAKES. 307 add the sugar, and cream them together for fifteen minutes, until quite light, and then add the grated lemon peel. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth and rub the flour through a sieve. Mix the whites and flour lightly with the other ingredients a little at a time. Brush over a fancy mould with warm butter. Dust it over with equal quantities of castor sugar and flour mixed togethei*. Tie a band of buttered paper round the top of the mould, and put in the cake mixture. Bake it for about one hour and a half in a moderate oven. Put some thick folds of paper under the tin to prevent the cake catching. Good Ginger Cakes. 12 ozs. of flour. 6 ozs. of butter. 1 e?g. Ingredients. S gill of cream. 2 ozs. of ginger. 4 ozs. of pounded lump sugar. Method.—Put the flour and ginger into a basin. Rub in the butter and add the sugar. Mix with the egg, well beaten, and the cream. Roll the paste out thinly and cut into small rounds with a circular cutter. Place them on a flat meat-dish slightly buttered, and bake in a moderate oven. Gingerbread Nuts. Ingredients. G ozs. of flour. li ozs. of butter. 3 ozs. of treacle. 1 oz. of ginger. 3 ozs. of moist sugar. Method.—Put the flour and ginger into a basin with the sugar. Melt the treacle and butter in a stewpan. Mix thoroughly with the flour, ginger, and sugar. Make the mixture while warm into round balls, the308 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. sizo of largo marbles, and drop them on a baking-tin which is covered with stout paper wrell-bnttered. Bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Galettes. 2 lbs. of Vienna flour. G ozs. of butter. 1 oz. of German yeast. Ingredients. £ pint of milk. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. 5 eggs. Method.—Put one pound of the flour into a basin, add to it a pinch of salt and the sugar. Make the milk lukewarm and mix it smoothly with the yeast. Make a well in the centre of the flour, and then mix the warm milk thoroughly with it. Knead it a few minutes. Shake a little flour over it and put it in a warm place to rise. Put the remaining flour into another basin, rub the butter into it, and add the eggs. Beat it for fifteen minutes. When the other dough has risen, mix the two doughs together, and work and beat well for twenty minutes. 'Then set to rise for about two hours. Make into small round cakes. Set them to rise for ten minutes in a warm place, and then bake them in a quick oven. To glaze them, brush them over with a syrup of sugar and wrafer. Oswego Cakes. 4 ozs. of butter. 4 ozs. of castor sugar. G ozs. of cornflour. Ingredients. A little lemon peel. Half a teaspoonful of baking powder. 3 eggs. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream, add to it the sugar, beat that in thoroughly. Then mix in the corn- flour, add the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture for ten minutes. Add the grated lemon peel and baking powder.309 BREAD AND CAKES. Put the mixture into a prepared cakc-tin and bako from three quarters of an hour to an hour. Baked in small cake-tins, the mixture will tako about fifteen minutes to cook. Bride or Birthday Cake. Ingredients. f lb. of fresh butter. | lb. of raw sugar, i lb. of treacle. G eggs. J pint of warm and new milk. 2 lbs. of currants. 4 lb. of candied peel. 2 ozs. of sweet and 2 ozs. of bitter almonds. 1 lb. of flour. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar and treacle, and boat well. Then add the eggs whole one by one, beating the mixture thoroughly between each ; then add the milk. Beat thoroughly for a few minutes longer, then add the currants, candied peel and almonds. Stir these well in, and then add lastly and very lightly the flour. If this is beaten in, the cake will not bo light. Bake in a slow oven for five hours. It will weigh six pounds. These directions must be slriotly followed to ensure success. The cake should not be cut for three months. For icing the cake, see Icing, in Chapter on Garnishes. Rice Cake. Ingredients. 8 ozs. of castor sugar. 3 ozs. of rice flour. 5 ozs. of Vienna flour. 8 ozs. of butter. G eggs. A pinch of salt. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar and continue beating until it is quite light. Then beat in the eggs well, one at a time. Lastly, stir in lightly the flour and rice flour. Pour into a prepared tin, and bake for about an hour. Small Rice Cakes. Prepare a mixture as in foregoing recipe, but bako in gmall fancy moulds or patty-pans. X310 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Tlio moulds and pans must bo greased with a littlo butter. Thin Ginger Biscuits. Ingredients. i lb. of flour. | 1 07.. of ginger. G ozs. of sugar. A little sherry. } lb. of butter. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and ginger, and mix with sufficient sherry to make tho paste bind, being careful not to make it wet. Roll out very thinly and cut into small round biscuits with a paste-cutter. Lay on slightly-groased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 8 ozs. of flour. 8 eggs. Savoy Cake. Ingredients. 12 ozs. of sugar. Method.—Beat the sugar and yolks to a cream. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly. Mix in the whites very lightly with the flour, which should be sifted and dried. Have the mould well greased with melted suet. Dust it with castor sugar and flour mixed in equal quantities. Pour in the mixture, and bake from an hour to one hour and a half. Put thick folds of paper under the cake-tin, to prevent tire cake catching. Little Almond Paste Cakes. Ingredients. 10 ozs. of ground almonds. 10 ozs. of castor sugar. Whites of eggs. Method.—Mix tho almonds and castor sugar together, and mix with sufficient white of egg to make it bind. Roll out to an eighth of an inch in thickness, and stamp into all kinds of fancy shapes with cutter’s. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven.311 BREAD AND CAKES. Ice some with glac6 icing, and decorate the others with coloured almonds, pistachios, cherries, sugar, &c. {sec. Garnishes for Sweet Dishes), brushing them over with white of egg. If ground almonds cannot be obtained, blanch, dry and pound almonds to a paste, moistening them with a littlo orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. Peach Biscuits. Prepare some sponge-cake mixture. Well grease somo peach-tins with melted suet, dust them with equal quantities of sugar and flour, and partly fill them with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, spread tho under side with peach marmalade, and join tho two halves together to make a perfect peach shape. Then ice them with white glace, and with a ^oft camel’s-hair brush tint them with a little powdered carmine. Dessert Cake. Make some mixture as for Genoese pastry {see Becipe). Well grease with melted suet a plain cake-tin. l)ust it with equal quantities of castor sugar and flour, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour, being careful the cake does not take too deep a colour. When cooked, let it cool. Cut a round piece from underneath, and scoop out some of the inside. Fill the space with well-beaten and flavoured cream, and replace the round piece. Turn the cake over, and cover with melted apricot jam Decorato with blanched almonds, pistachio kernels, and fancy sweetmeats. Or the cake may be cut in slices and spread with peach or apricot jam, or marmalade. Keplace the slices and pour over a white glac6. Decorate with angelica, pistachio kernels, or other suitable decorations. x 2312 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Little Dessert Cakes. Make some rice cake mixture (see Recipe). Bake them in very small moulds. When cooked, dip them in white glace icing, and decorate with crystallised violets, angelica, Ac. Put them in little paper cases for serving. Method.—Cut the c ike into three slices and pour over each some strong unsweetened coffee, and put the cake in shape again. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add a quarter of a pint of coffee and cover the cake with the mixture. Decorate the top of it with some of this icing pressed through a forcing-bag and pipe. Coffee Gateau. Ingredients. A round sponge cake. 6 ozs. of butter. 6 ozs. of castor sugar. I pint of strong coffee.( 313 ) ENTREES. This term is now generally applied to the small made- dishes which are in England handed after the fish. The following recipes are of a number of nice entrees, none of which will be found particularly difficult to prepare. Entrees should be dished with care and decorated taste- fully. Have the sauce, border, and all garnishes ready, so that there is no delay in dishing-up. Ris de Veau Brais6.—Braised Sweetbread. Ingredients. 2 calfs-heart sweetbreads. 1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 bouquet garni. 2 ripe tomatoes. Some larding bacon. Tomato sauce. Method.—Steep the sweetbreads in lukewarm water for quite two hours, changing the water occasionally. When nice and white, throw them into boiling water and boil for three minutes; this is to make them firm. Cool them in cold water to preserve their colour. Dry and trim them, then put them on a dish or baking-tin with another on tho top of them, placo a weight on them and leave them for an hour; then lard them carefully. Cut the vegetables in pieces ; put them and the herbs at the bottom of the stewpan, and put the sweetbreads upon them. Pour in sufficient good stock (that will jelly when cold) to come half-way, up them ; cover them with buttered paper, and put the lid on the stewpan. Simmer till tho sweetbreads are tender, they willA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. ai4 probably take three quarters of an hour or more; then put them on a baking-tin and put in the oven to brown. Strain the stock into a large saucepan, and boil down rapidly to a glaze. Coat the sweetbreads, and dish them on a border of mashed potatoes or on a fried crouton of bread. Pour the tomato sauce over them. If a braising-pan is used, they will not require browning in the oven. Ris de Veau a la Financiere.—Sweet- breads a la Financiere. Prepare the sweetbreads as in the foregoing recipe, but substitute for the tomato sauce three quarters of a pint of financiere sauce. Mix with this a few prepared button mushrooms and cockscombs (see Garnishes), and if possible some small quenelles made in to ispoons (see Quenelle meat), and scallops of sweetbread (see Garnishes). Lamb’s heart sweetbreads may bo served as in the foregoing recipes; they must bo prepared in the same manner, but they will not take quite so long to cook. Dish them in a circle, on a border of quenelle meat or mashed potatoes, and put the ragout in the centre. Quite one dozen sweetbreads will be required for a small dish. Ris d’Agneau a I’ltalienne.—Lamb Sweetbreads with Italian Sauce. Ingredients. 1 dozen lamb’s-hcart sweet- breads. 1 i int ( f good second stock. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. 1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 dessertspoonful of mushroom catsup. 1 wineglass of sherry. A few drops of lemon juice. Some mashed potatoes. Well-cooked green peas. Pepper and salt. 2 sprigs of parsley. Method.—Soak the sweetbreads in lukewarm water for two hours, changing it occasionally. Throw them into boiling water and boil for three minutes. Put them in cold waiter to cool: this preservesENTRIES. 315 their colour; put them in a stewpan with the stock, sherry, catsup, and vegetables, and simmer until quite tender. Make the butter quite hot iu another stewpan. Dry ■and slightly flour the sweetbreads, and fry them in the butter till nicely browned ; remove them and fry the flour. Then pour in the stock, stir and boil well; add the lemon juice, and tammy the sauce. Dish the sweetbreads on a border of mashed potatoes, and pour the sauce over them, and put the green peas in the centre of the dish. Ris de Veau Frit.—Fried Sweetbreads. Prepare a sweetbread, or sweetbreads, for cooking as in foregoing recipes, then simmer them in stock until they are tender. Let them cool in the stock, then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Calves’ sweetbreads must be cut in slices before frying. Serve them on a napkin with nicely fried parsley. Any suitable sauce may be handed with them. If liked, they maybe dished on a border of mashed potatoes, or spinach, with Itdian, tomato, or any other suitable sauce over them, and green peas, mushrooms, tomatoes, or any other appropriate vegetables in the centre of the dish. Ris de Veau en Petites Caisses.— Minced Sweetbread in Paper Cases. Ingredients. Equal quantities of cooked sweetbreads and mushrooms. >:ornc brown sauce. Method.—Peel and rinse the mushrooms, then put them on a well-buttered t n, covered with buttered paper end cook in a moderate oven. Take care they do not d~y up, but are nice and juicy. Cut them and the sweetbreads into slices. Make hot in enough brown sauce to moisten them. Well 0il some paper cases and dry them; till them316 A COMPLETE COOKEftY GUIDE. with the mixture, and sprinkle some chopped truffle and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg on the top of e'ich. Dish on a folded napkin. Serve quite hot. Oysters, bearded and scalded, may be substituted for the mushrooms. Vol-au-Vent a la Toulouse. Ingredients. 3 large sweetbreads. 2 dozen scallops of cooked tongue. G truffles. • Some supreme sauce. Tlie yolks of 2 eggs. A vol-au-vent case. Method.—Prepare and cook the sweetbreads in stock (see Directions under the heading Fried Sweetbreads). Cut them in scallops and put them with the tongue, and truffle cut in slices, into enough supreme sauce to moisten nicely. Simmer gently for a few minutes, then stir in the yolks of the eggs, cook them in the sauce, but do not let it boil after they are in it. Fill a hot vol au-vent case and serve immediately. Ris d’Agneau k la Supreme.—Lamb Sweetbreads a la Supreme. Prepare twelve or more lamb’s-heart sweetbreads ns in foregoing recipes, and cook them in stock until tender. Then dish them on a border of mashed potatoes or quenelle meat, pour supreme sauce over, and place asparagus peas or green peas in the centre of the dish. When dished, put a little roll of hot cooked bacon or tongue between each sweetbread. Tete de Veau aux Champignons.— Calfs head with Mushrooms. Ingredients. ^ pint of brown sauce. A croustard of fried bread, or a border of mashed potatoes. Method.—Prepare a calf's head as directed for Calfs Half a calfs head. 1 dozen small (not button) mushrooms.ENTRIES. 317 head au r.aturel. When cooked let it get quiio cold and cut into neat round pieces about two inches across. F03I and rinse the mushrooms, and put them into the brown sauce to simmer until cooked. Put a fried bread croustard or border of potatoes on a dish, make the pieces of head hot in the sauce. Dish them round the croustard or border, place tho mushrooms in the centre and strain tho sauco over tho pieces of head. Put little rounds of bacon, nicely toasted, betweon each piece of head. Kromeskys de Cervelles de Veau.— Kromeskys of Calf’s Brains. Ingredients. 2 or more sets of calf’s brains. Lemon juice. Some Kromeaky batter. Pepper and salt. Parsley. Method.—Thoroughly cleanse the brains. Keraovo the skin and fibre; tio them in muslin, and boil gently for ten minutes. When cold sprinkle them with lemon juico, popper and salt, and cut them into slices. Cover them with tho batter and fry in hot fat (sec French Frying), drain them well and dish on a paper or napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Serve piquant or tomato sauce in a boat. Pied de Veau a la Poulette.—Calf’s Feet with Poulette Sauce. Ingredients. 2 calfs feet. | Some poulette sauce. Method.—Put the feet into cold water and bring to boil- ing point; throw the water away and well wash tho feet. Cover with stock and simmer for four hours. Then remove all bones, and press them between two dishes until cold. Then cut into small neat piecos. Mako a pint and a half of pouletto sauco hot; put tho pieces of foot in, and simmer for five minutes.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 318 Pied de Veau a la Ste. Men^houd.— Calf’s Feet a la Ste. Men6houd. 2 calf's feet. Some quenelle meat. Tru files. Pig's caul. 1 pint of tomato sauce. Ingredients. Some well-cooked green peas or other suitable vegetables. A border of mashed potatoes. Egg and bread-crumbs. Method.—Cook and press the feet as in preceding recipe. When cold, cut into pear or cutlet shapes, spread the one side over with quenelle meat, with truffle mixed in it; heap it a little in the centre and smooth it with a knife dipped in hot water. Cover each with a piece of pig’s caul, put the cutlets on a greased saute-pan, and put in a moderate oven until the quenelle meat is cooked, then egg and hiead-crumb twice, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, pour tomato sauce over, and put the vegetables in the centre of the dish. A more economical entree may be made by substituting sausage for quenelle meat. Cotelettes de Veau.—Veal Cutlets. 2 lbs. of veal cutlet. Egg and bread-crumbs. 3 a/.', of clarified butter. Ingredients. Some mashed potatoes or well- cooked spinach. Some slices of bacon. Method.—Cut the cutlet into slices, and then beat with a wet cutlet-bat, to break the fibre of the meat. Trim into nice oval-shaped cutlets, brush with egg and cover them with crumbs, flattening this on with the lat or knife. Fry them in the butter. Dish in a circle, the one overlapping the other, on a border of mashed potatoes or spinach, and put nicely cooked little rolls of bacon in the centre of the dish. To cook the bacon, roll thin slices of streaky bacon, run a skewer through them, and either toast or bako them. Tomato, piquant, or any other suitable sauce may bo poured round the base of the dish or handed in a boat.ENTREES. 319 Grenadines de Veau h la Macedoine. —Grenadines of Veal. 2 lbs. of fillet of veal. Some larding bacon. Some good second s’oek. 1 pit co of carrot, turnip, and onion. Ingredients. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 2 tomatoes. A macedoine. Method.—Cut the fillet into slices, heat them with a wet cutlet-bat, and trim into neat little fillets; lard them nicely. Put the vegetables, cut in small pieces, at the bottom of a stewpan ; lay the cutlets on these, and pour in suffi- cient stock to come half-way up the cutlets; cover them with buttered paper, and put them in a moderate oven till cooked. Then remove the paper and let them brown. Strain the stock and boil it with half a pint more to a strong glaze. Dish the grenadines in two st aight lines down the middle of the dish, the one overlapping the other; pour a little glaze on eich, and put a macedoine of vegetables down the middle of the dish. Cotelettes de Veau a la Talleyrand.— Veal Cutlets a la Talleyrand. Ingredients. 7 or 8 veal cutlets. 1£ ozs. of clarified butler, fj buttou mushrooms chopped. 1 small shalot chopped. 1 tcaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. The yolks of 2 eggs. A few drops of lemon juice. 1 giil of vi loute sauce (see Sauce). Some mashed potatoes. Some well-cooked green peas. 2 table spoonfuls of cream. Method.— Fry the cutlets in tho butter, sprinkling the mushroom, shalot and parsley over and under them. When tho cutlets are cooked remove them from the pan and pour in the sauco and cream ; stir briskly over tho fire, then add the yolks of the eggs, let them thicken in the sauce, but be careful not to curdle them.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 320 Tako the pan off the fire and add lemon juice and seasoning as required. Dish the cutlets on a border of mashed potatoes, pour the sauce over them, and put a fow nicely cooked peas, or other vegetables in the centre. Quenelles de Volaille Sauce Supreme. — Quenelles of Chicken with Supreme Sauce. Ingredients. Chicken quenelle moat. 1 pint of supreme sauce. Maslie.1 potatoes. Some nicely-cooked mushrooms, asparagus peas, or green peas. Method.—Prepare the quantity of quenelle meat men- tioned in the recipe (see Quenelle meat) ; shape and po ich them as directed. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes. Pour the sauce over and put the vegetables in tho centre. Blanquette de Veau.—Blanquette of Veal. Ingredients. 1-1 lbs. of cooked veal. Yolks of 2 eggs. i pint of button mushrooms. 1 wineglass of Madeira. 'i pint of veloute sauce. Method.—Cut the veal into neat scallops; peel and linso the mushrooms and slice them. Put them with the veal into the veloute sauce (this should be made rather thicker than directed in the recipe, 2 ozs. of flour being used), and add the Madeira ; simmer until the mushrooms are cooked, then add the yolks of eggs and stir until they thicken, but do not allow tho sauce to boil. Serve immediately. Chicken may be prepared in tho same manner. Garnish, if liked, with potato croquettes.ENTREES. 321 Fricassee de Poulet.—Fricassee of Chicken. Ingredients. 1 chicken. Some white stock. A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 sprig of parsley. Yolks of 2 eggs. 2 ozs. of hut ter. li ozs. of flour. 3 tablespounfuls of cream. A little lemon ju:ce. Pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat joints (if a very- nice fricassee is required, take the best joints only of two chickens), put them into a stewpan with the vegetables and stock, a little pepper and salt, and simmer gently until the chicken is tender, then put it on a hot dish. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix in the hour smoothly ; pour in about three quarters of a pint of the stock, and stir and cook well. Add the cream and let it boil in the sauce. Then add the yolks of the eggs ; let them thicken, but on no account let the sauce boil when they are in. Strain or tammy the sauce and pour over the chicken. The sauce must bo thick enough to coat the chicken nicely. Stewed mush- rooms may be handed in another entree-dish, or slices of tomatoes cooked in the oven. Croquettes de Volaille.—Chicken Croquettes. Ingredients. i gill of cream. 3 ozs. of cooked chicken. 2 ozs. of cooked ham. 1 oz. of butter. J oz. of flour. 1 gill of stock. Method.—Mince the 6 button mushrooms. A few drops of lemon juice. Some puff pastry. Pepper and salt. chicken, ham, and mushrooms. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour smoothly, pour in the stock, stir and cook well. Add the cream and boil that in the sauco; add the minced chickens, &c., and the lemon juico and seasoning. Spread the mixture on a plate to cool, lioll out the pastry as thinly as possiblo. Cut into pieces about three and a half inches square.322 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. TSrusli round the edges with beaten egg, and put some of the chicken mixture in the centre of each, fold them and cut them into half-rounds with a pastry-cutter. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Dish on a folded napkin and garnish with fried parsley. Crushed vermicelli may be substituted for bread-crumbs, if preferred. Poulet en Matelote.—Chicken en Matelote. Ingredients. 1 chicken. 1 dozen small mushrooms. £ lb. of bacon. 2 onions. 1 carrot. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 1 bay leaf. 1 blade of mace. 12 peppercorns. Salt to taste. 1 wineglass of claret. Some flour. Some second stock. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat joints and the bacon in slices ; fry the bacon in a pan, and then fry the chicken. Put the bacon, chicken, vegetables and herbs into a stewpan and cover with nicely flavoured stock, add the claret and simmer gently for half an hour or more, until the chicken is tender. 1 lace it on a hot dish piled high in the centre with the bacon and mushrooms round it. Thicken the gravy with flour, using the proportion of oz. flour to every ^ pint of gravy. Then strain the gravy over the chicken. The dish may bo garnished with fried croutons of bread brushod with glaze. Ailerons de Volaille k I'lndienne.— Chicken Pinions with Curry Sauce. 12 chicken pinions. Some quenelle meat truffles. Ingredients. and Second stock. Rice cooked as for a curry. Curry sauce. Method.—Bone the pinions to the second joint, takingENTREES. 32,*] care not to break the skin, stuff them with a little veal quenelle meat with which some truffle has been mixed ; sew the forcement in with a needle and cotton. Put the pinions in a stewpan and cover with stock, simmer gently until tender. Pilo the rico in the centre of a dish. Pull out the cotton carefully from each pinion, and dish them round tho rico; pour curry sauce round the base, and servo very hot. If liked, tho pinions can be braised. Supreme de Volaille.—Supreme of Chicken. Ingredients. Fillets of chicken cut from the Mashed potatoes breast of 2 fowls. Some well cooked asparagus, or Some streaky bacon. green, p as. 1 pint of Bechamel sauce. Method.—Lay the fillets on a greased saute or baking- pan, cover with buttered paper, and put into the oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, pour the sauo^ over and put well-cooked green peas or asparagus peas in the centre. Border round the peas with little rolls of bacon. To cook the bacon cut it into very thin strips, roll them, run a skewer through, and toast them before the fire. If preferred, the fillets may be dished on queDelle meat Cotelettes de Volailleaux Epinards.— Chicken Cutlets with Spinach. Ingredients. The legs of 3 fowls. Some dressed spinach. Stock. Brown sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Method.—Peinovc the thigh bono from the legs, leaving the drumstick. Put the legs into a stewpan and cover them with nicely flavoured stock, simmer until the legs are tender, then press them until cold. Trim them neatly, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying).324 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Pilo tho spinach high in the middle of an entree-dish, and rest tho cutlets round it. Brown sauce may be poured round or handed in a boat. Croustards k la Reine. Ingredients. A little quenelle meat. ^ pint of veloutd sauce. 3 ozs. of cooked chicken minced. 1 oz. of cooked ham minced. 6 button mushrooms finely chopped. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Ham and truffles for a decoration. Some puff pastry. Method.—Line some little moulds with the pastry rolled very thin, then line them with paper and fill with rice; bake in a quick oven until the pastry is cooked, then remove the pastry from the moulds and take out the paper and rice. Mix the chicken, ham and mushrooms with the cream, and enough sauco to moisten them, make tho mixture quite hot. Fill the cases and spread a little quenelle meat on the top of each, smoothing it with a knife dipped in hot water; put them in the oven for a few minutes to cook the quenelle meat. Reduce the remaining white sauce until very thick, and in dishing up spread a little over the quenelle meat. Garnish with small rounds of ham and truffle placed on the tops of the croustards. Poulet k la Cardinal.—Chicken a la Cardinal. Ingredients. The best parts of two chickens. 1 pint of veloutd sauce. Some button mushrooms. Some cherry tomatoes. i pint of tomato sauce. Some stock. Method.—Put the chicken in a stewpan, cover with tho stock, and simmer gently until the chicken is cooked. Put tho chicken on a hot dish, piling it high in tho centre. Mix the sauces together and reduce them by boiling until thick enough to coat the chicken. ;ENTREES. 325 Tammy ami pour over tlio chick on. Place round tho base some button mushrooms, alternately with cherry tomatoes. The mushrooms should be sauteed in butter, and tho tomatoes cooked in the oven. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Macedoine. —Mutton Cutlets a la Macedoine. Ingredients. Part of the best end of neck of mutton. 1 or 2 eggs. Some bread-crumbs. 3 ozs. of clarified butter. Seasoning, brown sauce. A macedoine of vegetables (.see Garnishes). Method.—Saw oft' the chine bone and the ends of tho rib bones, leaving the cutlet bone about three inches in length. Cut the cutlets with a bone to each, and beat them with a wet cutlet-bat to about half an inch in thickness. Trim them and leave half inch of bone bare, season them, and egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in clarified butter in a saute-pan for three or five minutes. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, put a macedoine of vegetables in the centre and pour brown sauce round the base. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise.— Mutton Cutlets a la Milanaise. Ingr< 7 mutton cutlets. 2 eggs. Some while bread-crumbs. Some well-cooked macaroni. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. sdienis. 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan cheese. Some mashed potatoes. 2 ozs. of clarified butter, or some fat skimmings of the stock-pot-. Pepper and salt. Method.—Trim the cutlets neatly, brush them with egg and cover them with bread-crumbs mixed with two ounces of the Parmesan cheese and a little popper and salt; flatten the crumbs on to tho cutlets. Fry them from four to five minutes in the cutlet-pan jn tho clarified butter or fat skimmings. VA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 226 Disli thorn cm a border of mashed potatoes, and put some macaroni, cooked as for macaroni cheese, in the centre. Sprinkle over one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, pour the sauce round the base and serve very hot. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise.— Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise. Some nicely cut little mutton cutlets (see Mutton cutlets a la Macedoine). Some Soubise sauce. Ingredients. Some mashed potatoes. A little clarified butter. Egg and bread-crumbs. Method.—Egg and bread-crumb the cutlets, flattening the crumbs on with a knife. Fry thorn in the butter, and dish Mn a border of mashed potatoes, in a circle. Pour the Soubise sauce round the base, using one pint of sauce for every dozen cutlets. If liked, glazed button ouions may be put in the centre- Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maintenon. —Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon. Ingredients. Some mutton cutlets cut with 2 bones to each. Some finely-chopped parsley, mushrooms, and shalot, taking the proportion of i lb. of mushrooms and parsley to 1^ ozs. of shalot. Some brown sauce. Some butter. Pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the cutlets with two bones to each, then remove one bone. Flatten the cutlets with a wet cutlet-bat and trim neatly. Cut them in two but without dividing them at the bone. Cook the mushrooms, parsley and shalot in the butter, put some of this inside each cutle*', press (he edges together and broil each cutlet for about eight minutes. Mix some of the fried vegetables with the brown sauco, using tlio proportion of two tablespoonfuls to each half-pint of sauce. Fish the cutlets neatly, and pour the sauce over them.ENTREES. 327 Escalopes de Mouton a la Bear- naise.—Scallops of Mutton with Bearnaise Sauce. Breast of mutton. Some Bearnaise sauce. Ingredients. Egg and bread-crumbs. Method.—Cook the breast of mutton till tender in second stock, then remove the bones and press until cold. Then trim away some of the fat, cut the mutton into pear shapes, egg and bread-crumb them twice, and broil, or fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Fish in two rows down the centre of a dish one over- lapping the other, and put the Bearnaise sauce between. Sprinkle the sauce with a little finely chopped parsley. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Reforme.— Mutton Cutlets a la Reforme. Prepare some cutlets as for mutton cutlets a la macedoine, and cook and dish in the same manner with the exception that reforme sauce is used instead of brown sauce and the following garnish is put in the centre of the dish. Garnish. Cut equal quantities of truffles, white of hard-boiled eggs, and gherkins into strips about an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide; make them hot in a little stock and they are ready. Langues de Mouton a I’ltalienne.— Sheep’s tongues & I’ltalienne. Ingredients. 4 sheep’s tongues. 1 pint of Italian sauce. Mashed potatoes. Some good second stock. Some farcied olives. Method.—Put the tongues into the stock and simmer them till tender. (If dressed, they will take about one y 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. ?28 hour; if undressed, from three to four hours.) Remove the skin, trim them at the root, and cut each tongue in three pieces, length-wise. Make them hot. in the sauce, then dish them in a circle on a border of mashed potatoes ; pour the sauce over them, and put the olive's, which should also be made hot, in the sauce, in the centre. If olives are objected to, use any other suitable ga: nish. Cotelettes d’Agneau.—Lamb Cutlets. Prepare according to directions given for mutton cutlets a la macedoine. They may be served with brown, tomato, piquant, Italian, or any other suitable sauce, and with green poas, asparagus peas, a macedoine, or any other vegetables that are appropriate for a garnish. A nice dish may be made by braising the cutlets. They may be dished in two rows down the centre of a dish, with a little glaze poured on each. Between the cutlets put lamb’s-heart sweetbreads, also glazod. Or place them round a fried bread croustard, with the sweetbreads in the centre and green peas round the base of the croustard. Half glaze may be handed in a boat. Epigrammes d’Agneau.— Epigrammes of Lamb. Ingredients. 1 neck of lamb. Some stock. Some clarified butter. Fried bread crousta’d, or mashed potatoes. Egg and bread-crumbs. Green peas or any other appro- priate vegetable. Brown or any other suitable sauce. Method.—Saw olf the breast, and cook it gently in stock until the bones will come out easily, then removo them and press between two dishes until cold. Trim off superfluous fat. Cut into cutlet shapes and egg and bread-crumb them twice. Cut the neck into neat cutlets and egg and bread- crumb them also. Fry the neck cutlets in clarified butter in a saute-pan, and fry the breast cutlets in hot fat (see French Frying).ENTRIES. 329 Disli the cutlets alternately round a fried bread croustard or border of mashed potatoes; pour tho sauce round them and put the vegetables in the middle. Compote de Pigeons.—Compote of 3 pigeons. $ lb. of bacon. 6 button onions. 12 button niushrooms. A wineglass of Madeira. Pigeons. Ingredients. Some good second stock. 2 tomatoes. 6 cherry tomatoes, if possible. Pepper and sa't. Method.—Blanch and partly coolc the onions. Truss the pigeons for stewing, and cut them in halves. Cut the bacon in small pieces and fry in a frying-pan, then put in the pigeons and fry thorn a nice brown. Put them in a stewpan with the vegetables, tho tomatoes sliced, and tho mushrooms and onions whole, and barely cover them with good stock; add tho wine, and simmer gently for half an hour or longer, till tho pigeons are quite tender. Dish them in a circle. Bemove the fat from the gravy and reduce it to a half glaze; strain over the pigeons. Garnish with the onions and mushrooms, and, if possible, a few cherry tomatoes, cooked in the oven. The bacon may be served with the pigeons or not, as liked. Pigeons aux Truffles.—Pigeons with T ruffles. Ingredients. 3 pigeons. A little butter or slices of bacon. Some good stock. 1 ('SX- Light brown bread-crumbs. Mashed potatoes. Truffles. Brown sauce. Flour. Method.—Truss tho pigeons as for boiling, cut them in halves, flour them and fry them in butter or with a few slices of bacon.330 A COMPLETE COOlvEItY GUIDE. Then put them in a stewpan, barely cover with good stock and simmer until tender. Drain them, and when cool cover with beaten egg and light brown bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear fire for a few minutes. Dish them in a circle on a border of mashed potatoes. Putin the centre a few truffles cooked in champagne. Pour brown sauce round. If truffles are too expensive, mushrooms, simply dressed, may be substituted, but the name of the dish must bo altered. Pigeons aux Champignons.—Pigeons and Mushrooms. Ingredients. 3 pigeons. 1 dozen medium-sized mush- rooms. Some good second stock. Flour. Butter or fat bacon. Pepper and salt. Method.—Truss the pigeons for stewing and cut them in halves. Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stalks, and rinse them. Fry the pigeons in butter or with the bacon. Put them into a stewpan with the mushrooms; cover with the stock, and add pepper and salt. Simmer very gently for half an hour, or longer, until tender, then place the pigeons in a circle on entree dish, with the mushrooms round them. Thicken and strain the gravy, and pour O' er them. Filets de Bceuf aux Champignons.— Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms. Ingredients. Pome fillet of beef. Brown mushroom sauce. Some button mushrooms sau- tded in butter. Some butter or fat skimming3 off the stock-pot. Mashed potatoes or a fried croustard of bn ad. Method— Cut the fillet into slices, beat these with a wet cutlet-bat, and cut into neat round or oval shapes. Fry in clarified butter or fat skimmings.ENTREES. 331 Dish on a border of mashed potatoes or on a fried oroustard of bread. Pour mushroom sauce round the fillets, and put tho mushrooms in the centre of tho dish. Olives de Boeuf.—Beef Olives. Ingredients. lbs. of thick rump steak. A few drops of lcinon juice. Some sausage meat. Pepper and salt, li pints of stock. Mashed potatoes. 1 oz. of butter. A macedoine or tomatoes, or any 1 oz. of flour. other suitable vegetables. Method.—Cut the meat into thin strips; lay a little sausage meat on each and roll them up; tie each roll up with tine string. Put them in a stewpan, close together, and cover with the stock. Stew them gently for tw o or three hours, until quite tender. Then remove the string and place them in a circle on a border of mashed potatoes or spinach. Remove any fat from the stock, and stir in the butter and flour thoroughly mixed together. Cook tho flour well, then add the lemon juice, strain or tammy tho sauce and pour it over the olives. Put the vegetables in the centre of the dish. Filets de Boeuf aux Olives.—Beef with Olives. Prepare like fillets of beef with mushrooms, substituting farcied olives for tho mushrooms. / Queue de Boeuf en Matelote.—Ox-tail Stewed. Ingredients. 1 ox-tall. Some good second stock. 1 carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 1 bay leaf. Half a head of celery. Butter. Flour. 1 wineglass of claret. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut the tail into pieces, put them into cold water and bring to the boil.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 332 Boil them for ten minutes, then take them out and flour them and fry a nice brown colour Put it into a stewpan with the vegetables and enough stock to cover, simmer gently from three to four hours. When the tail is tender, remove it and place it on a hot dish. Thicken the gravy with the flour, using about three quarters of an ounce of flour to every half-pint of gravy; add the claret, remove all grease, and strain or tammy the sauce and pour over the pieces of tail. Garnish it with small glazed carrots, olives, or mush- rooms (see Garnishes). Palais de Boeuf a I'Espaniol.—Ox Palates with Espaniol Sauce. Ingredients. 2 ox palates. Stock. 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 1 pint of Espaniol sauce. A macedoine or any appropriate vegetables. Mashed potatoes. Method.—Soak the palates in salt and water and wash them thoroughly, then blanch them for ten minutes and scrape them well. l’ut them into a stewpan with the stock, onion, and mace (the stock should be Avell flavoured with vegetables), and simmer for four hours or longer, until the palates are quite tender, then press between two dishes, with a weight on the top, until cold. iStamp into rounds the size of a crown piece, make these hot in a little stock, then dish on a border of mashed potatoes, with the vegetables in the centre and the sauce poured round them. Ox palates may also be braised and served with half glaze or tomato or any brown sauce. Civet de Lievre.—Jugged Hare. Ingredients. 1 hare. Some veal forcemeat. 3 oza. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. 1 onion, stuck with 6 cloves 2 wineglasses of port, li pints of nice beef stock. 1 lemon. Pepper and salt.333 ENTREES. Method.—Dry tho hare well and cut into neat pieces, flour them and fry them in the butter. Pour in the stock or gravy and stir until it boils, then put the gravy into an earthenware jar with the hare, onion, thin i ind of lemon, pepper and salt to taste, and one glass of port. Cover closely, put the jar into a moderate oven, and let the contents simmer gently from three to four hours, until the hare is tender. Make some balls of veal forcemeat, to which the chopped liver of the hare has been added, and either fry or bake them. When the hare is cooked, put it on allot entree-dish, add the other glass of port to the gravy and strain it over the hare. Garnish with forcemeat balls. Servo red currant jelly with it. Salmis de Faisan.—Salmi of Pheasant. Ingredients. 2 pheasants. 2 wineglasses of Madeira or sherry. 1 pint of brown sauce. S ane hied crofttons of bread. A little glaze. Method.—Roast the pheasants, and when cold cut them into neat pieces, removing the back bone, and skin. Put these with other trimmings into a stewpan, with the Madeira or sherry and tho brown sauce, and boil gently until reduced to a pint. Tammy the sauce, and put it into the stewpan again. Make the pieces of pheasant hot in the sauce without boiling, then put them on a dish; pour some of the SeTuco over and serve tho remainder in a boat; garnish with fried croutons of bread brushed over with glaze. Note.—It is best to prepare tho brown sauce with game stock. Salmis de Perdrix.—Salmi of Partridges. Prepare like salmi of pheasants, using four partridges.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 334 Salmis de B^casse.—Salmi of Woodcock. Prepare like salmi of pheasants, substituting claret for Madeira. Garnish with the trail minced finely and placed on fried croutons of bread. Lapin a la Tartare.—Rabbit a la Tartare. Ingredients. 1 nice rabbit. Egg and bread-crumbs. Some tartare sauce. Indian pickles or piccalilli. Butter. Method.—Cut the rabbit into nice neat joints, then gently saute in butter until nearly cooked; when cool, egg and cover them with lightly browned bread-crumbs. Broil them over a nice clear fire. Dish on some tartare sauce, and garnish with the pickles or piccalilli. Mauviettes k la Lucullus.—Larks k la Lucullus. Ingredients. Some larks. Some imitation foie gras. Truffles. Browned bread-crumbs. Some glaze. Some cooked mushrooms, and some truffles cut into little blocks. Ma-hed potatoes. Method.—Bono the larks; fill them with forcemeat, putting a piece of truffle in each. Make them in a nice compact shape; put them into a saute-pan, cover with buttered paper and cook them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, then brush them over with strong glaze. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes. Put the vegetables in the centre, and pour half glaze round the base of the dish.335 ENTREES. Cailles k la Lucullus. Ingredients. 10 quails. 1 lb. of chicken or veal force- meat. A few truffles. A small piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. Some good stock. 1 bouquet garni. 2 or 3 mushrooms. Mashed potatoes. 2 wineglasses of port. Method.—Bone the quails, cut off the legs. Stuff each quail with the forcemeat, putting a truffle in the centre, make the quails a nice shape. Put the vegetables into a stewpan with the chopped hones of the quails, lay the quails on them and barely cover them with stock and wine ; cover with buttered paper, and simmer in the oven for about three quarters of an hour, then let the quails get cold. Strain the stock and add two ounces of good glaze to it, and boil down to a glaze. Cut the quails in two when cold, fasten a leg in each half, and gently heat in a little stock ; then brush them over with the glaze. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, or leaning against a block of fried bread. Garnish with truffles, mushrooms, macedoine, or any other suitable vegetables (see Garnishes). Half glaze may bo handed in a boat. Petits Poulets a I’Espaniol.—Little Chickens with Espaniol Sauce. Ingredients. Some quenelle meat. Some well-cooked green \ cas. Espaniol sauce. Glaze. Butter. Mushrooms. A border of chicken quenelle meat. Method.—Peel, cleanse, and dry some small mushrooms, and saute them in butter. Well butter some little chicken moulds ; till thorn with the chicken quenelle, putting in the centre of cacli a mushroom. Poach them according to directions given for quenelles of veal, and then brush them over with glaze. Dish them on a quenelle border poached in the same manner.336 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Heap the preen peas in the centre, and pour Espaniol sauce round the base. Crepinettes de Volaille.— Crepinettes of Chicken. Ingredients. Pig’s caul. 2 eggs and some bread-crumbs. Borne minced chicken, as for chicken croquettes. Method.—Prepare some minced chicken as for croquettes, and mix it with the yolk of an egg, set it on one side to get firm. Soak some pig’s caul in salt and water, then wash and dry it. Cut it into squares; brush them round with beaten egg, and put some of the minced chicken in the centre. Roll them Tip, pressing the edges together. Dip lightly into flour. Then egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Pile on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Cailles en Petites Caisses.—Quails in Cases. _ Ingredients. Quails. Imitation foie gras, made, if Some glaze. possible, from ch'ckens’ livers. Method.—Oil some quail-cases, and put them to dry. Bone the quails, and prepare the foie gras. Stuff each quail with the forcemeat, and make it into a nice shape. Put a quail into each case, with a small piece of butter on the top. Cook in a moderate oven for about quarter of an hour. Pour over each a little glaze. It is an improvement to put a truffle in each quad. Mauviettes en Petites Caisses.— Larks in Cases. Prepare according to directions in foregoing recipe, as in smaller cases.ENTREES. 337 Ballotines de Cailles aux Cham- pignons.—Ballotines of Quails with Mushrooms. Ingredients. Quails. Mushrooms. Veal or chicken quenelle meat. Glaze. Method.—Prepare some quenelle meat, and fill a buttered plain round mould with part of it. Bone the quails entirely, and saute the mushrooms in a little butter. Stuff the quails with quenelle meat, putting a small cooked mushroom in the centre of each. Roll them up in the form of a ball. Tie each quail firmly in a small fine pudding-cloth and c ok them gently in stock. Meanwhile poach the border of quenelle meat. Place it, when poached, on a hot entree-dish, with the quails on it. On each pour a little glaze, and in the centre heap the mushrooms. The mushrooms should be small, well-flavoured, and thoroughly cooked. CEufs de Pluviers.—Plovers’ Eggs. Ingredients. A crouftard of fried bread (see Some Espaniol or Perigucux Directions). sauce. . Some plovers’ eggs. Method.—Boil the eggs seven minutes, and then remove the shells. Fry the croustard. Fill with the eggs, heaping them up in the centre, and pour the sauce over. Cotelettes aux Huitres.—Oyster Cutlets. Ingredients. 8 ozs. of cooked chicken. 2 ozs. of butter. £ lb. of large oysters, after they are bearded. 3 tablespoon fuls of bread- crumbs. The yolks of 3 eggs. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Method.—Soak the bread crumbs in some of tlio oyster- liquor,338 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Mince the chicken and oysters, and pound them in a mortar with the crumbs and yolks, pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Make into small cutlet shapes, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Dish on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Casolettes de Volaille.—Casolettes of Chicken. Required. Chicken mixture as for Egg and bread-crumbs, chicken croquettes. Parsley. Butter. Method.—Flatten the butter until about three quarters of an inch in th'ckness. Then cut into rounds with a cutter—the size of a crown piece—dipped in hot water. Very carefully egg and bread-crumb these rounds twice, flattening the crumbs on each time. With a cutter a size smaller mark the centre of the cases. Then put them in a frying-basket, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Then lift with a small sharp knife the centre-piece, and let the melted butter run into a basin. Fill with the chicken mixture and serve very hot.. _( 339 ) COLD ENTREES, SUPPER DISHES, AND SALADS. In the preparation of Salads the thorough cleaning of the plants used must first he carefully attended to. It is dis- gusting to find worms and small insects left on the leaves through carelessness in preparation. Wash the salad well, pulling the leaves apart. If necessary, let it lie in water a short time to crisp it. Then either put it in a draught where it will dry quickly, or shake it in a cloth, care being taken that the leaves are not bruised. The leaves of salads should never be minced, as doing so spoils the flavour. Either pull them to pieces or cut them in fairly large pieces with a sharp knife. Salad should never be left soaking in the water f«>r any length of time. If necessary to keep it from one day to another, take it from the water, shake it, and lay it on a dish, cover it closely with another, and put in a cold place. In this way it will keep perfectly fresh. M^daillons de Volaille.—Medallions of Chicken. Ingredient. Method.—Bone a chicken, cook it until tender in stock, and then press it between two dishes until cold. Cut it into slices, and stamp it into rounds. Stamp out also «ome rounds of cooked tongue, spread these with Montpellier butter, and placo the rounds of chicken evenly on the top. Coat these with white chaud-froid sauce, and deocrato with pretty designs cut in truffles or ham. Chicken. Montpellier butter. Aspic. Tongue.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 310 Place tho medallions on a clean baking-tin, and cover them with melted aspic jelly. When cold, stamp them out with a round cutter. Pish them in two rows down the centre of a dish, and put a chicken-salad in the centre. CEufs de Pluviers en Aspic.—Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic. Method.—Boil tho eggs for seven minutes, then remove the shells, and put them in cold water. Slice tho white of the hard-boiled egg and tho beet- root, and stamp them into ornamental designs. Pour a little melted light-coloured asjnc into sumo dariols to the depth of an eighth of an inch. Rub the yolk of the egg through a wise sieve. When the aspic is set, decorate half the dariols with the white of egg and beetroot, arranging each tastefully, and dropping on each a little melted aspic. Decorate the other dariols with tho yolk of egg and small sprigs of endive. When the decorations are set, put in each mould an egg, the thick part downwards, and cut so that they will stand, and then fill up the moulds with jelly. When firm, turn them out, and place them on a silver Place between e'-'ch a curled slice of notched cucumber and a pretty sprig of endive, and place some chopped aspic round the base of the dish. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Russe.— Cutlets of Lamb k la Russe. Ingredients. Plover’s eggs. Aspic. Endive. Hard-boiled egg. beetroot. Cucumber. dish. Ingredients. Neck of lamb. Brown chaud-froid sauce. Salad it la Husse. Aspic jelly. Truffles. Savoury custard,COLD ENTIRES, SUPPER DISHES, AND SALADS. 1141 Method.—Carefully coolf some neck of lamb in stock, or braise it. When cold, divide into small cutlets. Trim them neatly, and coat with a brown chaud-fr./id sauce. Decorate with pretty designs cut from truffle and savoury custard (see Garnishes). Pour some melted aspic into a deep baking-tin or saute- pan to the depth of one-eighth of an inch. When set, lay the cutlets on it and cover with aspic. Whon firm, cut out the cutlets with a border of aspic to each. Dish the cutlets in two rows, one leaning on the other, down the centre of the dish, and place a salad a la Kusse (see Salads) between them. Mayonnaise de Filets de Sole.— Mayonnaise of Sole. Ingredients. Aspic. Finely-chopped aspic. Soles. Salad plants and oyster salad. Mayonnaise sauce. Method.—Fillet the soles. Trim the fillets, double them in half, with the side from which the skin was taken inside. Place them on a greased baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven. Press them until cold. Mix a little aspic jelly with some mayonnaise sauce. Coat each fillet neatly, and decorate them alternately with chopped truffle, parsley, and powdered lobster coral. Set a border mould with aspic jelly and salad. When firm, turn it on to a silver dish. Place the fillets round the top of it, one resting on the other, and fill the contro with an oyster salad. Placo chopped aspic round the base. Aspic de Homard.—Aspic of Lobster. See Chapter on Jellies and Creams. zC42 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Quenelles de Volaille en Aspic.— Quenelles of Fowl in Aspic. Ingredients. Chicken quenelle meat. Truffle*. White chaud-froid sauce. Aspic jelly. Ham. Method.—Prepare same chicken quenelles, and poach them (see Quenelles of veal). When cold, coat them over with the chaud-froid sauce. Decorate them with ham and truffle cut in pretty designs. When the sauce is firm, pour over each a little aspic jeiiy. Dish them on an aspic border, and between each put a little rose of Montpellier butter with a forcing bag and I'ipc- Pile high in the centre some cooked white button mushrooms which have been tossed in aspic, and sprinkle lightly over them some finely-chopped truffles. Chaud-froid de Mauviettes.—Chaud- froid of Larks. Ingredients. Brown chaud-froid sauce. Imitation foie gras. A border of rice. Truffles. Aspic jelly. Method.—Bono the larks, and stuff them with foie gras and truffles. Shape them nicely. Lay on a buttered baking-tin, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven. When cold, coat them twice with chaud-froid sauce. Coat tho rico nicely with golden butter, arrange the larks on it, with a pile of chopped aspic in the centre. Decorato with golden butter, and placo chopped aspic round the base of the dish.COLD ENTRIES, SUITER DISHES, AND SALADS. 343 Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Tomates.—Sweetbreads and Tomatoes. Ingredients. 2 braised sweetbreads (see Directions in Chapter on Hot Entrees). Some fine round red tomatoes. Aspic jelly. White chaud-froid sauce. Finely-chopped truffle parsley. or Method.—When the sweetbreads are cooked set them to press until cold. Then cut into slices, and stamp into rounds the size of a crown pit ce. Cover these with the sauce, and decorate with finely - chopped truffle or parsley. When set pour over a little melted aspic. Trim round neatly, and place each piece of sweetbread on a slice of tomato. Dish in two rows down the centre of the dish, and garnish with chopped aspic. Medaillons de Ris de Veau.— Medallions of Sweetbreads. Braise and press the sweetbreads, and make like medallions of chicken. Cotelettes de Homard en Aspic.— Lobster Cutlets in Aspic. Lobster cutlet mixture. Aspic. Ingredients. Coral. Method.—Prepare some lobster cutlet mixture (see liecipe for Lobster Cutlets). When cold, shape it into cutlets, dust these over with powdered coral, and put a piece of feeler in each. Pour a little cold melted aspic into a clean baking-tin or saute-pan. When set lay the cutlets on it, at a little distance from each other. Pour over each a little aspic, and when they adhere, cover with aspic. z 2344 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. When quite firm, cut them out with a border of aspio to each, and dish on chopped aspic. If liked, a lobster-salad may be put in the centre of tho dish. Cailles Farcies a I’Aspic.—Quails in Aspic. Method.—Bone the quails. Cut up the truffles and some tongue into small dice, and mix with the sausage meat or foie gras. Season with pepper and salt, and add sufficient yolks of eggs to make the mixture bind. Bill the quails with forcemeat, making them a nice shape. Put them on a buttered baking-tin. Pour over them a little good stock, and cover with buttered paper. Bake them for about half an hour. Let them get cold ; then divide each one in two, length- ways. Put a leg in each half, close to the place from which it was taken. Then coat the quails with brown chaud-froid sauce. When the sauce is set decorate tastefully with pretty designs cut from savoury custard and tongue, and pour over each a little melted, but cold, aspic jelly. Dish on a border of chopped aspic, or on a border of aspic which has been set in a mould. In the centre place a salad a la Kusse. Filets de Sole en Petites Caisses. Ingredients. Quails. Sausage meat or imitation Cooked tongue. Some salad a la Kusse. Aspic jelly. Savoury custard. Brown chaud-froid sauce. foie gras. A few truffles. Yolks of eggs. Ingredients. Fillets of soles. Mayonnaise sauce. Some lettuce and endive. Lobster coral. Lobster cutlet mixture (see Lobster cutlets). Finely-chopped parsley or truffle. Aspic.COLD ENTREES, SUITER DISHES, AND SALADS. 845 Method.—Oil some little paper cases and dry them. Spread the lillcts with lobster mixture and roll them up. The side of the fillet which was next the bone must be outside, or they will not keep in shape. Lay them on a buttered baking-tin, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven. Shred some lettuce and endive, and mix with them a little mayonnaise. Put a little at the bottom of each case. Lay a fillet on the top of the salad, and put a border of very finely-chopped aspic round it. Put some mayonnaise into a forcing-bag, with a rose- pipe, and decorate the top of each fillet. Sprinkle over a little dried and powdered lobster coral and chopped traffic. Keep in a very cold place until wanted. Chaud-froid de Volaille.—Chaud- froid of Chicken. Ingredients. 1 boiled chicken. Aspic jelly. White chaud-froid sauce. Cucumber. Endive. Salad h la Russe or any ether suitable. Truffle or hatn. Method.—Boil the chicken and cut into neat joints. When cold, coat them over with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate tastefully with truffle or ham cut in fancy designs. Pour over a little aspic. When set, dish on a border of chopped aspic, decorate with leaves of endive and curled cucumber, and put a salad in the centre of the dish. A chaud-froid of game may bo prepared in the same way, using brown chaud-froid sauce. Galantine de Volaille.—Galantine of Fowl. 1 fowl. 1 i lbs. of pork. I i lbs. of veal. Ingredients. Yulks of 4 hard-boiled eggs. 4 or 5 truffles. Pepper and salt. Method.—Bone the fowl according; to directions givenA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. .'MG for boning fowls; mince the veal and pork ; season with pepper and salt. Fill the fowl with the stuffing, placing in the yolks and truffles. Shape the fowl nicely and fasten it securely in a cloth. Boil it according to directions given for boiling meat. When cooked, remove the cloth and fasten it in a clean one. Put it under pressure (not too much) until cold. Bemove the oloth; glaze it (see Glaze), and garnish with aspic jelly. If there is no aspic for the purpose, garnish it tastefully with salad plants. Prepare like galantine of fowl. It will require three times as much veal and pork for filling it. A tongue is often placed in the centre. A large turkey is difficult to bone like a fowl. It is easier to cut the turkey down the back and remove the ilesh sideways from the bones. Method.—Bemove the flesh from the body and claws of the lobster, and cut it in pieces. Let the lettuce be well washed and dried. Cut it up, and mix it with the lobster and mayonnaise sauce. Put a border of chopped aspic on a dish. Heap the salad in the middle. Decorate the salad with pieces of endive and hard- boiled eggs cut in quarters. Galantine of Turkey. Lobster Salad. Ingredients. 1 fine lobster. 1 lettuce. 1 endive. 3 or 4 bird-boiled egg*. Some mayonnaise dressing. If possible, some aspic jelly.COLD ENTREES, SUPrER DISHES, AND SALADS. 317 Oyster Salad. Ingredients. 3 dozen oysters. A little maj’onnaiso or salad 1 crisp lei tucc. dressing. 1 bead of celery. Method.—Wash and dry the lettuce, and ent it coarsely. \\ ash and cut the celery into one inch lengths. Cut away the heard and hard white part of tho oysters, and mix them with the salad. Put the mixture into a salad bowl, and pour over the mayonnaise or dressing. Miroton of Lobster. Ingredients. A lobster. 1 lettuce. A small cupful of mayonnaise sauce. 6 hard-boiled eggs. If possible some aspic jelly. Endive. Method.—Cut the eggs at tho bottom, so that they will stand upright. Then cut them in quarters lengthwise. Dip the ends in a little aspic jelly or melted gelatine, and place them close together in the form of a large circle on a flat dish, with the white part inside. Remove tho flesh from the body and claws of the lobster. Cut up the lettuce, and mix it with tho lobster and mayonnaise. Heap the salad in tho middle of the crown of eggs. Dec .rato it with endive, and put a border of aspic jelly round it. Mayonnaise of Salmon. Ingredients. A s-mall cupful of mayonnaise sauce. Some chopped aspic. Some cold dressed salmon. A h ttuca. Endive. Some hard-boiled eggs. Method.—Break tho salmon into flakes, removing th-> bones.348 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Cut up the lettuce, and mix the salad with the mayonnaise sauce. Heap it lightly on a dish. Decorate prettily with endive, and put some hard- boiled eggs, cut in quarters, round it; also, if liked, a border of aspic jelly. Chicken Salad. A ci'Ll cooked chicken. Some celery. A lettuce. Endive. Ingredients. Beetroot. A small cupful of mayonnaise sauce. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. Method.—[Remove the skin from the chicken, and cut it into dice. Cut up the celery into half-inch lengths, taking half as much celery as chicken. Cut up tho lettuce, and mix the chicken, celery, and lettuce together with the mayonnaise. l’ut them into a salad-bowl or heap on a dish. Decorate with endive, beetroot and hard-boiled eggs. 2 heads of celery. 1 beetroot. Celery Salad. Ingredients. A plain salad-dressing. Method.—Wash tho celery, and cut it into half-inch lengths. Put them in a bowl and pour tho dressing over. Garnish with a border of beetroot. Tomato Salad. Ingredients. A few ripe tomatoes. Equal quantities of oil and vinegar. 1 dessertspoonful parsley. Pepper and salt. of chopped Method.—Slice the tomatoes and lay them on a glass dish. Sprinkle them with parsley. Mix tho oil and vinegar with pepper and salt, and pour over them.COLD ENTREES, SUrPER DISHES, AND SALADS. 319 Cauliflower Salad. Ingredients. 1 boiled cauliflower. A little mayonnaise or salad- l’epper and salt. dressing. Method.—Divide tlic cauliflower into tufts and remove the green leaves. Place them on a dish and pour the dressing over them Garnish with beetroot. Potato Salad. Some boiled potatoes. 1 boiled onion. Ingredients. Some plain salad-dressing. Method.—Slice the potatoes and onion thinly. Lay them on a dish, and pour the dressing over. If preferred, the onion may bo omitted. Haricot Salad. Ingredients. 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped paisley. Pepper and salt. Some niccly-ccokcd haricot beans. Equal quantities of oil and vinegar. Method.—Lay the beans in a dish. Sprinkle them with the parsley. Mix the oil and vinegar with the pepper and 6alt, and pour over them. Lentil Salad. Ingredients. Some boiled lentils. A little chopped parsley. Equal quantities of oil and Pepper and salt, vinegar. Method.—Lay the lentils in a dish. Sprinkle them with the chopped parsley. lUix the oil and the vinegar with tho pepper and salt, and pour over them.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 350 Mixed Salad. Equal quantities of boiled potatoes, carrots, turnips, and beetroot. Ingredients. Equal quantities of oil and vinegar. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut the vegetables into small dice. Place them in a salad bowl. Mix the oil and vinegar with the pepper and salt, and pour over them. Spring Salad. Ingredients. 1 lettuce. Pome mustard and cress. Endive. Hard-boiled eggs. Beetroot. Watercress. Some mayonnaise dressing. or salad* Method.—Wash the vegetables well; put them in a draught to dry them quickly. Then cut them rather coarsely. Put them into a salad bowl. Tour over the dressing, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and beetroot. For a more elaborate salad, put the vegetables into a glass or silver dish, heaping them high in the centre. Decorate with sprigs of endive, placing a large tuft at the top. Round the base place the hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters, alternatively with slices of beetroot. Finish off with a border of chopped aspic jelly. 9 Salad a la Russe. Ingredients. Equal quantities of cooked Half the quantity of gherkins, carrots, peas, beetroot, and Mayonnaise sauce, turnips. Method.—Cut the carrots, turnips, beetroot and gherkins into small dice, and mix all the vegetables together, with a little mayonnaise.( 351 ) JELLIES. To Clear Jellies. Take a large saucepan, and see that it is perfectly clean. Put into it all the ingredients for the jelly, and the whites and shells of the eggs. The use of the whites of the eggs is to clear the jelly; the shells form a filter through which to strain it. Whisk all together over a quick fire until the jelly begins to simmer; then immediately leave off stirring and let it well boil up. Tlio heat of the boiling jelly hardens the egg, which rises to the surface in the form of a thick scum, bringing all impurities with it. If the stirring were continued during the boiling it would prevent the scum rising properly, and the jelly would not clear. When the jelly has well boiled up, remove it from the firo and let it stand for a few minutes till a crust is formed. A jelly bag may be used, or a chair turned upside down with a cloth tied firmly to its four legs. Any cloth, which is clean and not too closely woven, will answer the purpose. Put a basin under the cloth, and pour somo boiling water through it. This is to make it hot. Change the basin for a clean dry one, and pour the whole contents of the saucepan on to the cloth. The first runnings of the jelly will be cloudy, because the filter which the eggs make will not have settled in the cloth. As soon as the jelly runs slowly, and looks clear, put a clean basin under the cloth and put the first runnings through it again, very gently, that they may not disturb the filter of egg and crushed shells. Strain the jelly in a warm place, out of any draught. Two eggs are usually sufficient to clarify a quart of jelly, but if the eggs are small it is wise to take a third. When the weather is so hot that it is necessary to use moro gelatino, more eggs will be required, for if there is not sufficient white of egg the jelly will not clear. The jelly should bo allowed to get nearly cold before it is put into the moulds.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 352 If it is put liot into metal moulds it is likely to become cloudy. To turn a jelly out of its mould, take a basin of hot water, as hot as the hand can bear; draw the mould quickly through it, letting the water quite cover it for a second. Quickly wipe off all moisture with a cloth. Shake the mould gently to make sure that the contents are free. Lay the dish on the open side of the mould, quickly reverse it and draw the mould carefully away. Calfs-foot Stock. Ingredients. 2 calf’s feet. | 4 pints of wafer. Method.—Cut each foot into four pieces, Blanch them by putting them in cold water and bringing it to the boil. Throw the water away, and well wash the feet. Put them into a saucepan, with four pints of water, and boil gently for five hours. Then strain the stock from the bones and set it aside until the next day. The fat must then be carefully removed, or the stock will not clear. To turn this into calfs-foot jolly, add :— ^ pint of white wine. J lb. of lump sugar. The rind of 3 and the juice of The whites and shells of 1 eggs. 5 lemons. Clarify and strain (see Directions for Clearing Jellies). Wine Jelly. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of fine French leaf gelatine. 1 quart of water. The thin rind of 2 lemons and the juice of 5. 10 ozs. of lump sugar. 2 wineglasses of sherry. 6 cloves. The whites and shells of 3 eggs. Method.—Soak the thin lemon rind in one pint of cold water for half an hour, add the gelatine, strained juice oi lemons, sugar, cloves, the whites and shells of eggs, and the remainder of the water (which may bo hot). Tut all these ingredients into a largo saucepan, clarify and strain. (See Directions for Clearing Jellies.)•JELLIES. 353 Note.—Tho flavour of this jelly may be varied by using liqueurs, brandy, rum, &c., in place of the wine. For Maraschino jelly uso no lemon rind. Pine-apple Jelly. Ingredients. 1 pine-apple. 2 ozs. of French leaf gelatine. 1 quart of water. lb. of lump sugar. The rind of 1 lemon and the juice of 3. The whites and shells of 3 large Method.—First put the gelatino in the water. Cut up the pine-apple and bruise it in a mortar. Add it and all the other ingredients to the gelatine, then clarify. (See Directions for Clearing Jellies.) Note.—The grated pine-apple sold in tins is excellent for jellies or creams. Aspic Jelly. Ingredients. 2^ ozs. of fine French leaf gelatine. 1 quart of nicely-flavoured stock. i pint of tarragon or plain vinegar, pint of sherry. 1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 2 bay leaves. 1 spiig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 5 cloves. 1 dozen peppercorns. 2 sticks of celery. 1 blade of mace. Whites and shells of 3 eggs. Salt to taste. Method.—Put all the ingredients into a large saucepan; add the whites beaten slightly ; clarify and strain. (See Clearing Jellies.) Savoury Jelly without Acid. Prepare some stock as directed for first stock for clear soup. To every quart add, when ready and quite free from fat, two ounces of tho finest French leaf gelatine, the beaten whites of two eggs, and, if liked, a wineglass- ful of sherry. Clarify and strain. (See Clearing Jellies.) Note.—In making either the aspic or savoury jelly, care must always be taken to have nicely flavoured stock. The colour of tho aspic can bo varied to taste by using light or dark stock, or it may bo artificially coloured.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 35i Claret Jelly. loz.packetofgelatine,orl$ ozs. of fine French leaf gelatine. 1£ pints of claret. Ingredients. ^ lb. of lump sugar. i pint of water. A few drops of cochineal. Method.— Soak the gelatine in the water; add the sugar, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Pour in the wine and colour with cochineal. Strain into a wetted mould. When firm, dip into hot water for a second and turn on to a glass dish. Note.—This jelly is not clarified. Cake is usually served with claret jelly. Macedoine of Fruit. Ingredients. 1 quart of sweet jelly. | Yaiious fresh fruits. Method.—Pour into a wetted ornamental mould a little sweet cool jelly. When firm, place tastefully on it some of the fruit. Drop on each piece of fruit a few drops of je’lv. When the fruit adheres to the layer of jelly in the mould, pour in gently sufficient cool sweet jelly to cover it. W hen that is firm, place in more fruit and proceed to set it in the same manner. Coutinue in this way until the mould is full. When quite set turn on to a glass or silver dish. (See Directions for Turning Jellies and Creams out of Moulds.) Note.—For setting fruit, &c., in jelly, be careful the jelly used is quite cool, but not at all set. It is well to put the mould on ice or to stand in cold water, that the jelly may set quickly. Eemember that the fruit, &c., that is put into a jelly will bo reversed in position when the jelly is turned out, and arrange it accordingly. Macedoine of Fruit in a Border Mould. A very pretty macedoine is made thus. Pour into the bottom of a pretty ornamental border a little sweet jelly with which some gold leaf is mixed. Stir it until it begins to set. This should be a quarter of an inch in depth.855 JELLIES. When firm, pour in some jelly coloured red with cochi- neal. This should be also a quarter of an inch in depth. When this is firm, lay in the fruit and proceed as in the foregoing recipe. Tnis can be served with whipped cream in the centre. The jelly used for this should be bright and light coloured. Nearly half fill little fluted dariols with Maraschino jelly ('see Wine Jelly). When set, place in each a little Tangerine orange quite freed from skin and pith. Drop a few drops of jelly on it, and when set, fill up the mould. l arge strawberrh s may be used in the same way with pretty effect, and Dantzic jelly may be used instead of plain jelly. Method.—Pour into a border or plain mould aspic to the depth of a quarter of an inch. When this is firm, lay on it bright pieces of lobster. Drop on each piece a few drops of jell}'. 'When set, cover with aspic and leave to get firm. Proceed in this way until the mould is full. When a border mould is used, place a lobster salad in the centre. Skin the prawns and proceed as for aspic of lobster, putting the prawns in the mould so that they will have a good appearance when turned out. Little Orange Jellies. Aspic of Lobster. Aspic jelly. Ingredients. | Lobster. Aspic of Prawns. Russian Salad. Ingredients. Some aspic jelly, Some cooked new potatoes, Cauliflower, A flhninmiQ Leans, Parsnips, Beetroot, Gherkins (pickled). These are Lettuce. Cress. not cooked.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 350 Method.—Cut the vegetables in pretty fancy shapes. The cauliflower must be broken in small bunches. Set them tastefully in tho aspic. (Sec Directions for aspic of lobster.) Dantzic Jelly. Ingredients. 1 quart of melted sweet jelly. | 14 gold leaves. Method.—Put the jelly when cold, but not at all set, into a mould, which should bo placed on ice or in a very cold place, add the gold leaves and stir with a fork until the jelly begins to set. Tho gold loaf will then be broken up and evenly sus- pended in the jelly. Dantzic jelly was originally made with eau do Danfzic. Victoria Jelly. Make like Danfzic jelly, using ten gold leaves, and two ounces of blanched pistachio kernels cut into shreds. Bananas. Sweet jelly. Banana in Jelly. Ingredients. Pistachios. Method.—Pour into a plain Charlotte mould enough melted sweet jelly to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Peel the bananas and cut them in slices across. Place them on the jelly, when it is firm, arranging them in a circle, one resting on the other. Make a small circle in the middle of the mould. Drop on each piece of banana a little melted but cold jelly, to keep them in position. "When they are set cover with jelly, and when that is firm put in more banana and proceed in the same way until the mould is full. A pretty variety may be made by using some blanched and shredded pistachio kernels with the banana, or the jelly may be slightly coloured pink.( 357 ) CREAMS. To Make Creams. To make a good cream, it is essential that the cream should be double, that is, a thick cream that will whip up to a stiff froth. Beat it well with a wire whisk until it will stand on the end of it without dropping. This must be done in a cool place, especially in summer time. Cream is liable to curdle, and turn to butter, if beaten in too warm a temperature. The gelatine must be added last of all. It should be stirred in thoroughly but quichly ; it must not be too hot or too cold, but just lukewarm. If too hot it destroys the lightness of the cream and does not mix with it, but will run to the bottom of the mould, where it will lie like a layer of glue; if too cold it begins to set immediately and cannot be thoroughly mixed with the cream. Pour the cream into a mould as soon as the gelatine is mixed with it, as it begins to set directly. To turn a cream out of its mould take a basin of hot water, as hot as the hand can bear, draw the mould quickly through it, letting the water quite cover it for a second. Quickly wipe off all moisture. Shake the tin gently to bo sure the contents are free. Lay the dish on the open side of the mould, quickly reverse it, and draw the mould carefully away. Strawberry Cream. Ingredients. i pint of double cream. 1 oz. of amber gelatine, or rather less than % oz. of the opaque. 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Some strawberries. £ pint of milk. A lew drops of cochineal. Method.—Soak the gelatino in the milk for about twenty minutes or more. 2 AA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 358 Then dissolve it by stirring it in a saucepan over the fire. Rub sufficient strawberries through a hair sieve to make a quarter of a pint of puree. Beat up the cream and add the sugar. Then add the puree of fruit and a few drops of cochineal to colour it. Lastly stir in the melted gelatine. Pour the cream into a wetted mould. When quite set, dip it for a second into very hot water, and turn it on to a glass dish. Raspberry, peach, apricot, pine-apple, and any fruit creams are made in the same manner. Charlotte Russe. Ingredients. 1 dozen sponge fingers. 1 oz. of glacd cliervies. i oz. of amber gelatine melted in a little milk, or less than i oz. of the opaque. 1 pint of double cream. 2 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. A few drops of essence of vanilla or other flavouring. Method.—First put the gelatine to soak in a little milk. Then cut the cherries in halves and place them in a circle round the bottom of a plain round mould, with the cut side uppermost. Divide the sponge fingers lengthwise, without breaking them, and trim each ono at the side, top and bottom neatly. Then line the tin with them, placing them on the top of the cherries, with the brown side next the tin; they should be put close together, and the last should serve as a wedge to keep the others in place. Beat up the cream stiffly with the sugar. Add the vanilla flavouring and the melted gelatine. This must bo neither too hot nor too cold. Stir it thoroughly but quickly into the cream, and pour at once into the prepared tin. When set, dip the bottom of the tin into hot water for a second, and turn it carefully on to a glass dish.359 CUE AMS. Italian Cream. Ingredients. pint of double cream. 3 tablespoc nfuls of castor sugar. 1 oz. of amber gelatine, or less than i oz. of the opaque. 1 whole egg. 3 yolks. i piut of hot milk. A few drops of vanilla or oilier esseuce. Method.—Put the gelatine to soak in a little cold milk. Then heat the eggs and add them to the hot milk. Strain into a jug and add the sugar. Put the jug into a saucepan (f boiling water and stir until the custard coats the spoon; care must be taken that it does not curdle. 'While the custard cools beat up the cream stiffly. Melt the gelatine, and add it to the custard. Flavour it, and, when sufficiently cooled, mix the custard and cream thoroughly together. Pour at once into a wetted mould. Orange Cream. 1 pint of double cream. 4 oranges. 4 ozs. of sugar. 1 oz. packet of gela'iue. Ingredients. 2 whole eggs. Yolks of 4 eggs. 1 pint of milk. Method.—Soak the gelatine in a quarter of a pint of milk with the rind of one orange. Strain the juice of the oranges into a cup. Beat the eggs and yolks of eggs with the remainder of the milk. Strain into a jug and add the sugar. Put the jug to stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the custard coats tho spoon. Melt the gelatine and add it to the custard. Whip up the cream stiffly and add to it tho orange juice. W hen the custard is cool beat it into the cream, and pour at once into a wetted mould. If liked, it may be put into a border mould and served with whipped cream in tho middle. 2 A 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. SCO Vanilla Cream Required. 1 pint of double cream. 1 oz. of amber gelatine, i pint of milk. 2 oZ<. of castor sugar. A few drops of essence of vanilla* Method.—Put the gelatine to soak in a little milk. Peat the cream stiffly and add to it the sugar and flavouring. Dissolve the gelatine. Mix it thoroughly With the cream and pour at once into a prepared mould. A pretty sweet may he made by taking two plain round Charlotte tins, one a size smaller than the other, pour in the larger one sweet jelly to the depth of one-eighth of an inch, sprinkle on this when firm shredded pistachio kernels and set with jelly. Then place the smaller mould inside the other. Place a light weight on it to keep it in position, and pour gently into tho larger mould sufficient sweet jelly to entirely fill the space between the moulds. When this jelly is quite firm pour quickly into the middle mould some boiling water and then quickly remove it. This must be done as expeditiously as possible. The centre should then be filled with cream which should be coloured pink. Note.—The moulds must always be prepared before the cream is made. Strawberry or other creams may be set in the same way. Method.—Soak the gelatine in the milk. IJlar.ch tho almonds and pound them, adding a few drops of orange- flower water to keep them from oiling. Beat the eggs and milk well together, and strain into a jug. Add to them the almonds and sugar. ‘Put the jug into a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the custard coats the spoon. Melt the gelatine and add it to the custard. Almond Cream. Ingredients. 1 pint of double cream. £ lb. of sweet almonds. 4 ozs. of castor sugar. If oz. of amber gelatine. 3 eggs. f of a pint of milk made hot.CREAMS. 361 Whip tlio cream to a stiff froth and drop in the almond ossoncc. When tho custard is cool, stir it into tho cream. Mix thorn well together and pour into a wotted mould. Stone Cream. Ingredients. 1 i'int of double cream. 2 wineglasses of sherry. Juice of a lemon. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 1 gill of milk. 1 oz. packet of isinglass. A little almond flavouring. Method.—Soak tho gelatine in the milk with tho sugar Beat tho cream up stiffly. Melt the isinglass; add to it tho sherry, lemon juice and flavouring. Stir it quickly into tho b_aton cream. Pour it into a wetted mould. When set, dip it into very hot water for a second, and turn it on to a glass dish. Raspberry Cream. This is mado in the same way as Strawberry Cream. Pistachio Cream. Ingredients. pint of whipped double cream. i oz. of amber gelaline, or less than i oz. of the opaque melted in a little milk. 1 oz. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of pistachio kernels blanched. A few drops of vanilla. Method.—Tound the pistachios in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Then mix them with tho cream. Add a fow drops of vanilla, tho sugar, and, last of all, the melted gelatine. Pour it into a wetted mould. "When set, dip it into hot water for a second or two, and turn carefully on to a glass dish.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 362 Croquant of Oranges. Ingredients. 9 or 10 oranges. $ teacupful of melted sweet A few pistachio kernels, blanched and chopped. 1 pint of whipped double cream. £ oz. of amber gelatine, or less than i oz. of the opaque melted in a little milk. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. Method.—Peel and divide six oranges into sections, and carefully remove the white skin. Dip each piece into the jelly and line a plain round Charlotte Russe tin with them. Place them to form a star in the bott >m of the mould, and fill up any spaces with the chopped phtachio kernels. Add the juice of three oranges to the whipped c cam. Mix in the sugar and add last of all the molted gelatine. Pour the cream into the tin. When set, dip the tin in hot water to loosen the pieces of orange, quickly wipe off all moisture, and then turn carefully on to a glass or silver dish. Chartreuse de Fruit. Ingredients. Various fruits, such as straw- berries, greengages, cherries, peaches, &c. Rome strawberry or other cream, i teacupful of sweet jelly melted. Method.—Line a plain Charlotte Russe mould tastefully with slices of the different fruits, dipping each piece in the melted jelly. Then p mr in a strawberry or an}’other cream (see Strawberry Cream). When sot, dip the mould into very hot water for a second or two to loosen the fruit, and then turn the cream on to a glass or silver dish. Maraschino Cream. Ingredients. 3 yolks of eggs. 1 white. h pint of milk. i pint of whipped double cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of cantor sugar. 1 oz. of amber gelatine, or ^ oz. of the opaque, melted in a little milk. 1 small glass of maraschino. Method.—Make the eggs and milk into a custard (seeCREAMS. 3G3 Boiled Custard), add to it the sugar and melted gelatine. When it has oooled mix it with tho cream. Add the maraschino and pour into a wetted mould previously decorated with a little bright fruit. When set, dip into hot water for a second, and turn it on to a glass dish. Strawberry Charlotte. Ingredients. Some fine ripe strawberries. Some pistachio kernels, blanched and chopped. £ teaenpful of melted sweet jelly. Some strawberry cream. Method.—Line a Charlotte Russe mould tastefully with the strawberries cut in half, dipping them in the jelly and l tying them in the tin with the cut side down-wards. Fill the spaces with the pistachios. Whon the straw- berries are quite firm pour in some strawberry cream (see Strawberry Cream). When set, dip into very hot water for a second or two to loosen the fruit, and turn on to a glass or silver dish. Gateau & la Princess. Take a plain round border mould and decorate it taste- fully with blanched and shredded almonds and pistachios and bright glace cherries (dip tho latter in warm water for an instant and dry them before shredding them). Set the decorations with a little sweet jelly, and then entirely line the mould with sweet jelly with which a little gold leaf is mixed. When set, fill the mould with pain d’abricot, and put on one side until firm. Serve with whipped cream in tho centro. Pain d’Abricot. Bequired. 1 lb. tin of apricots in syrup. $ a wineglass of brandy. 10 leaves of the finest French leaf gelatine. A little lemon juice. A little water to dissolve the gelatine in. Method.—Put the apricots, and their syrup, through a hair sieve, add to them tho brandy and a little lemon juice.3G4 A COJITLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Dissolve the gelatine and mix in thoroughly, pour at once into the prepared mould, and serve with beaton cream in the centre. Gateau a la Parisienne. Bequired. Some very fine whole straw- berries. Some very bright maraschino or other sweet jelly. Whipped cream sweetened with Method.—Tako a plain border mould and place the strawberries (stalks removed) in it heads downwards and close together, but they must not crush each other. When the mould is full, pour in the jelly, melted but cold. When firm, turn on to a glass or silver dish. Tut whipped cream in the centre piled high, and sprinkle some chopped pistaohio kernels over it. Raspberry Creams. acquired. Some sweet light jelly. Some finely chopped pistachio One or two bananas. kernels. Some raspberry cream. Method.—Prepare (before making the cream) the moulds by putting at the bottom of each a slice of banana and round it some chopped pistaohio kernels. Drop a little sweet jelly on the fruit and let it set. Make a cream (see Raspberry Cream), fill up the moulds with it, and put them in a cold place to get firm. A prettier effect may bo obtained by entirely lining (he moulds with gold-leaf jelly. Gateau a la Reine. Fill a plain round pint border mould with a plain cream (see Vanilla Cream). Set six small jelly moulds with bright fruit and sweet jelly. (Quenelle tins will t-eivo the purpose if no others are at hand.) Put the cream on a glass or silver dish. riace the six jellies on the top of it. Tut a compote or price of fruit, grated pine apple, or anything suitable.CREAMS. 365 in the centre of the dish and lioaped whipped cream high in tho middlo. A less expensive sweet may be made by substituting blancmange for the cream. Chocolate Cream. 3 ozs. of good chocolate, f pint of milk. 1 pint of double cream. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. Ingredients. A few drops of vanilla essence. A few drops of cochineal. 20 leaves of fine French leaf gela- tine, or 1 oz. packet of isinglass. Method.—Dissolve the chocolate in a quarter of a pint of milk and dissolve the gelatine or isinglass in tho other half pint. Whip tho cream to a stiff froth. Add the castor sugar, the vanilla, cochineal and the chocolate. Lastly stir in the dissolved gelatine, pour into a welted mould and put it in a cold placo until firm. Turn out in the usual manner (see Directions at beginning of Chapter). Coffee Cream. Make like chocolate cream, using half a pint of milk instead of three quarters, and half a pint of strong, well- strained coffee, and four ounces of sugar instead of three ounces, the vanilla omitted. Creams in Glasses. Prepare some gooseberries as for gooseberry fool. Half fill custard glasses and heap on the top whipped or clotted cream sweetened. Apples, prepared as for apple amber pudding, may bo used instoad of the gooseberries, or any suitablo ripe fruit mashed with sugar. Fruits and Cream. Svveoten Borne clotted or whipped cream, and mix with it ripe strawberries, raspberries, pieces of pine-applo,366 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. orange, or any appropriate fruits. Serve heaped in small glasses. Clotted Cream. Let the milk stand in one of the shallow pans used for the purpose for twenty-four hours. Then put it on a slow fire until it comes nearly to simmering point. "When the shape of the bottom of the pan is seen on tlie surface of the cream it is ready, and should be removed from the fire immediately. If it simmers it spoils. When cold, skim off the cream and drain on a hair sieve. Devonshire Curd Creams. Ingredients. 1 pint of cream. 3 dessertspoonfuls of orange- flower water. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 1 dessertspoonful of rennet. Clotted cream. Method.—Add the sugar to the cream and make it luke- warm, add the orange-flower water and the rennet and mix thoroughly together. Tartly fill custard glasses and let them stand until the curd is formed. Then heap a little clotted cream on each. If possible, put them in a refrigerator or on ice until wanted. Trifle. Ingredients. 1 Savoy cake. 1 pint of double cream. 1 pint of rich custard (see Boiled Custard). Some strawberry or other jam. 1 wineglass of sherry. 1 wineglass of brandy. ^ lb. of macaroons. 1 oz. of castor sugar. 6 sponge cakes. Method.—Cut the cake into slices an inch thick. Lay them on tho bottom of a glass dish. Spread thorn with jam. Lay the macaroons on them. Cover them with sponge cakes. Soak them with the sherry and brandy and cover with the custard. Beat tho cream to a stiff froth. Drain it on a hair sieve and heap it on the custard.CREAMS. 367 Tipsy Cake. 1 large sponge' cake. 1 wineglass of sherry. 1 wineglass of brandy. Ingredients. 1 pint (f custard (see Boiled Custard). Some blanched almonds. Method.—Put the calco on a glass dish. Soak it with the sherry and brand}’. Pour ovei the custard and stick blanched almonds well over it.368 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. I- PLAIN SWEETS, AND STEWED FRUITS. Devonshire Junket. Ingredients. 1 quart of milk. 1 dessertspoonful of rennet. A little nutmeg. 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. If liked, 2 tablespoon'uls of brandy. Method.—Put tho milk, slightly warmed, into a glass dish and add to it tho sugar, brandy, and rennet, mixing them in thoroughly. Let it stand until a solid curd. A little nutmeg is sometimes grated over, and in Devonshire clotted cream is heaped on tho top. Gooseberry Solid. Ingredients. 1 pint of green gooseberries. I $ a 1 oz. packet of gilatine. 3 ozs. of moist sugar. | £ pint of water. Method.— Soak tho gelatino in half the water, top and tail the gooseberries and put them, with the sugar, into an enamelled stewpan or a baking-pan, and add to them tho remainder of the water. Simmer until the gooseberries are soft and thick. Thon dissolvo the gelatine. Mix thoroughly with the gooseberries and pour into a wetted mould. Servo with boiled custard. If pi-eferred, tho gooseberries can be rubbed through a hair sieve before the gelatine is added.rL A IN SWEETS, AND STEWED FRUITS. 369 Cheap Custard. Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful of cornflour or ground rice. 1 pint of milk. The yolks of 2 eggs. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. Vanilla or other flavouring. Method.—Put tlio milk and sugar on to boil. "When boiling, stir in iho cornflour, which should be mixed very smoothly with a little cold milk. Boil, stirring all the time, for ten minutes. Then remove from the fire, and when it has cooled a little, beat in the yolks of the eggs. Stir again over the fire to cook the eggs, but take care they do not curdle. Flavour to taste, and, when cold, pour into custald glasses. A cheaper substitute for custard may bo made by omitting the eggs. Arrowroot Custard. Ingredients. 1 pint of milk. The yolks of 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of arrowroot. Vanilla or other flavouring. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar. When boiling, pour in the arrowroot, mixed very smoothly Avith a little cold milk. Stir until it boils and thickens. Then remove it from the fire, beat in the yolks and stir until they thicken. Boiled Custard. Ingredients. 5 pint of new milk. 3 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. Yolks of 5 eggs. A little flavouring of lemon, or almoud. vanilla, Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar. Beat the yolks lightly. Pour the milk (not too hot) on them, stirring all the time.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 370 Strain the custanl into a jug, which must be placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir until it coats the spoon. Great care must bo taken that the custard does not curdle; it must be stirred occasionally while cooling. Add the flavouring when cold. Note.—A cheaper custard may be made by substituting two whole eggs for the five yolks, or one whole egg and two yolks. Lemon Sponge. Ingredients. oz. packet of gelatine. 1 pint of cold water. ^ lb. of lump sugar. The thin rind and juice of 2 lemons. The whites of 3 egg?. Method.—Soak the gelatine in the water with the rind of the lemon for one horn-. Add the sugar and dissolve it over the lire. Stir and simmer it for a few minute*. Strain into a basin and add the lemon juice. When it begins to set, beat in the whites of the eggs, whipped to a very stiff froth. Whisk until the whole mixture is light and spongy. Then heap it on a glass-dish. A little of it may be coloured a pale pink with cochineal, and, as a decoration, a few pistachio kernels, blanched and chopped, can be sprinkled over the sponge. Apple Solid. 2 lbs. of apples. 3 ozs. of moist sugar. 1 lemon. A pint of water. Ingredients. i an oz. packet of Swiubourne’s or Nelson’s gelatine. A few drops of cochineal. Method.—Soak the gelatine in half the water. Wash and slice the apples. Put them in a stewpan with tho sugar and thin lemon rind and juice, and remainder of the water. Stow until soft, then rub through a hair sieve. Molt the gelatine, mix it thoroughly with the apples.PLAIN SWEETS, AND STEWED FItUITS. 371 Colour with the cochineal, and pour the mixture into a wetted mould. Note.—This sweet looks very nico when it is made in a border mould. It is then served with whipped cream or white of egg in the middle. Peaches, prunes, or any suitable fruit may bo used in the same way. Orange Jelly. 1 dozen oranges. 1 lemon. 2 pints of water, lb. of lump sugar. Ingredients. 1 oz. packet and a half of Swin- bourne’s or Nelson’s gelatine ; in summer 2 packets. Method.—Soak the gelatine in the water with the thin rind of one lemon and three oranges. Add the sugar, stir over the tiro until the gelatine is dissolved. Add the juice of the twelve oranges. Let the jelly boil up, and then stiain into a wetted mould. When firm, dip into hot water for a second and turn on to a glass dish. Note,—This jelly is not clarified. Cheap Wine Jelly. Ingredients. 1 oz. packet of either Nelson’s or Swinbourne’s gelatine, li pints of water, i to ^ lb. of lump sugar, according to taste. 1 pint of sherry. The juice of 2 lemons. The rind of 1 lemon. The whites and shells of 2 large Method.—Soak the gelatine in the water with the thin riml of a lemon for three-quarters of an hour if possible. Then add all the other ingredients. Clarify and strain (see To Clear Jellies). "When quite cold pour into a wetted mould. Note.—A lemon jelly may be made by using a quarter of a pint more water instead of wine and one more lemon372 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Raspberry Flummery. Ingredients. 2 pints of raspberries. The rind and juice of a small lemon. 5 ozs. of sugar, i pint of water. ^ oz. packet of Nelson’s or Swin- bourne’s gelatine, i pint of cream. Cochineal. Method.—Stalk the raspberries and stew them with the sugar, lemon and water until tender. Hub them through a hair sieve. AVhile the raspberries are cooking, soak the gelatine in the cream. Then stir over the fire until the gelatine is quite dis- solved. Add the cream and gelatine to the raspberry pulp and beat all well together. Colour with cochineal and pour into a wetted mould. When firm, dip for a second or two into very hot water, and then turn on to a glass dish. Apple Cream. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of apples. i pint of water. £■ lb. of sugar. i pint of cream or milk. The rind of a lemon. Method.—Wash the apples and cut them into pieces. Put them in a stewpan with the lemon-rind, sugar and water. Stew gently until they are quite tender. 'Then rub them through a hair sieve. Boil the cream or milk and add it to the apple pulp. Beat them thoroughly together and servo when cold in a glass dish. Gateau of Prunes. Ingredients. 1 lb. of prunes. ^ a 1 oz. packet of gelatine, f pint of water. If liked, a few drops of cochineal. 3 ozs. of moist sugar. Method.—Soak the gelatine in a quarter of a pint of water.PLAIN SWEETS AND STEWED FRUITS. 373 Well wash the prunes and put them in a stowpan with the sugar and half a pint of water. Simmer until soft and rub through a wire siovo. Dissolvo the gelatine and mix in thoroughly. Pour into a wetted mould. When turned out, serve b >iled custard with it. It makes a pretty dish if set in a border mould, and afterwards sprinkled with grated cocoinut with wliippod white of egg or cream in the centre of the dish. Blancmange. Ingredients. 1 oz. packet of Swinbourne’s isinglass. 1 pint of milk. 1 pint of cream. 3 or 4 ozs. of castor sugar. Flavouring essence. Method.—Soak the isinglass in the milk, add the sugar, and stir over the fire until both are dissolved. Then pour in the cream ; stir occasionally until cold. Add the flavouring essence and pour it into a wetted mould. Note.—A blancmange may be made economically by using less cream and more milk, or using milk only. If it is not stirred until cold, the milk and cream will separate. Blancmange with Cornflour. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of cornflour. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. 1 quart of milk. Flavouring to taste. Method.—Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little cold milk. Put the remainder on the fire to boil. . When nearly boiling, stir in the cornflour, and stir and boil well for ton minutes, taking care it does not burn. Flavour with vanilla or any othor essence, and pour into a wetted mould. Ground rice may bo used in the same way. A doublo saucepan is useful for this purpose. Jam or stewed fruit should be served with a blanc- mango of this kind. 2 u374 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Chocolate Blancmange. Ingredients. 1 pint of now milk. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of powdered chocolate. £ oz. of isinglass. Method.—Soak tho isinglass in the milk for twenty minutes. Then put it on tho fire and stir until it boils. Strain into a basin ; add tho other ingredients, and stir occasionally until nearly oold, then pour into a wettod mould. Velvet Cream. pints of new milk, f oz. of isinglass. 3 eggs. Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. A little vanilla or latafia. Method.—Soak the isinglass in the milk for twenty minutes. Then put it in a stewpan, and stir until it boils. Remove from the fire and add tho sugar and yolks of eggs well beaten together. Stir over the fire until they thicken, but do not allow it to boil. Then strain into a basin, add the flavouring, and when nearly cold whip up the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and mix them in. Tlion pour into a wetted mould. Lemon Jelly Cream. ^ oz. of isinglass. pints of new milk, i lb. of lump sugar. Ingredients. A very little cinnamon. The yolks of 3 eggs. 1 lemon and a half. Method.—Soak the isinglass in the milk for twenty minutes. Then dissolve it over tho fire, stirring all the time, adding to it the sugar and the cinnamon and the grated rind of the lemons. Let all boil together for two or three minutes. I’ut the yolks of tho eggs into a basin and strain the milk on to, them, stirring quickly.375 FLAIN SWEETS AND STEWED FRUITS. Stir occasionally until nearly cold, and then add the strained juice of the lemons. Pour into a wetted mould. Floating Island. A round sponge cake. 1 pint of custard (see Boiled Custard). Red jam. Ingredients. The whites of 2 cgsrs. 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. Some chopped pistachio kernels. Some hundreds and thousands. Method.—Cut the cake horizontally in slices. Spread them with jam. Place them on each other in the form of the cake, and spread the top with jam. Put the cake on a glass dish and pour the custard over. Whip the whites of the eggs stiffly with the sugar and heap on the top of the cake. Decorate with choppod pistachios and hundreds and thousands. Children’s Trifle. Ingredients. A little red jam. The white of an egg. 1 sponge cake. 1 pint of cheap custaid. 1 dozen ratafias. Method.—Cut the cake in slices and spread them with jam. Place them on a dish alternately with the ratafias. Pour the custard over them, and set aside till quite cold. Decorate with the white of egg beaten stiffly. Stewed Pears. Required. For each pound of pears allow 1 pint of water. i lb. of loaf sugar and | Some lemon peel. Method.—Put the sugar and water on the fire to boil to a syrup. Then add some lemon peel (yellow part only). Pare and core the pears, cut them in halves and lay 2 B 2376 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. them in a deep dish. Then stew gently three to five hours or more, until tender and of a good colour. Colour with a little cochineal cooked with the pears. The length of timo the pears will take to cook will depend on the kind used. Take care they do not over-cook, and lift them out carefully that they do not break. t Stewed Pears (Another Way). Ingredients. Some stewing pears. A little thin rind of lemon. Water. A few drops of cochineal. Sugar. Method.—Peel the pears, cut them in halves or quarters, according to their size, and core them. Put them into a stewqian with enough water to cover them, and add ten ounces of sugar for every quart of water, put in also the cochineal and the lemon rind. Simmer until the pears are cooked. They will probably take from three to five hours. Then put them on a glass dish; reduce the syrup and pour over them. If liked, a few cloves may be stewed with the pears. Baked Pears Take some cooking pears, wipe without paring them, and place them on a tin in a very slow oven. They will take some hours. When cooked enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. Stewed Prunes. Well wash the prunes if they are the cheap ones sold by the pound, and put them in a stewpan with enough water to cover them and sugar to taste. Simmer them for an hour or longer until perfectly soft. To make a compote, use the best lump sugar, and when the prunes are cooked, reduce the syrup and pour over, A little cochineal will improvo the colour.PLAIN SWEETS AND STEWED FRUITS. 377 Baked Apples. Wipe the apples without paring them and put them on a baking-tin to cook in a moderate oven. The length of time they will Like will depend on the kind of apple. Serve with a little castor sugar dusted over them. Stewed Rhubarb. Peel and cut the rhubarb into lengths. Tut them into a jar with a very little water and some moist or lump sugar (the moist does as well for sweetening, but the lump will make the syrup clearer). Put the jar in a slow oven or on the kitchener until the rnubarb is tender. An enamelled stewpan may be used instead, if more convenient. All fresh fruits are stewed in much the same way, taking more or less sugar according to the fruit used. Stewed Normandy Pippins. 1 lb. of pippins. 1 quart of water. Ingredients. G ox-, of sugar. Method.—Soak the pippins in the water. Then stew them with the sugar for one hour or more, until quite soft. Place them on a glass dish and pour the syrup over them. Apple Rings. These should bo soaked in water over-night, and simmered the next day in the same water with sugar to taste. A little thin lemon peel stewed with the apples, or two or three cloves, will improve the flavour.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 378 RECHAUFFES OF COOKED MEAT. In re-cooking cold meat care should be taken that it is only allowed to simmer, and not boil. Boiling hardens the albumen and fibrine, and conse juently toughens the pieces of meat. The bones from cooked meat can be put into the stock- pot, or be used to make gravy, according to the directions given in the recipe for hashed meat. Scraps of meat too small for hashes and curries, and the scrapings of the bones may be used for minces and rissoles. Care should be taken that tho stock or gravy used in made dishes should be savoury, well-seasoned and nicely thickened, but not too thick. Hash. Ingredients. Slices of cold meat. Nice stock or gravy. Flour, in the proportion of ^ oz. of flour to every ^ pint of stock. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 teaspoonful of mushroom cat- sup, or Harvey’s, or tomato sauce to every i pint of stuck. Some sippets of fried or toasted bread. Method.—Put the stock on to boil. When nearly boiling thicken it with the flour, cooking that thoroughly. Add tho sauce, and season nicely. Lay in the pieces of meat and simmer for half an hour. The gravy must not boil when tho meat is in. llalf-an- hour’s simmering, when possible, greatly improves tho flavour of the meat.MSCHAUFFfiS OF COOKED MEAT, ETC. 379 Serve garnished with the sippets of fried or toasted bread. Oysters, tomatoes, or mushrooms, improve the flavour of' a hash. Two or three slices of pickled walnuts may be served in a hash of beef or mutton. In hashing hare, venison, or any game, a little port wine should be added to the gravy. If no stock or gravy is available, make some with the bones from the meat. Put them on with sufficient water to make the required quantity of gravy, a sliced onion, some pieces of carrot and turnip, a small bunch of herbs,— parsley, thyme, and marjoram,—and if at hand, some tomatoes and mushrooms; add pepper and salt, and boil gently from two to four hours. Then strain and remove the fat before thickening. Colour if necessary with a little gravy-colouring or burnt sugar, taking care not to use too much. Curry of Cold Meat. Scraps of cold meat. Some curry sauce. Ingredients. Boiled rice. Method.—Cut some cold meat into neat pieces, and simmer it for half an hour in sufficient curry-sauce (see Sauces) to moisten it. Serve with nicely-cooked rice. This may be placed as a wall round the curry, but it is better to have it handed in a separate dish. Cottage Pie. Ingredients. Slices of cold meat. Butler or dripping. Ruled potatoes. Pepper and salt. Stock or gravy. Method.—Season the meat with pepper and salt, and lay it in a pie-dish. Pour in a little gravy or stock. Cover with potatoes mashed with butter or dripping and pepper and salt.A COMPLETE COOlvliRY GUIDE. 3S0 .Shape as much like a pie-cnist as possible, smoothing it with a knife dipped in hot water. Bake for about half an hour. If liked, the pie may bo brushed with beaten egg, which will give it the appearance of a pastry-crust. Beef with Piquant Sauce. Ingredients. Slices of underdone beef. | Some piquant sauce (see Sauces). Method.—Make the beef hot in enough sauce to moisten nicely. Serve and garnish like a hash. Tomato-sauce may bo substituted for piquant if preferred. Mince of Cold Meat. Ingredients. Scraps of cold meat (pieces that are too small for hashing may be used for this purpose). Some nice gravy. Well-cooked rice, or boiled and mashed potatoes. Pepper and salt. Method.—Pass the meat through a mincing-machine or cut it into small dice with a knife (the flavour is far better when the machine is not used). Mix with sufficient gravy to moisten the meat, and season with pepper and salt. Stir over the fire until hot, but do not let it boil. Serve either with sippets of fried or toasted bread, or bordered with boiled rice, macaroni, or mashed potatoes. When veal or chicken is used, add a few drops of lemon juice to the gravy, and hand quarters of lemon with it, cut lengthways. With these minces use a little cooked ham ; also, if liked, hard-boiled eggs. Bechamel sauce may bo substituted for gravy. Mince is sometimes served with nicely-poachcd eggs placed on it.ItfiCHAUFFfiS OF COOKED MEAT, ETC. 881 Minced Meat (Another Way). Ingredients. Cold under-dressed meat. Some nice gravy. Bread-crumbs. Clarified butter. Pepper and salt. A few mushrooms, if possible. Method.—Mince the meat. Peel, rinse, and mince the mushrooms. Mix with a little good gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Tut it in a pie-dish, and cover with a thick layer of bread crumbs ; pour a little clarified butter over, and bake in the oven for about half an hour. Minced Meat and Macaroni. Prepare some meat and mushrooms as in preceding recipe. Then place in the dish a layer of well cooked macaroni. Spread the meat on this, cover with more macaroni, pour over a little clarified butter, and bake for about half an hour. Tomatoes may be substituted for mushrooms. Potatoes, boiled, and mashed with popper and salt, may be used instead of macaroni. Fritters of Cold Meat. Ingredients. Some slices of cold meat. Some Kromysky butter. The juice of 1 or 2 lemons. A little parsley. A little onion. Pepper and salt. Method.—Lay the pieces of meat on a dish, sprinkle the lemon juice, parsley, sliced onion, and pepper and salt, over them. Let them marinade for an hour, then dip them into Kromysky batter and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Serve on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley; and serve piquant, tomato, or any other suitable sauce, in a boat382 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Minced Meat en Coquille. Minced meat. Bread-crumbs, browned. white Ingredient*. and Gravy. Pepper and salt. A little butter. Method.—Mix the meat with half its weight of bread- crumbs. Moisten nicely with gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Fill well-buttered scallop, or china, shells, sprinkle with browned crumbs, and put a little clarified butter on the top of each. Brown them in a quick oven. When veal and chicken are used, take a little cooked ham with them, and a little lemon juice. Oysters or mushrooms mako an agreeable addition to any meat served cn coquille. Cold Meat Pie. Slices of cold meat. Some good gravy or stock. Pepper and salt. Flaky or other crust. Ingredients. 1 f liked, hard-boiled eggs 7 OO Mushrooms, potatoes, or toma- toes. Method.—Line the edge of a pie-dish with pastry, put in the meat, seasoned with pepper and salt, and any other of the ingredients used with it. Pour in the gravy and cover with the pastry. Decorate with paste leaves. Glaze with beaten egg, and bake for about half an hour. Cold Meat Salad. Slices of cold meat. Some green salad. Beetroot. Ingredients. Ilard-boilcd eggs. Mayonnaise or other salad dressiug. Method.—Cut the meat into large dice. Wash, dry, and cut up the salad.RECHAUFFES OF COOKED MEAT, ETC. 383 Mix the moat and salad together, and moisten with tho dressing. Pile it in the centre of a dish, and garnish prettily with hard-boiled eggs and beetroot. Toad-in-the-Hole with Cooked Meat. Mako according to directions to be found in Chapter on Savoury Meat JJishcs, substituting cooked meat for uncooked. Under-done meat is best for the purpose. Meat Patties. Ingredients. Some scraps of cold meat. Pastry. A little gravy. 1 egg. Pepper and s.dt. Method.—Mince the meat, and moisten with a little gravy, adding pepper and salt to taste. Roll out the pastry and stamp it into rounds with a cutter. Lay half the rounds on greased patty-pans. Brush round the edges of the paste with a little beaten egg, and put some of the mince on each round. Cover them with the remaining rounds of paste, pressing tho edges lightly together. Glaze with tho beaten egg, and cook in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. If chicken or veal are used for the patties, take also some cooked ham, and flavour with a little lemon juice. Oynters, mushrooms, and tomatoes, make a nice addition to any meat patties. Meat patties may also be made with bread cases. Cut some stale bread into slices, ^-inch thick ; stamp these into rounds with a circul ir cutter. Mark the middle with a cutter two sizes smaller, and scoop out tho inside, making little nests of them. Care must be taken not to break the bottom. Fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain and fill with minced meat. Nicely-poached eggs may be laid on the top of the cases, if liked384 A COMPLETE COOKEEY GUIDE. A Hash of Cooked Calfs Head. Ingredients. For each pound of meat allow— pint of nice gravy or stock. 8 button mushrooms. 1 teaspoonful of catsup. Pepper and salt. A little grated lemon peel and a few drops of juice. If liked, a little cream. £ oz. of flour to each $ pint of gravy. Method.—Put the gravy into a stewpan with the catsup, lemon juice, and mushrooms, and simmer until the mush- rooms are tender, then thicken with the flour, using a little more if found necessary. Lay in the pieces of calfs head, and let them simmer for a quarter of an hour. Garnish tho dish with sippets of fried or toasted bread, and also, if convenient, with egg and forcemeat-balls (see Forcemeats). Oysters may be used instead of mushrooms, but must he only scalded, not cooked in the gravy. Use the liquor in the gravy, but well strained to remove any grit.( 3S5 ) INDIAN CURRIES AND OTHER DISHES. Chicken Curry. Ingredients. 1 young chicken. 1 pint of light stock. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 small white onions. £ pint of cocoanut or almond milk (see recipe). 1 bay-leaf. 1 dessertspoonful of red currant jelly. 1 teaspoonful of curry paste. 1 tablespoonful of curry powder. 1 dessertspoonful of chutney. Juice of half a small lemon. Salt to taste. Method.—Slice the onions from the top to the bottom, and put them in the butter with the curry powder and paste, and gently fry without discolouring for half-an hour. Cut the chicken into small pieces, and take away the bones. Flour these and put them into the stewpan, add the chutney, a bay leaf, the stock, and almond or cocoanut milk. Simmer gently until the chicken is nearly tender, then add the red currant jelly and a little lemon juice and salt to taste. If there is too much gravy when the chicken is cooked, reduce it a little. Take out the bay leaf before serving. Well-cooked rice should bo handed with this curry. Rabbit Curry. Make like chicken curry. If preferred, the rabbit may be fried.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 386 Dry Curry. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of tender beef-steak. 3 ozs. of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of curry- powder. 1 apple. 1 good-sized onion. Lemon juice, and salt to taste. 1 dessertspoonful of chutney. ] teaspoonful of red currant jelly- Method.—Peel and slice the apple and onion, cutting the latter from the top to the bottom, that it may go to a pulp in cooking. Put them in a stewpan with the butter and curry powder, and fry without discolouring for ten minutes. Add the meat, cut in very small pieces, the chutney and red currant jelly. Stir all well together, and put over a very clear lire, to cook very gently indeed until the meat is tender. Add to it, half an hour before serving, the lemon juice and salt. Serve well-cooked rice with it Vegetable Curry. Take equal quantities of cooked ..carrots, turnips, potatoes, green peas, French beans, asparagus, and celery. Make hot in sufficient curry sauce (see Sauces) to moisten them, but do not make them wet. Serve with it well-cookod rice. Curried Prawns. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of prawns. 1 large cucumber. ^ pint of cocoanut milk, pints of white stock. 2 ozs. of butter. 3 chillies sliced. 1 oz. of sliced green ginger. 1 oz. of flour, i oz. of turmeric. 1 onion. Lemon juice and salt. Method.—Cut the cucumber into neat pieces, but not too small, and parboil them.387 CURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. Shell tho prawns, and cleanse and wash them in water and dry them in a cloth. Cut them into halves lengthwise, and then in quarters. Mako half a pint of cocoanut milk (see recipe). Melt the butter in a stowpan, add the onion sliced, and cook for fifteen minutes without discolouring. Add tho flour, turmeric, and a little salt; pour in the stock, and add the ginger and chillies. Simmer for twenty-five minutes. Then add the prawns and cuoumber. Simmer a few minutes longer until the cucumber is tender. Then stir in the cocoanut milk and lemon juice. The Moli. 2 ozs. of butter. 1 onion. A little green ginger. 2 sliced green chilliis. 1 oz. of flour. Ingredients. f pint of almond or cocoanut milk (see recipe). 2 lbs. of cooked fish or chicken. Salt. Method.—Slice the onion, and fry it in the butter, without discolouring, with the green ginger and chillies. Mix in the flour thoroughly, and add the almond milk. Simmer for ten minutes. Then put the fish or chicken, cut small, into the sauce, and simmer for ten minutes. Raw fish or chicken may be used, if more convenient, but must then be simmered until quite cooked. The Quorema. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of tender mutton. 2 ozs. of pounded green ginger. i lb. of butter. i oz. of coriander seed, i oz. of pounded black pepper, i the quantity of pounded cardamoms. 4 cloves pounded. 2 onions. 1 pint of almond cream (see recipe for almond milk, and make it of cream instead of water.) The juice of a lemon. A dessertspoonful of turmeric. Salt to taste.388 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Method.—Cut tho mutton into small neat pieces, put it into a basin, dust it with the pounded ginger. Peel and slice the onions, put them in a stewpan with the butter, and fry thorn without discolouring for ten minutes. Then add tho coriander, cardamoms, cloves, and a little salt. Continue cooking for ten minutes longer, then add tho mutton and stir for five minutes. Pour in the almond cream and add the turmeric. Simmer until the mutton is tender. Add the lemon iuice before serving. Kubab Curry. Ingredients. Tender mutton, veal, or other suitable meat. Bacon. Green ginger. Onions. Curry sauce. Method.—Cut the meat into pieces an inch square and half an inch thick. Cut the bacon an inch square but of the thickness of a rasher. Parboil the onions, and cut them the same size and thickness as the bacon, and cut the ginger also the same size. Thread these alternately on skewers, and then cook in curry sauce (see Sauces) until tender. Pillau of Fowl. 1 young fowl. Stock. 1 lb. of rice. 3 onions. 3 ozs. of raisins. Method.—Put tho fowl, trussed for boiling, into tho stock and half cook it. Stone the raisins, and blanch the almonds, peel thq onions and cut them into rings. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of almonds, i lb. of butter. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. 1 inch of cinnamon.389 CURRIES AND INDIAN DISIIES. Very gently fry the onions in the butter, taking the greatest care they do not burn. When they are fried, fry the raisins and almonds lightly. Well wash and dry the rice, and fry it in the butter until coloured. Then put it in the saucepan with the onions, raisins, almonds, etc. Make a well in the centre, and put the fowl in it. Cover with stock, and stew slowly until the chicken and rice are cooked and the rice has absorbed the stock. Place the chicken on a hot dish and the rice round it. Bhoonee Kitcheeree. Ingredients. i lb. of lentils. i lb. of rice. 4 onions (fair sized). 4 ozs. of clarified butter. Pepper and salt. If possible, a little green ginger 3 cloves. Method.—Thoroughly wash the rice and lentils, and put them to drain on hair sieves. It is as ■well to do this some hours before the dish is prepared. Peel and slice the onions into rings. Fry the onions in the butter until cooked and of a golden-brown colour. Then remove them, and slowly fry the rice and lentils until they have absorbed the butter (the frying should be done in a stewpan). Pour in rather more water than will cover them, and add the pepper and salt, ginger, and cloves. Simmer very gently until they are soft and cooked, and have absorbed the water. It may be necessary to add more water, and great care must be taken that the kitcheeree does not burn. It should bo stirred every now and again. Heap on a dish, reheat the onions, and place on the top and sides. Note.—This dish will probably be preferred by many people without the ginger and cloves. If omitted, sub- stitute two chopped oniops for them. “ 2 c390 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Almond Milk. Ingredients. 1 lb. of sweet almonds. £ pint of boiling water. 2 bitter almonds. A little milk. Method.—Blanch and pound the almonds, using a little milk to prevent them oiling. Pour over the boiling water. Stir occasionally until cool, and then strain. Cocoa-Nut Milk. Ingredients. i lb. cocoa-nut. | i pint of boiling water. Method.—Scrape and pound the cocoa-nut, and pour tho boiling water over. Stir occasionally until cool, and then strain.( 391 ) » r SOUFFLES, OMELETS, AND FRITTERS. The best cooks will sometimes fail in making souffles, as their manufacture requires the greatest care and * attention. It is also necessary to be able to judge to a nicety the time they will take to cook, because to be eaten in perfection, they should be served directly they are ready. In making a souffle, be very careful to take the exact measures of the different ingredients; a little too much flour, or rather too little milk, may make a great difference in the lightness of it. The flour should be the best Vienna. Another point to be attended to is to whip up the whites of the eggs as stiffly as possible, and to mix them with the other ingredients very lightly. Bear in mind that the object in beating the whites of eggs is to introduce air into the souffle; and it is the expan- sion of the air when the souffle is cooking which makes it light. If the whites are mixed heavily with the other ingredients, the air which has been whipped into them is beaten out again, and consequently they fail to make the souffle light. When the souffle is firm in the middle, it is sufficiently cooked and should be served with the greatest expedition, as it will begin to sink rapidly. An omelet souffle, left in the oven two or three minutes over time, will be quite spoilt, and become tough and leathery. To prepare a souffle, tin, well butter it. Fold a sheet of kitchen paper into three, and brush it well over with melted butter. Fasten it round the top of the tin, tying securely with string. When the souffle is steamed, place a piece of buttered paper over the top of it to prevent the condensed steam from falling into tho pudding and spoiling it. Neither souffle tins nor omelet pans should be allowed to get damp ; if so, they will stick. To prevent this, season 2 c 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 392 them in this wav: put a little fat into them and make it hot, a’most burning over the lire, then pour the fat away and rub well with kitchen paper. Steamed souffles are turned out of the tin they are cooked in, and served with a sauce poured round them. Baked souffles are served in the tins, which are slipped into a hot metal or silver case, or a napkin is folded round them. Plain omelets are quickly made, and quickly spoiled. Some practice is required to a make a plain omelet to perfection, as the art consists in folding the omelet just at the right moment, before the eggs used in them are too much set. The omelet should not be firm throughout, like the pancake, but should be moist and succulent in the middle. A very sharp fire is essential, and the omelet should not take more than three minutes cooking. Orange-Flower Water Souffle. 2 ozs. of bulter. 2 ozs. of flour pint of milk. 8 eggs. Ingredients. 4 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. 2 dessertspoonfuls of orange- flower water. Method.—Well grease a souffle tin with butter. Fold a half sheet of kitchen paper in three. Brush over with melted butter, and fasten it round the top ot the tin, letting it come nearly three inches above it. Melt the butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk, and stir and cook well. Mix in the sugar, and beat in the yolks of seven eggs, one by one. Add the orange-flower water. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly. _ > . Put the mixture at once into the tin, cover it with buttered paper, and steam carefully for nearly an hour. When cooked it will be firm in the middle. Turn it quickly on to a hot dish, and serve at once, with wing sauce poured round it (see Sauces). This souffle may be baked, if preferred.SOUPPLfiS, OMELETS, AND Eltll'TEttS. 3D3 Vanilla and Almond Souffles. Make like orango-flower water souffle, using a little essence to flavour. Cheese Fondu. 1 oz. of butter. ^ oz. of flour, i pint of milk. 3 eggs. Ingredients. 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan cbeese. A little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Method.—Prepare tlie tin as for a steamed souffl6. Melt the butter in a small stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk, and stir and cook 'well. Add the seasoning, and beat in the yolks of two of the eggs. Then mix in the grated cheese. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly. Put the mixture at once into the tin, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. When cooked, it will be firm in the middle. Serve in tho tin, with a napkin folded round if, or slipped into a heated silver case. Lemon Souffle. l£ oz. of butter. 1$ oz. of potato flour. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. Ingredients. 4 eggs. 1 lemon. i pint of milk. Method.—Peel off the yellow part of the lemon rind, taking none of the pith, and let it soak in the milk for an hour. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add tho milk, strained from the peel, and stir and cook well. Add the sugar, and, off tho fire, yolks of three of the eggs.394 A COMPLETE COOKEItY GUIDE. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir them lightly in. Pour into a prepared mould and steam or hake for about half an hour (see remarks at beginniug of this Chapter). Coffee Souffle. 1 oz. of butter, I oz. of flour. i gill of milk. Ingredients. £ gill of strong coffee. 4 eggs. 1 oz. of castor sugar. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, and mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk, coffee, and sugar; stir and cook well. Then add, off the fire, the yolks of three eggs. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a firm froth and stir them lightly in. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin, and bake in a quick oven until well thrown up and firm in the centre. It will probably take twenty-five minutes. This mixture may be baked in little cases; it will fill twelve. Well oil and dry them before using. Chocolate Souffle. Make like coffee souffle, substituting chccclato for coffee. Use with it a few drops of vanilla essence. Apricot Souffle. 6 ozs. of castor sugar. 2 ozs. of butter. 3 ozs. of potato flour. Ingredients. i pint of milk or cream. 6 eggs. 10 ripe apricots. Method.—Peel and stone the apricots, and cut them in pieces, put them with the sugar into a stewpan, stir and cook to a marmalade. Melt the butter in a stewpan Mix in the flour smoothly.SOUFFLES, OMELETS, AND FRITTERS. 395 Add the milk or cream, and cook well. Then add the apricots, and, off the fire, the yolks of five eggs, beating them well in. Then stir in lightly the whites, beaten to a firm froth. Pour into the prepared tin and bako in a quick oven (see remarks at the beginning of this Chapter). Strawberry Souffle. Cook half a pound of strawberries to a jam, with six ounces of pounded sugar, and finish like apricot souffle. Apple Souffle. Make like apricot souffle, cooking with the apples a little thin lemon rind, which must afterwards be removed. Lobster Souffle (Entree). 2 whitings. 1 hen lobster, i pint of cream. J pint of milk. 3 eggs. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. Juice of half a lemon. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Method.—Pound the flesh of the whitings and the lobster coral together in a mortar, and rub them through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour and add the milk, stir and cook well. Cut up the lobster finely, and pound it in a mortar with the panada, whiting, eggs, lemon juice, pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Rub through a hair sieve. Beat the cream stiffly, mix it lightly in and pour into a prepared souffle tin. Cover with buttered paper and steam for half an hour (see General Directions). Serve with a supreme sauce poured over. The souffle tin should be decorated with lobster coral *nd truffle.39(3 A COMPLEX COOKEfiY GUIDE. Little Lobster Souffles (Entries, or in place of Game). Ingredients. 1 hpn lobster. 1^ gills of mayonnaise sance. •4 ] hit of aspic jelly (see Aspic). Method.—Fasten some bands of writing-paper, cut on tbo cross, round some little souffle cases. Seal them with sealing-wax. Cut up the lobster into small pieces. Put the mayonnaise sauce and aspic jelly into a basin and whisk it until it looks white and frothy. Mix in the lobster and fill the cases. Put in a refrigerator or cold place until set. Then re- move the papers and sprinkle with powdered lobster coral. Chicken Souffles (Entree). Ingredients. I lb. of the breast of a boiled chicken. 1 gill of white stock. 4 gill cream. 4 eggs. 1 oz. of butter. 1 oz. of flour. Pepper and salt. Method.—Scrape up and pound the chicken, then rub it through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly7. Add the stock and cook thoroughly, then add the cream; let it boil in the sauce. Then mix in the chicken, season well with pepper and salt, and add the yolks of three eggs. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. Partly fill little souffle cases, which have been well oiled and dried, and bake them in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Chicken Souffle (Entree). (A nother Way.) Ingredients. The best part of a cold boiled chicken. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. 1 gill of white stock 1 gill of cream. 6 eggs. 1 slice of cooked hamSOUFFLES, 051FLETS, AND FRITTERS. 897 Method.—Pass the chicken and ham twice through a mincing machine and pound them in a mortar. Melt the butter in a stowpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Then add the stock and cream, and well cook tlio sauce. Mix it with the chicken, and season well with lemon juice, pepper and salt, and rub through a sieve. Add the yolks of four of the eggs, and beat them well in. Then mix in lightly the whiles of the eggs, whipped to a firm froth. Pour into a prepared souffle tin and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. Servo with great expedition. Oyster Souffle (Entree). Ingredients. 3 small whitings. 14 oysters. 3 eggs. 1 oz. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. Method.—Take the flesh from the bones of the whitings and rub through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in ihe flour smoothly. Add the oyster liquor, which should bo strained through muslin. Stir and cook the mixture well. Take the beard and hard white part from the oystors, and cut each one in four pieces. Pound the panada and whiling meat with the eggs, pepper, salt, and cayenne. Then mix in tho oysters. Whip the cream stiffly and add lightly. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin, cover with buttered paper, and steam for about half an hour, or until the souffle is firm in the centre. Decorate with chopped truffle and powdered lobster coral, and pour round an oyster sauce (sec Sauces). 1 gill of oyster liquor. 1 gill of cream. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper, salt, and cayenne.A COMPLETE COOKE11Y GUIDE. 398 Little Oyster Souffles (Entree). Ingredients. 20 oysters. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. 4 eggs. ^ gill of cream. Pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Method.—Beard the oysters and cut each into three or four pieces. Strain the oyster liquor through muslin. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add a gill of oyster liquor and the cream, and cook well. Add the seasoning, and, off the fire, the yolks of three of the eggs and tho oysters. Beat the whites to a firm froth and mix them in Partly fill the cases with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 4 yolks and 6 whites of eggs. 1 sugar. 1 dessertspoonful of castor | A little flavouring essence. Method.—Beat the yolks in a basin with the sugar, and add the essence. Whip up tho whites as stiffly as possible, and mix them lightly with the yolks. Pour the mixture into a well-greased omelet pan, and put it into a brisk oven from seven to ten minutes, until of a pale brown colour. Turn it on to a hot dish. Fold it over and servo quickly. Make a smaller omelet souffle with half tho quantity, and cook for about five minutes. A Savoury Omelet Souffld May be made by omitting the flavouring essence, and substituting pepper and salt for the sugar. Tho omelet should then bo served with a rich gravy poured round it lightly. Omelet Souffle. Ingredients.SOUFFLES, OMELETS, AND FRITTERS. 399 A Small Savoury Omelet. Ingredients. 2 or 3 eggs. 1 oz. of butter. 1 dessertspoonful of finely Pepper and salt, chopped parsley. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin. Add to them the parsley, pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a small omelet pan. Beat the eggs very lightly, and pour them into the pan. Shake and stir the mixture vigorously until it begins to set. When some of the egg is set and the other still liquid, tilt the pan, and draw the egg quickly to one side of it. Leave it there to set for a few seconds. Then tilt the pan again, and fold the omelet, quickly drawing it to the other side of the pan. As soon as the outside is sot, turn it on to a hot dish and serve immediately. To make an omelet successfully, a very quick fire is necessary: an omelet should not take more than three minutes to cook. Larger omelets are made by using more eggs, and butter and parsley in proportion. Chopped cooked ham and kidney may be added to a savoury omelet, also mushrooms and shalots. The latter should be finely chopped, and fried in a little butter before they are used. A cheese omelet is made by adding grated Parmesan or other cheese to the mixture. Cheese Ramequins. Make a mixture as directed for cheese fondu. Partly fill little ramequin cases with it, and bako in a quick oven for a few minutes. Batter for Fritters (Kromesky). Ingredients. i lb. of flour. 1 tablespoonful of oiled butter or salad oil. 1 gill of tepid water. The white of one egg, beaten to a stiff froth.400 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Method.—Put tlie flour into a basin. Make a hole in the middle, and put in the oil. Stir smoothly, adding the water by degrees. Beat until quite smooth. Then add the beaten white, stirring it in lightly. The hatter should he the consistence of thick cream. Apple Fritters. Pare some nice apples. Cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and stamp out the core with a round cutter. Lay the rings in the hatter (see foregoing recipe), and cover them well with it. Lift them out with a skewer, and drop them into hot fat (see French Frying). When lightly browned on one side, turn them on to the other. Drain them on kitchen paper. Dish on a folded napkin, with castor sugar dusted over them. Orange Fritters. Peel some oranges, and remove all the white skin. Cut them in slices and remove the pips. Cover them with frying batter and fry in hot fat (see French Frying!. When lightly browned on one side, turn them on to the other. Do not put in too many at one time, as the hatter expands as it cooks. Drain well on kitchen paper and dredge with castor sugar. Beignet Souffles. Make some petit choux pastry (sec recipe), flavour it with any essence or some orange-flower water, or grated lemon rind. Drop it in teaspoonfuls into a pan of hot fat (see French Frying), fry for about ten minutes until the sides are firm, taking care they do not tako too dark a colour.SOUFFLES, OMELETS, AND FRITTERS. 401 To prevent this, draw the pan. to one side of the firo that they may cook gradually. Drain on kitchen paper. Dish on a folded napkin, and dredge castor sugar over. Cheese Aigrettes. 1 oz. of butter. 8 ozs. of fine flour. 2 ozs. of grated cheese. Ingredients. Parmesan 2 whole eggs and 1 yolk. Pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. £ pint of water. Method.—Put tlio butter and water in a saucepan on the firo to boil. Eub the flour through a sieve, shake it quickly into the water when boiling. Stir and cook thoroughly. Then add, off the fire, the eggs, boating them in one by one. Add the seasoning and the cheese. Drop teaspoonfuls of the mixture into hot fat (see French Frying), and fry a golden brown. They will take about ten minutes to cook. After they are dropped in the fat the pan must be rawn to the side of the fire, that they do not take a dark colour before they are cooked. Drain on kitchen paper and serve at once, piled high on a folded napkin. Oyster Omelet. Make according to directions given for savoury omelet, substituting oysters bearded and cut in three or four pieces for the parsley. Fritter Batters. All kinds of different fritter batters can bo made by the recipe given for “Batter for Fritters,” using a little brandy, maraschino, or other liqueurs or wines, in place of some of the water.402 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. HORS-D’CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES. Caviar sur Croutes. Ingredients. Small rounds of fried or toasted bread. Caviar. Method.—Warm the caviar by putting it in a saucer inside the oven. Spread the bread with it, using a silver knife, and sprinkle it with a little dried and powdered lobster coral. Dish in a circle on a dish paper. Dust over a little popper. Caviar Canapes. Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, using cold caviar and the fried bread when cold. Decorate with the yolk and white of a hard-boiled egg, rubbed through a wire sieve, and a little dried and powdered lobster coral. Canapes aux Anchois. Ingredients. Some anchovies. Some pieces of fried bread, about 2 inches in length and 1 in width. A hard-boiled egg rubbed through a wire sieve. Pepper. Method.—Wash and bone the anchovies, and lay a fillet on each piece of bread, when cool, and trim to its size.HORS-D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES. 403 Dust with pepper, and sprinkle over the egg, and, if liked, a little chopped parsley or lobster coral. Canapes aux Anchois. (Another Way.) Ingredients. Anchovy butter. Anchovies. Capers. Rounds of fried bread. Pepper. Lobster coral. Method.—Spread the bread, when cool, with the butter. Wash, dry, and bone the anchovies, and put a curled fillet in the centre of each round of bread, and in the centre of that a few capers, and a little powdered lobster coral round it. Dust lightly with pepper. Anchois sur Croutes. Proceed as in the first recipe for anchovy canapes, using the bread as soui as fried, and first heating the anchovies in the oven. They must not be cooked or they will go to a paste. Serve very hot. Canapes aux Homards. Ingredients. Some rounds of fried bread (see Butters). the size of a crown piece. Some capers. Some lobster and coral butter Method.—Spread the fried bread, when cool, with tho butter. Place a scallop of lobster on each and capers round it. Dust with a very little salt and some pepper.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 401 Lax & la Russe. Ingredients. Lax. Yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed Fried rounds of bread. through a sieve. Method.—Warm the lax in a little of its own oil. Place two or three slices on each piece of bread as soon as it is fried and drained. Tut a little heap of the yolk in the centre of each and serve very hot, with a dust of pepper on each. Canapes aux Crevettes. Ingredients. Some fried or toasted rounds of bread. Some picked shrimps. Some coral or shrimp butter. Chopped parsley. Lobster coral. Method.—Spread the bread, when cool, with the butter. Cover with the shrimps, and sprinkle with chopped parsley and coral. Croutes au Jambon. Ingredients. Some fried or toasted bread. Some cheese mixture prepared Some cooked ham. as in following recipe. Method.—Cut the bread in rounds the size of a crown piece. Cut slices of ham into rounds with the same cutter, and just heat it through at the mouth of the oven. Place a round of ham between two pieces of fried bread. Spread with the cheese mixture, and serve very hot. Tartines de Parmesan. Ingredients. Some very small croustards of fried bread. 1 gill of Bdchamel sauce. 2 ozs. of Parmesan cheese. Method.—Add the cheese pepper, cayenne and salt and The yolks of 2 eggs. Cayenne, pepper and salt. A few white bread-crumbs. to the sauce, with a little a few white bread-crumbs,llOtlS-D’CEtJVtlES AND SAVOtJItlES. 405 Then mix in the yolks of the eggs and stir over the fire until thick. Fill the cases, piling the mixture high in the middlo, and serve very hot. Caviar a la Russe. Ingredients. Hard-boiled eggs. I Caviar. Cherry tomatoes. Method.—Cut the eggs in halves and remove some of the yolk. Fill them with caviar, and sprinkle over them the yolk, rubbed through a wire sieve. Dish each one on a slice of tomato. CEufs Farcies a la Russe. Ingredients. Some hard-boiled eggs. Some endive. Boned and filleted anchovies. Some mayonnaise sauce. Tomatoes. Method.—Cut the eggs in halves lengthwise, and remove the yolks. Cut the round side, so that they will stand. Cut the fillets and endive small, and mix with a little mayonnaise sauce. Fill the half-eggs with the salad, and serve on slices of tomato. If preferred, dish them on cucumber, and dust with lobster coral. Moelle sur Croutes. Ingredients. Some squares of nice toast. Marrow. hot A little chopped parsley. Lemon juice. Cayenne and salt. Method.—Cut the marrow into pieces about the size of a filbert. 2 D406 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Parboil them for a minute in boiling water with a little salt in it. Drain immediately. Season with the parsley, lemon juice, cayenne, and salt. Placo on tlic toast, and serve very hot. Canapes aux Laitance. Ingredients. Some rounds of fried bread. Some bloater or mackerel roes. Some fish farce (see Force- A little cayenne, meats). Method.—Spread the rounds of bread with the fish farce. Lay a piece of roe on each, and dust with cayenne. Cook in a sharp oven. Decorate with powdered lobster coral and finely-chopped white of egg. Canapes a la Bernadotte. Ingredients. Small rounds of fried bread the size of a crown piece. Anchovy paste. Some quenelle meat (see Force- meats). Some buttered eggs (see reci[ e). Method.—Mix a little anchovy paste with quenelle meat, and coat one side of the rounds of bread with it. Put them in the oven until the quenelle meat is cooked. Then spread some nicely seasoned buttered eggs on the top of each. Amandes a la Diable. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of almonds. 3 gherkins (chopped). 1 dessertspoonful of chutney. 1 teaspoonful of Harvey’s sauce. 1 tcaspoonful of olive oil. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Fried rounds of bread the size of a crown piece.HORS-D'OEUVRES AND SAVOURIES. 407 Method.—Blanch and shred the almonds and fry them lightly in the oil. Then mix with all the other ingredients. Make it quite hot and heap on the fried bread. Foies de Volaille & la Diable. Ingredients. about the size of a crown piece. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Some chickens’ livers, i Some very thin slices of bacon. Some rounds of fried bread Method.—Season the liver with pepper and salt and cayenne. Divide them in two and roll a very thin piece of bacon round each. Place on the fried bread, and cook in a sharp oven. Bouchees a la Milanaise. Ingredients. Some stale bread. 1 tablespoonful of hot water. 4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 1 oz. of butter. A few bread-crumbs. Pepper and salt. A little cayenne. A few browned bread-crumbs. The yolk of an egg. Method.—Cut the bread in slices of one inch in thickness. Stamp into rounds with a circular pastry-cutter; scoop out the inside, making littlo nests of them. Fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Drain them on kitchen paper. Put them inside the oven to keep hot. Put the butter into a saucepan on the fire to boil. When boiling, stir in sufficient crumbs to make the mixture stiff. Beat in the yolk; add pepper, salt, and cayenne, and stir in the cheese. Pile the mixture on the cases ; sprinkle a few browned crumbs over them and be careful to serve quite hot. 2 d 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 408 Welsh Rarebit. Ingredients. Some slices of bread about half an inch in thickness. Some slices of cheese. A little butter. The yolk of an egg. Pepper and salt. A little cayenne. Method.—Toast tlie bread and keep it quite hot. Cut the cheese into very thin pieces. Put it into a saucepan with the butter, pepper, and salt to taste. Stir until it has melted, then mix in the yolk. Spread it on the toast, and brown before the fire. Toasted Cheese. Ingredients. Some slices of very hot toast. Some slices of cheese. Mustard, pepper, and salt. Method.—Toast the cheese nicely, and lay it quickly on the hot toast. Spread a little mustard thinly over it, with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Cheese Sandwiches. Ingredients. i lb. of grated cheese. The yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. 4 slices of buttered bread. 1 oz. of butter. Pepper and salt. A little cayenne. Method.—Beat the yolks well with the butter. Add the cheese and seasoning. Spread the mixture on the two pieces of buttered bread, and place others over. Cremes de Parmesan. Ingredients. 1 pint of milk. ^ oz. of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of cornflour. 1 tablespoonful of flour. The yolks of 3 eggs. 5 ozs. cf grated Parmesan cheese. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Method.—Put the milk in a saucepan on the fire to boil.HORS-D'OEUVRES AND SAVOURIES. 409 Mix the cornflour and flour very smoothly with a little cold milk. Stir into the milk when nearly boiling, and stir and cook for ten minutes. A double saucepan is best for this purpose. Then stir in the butter and yolks of eggs, but do not let the mixture boil again. Stir in the cheese, and season with the salt and pepper. Pour on to a wetted baking-tin to the depth of an inch in thickness, and let the mixture get firm. Then stamp into rounds or fingers, egg and bread-crumb them and fry in hot fat. (See French Frying.) Dish on a dish paper and sprinkle grated cheese over. Olives Farcies aux Anchois. Take some olive farcies (see Garnishes); serve them in little glass dishes, or in the following manner :— Spread some croutons of fried bread, the size of a crown piece, with Montpellier butter, put an olive in the ceutro of each, and border them round with capers.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 410 ICES. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING ICES. The making of ices has of late years become a com- paratively easy operation, as there are a number of improved machines in which they can he prepared in a very short time, and many of these can be purchased at a very low price. With somo of them a freezing mixture is used, with others ice and salt. Ice cannot, alone, produce a sufficient degree of cold for the purpose, but must have half its weight of rough salt mixed with it. If too much sugar is used in making the ices, they will not freeze to the right consistency; too little, on the other hand, will make them hard and rough, like snow. Sorbets are half-frozen water ices, generally lemon water flavoured with rum or spirit. These are served before the roasts. When ices are moulded as puddings, they should he only half frozen when they are put into their moulds: if frozen too dry, they will not take the shape. After putting them in moulds, well butter the joints (unless a cave is used), and pack in ice and salt until required. Any nice cream ices may be made into puddings. A mixture of fresh or preserved fruits may, if liked, be added to them before they are moulded. The moulds may bo decorated with fruits, and the pudding prettily coloured. Water ices set in fancy shapes and placed round the jmdding mako a pretty finish. Turn the ice pudding out liko a jelly or cream, the only difference being that it is dipped into cold, not hot, water. Place it on a silver or fancy dish with a pretty dessert paper under it. Vanilla Cream Ice. Ingredients. 1 whole egg. Yolks of 5. 1 pffit gf milk. 4 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Vanilla. £ pint of double cream.ICES. 411 Method.—Make tho eggs and milk into a custard (sec f Custard); add the sugar and vanilla. Beat the cream stiffly. When cold, j artly freoze tho oustard, and then mix in tho cream, and continue to freeze until tho right con- sistency. This mixture may ho used, if liked, for an ice pudding (see General Directions for Ico-making). Apricot Ice Cream. Ingredients. ^ lb. of apricot jam. | The juice of one lemon. 1 pint of cream. | Method.—Bub tho apricot jam through a hair sieve; add a few drops of lemon juice. Beat tho cream stiffly; mix with the apricot puree, and freeze. Coffee Cream Ice. Ingredients. Yolks ol 8 eggs. i lb. of mocha coffee, roasted 1 pint of cream. but not ground. 6 ozs. of castor sugar. Method.—Make the eggs and cream into a Custard (see Custard), add to it the cotfee berries, and lot it stand until they have well flavoured it. Then strain it, add the sugar, and when tho custard is quite cold, freeze. Maraschino Ice Cream. Ingredients. 1 pint of double cream. 4 ozs. of castor sugar. 4 glasses of maraschino. Method.—Beat the cream stiflly; add the castor sugar and maraschino, and freeze. Noyeau or any other liqueur may bo substituted for tho maraschino.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 412 Strawberry Ice Cream. Ingredients. | lb. of strawberries. 1 pint of double cream or a custard. 8 ozs. of castor sugar. Juice of half a lemon. A little cochineal. Method.—Take the stalks from tho strawberries, and rub them with the sugar sprinkled over them through a hair sieve. Add tho strawberry puree to the custard, when cool, with the lemon juice and a little cochineal, and freeze. Raspberry Cream Ice. Make like strawberry ice. Pine-apple Ice Cream. Ingredients. 1 lb. of pine-apple. 6 ozs. of c.ostor sugar. 1 pint of double cream. The juice of half a lemon. Method.—Cut up tho pine-apple. Pound it in a mortar, and rub through a hair sieve. Add tho sugar and lemon juice to tho cream, and freeze. Neapolitan Ice. For this a proper mould is necessary. Lay three ices, differently flavoured and coloured, in it in layers. Choose flavours that -will go well together. Freeze for an hour. Lemon Water Ice. Ingredients. % lb. of lump sugar. 1 pint of lemon juice. 1 pint of water. Whites of 2 eggs Thin rind of three lemons. Method.—Put the water and sugar into a stewpan on the fire to boil for ten minutes. Strain the lemon juice.ICES. 413 Tour the syrup of sugar and water on to the lemon peel, and let it get cold. Then add the lemon juice and freeze. 'When half frozon, add the whites of the eggs whipped stiffly. Strawberry Water Ice. Make a syrup of sugar and water, as directed in the preceding recipe. Hub sufficient strawberries through a sieve to make one pint of puree. Add a little lemon juice, and freeze. Raspberry Water Ice. Make like strawberry water ice. Cherry Water Ice. Ingredients. 1 lb. of Morello cherries. | 1 liqueur-glass of noycau. Method.—Stono and pound the cherrios, and rub them through a sieve. Add to them an equal quantity of syrup, made as for lemon water ice, and a glass of noyeau, and freeze. Apricot and Peach Ice. Make like strawberry water ice. Apple Water Ice Ingredients. 2 lbs. of apples. Hind of one. Juice of 2 lemons. Syrup of sugar and water. Method.—Wash and cut up the apples. Put them into an enamelled stewpan, with a little water and the lemon juice and rind, and stew until soft. Then rub through a hair sieve. Mix the puree with an equal quantity of syrup made as for lemon water ice, and freeze. If liked, a little noyeau may be added.411 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Orange Water Ice. Make lilco lemon water ice. Banana Water Ice. Make like strawberry water ice. Pine-apple Water Ice. Make like strawberry water ice, chopping and pounding the pine-apple before passing through a sieve. PERFUMED ICES. Orange Flower Ice. Ingredients. ^ pint of orange flower water. ^ pint of syrup made as for A few drops of essence of lemon water ice. almonds. Method.—Mix together and freeze. Rose Water Ice. Infuse one pound of rose petals in water for two hours, then strain, add an equal quantity of syrup made as fur lemon water ico. Colour with cochineal, and freeze. Any varieties of perfumed ices may bo mado in the samo way, adding different perfumes. SORBETS. Sorbet of Strawberries. Mako some strawberry water ice, and add a liqueur glass of noyeau. Half freeze and pile in fancy cups. Sorbet of Rum. Make a lemon water ice. Add to it sufficient rum to flavour. Half freeze. Serve piled high in fancy cups.ICES. 415 ICE PUDDINGS. Bomba aux Bananas. Lino tli© bomb mould with orango water ice. Fill the centre with banana cream ice. Freezo for four hours. To turn it out, dip it into cold water. Different varieties of this pudding maybe prepared, tho ices chosen being those which will go best together. Always put the water ice outside. Ice Pudding. Ingredients. 1 pint of milk. 4 eggs. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. 1 glassful of maraschino. i glassful of brandy. pint of whipped cream, i lb. of candied fruit. Method.—Make the eggs and milk into a custard. Add the sugar, strain it and let it boil. Then add the brandy and maraschino. Half freeze, and add the fruit and whipped cream. Finish freezing, put into a pudding-mould, and pack in ice until required. Tho fruits must be cut in pieces and soaked in a little brandy before they are used. Pine-apple Ice Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pine-apple. 1 pint of double cream. 3 ozs. of castor sugar. Juice of half a lemon. Method.—Peol tho pine-apple and cut into very small dice. Put it into a stewpan with the sugar and Half a gill of water. Simmer for half an hour. Then strain the syrup from tho pine-apple, mix it with the cream, and add the juice of half a lemon. Half freeze the mixture, and then mix in the pino- apple. Fill the pudding-mould, and placo in ice and salt till required.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 41G Iced Vanilla Pudding with Compote of Strawberries. Make a vanilla ice (see recipe) into a pudding (see Directions at commencement of Chapter). When turned out, serve with a compote of strawberries round it. Compote of Strawberries. Choose one pint of fine fresh strawberries. Take off the stalks and place them in a basin. Put one pound of lump sugar and one pint of water into a stewpan and bring to the boil. Pour it directly over the strawberries. Fasten some paper over tho basin to keep in tho steam. Let them stand until cold. Place them on ice for a little time before they are wanted for the pudding. Cherries, pine-apple, apricots, and any suitable fruit may be used instead of the strawberries. Iced Vanilla Souffles. Souffles can only bo made whon an ice cave is available for the purpose, and this should be prepared while tho souffle is in course of preparation. Ingredients. 1 pint of water. 1 pint of double cream. 2 lbs. of lump sugar. Vanilla flavouring. 10 yolks of eggs. Method.—Prepare a silver souffle-dish by fastening a piece of paper round, letting it come four inches above it.. Put the lump sugar and water in a saucepan, bring it to tho boil. Skim it and let it cool. Whip the cream and put it on a sieve. Then put the syrup into a basin with the yolks of eggs. °Beat over hot water till quite a thick batter. Then put the basin on ice; continue beating until it is cold.ices. 417 Flavour with vanilla, and mix in lightly the stiffly beaten cream. The ice cave should bo quite ready and the souffle case standing on ice. Put the mixture quickly into it. Place in the cavo, and lcavo it to freozo for two hours and a half. By this recipe all kinds of souffles may be made, different flavourings being used. Small Vanilla Souffles. Take some little souffle-cases and fasten round them some strips of paper about two inches in width. They should be cut on the cross and fastened with sealing-wax. Fill them with the same mixture as in preceding recipe, and put them in a cave for two hours. Pine-apple Mousse. Ingredients. 10 yolks of eggs. 6 whites. it gill of pine-apple purde, made by pounding the pine - apple and rubbing through a sieve. 1 pint of whipped cream. 2 ozs. of castor sugar. O Method.—Put the eggs, sugar, and pine-apple into a basin, and beat over hot water until like a batter, then put the basin on ice and whip till cold. Mix in the cream. Put in a mould and place in a cave or pack in ice for three hours. Turn out like an ice pudding. By this recipe any mousse maybe prepared,using other fi uits for the pine-apple.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 418 SUGAR-BOILING, NOUGAT, MERINGUES, ETC. Sugar-Boiling, etc. To bo really skilful in this, some study is necessary under a confectioner; still, with careful attention and a little practice, some knowledge may bo obtained by attending to the following directions. To Clarify Sugar. Break the sugar into lumps, and allow one pint of water to every two pounds of sugar, and two whites of eggs to every ten pounds of sugar. Beat the eggs slightly as for jelly clearing, add them to the water, mix them thoroughly together and pour them on to the sugar; let it dissolve over a gentle heat, then bring it to the boil, and instantly throw in a little cold water. Bring to the boil again, and again throw in cold water. Do this three times, and then boil it again. Skim it now thoroughly, dropping in, if necessary, a little cold water now and again, then strain through a hair sieve. First Degree. The Small Thread. Let tho sugar boil a few minutes, then dip the thumb and finger quickly into cold water and then with them touch the syrup on the skimmer. Press them together, and if on pulling them apart a small thread is formed which will break at a slight distance, the sugar has reached its first degree. The Large Thread. Boil a little longer, then test as before, and if a ratherSUGAR-BOILING, XOtJGAT, MERINGUES, ETC. 419 longer thread will form without breaking, the second degree is reached. Small and Large Pearl. The small pearl is when the thread will not break when the thumb and finger are some distance apart, and the large pearl when they can be extended as far as possible without tho thread breaking. Souffle or Blow. Continue boiling, dip in the skimmer, and when on blowing through the holes little bubbles appear on the other side, tho sugar has reached this degree. The Feather. Again boil the sugar, dip in the skimmer, give it a strong shake; if the sugar flies off like small feathers, the feather is reached. The Crack. Continue boiling, drop a little of tho sugar into very cold water. If this degree is reached, it will instantly harden, and on being bitten will break clean between the teeth. A little lemon juice must now be added to prevent graining. Caramel. "When, after a little longer boiling, the sugar takes a light golden-brown colour, the caramel is reached. Great care must be taken that at this btage the sugar is not spoiled, as it will quickly do so. When it is wanted for sugar-spinning, put the pan to stand in cold water. To make Barley Sugar. Boil some sugar to the crack, and then add some lemon juice; continue boiling until caramel is reached, add somo essence of lemon, and pour on to an oiled marblo slab ol- dish. Cut into strips, and when they are nearly cold, twist them.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE* 420 Notk.—When sugar is boiled to the crack, a little lemon juice is added to prevent it graining, that is, becoming sugar again; be careful not to use too much. Nougat. Ingredients. 10 ozs. of almonds. | ^ lb. of pounded sugar. Method.—Blanch and dry the almonds, and then shred them and put them inside the oven until of a golden colour. Dissolve the sugar, until it is a light golden colour, and add the almonds quite hot. Mix them well in, and pour at once on to an oiled slab or dish. Press the mixture out flat, using an oiled lemon for the purpose, and then line the mould or moulds you intend to use. These should previously have been well oiled, and they should be lined as quickly as possible. Small shapes made in plain darioles make a pretty sweet filled with whipped cream. Chantilly Basket. Ingredients. Some macaroons or ratafias and caramel. Method.—Boil some sugar to caramel, and then line nice shaped moulds throughout with the biscuits, dipping the sides in the caramel to make them adhere together. When cold, remove from the mould and serve with whipped cream, flavoured and sweetened, in it. This must be put in just before serving, or the basket will be spoiled. Sliced strawberries or other suitable fruit in the cream are a great addition. Toffee. Ingredients. 5 ozs. of butter. | 1 lb. of brown sugar. Method.—Melt the butter in a sugar-boiler or other suitable pan. Stir in the sugar, and keep stirring until it is ready, which will probably bo in a little over ten minutes.SUGAR-BOILING, NOUGAT, MERINGUES, ETC. 421 To fell when it is ready, drop a little of the toffeo into cold water, if when bitten it breaks clean between the teeth it is ready. Pour it then without any delay on to buttered dishes. Meringues. Ingredients. The whites of 4 eggs. 8 ozs. of castor sugar. Flavouring essence. Method.—Beat the whites to a very firm froth. Sift the sugar, and mix lightly and quickly with them. Add any flavouring essence. This should be put into it with the sugar. Cover meringue boards with stout paper, and oil it. Put tho meringue mixture on it with a spoon, or forcing bag and pipe, in the shape of half an egg. Dust them with sifted sugar. With a small bellows blow off the waste sugar, and bake the meringues in a very moderately heated oven for two or three hours. Do not let them take more than a pale fawn colour. Then detach the meringues from the paper. With a spoon scoop out all the soft inside, and put them into the oven for a few minutes to dry the insides. They must be filled only just before serving, or they will become soft. The meringues may be filled with preserve or beaten cream sweetened and flavoured, and must be joined two together with white of egg, to take the shape of eggs. Italian Meringues. Ingredients. 4 eggs. I 3 ozs. of almonds. 8 ozs. of castor sugar. | Some orange flowers. Method.—Blanch tho almonds and cut them into strips. Make tho paste as in foregoing recipe, and mix tho almonds and orange flowers with it. Bake in square cases in a gentlo oven.A COMPLETE COOKEItY GUIDE. 422 FRUIT COMPOTES AND SALADS. Compote of Apricots. Ingredients. 10 ripe apricots. ^ lb. of lump sugar. $ pint of water. Method.—Peel tlie apricots, divide them iu two, talco out the stones and remove the kernels and blanch them. Put the sugar and water into a BUgar-boiler on the fire. When it boils, put in the apricots and kernels. Simmer for two minutes. Then put the apricots on a glass dish. Reduce the syrup to the small thread (see Sugar- Boiling), aud pour over. Compotes of Peaches and Nectarines. Make liko compote of apricots. Strawberry Compote. Take the stalks from one pint of ripe strawberries. Put three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar and three quarters of a pint of water on the fire to boil. Boil to the small thread. Put in the strawberries, boil gently for a few minutes, and then put on a glass dish. Compote of Apples. Peel some nice small apples and stamp out the cores. Boil equal quantities of sugar and water together. Put in the apples, and simmer until tender. Colour with cochineal. Put on a glass dish. Eeduce the syrup to the small thread (see Sugar* Boiling), and pour over them.fruit compotes and salads. 423 Orange Salad. Peel some nice juicy oranges; cut them in slices anil remove the pips. Pile them on a glass dish, sprinkling between them a little freshly grated cocoa-nut. Pour over a glass of brandy, and then cover with syrup at the small thread (see Sugar-Boiling). Maraschino or otner liqueur may bo substituted for brandy. Salad of Bananas and Oranges. Prepare oranges as in preceding recipe, placing between them some slices of banana ; leave out the cocoa-nut. Pine-apple Salad. Place slices of ripe pine-apple in a glass dish. Pour ovor a glass of brandy, and cover with syrup. Strawberry Salad. Place ripo strawberries freed from their stalks in a dish. Pour over them a little brandy or liqueur, and cover with syrup. With these recipes as a guide, an intelligent cook will l»e able to prepare atiy Fruit Compotes and Salads, as there is little difference in their mode of preparation. 2t 2a complete cookery guide. 421 PURGES. Green Pea Puree. Boil good green peas in light stock with two or throe young onions and a sprig of mint. When cooked, drain and nib through a tammy cloth. Mix with a very little thick white sauce. Potato Pur^e. Rub well-cooked floury potatoes through a sieve, and mix them with a little butter and thick cream until of thj right consistency. Season with pepper and salt. Tomato Puree. Proceed as for tomato sauce, reducing it when made, until of the right consistency. Haricot Puree. Rub well-cooked haricot beans through a sieve, and add a little good cream. Season with pepper and salt. Chestnut Pur£e. Cook the chestnuts as directed for chestnut forcemeat. Mix them with white or brown sauce, according to the purpose for which they are required, and rub through a tammy cloth. Pur£e of Carrots. Cook the red part of carrots in stock until tender. Rub through a hair sieve, and mix with a very little Espaniol sauce.42") TORIES. Mushrooms Puree. Prepare the mushrooms according to tho recipo for stewed mushrooms. Then pound, and rub through a sieve. Reduce, if necessary, to the right consistency, adding a little glaze. Lentil Puree. Coolc the lentils according to tho directions given in tho Chapter on Vegetables. ltub them through a hair sieve, and dilute to tho required consistency with Espaniol sauce. Asparagus Pur£e. Rub tho green ends of cooked asparagus through a sieve, and mix with some stiff Allemande sauce. Onion Puree. Blanch or cook some Spanish onions (see Chapter on Vegetables). Well drain and rub through a sieve. Mix with a little Bechamel sauoo and thick cream. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Chicken Pur£e. Cook a chicken or chickens in stock. When tendev, remove the flesh from tho bones, chop and pound it, moistening it when pounding with veloutd sauce. Then rub through a tammy cloth. Game Purges. Make according to preceding recipe, using Espaniol sauce and, with haro, a little port wino.426 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. SUMMER DRINKS AND OTHER BEVERAGES. Raspberry Vinegar. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of raspberries. 3 pints of vinegar. 4 lbs. of lump sugar. Method.—Put the raspberries, slightly mashed, into a glass jar with the vinegar. Cover and put in a cool place for a week. Then Btrain through a hair sieve; the juice will drop for some hours. Put into a double saucepan, add the sugar, and boil gently for half an hour. Syllabub. Ingredients. 1 pint of cider. Susrar to taste, and, if liked, a 1 wineglass of brandy. little grated nutmeg. Milk. Method.—rut the cider, brandy, and sugar into a bowl, and milk into it a quart of milk, or pour in warm milk from a teapot held high over it. Another Syllabub. Ingredients. 1 pint of sherry or light 1 quart of milk. French wine. Sugar to taste. Method.—Put the wine and sugar into a bowl, and milk in a quart of milk, or pour warm milk from a teapot held high over it. If liked, clotted cream may bo put on tho top.RUMMER DRINKS AND OTHER BEVERAGES. 427 A Refreshing Drink. Ingredients. llcacupful of cranberrios. 2 quarts and 1 quarter-pint of water. 2 wineglasses of sherry. Sugar. Oatmeal. The thin rind of a lemon. Method.—Put two quarts of water into a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of good fresh oatmeal and the lemon rind. Boil for ten minutes. Meantime mash the cranberries and tho quarter-pint of water together; add the oatmeal and water with tho sherry and sugar. Boil for twenty minutes longer, then strain and cover until cold. Blasphemes can be used in the same way. Claret Cup. Ingredients. 1 bottle of claret. if liked, a thin rind of cu 1 or 2 bottles of soda-water. cumber. 1 wineglass of brandy. 2 or 3 lumps of ice. A little thin lemon rind and, Method.—Put all the ingredients together into a claret cup. Champagne Cup. Make like claret cup, using champagne instead of claret. Oatmeal Water. Allow for every quart of water one tablespoonful of good fresh oatmeal. Boil it for twenty minutes and sweeten to taste—or pour boiling water over tho oatmeal and use it unboiled. Ice Cream Drinks. Put a lump of ice, three tablespoonfuls of good cream, and one dessertspoonful of any fruit syrup, into a large glass and fill with soda-water.428 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Ginger Beer. Ingredients. 3 lbs. of lump sugar. 2 ozs. of bruised ginger. IT ozs. of cream of tartar. The rind and juice of 3 lemons. 3 gallons of boiling water. 2 ozs. of good German yeast. Method.—Peel the yellow parts of the lemons off, then strain their juice and put the peel and juice into a large earthenware pan with the bruised ginger, cream of tartar, and loaf sugar. Pour over these ingredients the water, boiling. Let it stand until only warm and then add the yeast (if German is usod, dissolve it smoothly in a little water). Stir the contents of the pan well and let them remain near the fire all night, covering the pan with a cloth. The next day skim off the yeast and pour the liquor carefully through a fine cloth into another vessel, leaving the sediment. Then bottle immediately, and tie the corks down well, and in three days (or sooner if the weather is very hot) it will be ready for use. Roman Punch. Ingredients. pints of syrup made as for lemon water ice. 2 glasses of champagne. £ a gill of rum. The juice of 2 oranges or lemons. The whites of 2 eggs. Method.—Put the syrup and strained lemon juice into a freezer, and half freeze. Then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Continue to freeze, and, when required, add the cham- pagne and rum. Serve in small glasses. Lemonade and Orangeade. See recipes in Chapter on Sick-room Cookery. Iced Coffee. Make as directed for cafe au lait, and slightly freeze when cold.( 429 ) BUTTERS. Mattre-d’Hotel Butter. 4 ozs. of butter. 1 tablespoonful ot chopped i arsley. Ingredients. The strained juice of half finely lemon. Pepper and salt. Method.—Blond all the ingredients well together. a Montpellier Butter. Ingredients. Equal quantities of tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley, making i lb. alto- gether. Yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs. 2 anchovies. 3 dessertspoonfuls of capers. 3 gherkins. 1 lb. of butter. 1 tablespoon ful of tarragon vinegar. 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Pepper and salt. Method.—Pound the vegetables, yolks and anchovies, thoroughly. Then mix in the butter, and add gradually the oil and the vinegar and salt and pepper. Colour it with some spinach green, and rub through a tammy. Keep in a cold place, on ice if possible. Ravigote Butter. Use the herbs as directed in the preceding recipe, leaving out the capers, anchovies and gherkins. Lobster Coral Butter. Pound the lobster coral with double its weight of butter. Season with a little pepper and cayenne, and rub through a hair sieve.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 430 Spawn Butter. Bub the live spawn through a hair sieve with an equal quantity of butter. Note.—This butter must he cooked in tho mixture or sauce to which it is added, to make it rod. Spawn Butter in Imitation of Coral Butter. Boil some live spawn a bright red colour, drain, and dry in a cloth. Pound in a mortar with an equal quantity of butter. Season with a little pepper and salt, and rub through a hair sieve. Imitation Lobster Butter. Pound some cooked and shelled shrimps in a mortar with double their weight in butter and one or two anchovies. Colour with yellow colouring and cochineal until the exact shade of lobster is obtained. Then rub through a hair sieve. Note.—Although artificial colouring is never to be recommended when it can be dispensed with, this recipo will be found very useful when neither spawn nor coral are to be obtained, for colouring of lobster, shrimp, or prawn mixtures and sauces. Shrimp, Prawn, or Cray-fish Butter. Pound either of these with double their weight of butter and some lobster coral and pepper, and rub through a hair sieve. Note.—If neither lobster nor spawn are procurable, colour artificially as directed in imitation lobster butter. Anchovy Butter. Wash and fillet some anchovies. Dry them in a cloth, and pound thorn in a mortar withBUTTERS. 431 double their weight of buttor and a little popper and cayenne. Then rub through a hair sieve. Golden Butter. Pound six hard-boiled yolks of eggs with half a pound of butter and the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt, and rub through a hair sieve. Tarragon Butter. Make like maitre-d’hotel, using tarragon instead of parsley.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 432 GARNISHES. Asparagus Peas. Scrape tlie asparagus lightly, and cut tlxo green part into pieces the size of peas or a littlo larger. Boil until tender, then drain well and toss over tho firo in a sauto-pan with a littlo Luttor, pepper and salt. Green Peas, Brussels Sprouts. See Directions in Chapter on Vegetables. Mushrooms. Prepare somo button mushrooms for cooking, and saute in butter until tender. Olives. Pemovo the stono by paring tho olivo round it with a small, sharp knife. This is called turning, and should be so skilfully done that when tho stono is taken away the olivo can bo replaced in shape. Olives which are ver}7 salt should be allowed to soak in cold water before they are used There are two kinds of olivos, Fronch and Spanish. French aro small and of a dark green colour. Olives Farcies. Those aro stoned olivos, in the centre of which is placed small pieces of fillets of anchovies. These olivos can bo bought in bottles ready for use. Potato Olives. Theso aro potatoes cut into small cono-liko shapes and sautt'od in buttor. (Sec Sauteed Potatoes.)433 GARNISHES. Gherkins. Cut the gherkins into small round or oval shapes. Beetroot. Cook the beetroot according to directions given in the Chapter on Vegetables, then slice it, and stamp it into round or fancy shapes with, cutters. Cauliflowers. Divide the flower into small bunches, and boil them gently until cooked, taking caro no scum settles on them. Sorrel. Cook according to Directions given in Chapter on Vegetables, and mix with still’ Allemande sauce. Endive. Cook according to Directions given in Chapter on Vegetables. Spinach. Cook according to Directions given in Chapter on Vegetables. Tomatoes. See Tomatoes Farcies. Cherry tomatoes should be carefully baked in the oven. Carrots and Turnips. These are cut into round or fancy shapes and cooked till tender in light stock. Glazed Carrots and Turnips. Slice them and cut them into round or fancy shapes, and cook in strong stock, which should bo reduced after- wards and used to glaze the vegetables.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 434 Button Onions. Those must be blanched, and then cooked in strong stock, which should afterwards be reduced to glaze them. "When they are wanted for a white garnish, merely blanch them and cook them in white stock. Macaroni. Cook according to directions given for macaroni cheese, using cheese with it or not, according to the purpose for which it is required. French Beans. Cut them into small diamond shapes, and cook according to Directions given in Chapter on Vegetables. Macedoine. Cut carrots and turnips into small pieces with a round cutter the size of a small funnel; they should not be more than half an inoh in length, and the red part only of the carrot should be used. Cook them separately ; the turnip will take from five to ten minutes, and the carrots from fifteen to twenty minutes. Mix them with French beans and green peas prepared as for garnish. Macedoine a la Russe. Mix the macedoino when prepared with a little thick mayonnaise sauce. T his should be done just before using. Fianciere Ragout. Mix equal quantities of preparod mushrooms, small quenelles, scallops of sweetbread, cock’s-combs and truffles in enough fianciere sauce to moisten nicely.435 GARNISHES. Croutons of Bread. Cut tho bread into crescents, kites, lieart-shapes, squares, Ac., according to the purpose required, and fry them in clarified butter until a golden colour. Drain them on kitchen paper. Croutons of Bread for Soup. Cut stale bread into small dice, and fry a golden brown in clarified butter. Fried Parsley. Wash and dry the parsley and pick off the stalks. Fry it in hot fat (see French Frying) until crisp, then remove it instantly. Drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle with a little salt. Care should bo taken not to use parsley that has been frosted, as it will blacken in frying. Cucumber. This is prepared in various ways. When used for a hot entree, slightly peel the cucumber, not removing all the green skin. Cut it into pieces about one inch in length and threo quarters of an incli in width, and cook until tender in water with a little salt and butter in it. For a cold garnish, cut the pieces double tho length but the same width. Another way is to notch the cucumber down tho sides with a knife. It may then be thinly sliced and curled. The fed part of 2 large car- rots. 2 turnips. Julienne Garnish. Ingredients. The white of half a head of celery. 6 leeks. Cut them into shreds and cook separately until tender, taking care not to over-cook them.436 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Shredded lettuce may bo cooked and added to the other vegetables when possible. When cooked, drain them well. They are sometimes tossed in a little warm butter. Brunoise Garnish. Take tho vegetables mentioned in foregoing recipe and cut into small dice. Cook separately until tender, and finish as for julienne. Cock’s-Combs. Put tho combs into cold water and cook until the skin begins to rise, then immediately pour in some cold water, bike out the combs and skin them. If they are allowed to cook after the skins rise they will not whiten. Trim them, and put them in water with a little salt in it for eight hours. Then put them in fresh cold water, changing it frequently until they are quite white. Put them in a stewpan, cover with water, add a little butter, lemon juice, pepper and salt, and boil gently until tender. Quenelles. Use for this veal or chicken quenelle meat, shaping it in a teaspoon. Poach according to the directions given under the heading Quenelle Meat. Crayfish. Wash them well and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with salt in it, so that life may be destroyed instantly, and boil for fifteen minutes. Hub them over with a little sweet oil. T ruffles. Simmer them in rich stock until tonder. Wine may bo added to the stock, il liked. The trufiles may be cut in round or olivo shapes.437 GARNISHES. Truffles in Champagne. Simmer them in champagne until tender. They may he cut in round, olivo, or other shapes. Use the trimmings for gravies and sauces. Eggs for Garnish. Boil them steadily for ten minutes, then rub the yolks through a wire sieve, and chop the white finch’. Sometimes the whole egg is rubbed through a sieve for garnishing canapes. Garnish of Eggs for Boiled or Roast Fowls, etc. Boil some eggs hard. Cut them in half and remove the yolks. Cut the round end of each so that they will stand, and fill the eggs alternately with green peas, the cooked liver of the fowls, and the yolks rubbed through a wire sieve. Egg Garnishes for Salads. Cut hard-boiled eggs in slices or quarters. Chervil. The leaves of chervil are very delicate, and make an effective and quick finish for a chaud-froid of white meat. They may also be chopped like parsley, or shredded and blanched for soups. Egg Balls. Ingredients. 6 hard-boiled yolks of eggs. 2 raw yolk?. Pepper and salt. Method.—Pound the yolks in a mortar with a little pepper and salt, moiston with the raw yolks. Slightly flour the hands to mako tho mixture into balls the size of marbles. Drop them into boiling water, and poach gently for two minutes. 2 F438 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Lobster Coral. Wash and dry it and rub through a wire sieve, or dry it in a slow oven and pound it. Lobster Spawn. Tut live spawn into warm water and simmer it to get rid of any salt. Drain it, and then dry it in a slow oven, then pound in a mortar. When coral cannot he procured, this makes an excellent substitute. Chopped Parsley. Thoroughly wash the parsley and pick off tho stalks. Scald it in boiling -water to remove the acrid flavour and wring it in a cloth. Then chop it very finely. Again put it in a cloth and wring it. To make an effective garnish, the parsley should be very small and quite dry. Coarsely chopped wet parsley is more of a disfigurement than a decoration. Tarragon. This may be blanched, shredded, or chopped, according to tho purpose for which it is required. Potato Chips, Croquets, Ribbons, etc. See Chapter on Yegelablcs. Water Cress (for Garnish). Well wash and dry the water cress, and 6easpn with a little oil, and pepper and salt.GARNISHES. 439 Sweetbreads. Braise the sweetbreads (see Chapter on Entrees); cut into scollops and glaze. Rice cooked for Curry. See Chapter on Yegetables. Savoury Custard. Ingredients. 2 whole eggs. 1 gill of clear soup. 2 yolks. Pepper and salt. Method.— Beat the eggs and soup together, and season with pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper, and steam carefully (see Directions for Custards in Chapter on Puddings). Let it cool before turning it out Then cut into slices, and stamp heso into fancy shapes or cut into diamonds or dice. GARNISHES FOR SWEET DISHES. Blanched Almonds. Put the almonds in water, bring to the boil. Drain, rub off the skins, throw them into cold water to keep them white, and then dry them. Pistachio Kernels. Put them into cold water, bring to the boil. Drain, rub off the skins and dry in a cloth. They are used shredded or chopped. Note.—Putting them into cold water does not spoil the colour as some people imagine. Coloured Almonds. Chop or shred the almonds. Pour a little cochineal on a plate and roll the almonds jn it. 2 f 2440 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Let them dry "before using. Almonds may bo coloured brown in the oven. Coloured Sugars. Tut some castor sugar on a plate, and drop on a drop of cochineal. Eub with the fingers until coloured. If too light, use more cochineal. Loaf sugar may be coarsoly pounded and coloured like almonds. All coloured sugars are made in the same way. Whipped Jelly. "When the jelly is beginning to set, whip it until it is like snow. Whipped White of Egg. Divide the yolks perfectly from the whites, which should be placed in a scrupulously clean bowl, and beat with a whisk or two forks until very stiff. As many as four whites may be whipped on a plate with a knife. • Unless the egg is set in a slow oven or in boiling milk, it will sink. Whipped Cream. Whip double cream until it will stand on the end of a whisk without falling off. Drain on a hair sieve—this is best done the day beforo it is wanted. If singlo cream only is available, whip it, remove the froth as it rises and drain it on a sieve. To Glaze Pastry. Brush it with beaten white of egg or water, and dredge with castor sugar. If the oven is very quick, do this when the paste is half baked.441 GARNISHES. Pastry Icing. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff frofh. Mix in quickly and lightly some castor sugar, allowing one ounce for every white. Spread over the pastry and set in a cool oven. Royal Icing. Put tlie whites of five eggs into a basin. Sift some icing sugar, two pounds or more, through a sieve, and strain the juice of two lemons. Add the icing sugar to the eggs, working all well to- gether until it is a smooth paste that will not run, work in also the lemon juice. Spread the icing evenly over the cake, dipping tho knife occasionally in cold water, and dry in a slow oven or near the fire. A cake should be iced one day and decorated the next. For the decoration a paper funnel or icing forcer must be used, and tho decorations dried after they are put on. Glac£ Icing. Fut one pound of loaf sugar in a sugar-boiler or stew- pan ; just cover with water, and boil to tho thread. Then let it cool, and work with a wooden spoon until it becomes thick and white. Warm it as required, addirg a little orango flower water, noyeau, or other flavouring. This glace may be coloured, if wished. Chocolate Glace. Put half a pound of loaf sugar and half a pound of chocolate into a sugar-boiler or stewpan ; just cover with water and proceed as directed in preceding recipe. Coffee Icing. Put half a pound of loaf sugar into a stewpan with oneA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 442 gill of strong coffee and enough water to cover it, and proceed as for glace icing. Chocolate Icing. Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, and then beat well with it a quarter of a pound of icing sugar. Mix in very gradually half a gill of chocolate. Coffee icing may be made also in this manner. Almond Icing (for Cakes). Mix two pounds of ground almonds and two pounds of sifted sugar with from five to seven raw whites of eggs, slightly beaten. Do not make the icing too moist.( 443 ) FORCEMEATS. Quenelle Meat. 1 lb. of veal or chicken. 1 oz. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. 1 gill of water. Ingredients. A few drops of lemon juice. 2 eggs. Seasoning. Method.—Scrape the veal finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour, then add the water and cook well. Put this panada into a mortar with the eggs, veal, lemon juice and seasoning, and pound thoroughly. Then lub through a wire sieve. If used as quenelles, shape the mixture somewhat like eggs with a knife and two dessertspoons, dipped in hot water. To do this, fill one hot spoon with tho mixture, smooth the top with the knife, and with the other hot, wet spoon, scoop the mixturo gently out from the side of tho spoon. Lay the quenelles, when formed, on a greased saute- pan. Pour in gently sufficient boiling wate.1 to cover them, and poach gently for ten minutes. If preferred, the mixture may be cooked in greased quenelle shells. Small quenelles made in teaspoons will only take five minutes to poach. Panada for Forcemeat. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of butter. I ^ pint of Lot water. 4 ozs. of flour. Method.—Melt tho butter. Mix in the flour.A COMPLETE COOKEEY CtJlbE. 444 Add the water, stir and cook thoroughly until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan clean. Rabbit Forcemeat. Prepare according to the directions for quenellc-mcat. Pheasant, Partridge, or any Game Forcemeat May he prepared according to directions given for quenelle meat, using a good stock mado from the bones and trimmings of the birds instead of water. Veal Forcemeat. Ingredients. 3 tablcspoonfuls of bread- crumbs. 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped suet. 1 dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful of dried and powdered thymo and mar- joram. 1 egg. Pepper and s.dt. Method.—Mix all the ingredients together with the egg well beaten. A little grated lemon rind and a little juice will improve the flavour. Sage and Onion Stuffing. For Pork, Geese, Ducks, &c. Ingredients. 4 onions. 1 oz. of butter. i lb. of bread-crumbs. Pepper and salt. 9 sage leaves. Method.—Blanch the onions by putting them into cold water, and bringing it to the boil. Boil for five minutes, and then throw the water away. Einse the onions and put them into another saucepan of water, and boil for about one hour, until they are quite tender. Five minutes before taking them up, put in the sago leaves.V OKCEMEATS. 445 Drain the onions and sage leavos, and chop them finely, then mix them with the bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Whiting Quenelle Meat (Fish Farce). Ingredients. 1 lb. of whiting weighed with- out the boues. Some panada for forcemeat, see recipe, and take the quantity mentioned. 2 eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Make like veal and chicken quenelle. Note.—Any fish quenollo meat is made in the same manner. It is sometimes coloured red with lobster coral or spawn. Forcemeat Balls for Hare, Mock Turtle Soup, etc. Make some veal forcemeat into small round balls. Dip them in beaten egg and bake them. 'When used for hare, chop the liver of the hare and mix with the forcemeat. Imitation Foie Gras. Ingredients. •J lb. of calf’s liver. ^ lb. of bacon. A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. A sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. A bay leaf. Pepper and salt. Method.—Slice the liver, bacon and vegetables. Put them in a frying-pan and cook (turning frequently) until the liver is tender. Be careful the liver does not fry brown. Put the whole contents of the frying-pan into a mortar and pound well. Then rub through a Lair sieve. Ordinary Sausages. Ingredients. Equal quantities of lean and chopped sage. fat pork, and to every pound Pepper and a little salt. 1 dessertspoonful of finely Method.—Chop the meat coarsely, and season it with sage, pepper and salt.A COMPLETE COOKEltY GUIDE. 44(3 Wash tho sausage skins and fasten them to the machine. Put the meat into tho machine, and grind it into tho skins, giving the skin a twist every now and again to make tho division between the sausages. An equal weight of soaked bread is very commonly used in making the sausages. Good Sausages. Ingredients. 1 lb. of veal. I 4 lb. of fat pork. 4 lb. of lean pork. | Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Make the sausages as directed in preceding recipe. Chestnut Forcemeat. Ingredients. 1 lb. of chestnuts. A little grated lemon peel. 3 ozs. of bacon fat. The yolks of 3 eggs. 2 ozs. of bread-crumbs. Method.—Take the outside skin off the chestnuts. Then put them into boiling water and boil for thrco minutes. Take off the inner skins, and stew them until they are tender, in good stock. Drain them and let them cool, and then pound them in a mortar with the bacon, crumbs, Ac. Tho forcemeat is then ready for use.( 147 ) POTTING MEATS AND FISH. All meats may be potted in the same manner. Cook the meat until quite tender, and then scrape it finely and rub it through a wire sieve. Pound it in a inortar with about four ounces of clarified butter to every pound of meat, and season it well to taste. Put it into jars and pour clarified butter over. Keep it in a cool place. Some meats may be potted together, such as chicken and ham, chicken and tongue, veal and ham, &c. Any bones may be made into stock in the usual way. This stock should afterwards be reduced to a half glaze which may bo used in the place of butter. The quantity of butter and glaze must be determined according to the meat used. Dry potted meat is not agreeable, but on the other hand it must not be too moist. Sometimes a little spice is used, but it is safer to leave it out, as many people object to it. If not for immediate use, use butter only —no half glaze—or the fat of ham, if ham is being potted. Anchovies must be washed, filleted, and dried, well pounded in a mortar with a little claiified butter, and rubbed through a sieve. Season nicely with pepper, and pack closely in pots and cover with clarified butter. Bloaters, cooked dried haddocks, and any fish suitable for potting, are all prepared in the same manner.A COMPLETE COOEEliY GUIDE. 4 IS VARIOUS RECIPES FOR CURING HAMS, SPICING BEEF, ETC. Curing Hams. Rub the hams with common salt, and leave them for three days to drain. Well mix four ounces of saltpetre, one pound of coarso sugar, and one pound of salt. Lay the hams with the rind downwards in the plckling- pan, and rub in the mixture thoroughly. Keep them covered with the salt and sugar for four days and then pour over one quart of good vinegar. Baste the hams frequently with the pickle and turn them every day, keeping them in it for four weeks. Drain them well, throw bran over them, and smoke them over wood for a fortnight or three weeks, according to their size. The quantities given will cure two large hams. Another Method. For 2 large Ilavis weighing 50 lbs. or 3 small ones. 3 lbs. of coarse sugar. 3 lbs. of common salt. 7 ozs. of bay salt. 7 czs. of saltpetre. 5 ozs. of juniper berries. 4 quarts of sirong old ale. Boil all the ingredients together, and pour boiling over the hams. Turn the hams daily for a month or six weeks. Finish as directed above. A Pickle for Hams, Tongues, and Beef. Ingredients. 2^ lbs. of common salt, i lb. of saltpetre. 8 quarts of water. 2 lbs. of coarse sugar. 2 lbs. of bay salt.VARIOUS RECirES FOR CURING HAMS, ETC. 449 Method.—Mix tlicso together and put in a pickling-pan with a close cover. Hang the meat as long as possible, and well rub it with coarse sugar, from which it must drain before putting it into the pickle. Let a small ham lie a fortnight in pickle, a largo or.o three weeks, a tongue twelve days, and beef in proportion to its size. They maybe used from the pickle, but if dried let them drain well, then dry them thoroughly and smoke them for eight hours. Bacon. Ingredients. Allow for every stone 1 lb. of 2 ozs. of saltpetre, common salt. 2 ozs. of bay salt. 3 ozs. of coarse sugar. Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for twenty-four hours. Then mix the salts and sugar together, and rub them well into the bacon, turning every day for a month. Then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it for ten days. To Pickle Pork. Mix four ounces of saltpetre, one pound of coarse sugar, one ounce of sal prunelle, and a little common salt. Sprinkle the pork with salt and drain it for twenty-four hours. Then rub it with the mixture. Pack the pieces tightly together in the pickling-tub, and fill the spaces with salt. Put stones on the pork to keep it from rising, as it would do as the salt melts. To Dry Hog's Cheeks. Thoroughly clean the cheeks, and take out the upper bones. Rub them well with salt, and the next day rub them again with fresh salt. Then mix together two ounces of bay salt, five ounces cf coarse sugar, two ounces of common salt.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 450 Cover the ohoeks with the mixturo, and turn them often. After twelve days’ pickling, smoke like bacon. Spiced Beef. f lb. of common salt. 2 ozs. of saltpetre. ozs. of sal prunelle. •4 lb. of moist sugar. Ingredients. 4 oz. of cloves and peppercorns mixed and pounded. Half a cupful of treacle. Method.—Mix these ingredients well together and put them in the oven to heat for five minutes. Then rub the meat all over with it, and put all tho remains in a cake on the top. Leave it to stand two days. Then pour in half a cupful of treacle, and baste it well every day for a week, when it must be boiled until quite tender, so that the bones will draw out. The pressing must be done between two dishes with a weight on tho top. Trim and glaze it before serving. Spiced Beef (Another Method). Ingredients. 2 ozs. of saltpetre. 2 ozs. of ground allspice. ^ lb. of coarse brown sugar. f lb. of common salt. 1 oz. of juniper berries, f rump of beef about 12 lbs.' Method.—Pound the saltpetre and then boil all the ingredients a veil together. Pour over the beef, and keep it well basted for a fortnight. To Dress the Spiced Beef. Make a thick paste of flour and water as for venison. Wipe the brine well from the beef, cover with a greased paper and then entirely cover it with the pa,ste. Then bake it in a moderate oven (a brick oven is the best) for four hours.VARIOUS RECIPES FOR CURING HAMS, ETC. 451 When it has cooled n little, remove the pasto gently, being careful not to break the fat. When cold, glaze it. To Collar a Pig’s Head. Scald and thoroughly clean a pig’s head. Split it open and remove the brains, eyes, snout. Soak it in water for two hours, and then nib well into it salt and saltpetre, using two ounces of saltpetre and one pound of salt. Let it lie in this pickle for five days, turning it twice a day and well basting it. Then drain and wash it, and simmer until the bones will come out. Then place the thick s!do of one cheek to the thin part of the other. Lay over it strips of the tongue (which should bo cooked with the head and then skinned) and season well with pepper. Roll it up, fasten it in a cloth, and bind with broad tape, and then continue simmering it until quite tender. Then press it between two dishes with a weight on the top, and when cold remove the covering. Mutton Ham. Cut a hind quarter of mutton like a ham, and rub it well with one ounce of saltpetre, one pound of common salt, and one pound of coarse sugar. Baste it well every day for a fortnight. Then drain, roll in bran or sawdust, and smoke for a fortnight. Beef Ham. Cut the leg of beef like a ham, take tho quantities mentioned in the recipe for mutton ham, adding one ounco of bay salt. Prepare like mutton ham, but leave it in pickle a month. Then cover with bran or sawdust, and smoke for a month,A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 452 PRESERVING. Fruit for preserving should be sound and fresh; it should bo gathered in dry weather, on the morning of a sunny day, but not so early that it has the dew on - it. If gathered in damp weather, the jam will Ret mouldy. The fruit should bo made into jam as soon as possiblo after picking it. The best sugar is cheapest in the end, as there is less scum from it. It must be broken small, but not crashed, or the syrup will not be clear. In making the jam, stir it carefully the whole time, skimming thoroughly. Do not leave it, or it may catch. 'When a little poured on a plate will set, it is ready. Be careful not to over-cook it. If too little sugar is used in making jam, it will not keep; if too much, it will candy. Stir always with a wooden spoon or spatula, metal is apt to spoil the colour. Be careful that the pan is raised a little from the fire and not directly over it; the sugar causes preserves to catch very quickly. The length of time jam will take in making will depend on the method employed, the kind of fruit, and whether it is quickly or sloioly boiled. As a matter of fact, it is impossible to lay down any hard-and-fast rule; experience is the bast guide. A certain quantity of the water in the fruit must bo forced off, and this will be more quickly accomplished by boiling quickly than by slow cooking, but the heat required for the quick boiling will make the danger of the jam burning greater. In the following directions the time mentioned is intended as a guide only, as not only will the time varyPRESERVING. 453 according as the preserve is slowly or quickly boiled, but tlio same kind of fruits will bo found to differ, some being moro watery than others, and the more watery the fruit the longer boiling it will take. Put the jam when cooked into pots, and cover it to exclude the air. This may be done with the specially prepared covers which are sold at a small price for this purpose, or paper prepared thus:— Brash over the paper with white of egg, and put it on while wet. Jams must be kept in a cool, dry place. Damp will make them get mouldy and heat will make them ferment. Glass jars are best for the purpose, as the condition of the jam can be more easily seen. General Directions for Jam-Making. The following are directions followed for years by an experienced housekeeper : Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, for all kinds but stone fruit. Put the fruit in a preserving-pan on the hot-plate, not directly over the fire; sprinkle a little sugar over it. As the fruit juices, keep adding the sugar. When it is all dissolved, put the pan over the fire and bring to the boil. Let it boil for about twenty minutes, keeping it stirred and skimmed. Try a little and sec if it will set; if not, continue the boiling. Stir strawberries carefully. Baspberries mash down. Pour the jam when cool enough into jars, and fasten it down at once. If properly made, jam thus made will keep for three or four years. Allow a pound and a quarter of sugar for stone fruits. Recipes for making jams in various ways are also given for the benefit of those who prefer other methods. 2 aA COMPLETE COOK EE Y GUIDE. 454 Strawberry Jam. Ingredients. To each pound of strawberiies add three quarters of a pound of sugar. Method.—Vat the fruit into the preserving-pan and place it on the hot-plate, hut not over the fire. Then sprinkle over a little sugar. t . As the fruit juices, keep adding sugar, and when it is all dissolved, bring to the boil, and boil quickly for about twenty minutes, keeping it stirred and skimmed. When it will set it is ready. Stir carefully, not to break the strawberries. 't his recipe is better than the following one, as quick boiling when it can be managed retains the colour and flavour of the fruit better than slow cooking. The juice of three or four pints of white or red currants prepared as for red currant jelly will improve this jam. When added, it will require longer boiling. Strawberry Jam. Ingredients. 1 lb. of sugar to 2 lbs. of strawberries. Method.—Take the stalks from the strawberries and remove all the damaged ones. . Put the strawberries and sugar in layers in a preserving- pan, and boil gently for about an hour, removing the scum. Raspberry Jam. Ingredients. 1 lb. of raspberries. | i lb. suSar* Method.—Take the stalks from the raspberries, and boil the fruit for ten minutes, stirring well. . Add the sugar, and boil from half an hour to time quarters of an' hour, until it will set {see General Direc- tions for Jam-Making).PRESERVING. 455 Black Currant Jam. Ingredienta. 1 lb. of black currant?. 1 f lb. of lump sugar. Method.—Pick and slightly bruise the currants, and then boil them with the sugar for about three quarters of an hour, or until the jam is settee General Directions for Jam-Making). Red Currant Jam. Ingredients. 5 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of currants. Method.—Stalk the currants, and boil them with the sugar for about three quarters of an hour {see General Directions for Jam-Making). Greengage Jam. Ingredients. To every pound of greengages allow 1} lbs. of sugar. Method.—Peel and stone the greengages, and boil them gently together, stirring and skimming until they will set. Add a quarter of the kernels blanched when the jam is ready. Currant and Raspberry Jam. Ingredients. To every pound of red cur- and 1 lb. of lump sugar to rants, without the stalks, each pound of ft nit. allow a i lb. of raspberries, Method.—Stir and boil together gently for about three uarters of an hour, stirring and skimming (see General Erections for Jam-Making). 2 a 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUILE. 45G Red Gooseberry Jam. Ingredients. f lb. of sugar to every pound of gooseberries. Method.—Top and tail tlie gooseberries, put them in a preserving-pan and boil, stirring veil for three quarters of an hour. Add the lump sugar broken small. Continue boiling for twenty-five minutes longer, or until it will set (see General Directions for Jam-Making). Green Gooseberry Jam. Ingredients. | lb, of sugar to every pound of fruit. Method.—Top and tail the gooseberries, put them in the preserving-pan and boil for ten minutts. . „ Add the sugar, beaten small, and continue to bod tor about twenty minutes, or longer, until the jam is set (see General Directions for Jam-Making). Rhubarb Jam. Ingredients. ] lb. of sugar to every pound of rhubarb. Method.—Prepare the rhubarb as for stowing. Mix it with the sugar and slowly heat it., slowly until the stalks arc tender. Then boil quickly from half an hour to three quarters, or until it will set (see General Directions lor Jam- Making). and cook Plum Jam. Make like greengage jam, taking from three quarters of a pound to one poumPof sugar, according to tho kind o plums used.457 PRESERVING. Damson Jam. Ingredients. Allow 1 lb. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Method.—Stono tho fruit and boil for forty minutes, skimming constantly. Then add tlie sugar and boil for twenty minutes, or longer, until it will set. Blackberry Jam. Make like raspberry jam, using equal quantities of blackberries and sugar. Red Currant Jelly. Stalk tho currants and put them intoadoublo saucepan until the juice is drawn out, or into a jar, which should bo placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Strain tho juice and allow one pound of loaf sugar to every pint. Put into a preserving-pan, stir the jelly until it will set, removing the scum as it rises. Black Currant Jelly. Make like red currant jelly, using one pound of red currants with every three pounds of black. Apple Jelly. Choose bright red apples. Put them in a preserving-pan, cover with water, and cook for an hour or longer. Then strain away tho juice. Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. , Boil until the jelly will set.458 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Orange Marmalade. Ingredients. Equal quantities of Seville and China oranges. Method.—Take off tlie peel in quarters. Tut tho peel into a saucepan with water and boil until it is soft enough for tho head of a pin to pierco it readilv. . Meantime divide the oranges into their natural sections and with a teaspoon scrape out all the pulp from them into a basin, removing the pips. Put tho pips and skin (notpeel) into a saucepan with enough water to cover, and boil for half an hour. Then strain off the liquid and add it to the pulp. Scrape away all the pith from the peel, and then cut it into thin slices about an inch in length. Allow for every pound of pulp, peel. <tc., all weighed together, one pound two ounces of lest crushed lump sugar. Poil well together for half an hour, or longer, until it will set. Pot and cover like jam. To Preserve Fruit in Bottles. The fruit mu>t be perfectly fresh and sound, and should be carefully picked over. Choose fruit bottles with small necks for small fiuits such as gooseberries, currants, &c., those with larger necks for larger fruits. Fill the bottles with fruit as closely as possib’c, because the fruit shrinks much in cooking, red currants especially. Plums should bo placed in the bottles with a stick. Leaving no space betwreen the fruit. Entirely fill the bottles with plain cold water, only leaving room for corking. Tie the corks over t"ico securely with strong string, then put the bottles to stand evenly in a copper, but not touching ; fill with sufficient cold water t<> come lialf way up the necks of tho bottles, gradually heat to 180 degrees, the process occupying three hours (for plums, ICO degrees is sufficient, if overdone they will break up), then allow459 PRESERVING. the water to become cold; then tako the bottles out aud stow them away on their sides. In preserving fruit in this manner, judicious selection of the fruit, well cooking, and well corking, are tho three points to be carefully attended to. Fruit corks are cut the reverse way of the grain and are sold at 4s. Gel. to 6s. Gd. a gross. They should be made pliable by squeezing before they are u-ed. Cork squeezers can bo got at Farrow and Jackson’s, Great Tower Street. The corks must fit very tight. If the bottoms of the-corks aro rubbed with salad oil they will drive in much easier. If a corking-machine is not available, and it scarcely will be in a private house, it is well to resin the coiks round before putting tho bottles away. Resin is little or no protection against leakage if the cork is faulty. It is possible now to get fruits preserved in such perfection, that it is far better for those who live in towns to buy tho fruit already preserved than to buy it for preserving. Notes.—For small quantities of fruit a deep meat-kettle may bo used instead of a copper. I fit is not possible to carry out these directions with regard to tho threo hours’ slow heating, bring the water to the boil very gradually and then gently simmer for about ten minutes. Black currants and plums will require fifteen minutes. Apricots and pi aches twenty minutes. These rules cannot always be strictly followed, as the length of time will, to somo extent, depend on the ripe- ness of tho fruit.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 4 GO PICKLES. To Pickle Vegetables. Choose good fresh vegetables for this purpose. Put them into open casks, or small tubs if only a small quantity is to be pickled, and cover them with brine made by adding one pound of salt to every gallon of water. After three days change the brine and let them remain a fortnight in it. Onions, cauliflowers, and walnuts should have a third brine in which thoy may remain till wanted. Then thoroughly wash tho vegetables in fresh water and bottle them. Vegetables like red cabbage, cauliflower, Ac., should be cut up, cabbage shredded, and the cauliflower divided. When bottled, fill tho bottles with weak vinegar or vinegar and water, and let them stand until tho next day. Then pour tbo vinegar away. Place the bottles in some position that tho vegetables will drain but not fall out. Leave them for some hours. If cold weather until the day. Then fill the bottles with good strong vinegar, previously boiled with spice but used cold. With mixed pickles, gherkins, and onions, put in a few chillies, also a few peppercorns at the top of the bottles. Well cork the bottles, using skin or parchment under the corks. Stow them away in a dry place on their sides. Corks cut with the black on are intended specially for this purpose. These directions are sufficient for most pickles, therefore a multiplication of recipes is unnecessary, butTICKLES. 401 by way of making a variety two or three recipes are given for other methods which can he recommended fox- particular vegetables, etc. Tickles should be kept a few weeks before using. The longer tho better. Note.—Rod cabbage.—Cut it up in shreds (not using ont-ide leaves). Then plaoe it in small open baskets and ■well sprinkle it with dry line salt, and so place it that it can drain till next day. Then jar it off and till up with vinegar prepared as above. Store jars away on their sides. Pickled Mushrooms. Rub button mushrooms with flannel and salt to clean them. "Well wa>h and di-y them. Tut them in a stewpan and sprinkle with a little salt, add a blade or two of mace and a little pepper. Cook them at a slow heat until the liquor comes out. Shako them well and continue cooking until it is again absorbed. Just cover with vinegar, give one boil up, and then put in glass jars. Cover when cold Pickled Walnuts. Gather tho walnuts while a pin can pierce thorn easily. Tut them in a brine made with one pound of salt to a gallon of water. Let them soak six days. Then change the brine and let them soak fourteen days longer. Then brine a third time and keep till wanted. Then drain them, spread them on dishes, and expose them to the air until they become black. 'They will do so in about a day. For oveiy two quarts of vinegar take two ounces of peppercorns, three blades of mace, two ounces of bruised ginger, one scraped horse-radish, three ounces of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic. Boil all these together for five minutes.462 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Tut the walnuts in jars, pour the vinegar over them. When cold, cover close and put away for six months or longer, laying the jars on their side. Beetroot-Pickle. Slice boiled beetroot and put it in a jar. Boil some vinegar with a little salt and a few pepper- corns. \\ lien cold, pour over the beet-root. This pickle may bo used in a day or two. Pickled Eggs. Ingredients. 20 eggs. 3 pints of best vinernr. 3 ozs. of who'e black pepper. 1 oz. of bruised ginger. 2 ozs. of mustard-seed. i oz. of clow s. A teaspoonful of salt. Method.—Boil the eggs hard, remove the shells and put them into a jar. Put the other ingredients into an enamelled pan. Bring nearly, but not quite, to a boiling-point and pour over. Cover close and use in about a month.( 463 ) STORE SAUCES, VINEGARS, AND SALAD DRESSINGS. Tomato Sauce. Ingredients. 3 lbs. of ripe Ionia toes. If pints of vinegar. } oz. of allspice. ^ oz. of chillies or capsicums. 2 ozs. of sbalots. 1 clove of garlic. Pepper and salt. Method.—Mash the tomatoes and put them with all the other ingredients and a little pepper and salt into a stew- pan, and simmer for three quarters of an hour. Then rub through a wire sieve. Put it into the stewpan again, and reduce until the consistency of a thick cream. When cold, pour in bottles, and cork and seal. Mushroom Ketchup. Ingredients. 8 quarts of large flap mush- £ lb. of salt. looms. Black pepper and mace. Method.—Cut off the ends of the stalks of the mush- rooms. Break them up, put them into a pan, and well mix the salt with them. Let them stand for three days, stirring and mashing them well every day. Then drain off the liquor, but do not press the mush- rooms. Tut it into a stewpan and boil until reduced ono half, then add to every quart half an out-ce of pepper and one drachm of mace. When cool, pour into bottles free from any sediment, well cork and tie them down.464 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Walnut Ketchup. 100 preen walnuts. ^ lb. of shalots. 3 cloves of garlic. 4 lb. of salt. 3 ozs. of anchovies. Ingredients. 4 oz. of mace. 2 quarts of vinegar. 4 oz. of cloves. 2 ozs. of pepper. Method.—Bruise the walnuts thoroughly in a mortar. Then put them into a pan with the shalots sliced, tho garlic, vinegar and salt, and let it stand for a fortnight, stirring two or three times a day. Strain away the liquor after this time and put it into an enamelled stewpan with tho anchovies, whole pepper, cloves, and other ingredients. Boil it for half an hour, skimming it well. Strain it, and bottle when cold. A Good Sauce for Fish or Meat. Ingredients. i pint of porter. pint of walnut ketchup. ^ pint of mushroom ketchup. 4 anchovies. 1 shalot. A teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Method.—Bruise tho anchovies in a mortar, and then simmer all the ingredients for twenty minutes. Strain and bottle whon cold. Chilli Vinegar. Steep one ounce of chillies in one pint of vinegar for ten days. Shake occasionally. Horse-Radish Vinegar. Scrape one stick of horse-radish and steep it in one pint of vinegar for a fortnight; a little sliced shalot may be added if liked. Shake occasionally.STOKE SAtTCES, SALAD DRESSINGS, ETG. 465 Shalot Vinegar. Peel and slice tlirco ounces of shalots. Steep them in a quart of vinegar for a fortnight. Shake occasionally. Note.—When these vinegars have been steeped a sufficient length of time, they should be strained and bottled. Salad Dressing. Ingredients. Yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. i saltspoonful of salt. A pinch of castor sugar, gill of salad od. Method.—Rub the yolk in a bowl with the sugar and salt, and gradually mix in the oil and vinegar. A little mustard or cayenne may be added, if liked. Salad Dressing. Ingredients. 1 tablespoonful of boiled 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil. potato rubbed through a 1 tablespoonful of vinegar sieve. Method.—I'nt the potato in a bowl and mix smoothly •with it the salad oil and then the vinegar. < 'ream may he substituted for the oil. Add pepper and salt to taste. French Salad Dressing. Ingredic iits. 3 tablespoon fids of oil. 1 Pepper and salt. 1 tablespoonful of vinegir. Method.—Put the pepper and salt into a bowl. Mix the oil in gradually, add the vinegar, and use at once. For Mayonnaise, Tartare, Roumalade, See Chapter on Sauces.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 466 Rich Salad Dressing. Ingredients. Tho yolks of 3 hard-boiled egga. 4 raw yolks. •1 dessertspoonfuls of dry mustard. 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. ^ teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. ^ pint of oil. ^ pint of raw cream, i pint of vinegar. Method.—Mix the dry ingredients and boiled yolks thoroughly together. Then add the raw yolks, and mix very gradually with the oil and cream like a mayonnaise. Last of all add the vinegar. Worcester Sauce. 4 ozs. shalols. 1 oz. of garlic. 2 drachtns of mace. Ingredients. 2 ozs. of cayenne pods. 1 quart of malt vinegar. 6 ozs. of Indian soy. Method.—Boil tho mace, cayenne pods, and vinegar for a quarter of an hour, then put them into a jar with the sliced shalots and garlic. Let it stand for fourteen days, then strain and add the soy. Bottle and cork securely.4G7 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS. MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS. To Clarify Butter. Put the butter into a stewpan and melt it gently over the fire. When it begins to simmer skim it thoroughly. Put it on one side of the fire and let it stand until the butter-milk sinks to the bottom. Then pour it off clear, free from any sediment. Brown Roux. Take the proportions of eight ounces of butter and seven ounces of flour. Clarify the butter as directed in preceding recipe and pour it into a frying-pan. Dredge in the flour and stir over a slow fire until it is.a light brown. It is then ready for use, and will keep somo days. lioux is used for thickening stocks and gravies for sauces. White Roux. Make like brown, but do not allow the flour to colour, only to cook. Quenelle Border for an Entree. Fill a well-buttered border-mould, with a plain top, with quenelle meat, and poach it for a quarter of an hour, or longer, until cooked. The length of time will vary according to the size of the border. When cooked, reverse it on an entree-disk and lift the mould carefully away.A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 4C8 Border of Potatoes. Hub sonic well-cooked, floury potatoes through a wire sieve or potato masher. Mix "ith butter, and, if possible, a little cream, pepper and salt, and form into a round or oval form. Sometimes the border is brushed over with beaten egg, which is set by holding it before the fire. Casserole of Rice. Ingredients. i lb. of rice. 4 ozs. of fresh butter. 1 quart of light stock. Pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Well wash the rice and simmer it in the stock for half an hour. Then add the butter and cont'nue to simmer until it is perfectly soft and thick. Well butter a plain round mould and press the rice into it, smoothing it on the top with a knife. When cold, turn it out, and with a knife mark round the inside, leaving a rim of about an inch. Then brush over with clarified butter and bake in a quick oven. When a rich golden colour, raise the centre-piece which was marked, and scoop out enough rice to leave a crust of about an inch thick. Fill with an} thing suitable for a vol-au-vent, and serve for an entree. A sweet casserole of rice maybe made in the same way, using milk instead of stock and two ounces less of butter. Sweeten to taste and servo with a compute of fruit or fete wed fruit in it. Court Bouillon. To every two quarts of water add one pint of vinegar and ono pint of red wine, half an ounce of pepper, ono ounce of salt, one bay leaf, one large onion sliced, ono small sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Simmer for three quarters of an hour and strain. For ordinary purposes leave out the wine.469 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS. How to Render down Fat. Cut the fat into small dice. Put it into a large iron saucepan and cover with water. Boil for one hour with the lid on the saucepan, that the steam may whiten the fat. Then remove the lid and boil steadily until all the water has evaporated. Stir the fat every now and again to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the saucepan and burning. Great care must be taken not to get the fat over-heated during the rendering down. When it is ready it will look clear. Let it cool and then strain, pressing the pieces of fat well to squeeze out the liquid fat. Any fat, cooked or uncooked, may be rendered down. This fat may be used for plain cakes and pastry as well as for French Frying. Boiled Flour. Put the flour in a cloth and tie it up like a pudding, and boil for five hours. Then grate it down and use one ounce to one pint of milk. Baked Flour. Sprinkle flour over a baking-tin, and bake it until it is a light brown colour, taking care it does not burn. Use it like boiled flour. To Clarify Dripping. Melt the dripping and pour it into cold water. When cold, scrape off the sediment which will be found at the bottom. Or the dripping may be boiled with the water and poured into a basin. A Bouquet Garni. This consists of a sprig of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf tied together with string. 2 HA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 470 A Croustard of Fried Bread. Cut a slice of stale bread two inches in thickness. Stamp this out with a round or oval vol-au-vent cutter. Mark the middle with a smaller cutter and then scoop out all the inside, leaving the case about a quarter of. an inch in thickness. Fry, just before using, a golden brown in hot fat (French Frying). Rice Border for an Entree. Ingredients. 1 lb. of lice. I Salt. Water. Method.—Well wash the rice. Put it in a saucepan with a quart of water and a little salt. . . Cook very slowly, adding more water as required, but it must not be moist when ready. Pound well in a mortar. Then, with the hands dipped in cold water, mould it to tlio shape required. For hot entrees, brush with egg and put in the oven to colour. , For cold entrees, coat it with any suitable butter {see Butters). Cheap Glaze for Meat. Ingredients. 4 teaspoonfuls Liebig’s Ex- gelatine. tract of Meat. Pepper and ,salfc- 12 sheets of fine French leaf 1 pint of cold water. Method— Soak the gelatine in the water. Add the meat extract, and pepper and salt. Stir and boil until reduced to about a quarter ot a PINote.—This glaze can only be used for glazing meat. Croutons of Bread for Soup. See Garnishes.MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS.. 471 Toasted Bread for Soup. Cut toasted bread into small dice, put them on a baking- tin and place them in a quick oven for a few minutes. Serve on a folded napkin. i Bread-Crumbs. These are made by rubbing stale bread through a wire sieve, or the crumb of stale bread may be dried in a slow oven and pounded for crumbs. Browned Bread-Crumbs. These can be made from white crumbs, which should be put on a baking-tin and baked a golden brown in the oven, or the crusts of stale bread may be dried in a slow oven and pounded. Paspings may be used, but they should be rubbed through a wire sieve. Browned Crumbs for Game. Put white crumbs in a frying-pan with a little butter, and stir until they are lightly browned. 2 ir 2A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 472 MENUS. A Menu is in England usually written thus:— MENU DU DlNER. Hors-d’oeuvre. Huitres. Potages. Consomm6 4 la Julienne. Potage k l’Am6ricaine. Poissons. Turbot, Sauce Raifort. fiperlans Frits, Sauce Piquante. Entrees. Ris de Veau braise. Supreme de Volaille. Relove. Selle de Mouton rfitie. Espinards. Pommes de Terre. Sorbet au Rhum. Rot. Faisans r6tis. Entremets. Chou-fleur au gratin. Creme aux Framboises. Mace'doine aux Fruit Canapes & la Bernadotte.MENUS. 473 MENU DU DINER. Potage. Potage de Queue de Bceuf clair. Poissons. Cabillaud, Sauce Ravigote. Blanchailles. Entrees. Patds k la Toulouse. Talaia de Boeuf & 1’EspagnoL Releve. Poulet roti aux Champignons. E6t. B^casse rotie au Cresson. Entremets. Creme au Chocolat. Gel6e Danzic. Pailles au Parmesan. MENU DU DlNER. Hors-d’oeuvre. Caviar. Potage. Consomme a la Jardiniere. Poissons. Paupiettes de Soles. Merlans Frits. Entrees. Poulet & la Cardinal. Rognons aux Champignons. Releve. Selle d’Agneau rotie, Sauce Menthe. Rot. Cailles au Cresson. Entremets. Savarin au Rhum. Meringues k la CrSme. Crofltes au Jambon.474 A COMPLETE. COOlBLERY GUIDE. If preferred, a Menu may be written in this manner: MENU DU DlNER. Canape's aux Crevettes. Consomme k la Royale. Potage aux Abatis. Saumon grille, Sauce Tartare. Filets de Plie k la Maitre d’Hotel. Pied de Yeau a la Ste. Me'nehoud. Croustards k la Heine. Filet de Boeuf braise. Punch Romaine. Ortolans. Asperges. Gelee au Citron. Charlotte Russe. Foies de Yolaille a la Diable. MENU DU DlNER. Bonne Femme. Merluche, Sauce Huitres. Poulet en Matelot. Gigot de Mouton rotie. Aspic de Homard. Nougat k la Creme. Pouding aux Ananas. D’Artois de Parmesan.INDEX ALU PAGE A LMOND cakes 232 lx — drops . . 298 — blanched, etc. 439,440 Amandes h la diable 406, 407 Anchois surcroiltes 403 Apple cream . . 372 — dumplings . 230, 256 — fritters . . .400 — rings . . . 377 — buowballs . 255,256 — solid . .370,371 — turnovers . . 230 — water . . . 281 boiled , . 285 Apples, baked. . 377 Arrowroot. . 281, 282 Artichoke bottoms 165 — globe . . . 164 — Jerusalem . .163 Asparagus. . 162,163 — iced. . . . 180 Aubergines . . 166 Bacon, how to cook . . 46, 449 — fried . . .269 — toasted . . . 269 Baking meat, rules for . . . 31,32 Barley sugar . 419,420 BEE PAGE Barley water . . 280 Bartle .... 212 Bass .... 212 Bath chaps . .141 Batter for fritters (Kromesky) 399,400 Beans, broad . . 161 —French. . .160 — haricot. . . 163 Beef, aitchbone and round of . 38 — it la mode . 126,127 — as mock hare . 127 — brisket of stewed — clod of . — fillets of larded braised . — flank of — ham — jelly . — olives . — pickles for — ribs of . — rolled . — rump of stewed — shin of. —*— stewed — shoulder of — spiced . . 39 127,128 . 39 330,331 and . 142 . 39 . 451 . 279 . 331 448,449 . 38 137,138 . 38 . 150 . 39 . 125 . 39 450, 451 BOI PAGE Beef steak and lark 152 broiled . . 124 fried . .124 pie . . . 220 pudding 150,151 rolled .139,140 stewed . .125 — sirloin of . . 38 — tea. . .277,278 — to choose . . 37 — with piquant sauce . . . 380 Beetroot . . . 165 — white . . .166 — pickle . . . 462 Beverages . .266-276 — summer .426-428 Biscuits, Abcr- nethy . . . 302 — ginger . . . 299 thin. . . 310 — oatmeal . 298, 299 — peach . . . 311 — sponge . . . 306 Black-game . . 62 Blancmange . .373 — with corn flour 373,374 — chocolate . . 374 Bloaters . . . 205 Boiling meat, rules . for . . . 28,29A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 476 BOU CAL PAGE Bouchdes & la Milanaise . . 407 Braising meat, rules for . . . 35,36 Bran tea . . . 284 Brawn, . .271, 272 — mock . . . 275 Bread, brown . . 290 — Coburg loaf . 288 — cottage loaf 287, 288 — croutons of. . 470 — crumbs. . .471 browned . 471 dough, etc. 288, 289 — for a family 289, 290 — quartern loaf . 287 £-*• steamed . . 291 — tinned loaf . . 288 — toasted for soup 471 — unfermented 291, 292 — Vienna. . . 291 — whblemeal . . 290 Breakfast dishes 266-276 Bream . - . • . . 209 — baked . . .209 Brill - . - . . .187 Brocoli. • . . 159 Broiling meat, rules for .... 35 Brussel sprouts 158,159 Bullock’s heart, roasted . . .130 gravy for . 130 Buns . • . . . 297 — Bath . . .305 — rice .... 301 Butter, to clarify . 467 Butters . .429-431 nABBAGE . . 158 V Cailles it la Lucul- lus .... 335 Cake, a nice light . . 294 l AGE Cake birthday . 309 — bride . . . 309 — cornflour . . 296 — currant. . . 296 — dessert. .311,312 — dough . . . 295 — Genoa ... . 304 — Madeira . . 306 — plum . . . 301 plain . . 295 — pound 293, 305, 306 — raisin . . . 301 — rice .... 296 — Savoy . . . 310 — seed . . . 298 good . . 303 plain . . 295 — sponge . .306, 307 — tins, to pre- pare .... 293 — tipsy . . . 367 Cakes, almond . 232 — almond paste 310,311 — currant drop . 302 — Genoese, iced preserved - gingerbread - ginger, good —• materials for - orange rock - Oswego. — Queen . — rice . 232 232 300 307 292 300 .308,309 .293,294 . . 309 .309, 310 294 . 294, 295 305 300 small — rock plain — Shrewsbury — soda Calendar of foods in season . 22-27 Calf’s brains . . 317 Kromeskys of 317 • feet .... 150 with poulette sauce . . . 317 CHE PAGE Calf’s feet it la Ste. Mendhoud . . 318 — foot stock . . 352 — head, a hash of cooked . . 384 au naturel 145,146 tortue .146,147 with mush- rooms . .316,317 — liver, stewed . 137 — pluck . . . 137 Canape's a la Ber- nadotte . . . 406 — aux anchois 402,403 — aux crevettes'. 404 — aux homards . 403 — aux laitance . 406 Caramel . . .419 Cardoons . . . 164 Carp . . .209,210 Carrots . . . 161 Cauliflower . . 159 — au gratin . . 169 Caviar it la Russe. 405 — canapes . . 420 — sur croft tes. . 402 Celeriac . . . 166 Celery .... 162 Champagne cup . 427 Chantilly basket . 420 Charlotte Russe . 358 Chartreuse de fruit . . . 362 Cheese aigrettes . 401 — cake mixtures . 237 — cakes . . . 228 — d’Artois . . 229 — fondu . . . 393 — pudding . . 178 — ramequins . . 399 — rice stewed with 179,180 — sandwiches 179, 408 — straws . . 230, 231 — toasted . . . 408INDEX. 477 OH I FACE Chicken and mush- room pudding 152 — la Cardinal 324,325 — broth . . . 278 — casolettes of . 338 —- chaudfroid of . 345 — crepinettes of . 336 — croquettes 321, 322 — cutlets with spinach . . 323,324 — en matelote . 322 — fillet for an invalid . . 285 — fricassee of. . 321 — medallions of 339, 340 — pie . . . 224 — pinions . .322,323 — quenelles of . 320 — souffles . .396,397 — supreme of. . 323 Chickens, little 335, 336 Children’s trifle . 375 Chocolate . . . 268 Claret cup . . . 427 Cocoa . . . 268 Cod . . 187 — salt. . . 200 — sounds boiled 198,199 marinaded . 199 — stuffed and baked . . . 200 Coffee . .266, 267 — gSteau . . . 312 — iced. . . 428 Cold meat, curry of 379 fritters of . 381 mince of . 380 pie . . . 382 salad .382,383 Compete of apples 422 — apricots . . 422 — nectarines . . 422 CRO FACE Compdte of peaches 422 — strawberries 416,422 Cookery, the study of .... 1-7 Cooking of joints 37-47 — rules for . . 7 — utensils, etc., how to clean li )—21 Cornish pasties 225 Court bouillon. 468 Cow-heel . 128 — stewed . 126 Crab, dressed . 204 Crabs .... 204 Cream, almond 360,361 — chocolate . 365 — clotted . 366 — coffee . 365 — fruits and . 365,366 — Italian ... 359 — lemon jelly 374, 375 — maraschino 362, 363 — orange . 369 — pistachio 361 — raspberry . 361 — stone . 361 — strawberry . 357, 358 — strawberry Charlotte . . 366 — vanilla . . . 360 — velvet . . . 374 Creams . . 357-367 — Devonshire curd. . . . 366 — in glasses . . 365 — raspberry . . 364 Creme frite . . 263 Crfeme de Par- mesan . .408,409 Croquant of oranges 362 Croustard of fried broad . . . 470 — of mushroom 173,174 Croustards a la Reine . . . 324 EOQ PAGE Croutes au jam- bon .... 404 Cucumber, boiled . 165 Curry, Bhoonec Kitcheeree . . 389 — chicken. . 385 — dry . . . . 386 — Kubab . . 388 — rabbit . . 385 — the Moli . . 387 — the Quorema 387, 388 — vegetable . 176, 386 Curries, Indian 385-389 Custard, arrowroot 369 — boiled. .369,370 — cheap . . . 369 — savoury . . 439 Dace . . .212 Decorations, hints on table . 11 Devonshire junket 368 Dinner, the order of a . . . .8-10 Dripping, to clarify 469 Duck, roast . . 56 — wild ... 61 — how to choose wild .... 50 Ducklings ... 57 Ducks, how to choose ... 48 Dumplings, yoast. 240 TdCLAIRS . . 230 14 Eel, conger . 196 Eels, fried . . .210 — potted . . . 211 — stewed . . . 210 — with Holland- aise sauce ..... 210 Eggs h la Suisse 180,181A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 478 EGG PAGE Eggs and bacon . 269 — buttered 273 — to cook. 269 — curried . 274 — for garnish . 437 — pickled. 462 — poached .269,270 Egg cutlets 273 Endive, boiled 166 Entries . .313- -338 — cold. . . 339-348 Essence of different meats . 279 I7AT, rendering down . . . 469 Flageolets . . .166 Floating island . 375 Flour, boiled, etc.. 469 Fish, baked . . 186 — cakes . . . 208 t— curried . . 207 — force . . . 445 — fricassee of cooked . . . 208 — fried . . .186 — how to choose, clean, skin, etc. 182-185 — Mayonnaise of cooked . . . 208 — potting. . . 447 — pudding . . 208 —. rules for boiling 185,186 — scalloped . . 207 ‘— steamed . . 186 Foies de Volaille . 407 Food and diet. . 3-7 Foods in season, calendar of . 22-27 Forcemeat balls . 445 *—chestnut . . 446 — for pie . . . 224 Forcemeats .443-446 GIN PAGE Fowl, boiled . 57, 58 — braised ... 58 — galantine of 345,346 — pillau of . 388, 389 — quenelles of . 342 — roast . . . 57 Fowls, how to choose . 48,49 — trussing, boning and larding . 51, 53 Fritter batters. . 401 Fritters . .400,401 — apple . . . 400 — batter for 399, 400 — orange . . . 400 Fruit in bottles, to preserve. .458,459 Fruits and cream 365,366 — stewed. .375,377 Frying meat, rules for . . . 32,33 ft ALETTES. . 308' vJ Game, black. 62 — forcemeat . . 444 — how to choose poultry and. 48-50 — the cooking of poultry and. 54-64 Garnishes . .432-439 — for sweet dishes 439-442 Gateau k la creme. 259' — Princess . . 363 — Parisienne . . 364 — Heine . .364,365 — of prunes .372, 373 Geese, green . . 56 — how to choose . 48 Genoese iced cake. 232 — pastry . . . 231 — sandwiches. . 231 Giblets, stewed . 136 Ginger beer . . 428 Ginger bread . . 297 HOM PAGE Gingerbread nuts 307, 308 Gooseberry fool 250* 351 — solid . . . 368 — turnovers . . 229 Goose, roast . 55, 56 Green peas .159,160 Grey gurnet . . 212 Grouse. ... 62 — how to choose . 50 Gruel .... 284 Guinea fowl, how to choose . . 50 — roast ... 58 Haddock . . i88 — boiled dried. 206 — stuffed and baked . . 200,201 Haggis. . . . 138 Hake .... 187 Halibut . . . 187 Ham and bacon . 272 — how to cook a . 46 Hams, curing . . 448 — pickle for .448, 449 Hare, how to choose ... 49 — jugged .60, 332,333 — mock . . . 127 — pie . . .223,224 — roast ... 60 Haricot fritters . 176 — mutton. . . 140 Harslet (pigs’fry). 135 fried . . 140 Hash . . . .378 Herrings, baked . 198 — fried . . .198 — broiled . . 197, 198 — red .... 196 Hog’s cheeks, to dry . . .449,450 Hominy fritters . 179 — porridge .178,179INDEX.' 479 HOB PACK Hors d’ceu v r es 402-407 TOE, apricot . .413 1 — cream, apri- cot . . . . 411 •a coffee . . 411 drinks . . 427 Maraschino. 411 pineapple . 412 raspberry . 412 — strawberry . 412 vanilla .410, 411 Iced vanilla souffles 416,417 Ice, Neapolitan . 412 — peach . . . 413 — puddings .415, 416 — water, apple . 413 banana . . 414 -i- cherry . . 413 — lemon .412,413 — — orange . . 414 pineapple . 414 — — raspberry . 413 strawberry . 413 Ices . . .410,414 — perfumed . . 414 Icing, pastry etc. . . .441,442 Imitation foie gras 445 Invalids, dishes for 276,286 Irish stew . . . 132 TACK . . .132 V Jam, black- berry . . . 457 — black-currant . 454 currant and raspberry . 454 -f- damson. 457 gooseberry, ' green 454 UAH PA HE Jam, gooseberry, red .... 454 — greengage . . 454 — making, direc- tions .... 453 — plum . 456 — raspberry . 454 — red currant 454 — rhubarb 456 — strawberry. 454 Jaune-mange .258, 259 Jelly, apple . 457 — aspic 353 — banana in . 356 — black currant . 457 — claret . 354 — Dantzic 356 ;— orange . 371 — pineapple . 353 —• red currant 457 — savoury 353 — Victoria 356 — wine 352, 353, 371 Jellies . . 351- -356 — oraDge . 355 — to clear. 351, 352 John Dory 18H Joints, cooking of 37-47 T2 EDGREE . . 209 IV Kidneys a la Tartare . 270 — broiled . 270 — sauteed. 270 — toasted . 270 Kitchen economies 12-15 — the . . . 16, 17 LAMB, breast of. 41 — cutlets . . 328 — cutlets h la Russe . 340, 341 — epigrammes of 328,329 noB TAOS Lamb, foroquarter of .... 41 — hiudquartcr of. 41 — haricot of . 144 — leg of . 41 — loin of . 41 — roasted whole . 42 — saddle of . 41 braised . 143 — shoulder of 42 — target of , 41 — to choose . 40,41 Lamb’s fry 136 — bead, stewed . 139 a plainer way . 139 Landrail . 64 Larder, the 17 Larks it la Luctil- lus .... 334 — in.cases . . 336 — ebaudfrokl of . 342 — roast . . 03, 64 Lax i la Kusse . 404 Leeks, boiled . . 165 Lemonade . . . 281 Lemon sponge-. . 370 Lentil fritters . . 176 Lentils . . . 165 Lettuces, boiled . 159 Leverets ... 60 Ling 187 Linseed tea . . 285 Liver and bacon 131, 132 Lobster, aspic of . 355 — croquettes . . 203 — cutlets . 202, 203 it l’lndienne 201 in aspic 343, 344 — en coquille . . 203 — in aspic . . 341 — Mayonnaise of 203 — mirotou of . . 347 — souffles. 395,396 Lobsters .. . , 202A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 480 MAO NOU PAB PAGE MACARONI and PI cheese . . 171 —• boiled . . . 168 — curried . . . 17> — savoury 171, 172 Macaroons 302, 303 Macedoine of fruit 354, 355 Mackerel . 187, 188 — boiled . 192, 193 —- fillets of . . 202 — fried fillets of . 192 — soused . . . 193 Marmalade, orauge 458 Mayonnaise of sal- mon . . 347, 348 — sole . . . 341 Meat, rechauffes of cooked . 378-384 — cheap glaze for. 470 — rules for boiling, roasting, baking, stewing, frying, broiling, and braising . . 28-36 — the choice of 37-47 Meats, essence of different . . 279 — potting . . 447 Menu, drawing up of a . . . 8-10 Menus. . 472-474 Meringues . . 421 — Italian . . .421 Milk, almond . . 390 — cocoa-nut . . 390 — rolls . . . 303 Minced meat . . 381 en coquille 382 vegetable marrows with . 173 Mince pie . 227, 228 Mock goose or pig’s fry . . 134,135 — hare . . . 127 Moelle sur croutes 405 TAOE Mullets, grey . . 194 — red, in cases . 193 grilled . . 194 — — au gratin . 194 Mushroom ket- chup . , . 463 — pasty . . . 177 — pie . . . . 172 — pudding . .177 — rissoles. . . 176 Mushrooms . . 164 — and bacon . .275 — pickled . . 461 — stewed . . . 170 Mussels . . . 206 Mutton broth 279, 280 —• breast of, rolled 128 — chops . 129, 130 — cutlets ala Mace'doine . . 325 a la Milan- aise . . 325, 326 la Soubise 326 a la Main- tenon . . . 326 & la Reforme 327 — ham . ... 451 — haunch of . . 40 — leg of . . 39, 40 braised . . 149 with oyster. 144 — loin of . . .40 — neck of. . . 40 — pie . . . . 221 — pudding . . 152 — saddle of . . 40 — scallops of . . 327 — scrag eu d of neck of . . . 40 — shoulder of. . 40 — stuffed . . 148, 149 — to choose . . 39 VfORMANDY IN pippins, stewed 377 Nougat . . . 420 PACK OATMEAL water 427 (Eufs farcies A la Russe. . . 405 Olives farcies aux anchois . . . 409 Omelet, oyster . 401 — souffle . . 398, 399 savoury. . 399 Omelets . . 399,400 Onions, Spanish . 162 — stewed . . . 174 Orangeade . . 282, 283 Orange marmalade 458 Ortolans ... 63 Ox-cheek, braised 142, 143 — stewed, and cow- heel. . . . 126 and spinach 126 Ox-palates. . . 332 Ox-tail, stewed 331, 332 Ox-tongue. .144, 145 Oyster cutlets 337, 338 — patties . . . 205 — souffles . .397, 398 Oysters . . . 204 — en croquilie 204,205 PAIN d’abricot 363, 364 T opinam- bours . . . 180 Panada for force- meat . .443,444 Pancakes . . . 248 Pan haggis . . 138 Parsnips . . . 162 Partridge pudding 151, 152 Partridges. . .61 — how to choose . 50 — boiled . . . 62 — old . . . . 62481 INDEX. PAB PAGE Partridges with mushrooms. . 61 — salmi of . . 333 Pastry. . .213,214 — Baba . . . 235 syrup . . 235 — brioche . . 234 — cold water paste for raised pies . 218 — hot water paste for raised pies . 218 — cream . . . 217 — crust . .218,219 — flaky crust. . 217 — flaky d ough crust . .217,218 — flead crust .219, 220 — maids of honour 236 — Nouilles .234,235 — paste . . . 219 — patty cases. . 215 — petit choux . 233 — puff paste .214,215 rough . . 217 — savarin. . . 233 — short crust. 216, 219 — suet paste for boiling pudding 218 — vol-au-vent 215, 216 Patties, meat . . 383 Pears, baked . . 376 — stewed . .375, 376 Perch .... 212 Periwinkles . 206, 207 Petit choux . . 233 Pheasant, boiled . 61 — roast . . 60, 61 — pie . . . . 224 — salmi of . . 333 Pheasants, how to choose ... 49 Pickles. . .460-462 Pie, beef steak . 220 — chicken. . . 224 — cottage . 379, 380 — forcemeat for . 224 roR PAGE Pie, hare . .223, 224 — mushroom . .172 — mutton. . .221 — pheasant . . 224 — pigeon . . . 222 — pork . .225, 226 — rabbit . . . 221 — rook . . . 222 — veal and ham . 223 Pigeon pie. . . 222 Pigeons, boiled . 58 — compote of. . 329 — with truffles 329, 330 — and mushrooms 330 — how to choose . 49 — roast ... 68 Pig’s cheek . . 272 — feet and ears 275, 276 — fry, or mock goose . .134, 135 fried . . 140 — head, to collar a 451 — roast sucking 46, 47 Pike .... 212 Pineapple mousse. 417 Pintail. ... 63 Plaice .... 199 — fillets of, a la Maitre d’Hotel 199, 200 — fried fillets of . 199 Plover, how to choose . . 50 Plovers . 63 — eggs . . . 337 in aspic. . 340 Pork, to choose 44, 45 — chine of . 45 — griskin of . . 45 — hand of. . 45 — leg of . . 45 — loin of . . 45 — pickled. . . 46 — to pickle . . 449 PUD PAGE Pork pie . .225, 226 — spare rib of. . 45 Porridge, oatmeal. 274 — hominy 178, 179, 275 — wheatmeal. . 275 Portuguese bars . 265 Potato balls . . 156 — beignets . . 173 t— croquettes . . 158 —ribbons. . . 157 — snow . . v 156 — souffles, baked . 181 Potatoes a la Lyon- naise . . .180 — baked . , . 156 — border of . . 468 — fried . . . 157 souffles . ; 157 — mashed. . . 156 — new, to cook . 155 —sautded. . . 157 — to boil . 154, 155 — to steam 154, 155 Potting meats and fish . . . .447 Poultry and game, how to choose 48-50 the cooking of . . . 54-64 — boning and lard- ing . . . .63 — trussing . 51-53 Prawns . . . 204 — aspic of . . 355 — curried . 386, 387 Preserve fruit in bottles . 458,459 Preserving. 452, 453 Prune drink . . 283 Prunes, stewed . 376 Ptarmigan , . 62 Pudding, a favour- ite ... 261 — Albert . . . 245 — angel . 253, 254482 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. PUD PAGE Puddi ng, app.le amber . . .258 — apple Charlotte 241, 242 — apricot . 260, 261 — arrowroot . . 282 — baked lemon . 259 plum . . 249 — batter . 242, 243 boiled . . 243 — beef-steak 150, 151 and lark . 152 — black-cap . . 243 — bread . . . 251 and butter . 246 — cabinet. 1 . 257 — caramel . . 262 — children’s . . 253 plum . . 255 — Christmas . . 261 — Claydon . . 254 — cornflour . . 252 tt— custard . . 246 little 262, 263 — diplomatic 259, 260 — economical bread 251 fig . . .251 ginger . . 252 — Evelyne’s . . 245 — fig . . . .251 — fruit . 255, 257 with corn- flour blancmange cover . . . 253 — general satisfac- tion .... 264 — ginger . . . 252 — ground rice . 247 — hominy. . . 252 — jam, boiled . 255 roly-poly . 241 macaroni . 249 — marmalade. . 255 — orange . . 250, 264 —pies .... 236 QUE FACE Pudding, pineapple, cold . . . 260 — plum . . 255, 262 — poor knight’s . 250 — Prince of Wales’ 253 — punctual . . 254 — Queen . . . 263 — raisin and boiled rice .... 256 — raspberry . . 245 — rice, boiled . 244 baked . . 244 little . . 265 —• — steamed . 247 — sago . . . 251 — semolina . . 246 steamed . 248 — snow . 264,265 •— stale bread . . 249 — suet . 240, 241 — sultana . 254, 255 — tapioca, baked . 244 cold . . 247 — treacle . . . 250 — vermicelli 243, 244 — Viennoise 257, 258 — Yorkshire 242, 243 Puddings, biscuit . 242 — ice . . 415, 416 to boil, bake, steam, &c. .238-240 Purges . . 424, 425 AUAILS . . 63 vtf — in aspic . 344 — in cases . . 336 — ballotines of . 337 Quenelle border for an entrde . . 467 — forcemeat . . 443 SAG PACK Rabbit, boiled. 58 — forcemeat 444 — jugged ... 60 — pie . . . . 221 — pudding . . 152 — ragoflt of . .59 — roast . . .60 — stewed ... 59 — h la Tar tare . 334 — how to choose . 49 Raspberry flum- mery . . .372 — vinegar . . 426 Reeves ... 64 Rhubarb, stewed . 377 Rice a la Milanaise 175 — border for an entree . — casserole of — for a curry . children — Indian 470 468 167 167 175, 176 milk . . . 283 Neapolitan 174, 175 — savoury — stewed cheese . — water . Roach . — roasting for . Roman punch Rook pie . Rooks . Roux, brown white Ruffs . 179 with 179, 180 281 212 rules 29-31 . 428 . 222 . 63 and . 467 . 64 DAGO gruel . . 283 IJ Salads . 348-350 — it la Russe . . 350 — cauliflower . . 349 — celery . . . 348 — chicken . .348483 INDEX. SAL PACE Salad dressings 463-460 — haricot • t 349 -7- lentil . , , 349 -+• lobster . , , 346 — mixed . • , 350 — oyster . • 347 — potato . . 349 — Russian .355, 356 — spring . . 350 — tomato . • , 348 — fruit 423 Salmon , , 187 — cold . , 192 fillets of, a l’lndienne # , 192 — grilled . , , 191 Salsify k la Su- prgme . • . 177 — broiled . 166 — fried , . 178 — patties . , 170 — scalloped . . 178 Sauce, allemande . 113 — almond , , 123 — anchovy , • 120 — apple . .101, 109 — asparagus . 118 — aspic mayon- naise , , 120 — Bearnai.se , , 111 — B&hamel , , 104 — Bigarade , . 113 — black butter . 98 — Bordelaise , , 113 — bread . .103 107 — Bretonne , # 120 — brown 99,100,103, 104 — brown caper . 117 — caper . . . 102 (brown) . 117 (white) . . 118 — cucumber . 103,117 — curry . .103,119 — cardinal . . 112 — celery . «. . 118 SAU PACE Sauce, chaud-froid (brown) . . 121 (white) . .121 — chestnut .118,119 — damson . 122,123 — Dutch . . . 100 — D’Uxelles . . 114 — economical family ... 98 — egg. . . 99,108 — Espaniol . 103,104 — fennel . . . 112 — financiere .114,115 — for broiled meats 120 — for venison . 113 — French. . ,118 — Genoise . . 110 — German . . 122 — gherkin . . 117 — glaze . . . 121 half. . . 121 — good, for fish or meat . . . 464 — gooseberry. .117 — Hollandaise . 112 — horse-radish 102,108 — Italian . . . 105 —-jam . . . 122 — lemon (sweet) . 123 — lobster . . 100,108 cheap . 100, 101 — maitre d'hotel 108 — Matelote . 105,106 — mayonnaise . 110 aspic . . 120 — — (green) . . 119 (red) . . 119 — melted butter . 98 English 97, 98 good . 115 — mint . . 102,108 — mushroom . 117 white . . 117 — mustard . .111 — Neapolitan. . 116 — onion . . . 102 SHE PAGB Sauce, orange . . 123 ■— oyster . 101, 107 — parsley. . 99 — perigueux . . 114 — piquante . . 106 — plain while . 99 — Poivradc 104, 105 white . 105 — Polish . . 116 — port wine . 108 — Portuguese . 116 — poulette . 115 — Provenfale . 115 — Ravigote . 112 — reform . . 109 — remoulade . 120 — Robert . . 106 — shrimp . 101,116 — soubise . . 109 — supreme 106,107 — Tartare. . 110 — tomato 109 110,463 . 123 — vanilla . — Velout6 . 104 — Venetian . 114 — wine syrup . 122 — Worcester . 466 Sauces . 97-123 — store, &c. 463-466 — sweet . 122-123 Sausages . 445-446 — fried, baked, &c. 271 — rolls . 225 Savoury dishes of meat . 124-141 Savouries, &c. 407-409 Scallops, scalloped 207 Scones , . 303, 304 Sea-kale . . . 162 Sea pie . . .132 Shad .... 187 Sheep’s head, boiled 128, 129 au gratin . 129 curried . . 133 — hearts . . . 133A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 484 SUE PAGE Sheep’s hearts stewed 133-134 — tongues kl’Itali- enne . . . 327 — trotters, stewed 134 Short bread . . 304 Shrimps . . . 204 Sick-room cookery 276-286 Skate, boiled . . 195 — crimping . . 195 Smelts au gratin . 196 — fried . 195, 196 Snipe, how to choose ... 50 Snipes .... 62 Sole a la Colbert . 191 — a l’Orley . . 191 — au gratin 189, 190 — fillets of, k ia Rouennaise . . 190 a la Supreme 190, 191 — filets de 344, 345 — fried . . . 188 fillets of 188, 189 Soles . 188 :— for an invalid 285 — paupiettes of . 201 Sorbet of rum . 414 — of strawberries 414 Sorrel . . . .164 Souffle, almond . 393 — apple . . . 395 — apricot . 394, 395 — chocolate . . 394 — coffee . . . 394 — lemon . 393, 394 — lobster . . . 395 — lobster, little . 396 — omelet . . . 398 savoury 398-399 — orange flower water . . • . 392 — oyster . . . 397 - little . . 398 800 PAGE Souffle, strawberry 395 — vanilla . . . 393 Souffles . 391-398 — iced vanilla 416, 417 — small vanilla . 417 — beignet 400, 401 — chicken 396, 397 Soup, almond . . 82 — asparagus . . 73 — bisque of lobster 72 — bonne femme 75, 76 — bouillabaisse . 83 — Brunoise . . 70 — calf tail . 74, 75 — celery ... 81 — cheap mock- turtle ... 96 — chestnut . . .82 — clear . . 69, 70 first stock for 67 second stock 67, 68 — cocky leeky 92, 93 — Consomme 4 la Brunoise . . 70 k la Jardin- iere . . . 69-70 k la J ulienne 70 a ritalffenne 71 a la Niver- naise . . 71 k la Prin- cesse . . 70 aux Per- dreaux . . . 71 — — Royal . . 70 — Crecy . . . 73 — crofite au pot . 95 — crowdie . . 90 — curry . . 91, 92 — Egy pti an j turee 87, 88 — fish . . 93 stock . 68-69 — giblet . . . 75 800 PAGE Soul®, gravy . . Soup, green pea purde 78 — hare 76 — haricot. 88 — botch potch — invalid’s 92 284 — Italian . 71 •—Jardinidre . 70 — Jerusalem arti- choke . . 81, 82 — J ulienne . . 70 — Kitchener’s (Dr.) broth . > 90 — lentil . . 87, 88 — lobster, plain . 95 — mock-turtle . 80, 81 cheap . .96 — mulligatawny 77, 78 clear .... 83 — mussel ... 95 — Nivernaise. . 71 — onion ... 86 — ox-cheek . 88,89 — ox-tail, clear . 72 thick . . 74 — oyster . . 78, 79 r plain . . 95 — parsnip... 87 — partridge, clear 71 — pea ... 88 — potage k l’Amiiricaiue . 79 • a la bonne femme . . 75,76 la mulli- gatawny . 77,78 k la Reine . 82 k la fausse tortue . . 80,81 au Crfcine de tapioca ... 80 ■ aux abatis . 75 auxcrevettes Clair ... 71INDEX. 485 sou PARK Soup, potage aux huitres . 78, 79 d’amandes . 82 d’asperges . 73 de Lapin . 77 de iievre . 79 dc mull i- gatawny ciair . 83 de queue de boeuf ciair . . 72 lie . 74 — potage de queue de veau. 74, 75 tortue . 84, 85 — potato . . 94 puree . 79 — pot-au-feu . . 89 — prawn, clear . 71 — puree h 1 a Crcsscy . . 73 de celeri . 81 de mairons . 82 de pommes de terre . . 79 depoisvertes 78 de Topinam- hour. 81, 82 of game. . 85 — rabbit . . 77 — red lentil . . 87 — rice. . 82 — Scotch broth . 93 — semolina . . 94 — sheep’s-head . 91 — shrimp . . 95 — tapioca . . 90 cream . 80 — thick ox-tail . 74 — turkey . . 96 — tomato . . 94 — turnip . . 86 — turtle . 84, 85 — vegetahi e, maigre . . 93 stock for, maigres . . 68 TAP. PAGE Soup, white stock. 67 from bones uncooked . . 68 Soups and stocks 65-85 Spinach . . .160 Sprats, baked . . 206 — broiled . . . 206 — fried . . . 206 Steaming m e a t, rules for. . . 34 Stewing meat, rules for .... 34 Stocks and soups 65-85 Store-room, the . 18 Stoves, etc., how to clean . . 19-21 Stuffing, sage and onion . .444,445 Sturgeon . . 195 Sucking-pig, roast 46, 47 Suet and milk . 284 Sugar boilings, etc. 418, 419 Summer drinks,etc. 426-428 Supper dishes 339-348 Sweetbread, braised 313, 314 — k la Financiere 314 — lamb 314, 315, 316 — fried . . . 315 — minced. .315,316 Sweetbreads and tomatoes . . 343 — medallions of . 313 — plainly boiled . 286 Sweets. . .368-377 Syllabub . . . 426 Ml ABLE dccora- ! tions, hints on 11 Tart, apple . . 226 — cherry . . . 227 — damson . . 227 — fruit . . . 227 TUR PAG X Tart, strawberry 235, 230 Tartines do Parme- san . . 404,405 Tartlets . 228,229 Tea . . 267,268 — bran . . . 284 — linseed . . 285 — cakes, York- shire . . . 299 Teal .... 62 Tench .... 211 Toad-in-the-hole . 135 — with cooked meat . . . 383 Toast and water . 283 — buttered 268, 269 — dry . . . 268 TofTee 420,421 Tomato farcie 170, 171 Tomatoes . . .163 — au gratin . . 169 Tongue . . . 272 Tongues, a pickle for . . 448,449 Treacle posset . 282 — tart . 236,237 Trifle .... 366 — children's . .375 Tripe and onions . 131 Trout . . . .212 — broiled . . . 212 — fried . . .212 Trussing poultry 51-63 Turbot . 186, 187 — fillets of . . 202 Turkey, boiled . 55 — galantine of . 346 — poults ... 55 — roast . . 54,55 Turkeys, how to choose . . .48 Turnip greens . 159 Turnips . . . 161 Turnovers, apple . 230 — gooseberry . . 229 2 lA COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 186 UTE PAGF. TTTENSILS, how U to clean cook- ing . . 19-21 EAL and ham pie . . . 223 — blanquette of . 320 — breast of . 43,148 — broth . . . 279 — cake . 272, 273 — cutlets . . .318 H la Talley- rand. . 319,320 — fillet of . . 43 stewed 149, 150 — forcemeat . . 444 — fricandeau of 147, 148 VOL tagp. Veal, galantine of 148 — grenadines of . 319 — knuckle of 43 — loin of . 43 — neck of. 43 Vegetable curry . 170 — marrows 160- with minced -101 meat . . . 173 — pie .... 172 Vegetables, rules for cooking, &c. 153,154 — to pickle 400,4(11 Venison, haunch of 42 — shoulder, breast and neck of. 42,43 Vinegars, &c. 463-406 Vol-au-vcnt la Toulouse . . 316 woo PAG* \\J A L N U T 8, W pickled 461,462 Walnut ketchup 404 Water souchy . 211 Welsh rarebit . 408 Wheatears . . 64 Whitebait. 196,197 — devilled . . 197 Whiting, fried 194,195 Whitings . . . 194 — with Genoese sauce . . . 195 White wine whey 282 Widgeon ... 62 Woodcock, salmi of ... . 334 Woodcocks . . 62 — how to choose . 60 LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, DI KE STREET, STAMFORD STREET, S.E., AND GREAT WINDMILL STREET, WThere’s One Best, and only one, in everything. In Corn Flour it’s Brown & Poison’s “ Patent.” Forty years' experience, reputation, and skill enter into the making of every packet sold. There are few foods more wholesome, more appetising, more easily digested than dishes made from really good Corn Flour. And Brown & Poison’s “Patent” is the acknowledged best. Brown & Poison’s “Patent” Corn Flour. A New Era in Home Baking has dawned for those who are using Brown & Poison’s new raising powder called “ Paisley Flour.” All housewives find that it makes cakes, pastries, &c., deli- ciously light, tasty, and digestible, with an ease and certainty of good results unknown before. Those who bake regularly at home and those who do not should buy a 7d. packet of “Paisley Flour” (Trade Mark) at once, and try, say, the recipe for “Muffins,” “Little dinner loaves,” or “Jam sandwich.” Such home-baked scones and cakes have a freshness and sweetness of flavour not always associated with bought articles.