60 GLOSSARY-INDEX. 1 PAGE Almaine leap, or Almond Leap, a dancing leap or kind of jig. Almain was the name of a dance. ‘ ‘ Hereupon did enter nine knights in armour, treading a warlike almain by drum and fife” (Halliwell). [Cotgrave says : “ Trois pas et un saut, The Almond Leap.” Elorio Ed. Torriano, 1659, says: “ Chiarantana, a kind of caroll or song, full of leapings like a Scottish gigge; some take it for the Almaine-leape.”—J. H.] - - xlviii-ix Almond Mylke, or Almand Milk; blanched almonds ground and mixed with broth or water to make an almond emulsion .... 42 Almondes blanched, i.e. whitened by scalding and removing the skin .... 17 Alowes, aloes ; to make a pye of. I [This word is possibly an Anglicised derivative of the Provengal word alo, a wing. The Diet: Prov : et Frangois, Avignon, 1723, gives “ alouyeou d’vm Buou,” and explains it thus: “ on dit aloyau de la premiere piece, et aloyau de la seconde piece.” Alon is a Spanish word, meaning a wing without feathers; and the word alowe, or Fr. aloyau, would seem to mean the wing-rib, which is the one rib left on the hind quarter just above the Sirloin. The etymology of the French word aloyau, which has so long baffled etymologists, may perhaps be correctly assigned to the root ala a wing. It is possible that an alowe was the wing-rib with the bone removed, and was subsequently used as another term for a steak or similar piece of meat.—J. H.] - 34, 35 Alyve. “ Cut out the brawne of him a lyve.” This sounds dreadful! but Mr. Hodgkin says that “it means probably, if not certainly, what it says, and would not have frightened any cook in those mediaeval days.” With modern English cooks a similar phrase, “ take a live sole,” is merely a technical, market term for “absolutely fresh,” says the Principal of Marshall’s School of Cookery. All the same there is, beyond doubt, much yet to learn and to practice, in the way of the merciful slaughtering of beasts, the cooking of lobsters, &c., a matter to which attention was drawn in an Appen- dix to Lady Clark’s Cookery Book, and which ..