GLOSSARY-INDEX. bolfcell clothe and the mouthes opyn, and let it run in V or Vj bagges on a perche and under every bagge a clene basen. The draftes (dregs) of the spies (spice) is good for sewies (stews). Put your ypocrasse into a stanche wessell, and bynde upon the mouthe a bledder strongly; then serve forthe waffers and ypocrasse.” [Comyn pepull, ordinary folk ; ren ynne, run into ; renners, jelly bags; perche, rod; paryd, pared; or hit, before it; everyche, each —as everychone was Ang: Sax: for every- one; leid, from leie, to lay, Ang: Sax; twoyche, touch each; pece, a drinking cup; yet, it, is, by rights, written jef. (The first letter is neither ‘y’ nor ‘z’, but 5, the corruption of an Ang : Sax : letter more resembling ‘ g’ in value, says Halliwell, but ‘‘no other character repre- sents its exact force ”) ; alay, mix—as applied to mixed drink ; boltell cloth, see Boulter.] Arnold's Chronicle recipe, quoted by Halliwell, is shorter: “ Take a quarte of red wyne, an ounce of synamon, and half an unce of gynger, a quarter of an ounce of greynes and long peper, and halfe a pounde of suger; and brose all this and than put them in a bage of wullen clothe, made there- fore, with the wyne, and lete it hange over a vessell tyll the wyne be run thorowe.” Cogan has the same materials (but leaving out “long peper”) and adds all when pounded to 1 quart of Claret or white wine. He also leaves all to steep together at least one night, close covered in a stone bottle, and “when you would occupy (i.e. use) it, cast a thinne linen cloath . . . over the mouth of the bottle and let so much run through as you will drink at that time, keeping the rest close, for it will keep both the spirit, odor and vertue of the wine and spices.” The Book of Sirnples gives another recipe which includes nutmegs and milk, and in which a “ sprig of rosemarie ” is put in the bag through which you run it before bottling; and also suggests a little bag of musk or ambergrese being put into each bottle Historiola ; history of C. C. Coll: by Josselin History. (Archbishop Parker’s great services to) Hit, it - Ho ate, hot 81 PAGE 1 cliv clx li, &c. li, &c. GG