96 GLOSSARY-INDEX. 8 xlii xxxvii cxv-xvii xlvii-yiii xxxi-ii, 28 28 32 cxli liii-iv 23 cxxii mean “chitterlings,” and not a pig’s foot. ^ Le Viandier de Taillevent calls the dish Menus d’oies, which is the same thing.—J. H.l a Pevrate Sauce (from poivre, pepper) for venison veal, &c. - . . _ ’ Pewter (dishes, &c.) Pheasant (see also Fesande); vows made on head of. Pictures op Queen Elizabeth, op Parker, and^f^ ^ Parker preaching Pies (Animated) - Pies (including apple and orange pie and warden pies) Pilles (orange), orange peels or rinds Pilles, balls—as in “make mixture into pilles” Pillow bears (or beres), pillow cases Pippins, preserved . Place (fryed), plaice Plate, given by Parker to Colleges (see also Salt) Platter, or plater; a flat dish, a wooden plate. One authority, writing in the Pall Mall Gazette, says The first plates were thick slices of coarse bread, on which were dumped big slices of meat; later on wooden platters or trenchers came in ; and of course the knives were the daggers of the guests, their fingers being the forks; the first spoons were shells, these were afterwards hollowed out of wood; the first forks came from Italy” (see also Trenchers) - Plyace, or place ; the fish plaice, with sorrel sauce Poison, precautions against (see Assaye) Poison, in food .... Pollarde, a stag without horns, ‘ ‘ speciall good in Maye ” Porpoise, eaten in Portugal in XVIIIth Century Porpus (roosted), sauce galantine ; (or spelt purpos, porpos, porpays), porpoise PORRA, a kind of porridge - Porraye, porraie ; a puree of chicken [■Porraye ; this was originally a Leek soup or broth : “ Porrecta jusculum ex porris confectum” (a broth made from leeks). Gall. Porree. But Ducange gives also—“ Pureya, jus, seu iusculum quodvis, idem quod Potagium ” (a soup or kind of broth, the same as Potagium). There seems to be some confusion between Perrey, a Pea soup ; Porraye, a Leek Soup; and Puree, that which was purata or strained. Here the word simply means potage.—J. H.] - 50, 51 xlii 13 Gloss: xxvi, xlix, cvi 4, 5 xxx 14, 15 50