GLOSSARY-INDEX. 74 Furnished, supplied (as in the Wedding Feast, St. Matt: xxii., 10) .... cxxxiv Furniture (op horses), horse trappings, harness - xlv, crii Fustian - • . . . . Fygoes, for dessert at p. 17 meant figs; but “ flggy ” is said to apply to raisins in a plum pudding locally in Cornwall ..... xxxv jy FYRE, FUYRE, fire • .... xciv.’&c. Galaunt, gallant, finely dressed • - . xiyi Galenga, galynge ; galingale, the long rooted Cyprus. New Eng: Diet: says is (a) the aromatic root of an East India plant of genera Alpinia Kcempferia, formerly much used in medicine, and by Indian doctors for dyspepsia ; much used also in cookery. (b) An English species of sedge, Cyperus longus, the “ English Galingale,” a root with similar properties to those of the true Galingale. The Chinese name for Gallingale is “ Ko-liang-Kiang,” literally : “ Mild ginger from Ko ” (Canton) ; Cogan (1636) writes : “ Galingale, or rather Cipresse roots, though it be rare, yet it is found in some gardens ” In the Cant: Pilg : (1386) the cook was “ To boil the chicknes and the marybones and poudre marchant Tart and Galingale.” Powder marchant: “ a tart kind of flavouring powder.”—(N.E.D.) - xxxvi, 10, &c. Galentyne, galendyne. Sauce galentine for “roosted purpos,” Curlew and Crane. Pegge (Forme of Cury) calls galentyne a preparation made with galingale, but galingale is mentioned in one only of the recipes I have seen for this sauce; it is as follows: “Powdered crusts, galingale, ginger or salt, steeped in vinegar and strained” (Babee). N. E. D. says name is derived from galatine—a sauce for fish—1420. Liber cocorum (reprint 1862): “Take Lampreys . . serve Galentine made in sale With gyngere, canel and galingale.’’ 1658, Sir T. Moyerne: “When it is baked, make a galentine of claret wine and cinnamond and suger and pour it on the pye.” [Pegge seemed to think that the etymology of galentyne had something to do with galingale; but this does not appear to be the case. The word would seem to be derived from the root seen in the words gala, galant, &c.: and is not the