GLOSSARY-INDEX. 103 Sauce, pevrate, for veal or venison Sauce (pyke) for brouke fish Sauce (another pyke) a savoury “broth” of HERBS, SPICES, PRUNES, ETC., FOR CARP OR PIKE - Sauce, sorel, for chekins, or for grene geese Sauce, sorel, for plyace Sauce, vert, or green (see Goose Grene, in Gloss:) Sauce, vynegar for conger, shadde and brette, TURBUTTE, CRABE AND SALMON Sauce, water and salte with onyons slyced for FESANDE, FOR TAYLES AND PARTRICHES - Sauce, wyne and salte, for roosted capons, and PEACOCKE - Saucerful, Sauce boat full Sauces. Various “brothes” were evidently used as sauces or gravies for capons, meate, fyshe, &c. ; also, rosemary and mace same way. The place where the Sauceboats were kept was called the Saucery • Sauery, Savory, a culinary herb. Satureia hortensis - Saunders, saunderys, saundres, used for colouring only. The word Sanders in Saunders Blue, (a corruption of “Cendresbleues”) was quite different and is ultra-marine. The Booh of Simples says that Saunders (Red) was used as a colouring ingredient in spirituous tinctures [Saunders, was Red Sanders Wood, Pterocarpus Santalinus; this is an inodorous dye wood, used for colouring purposes, and it has none whatever of the peculiarities of the odorous wood of Santalum, sandal wood, with which it is sometimes confused.—J. H.] Say, a delicate serge or woollen cloth made by Walloon refugees - - - - Scholarships founded by Parker Searced, sieved (see Paest Royall and Damask Water); a searcer was a fine sieve Secure of (to be), to have confidence in, to trust Serpel, wild thyme (see Verde Sauce) Sethe, seath, scethe, seth (to) to boil, as in Ex: xxxiv. 6 - Sewe, Seweis, stew or broth, and sometimes soup (see also Hippocras and Shoes) - Sewer, the official who set or removed dishes, and who tasted them at the assaye (see Assaye) Sewing, or sewynge, assaying meat against poison - PAGE 8 21 14 9, 21 13 12 13,14,15,16 11 9, 11 36 19, 44-5 63 liv xxxvi 42, 52, 53 xc lx, lxi, &c. Gloss : cxxiv Gloss : 46, 50, &e. 6, 50 Gloss : xlii, &e.