GLOSSARY-INDEX. 86 PAGE Masters, Robert ... \v Medlers (tarte of) ... 37 Melancholyke, effect of River birds - xxix Melle, mix ..... 6 Mery chere (see Chere, Gloss:—ante) - - ilvi Messe, mess (a) a portion of food, as in “a covered messe ’ ’ p. xliii ; (b) the people who sat together at dinner; now, I suppose, only used in the case of Naval and Military Officers at mess, or the Bar Mess. For instance the “ lower mess” meant those who sat “below the salt.” “Nor should there stand any great cumbersome, uncut up pies at the nether end” of the table, “filled with moss and stones, partly to make a show with, and partly to keep the lower mess from eating ” !—(Beaumont and Fletcher), (c) Also, as a verb, it means to portion out a meal. (See Yerde Sauce, Gloss:) xliii-ir, cxxxiv Metely ; suitably, appropriately—from meet, suitable. “ It is not meet to take the children’s bread, etc.,” St. Mark vii., 27 - - - - 52, 63 Mews ; a place for hawks moulting was called a ‘ ‘ mewe ” xvii-xviii Mighelmas, Michaelmas, 29th September - - 5 Minstrels ..... xlv-vi Mone (mid somer), mone here means a month. “And so befelle upon a day And that was in the mone of May ” (Gower). The word had various other meanings. The Mid- summer moon was supposed to drive people mad, and to say “It is midsummer moon with you,” meant “ you are mad! ” ... 3 MONESHYNE (EGGES IN) 43 Morions, conical iron skull caps with a rim - - cvii Moryson (Fynes) and forks ... xli Murrey COLOUR, the colour of mulberry - - 24 Music at Feasts - *lv Muskadine, muscadine, or muscatel; a rich spiced wine, strong and sweet, mentioned by old writers as made from muscat or similar grapes in many places, such as Trani in Apulia, Frontignac, St. Laurent, the Hungarian vineyards, and the Convent of Hirschau, of which Longfellow sings: “The beautiful town that gives us the wine With the fragrant odour of muscadine.” The Compleat Gardener (1719) says there were three kinds of muscat grapes—white, red, and black Mustarde (brawne and), a usual first dish at dinner -