84 GLOSSARY-INDEX. PAGE a dish made of milk, etc., and the word “leche,” which meant a slice; for he says : “ ‘ Let ’ even got changed into ‘leche’ ... the larded milk being cut into ‘leches.’” It is true that “Let” (Fr: lait) has changed into “leche,” but it was, I would submit, by pure translation of the word for milk, from French to Spanish, and not by an alteration in meaning, from “milk ” to “ slice.” [In confirmation of this I would note that the title given in Le Viandier of Taillevent for the recipe referred to is “Lait larde.” Though Leche strictly means a slice, and therefore came to mean what could be helped in a slice, the word leche in the title, “Leche cremy ryall,” men- tioned on p. 10 of Notes, is possibly the same word as the modern Spanish Leche in “Leche crema,” the recipe given by Lady Clark.—J. EL] “ Leche Crema ” may be the sort of dish that Halliwell refers to when he says: “Leach, a kind of jelly, made of cream, isinglass, sugar and almonds ” - xiv, 10, 11 Leicester and Winchester - cxlvi Leicester’s Protege - cxxvii Leie (to), to lay (A.-S.) (See Hippocras) Gloss : Leysour, leisurre - • lxvii Library op Corpus Christi College - ix, &c. Lieche (in “As YE DOE lieche ”) ; i.e. “ the way you serve slices or leaches ” - 28, 29 Lift, a term used in carving swan : “ lift that swan ” - xlii Limner, painter - cxxxi Linote, linnet - xxix Linton, the town so called from growing flax, where however it is said none will now grow - XXXV “ Little englanders ” in tudor days - cxxxv Lizards, eaten in Burmah - XXX Lizzars in whot broath - XXX Loke ; look, see, be sure, take care - - liii, &c. LOKKYS, locks of hair (Cent: Diet:) • - xlvii Long coffins, Pies without lids - 22 Longe Piper, a spice - xxxvi, &c. Long wortes, a dish like “ Bubble and Squeak” ; also the name for a vegetable, generally Cole worte or cabbage ; also, as in the present case lettuce or spinach ... - - 48, 49 Lothely, ugly - - xl Lucullus, his suppers; brings cherries from PONTUS - - xxiv, 38