glossary-index. 92 studies. Unjust “Visitors” of Norwich; Receivers °f *?ie..Exchequer and Pensions fraudulently paid, cxlii-iu. Gifts to University Library from Arch- bishop, the Lord Keeper, <ftc„ cxliv. Leicester opposes Archbishops Visitation of Winchester Diocese, cxlvi. The Queen’s authority disregarded. Ceremony and discipline, cxlvii. Parker’s last letter to Burghley. Death of the Archbishop, 17 May, 1575. His vigorous mind; preparedness; favourite motto, cxlvn His funeral. Subsequent fate of Lambeth Chapel, cxlviii. Desecration of Parker’s Tomb. ttVm, bones reburied by Archbishop Sancroft. His Wdl (see Gloss:;) and bequests; directions about Library, cxlix. Parker as head of a household; his abstemiousness; magnificent hospitality and great housekeeping ”; his aversion to debt. His c 'ess, cl ii. His recreations. Encroachments of the Papacy. Romish Church, mediaeval. English Church, primitive. Parker’s sons and grand- children, elm. His many benefactions. Bequeaths but small fortune to his family. His character, cliv. His loyalty to the Queen. Parker, a great antiquary, saved from destruction all ancient records he could collect at dispersion of old libraries, clvi-vii. Active in printing old books (see also clxii). His mteiest in Anglo-Saxon and conscientiousness about reprints, clviii. How Lanfranc and others treated old chronicles, clix. Parker’s services to English History. His household at Bekesbourne, clx. Thirleby and Boxall committed to the Arch- bishop’s care; treated by him as guests, cxli. Parker prints Latin Schoolbooks. Affection for Parker in his family circle ; his influence on them, clxii. A wreath on the graves of Matthew and Margaret Parker, cxliv. PARLIAMENT’S ACTION IN REPLY TO PAPAL BULL (of 1570 excommunicating Queen Elizabeth) - Partridges (roosted) Partridges (trapping—foreign). On results of the importation of foreign birds see Article in the Spectator, 20th September, 1913, headed Dis- appearing Partridges. After mentioning two other solutions of the dearth of partridges [viz.: (a) the use of chemicals on the land, (b) that the increased eeping of poultry in the fields is detrimental to wild birds], the writer goes on to say that a third theory, which seems to fit the facts better than the PAGE CXT111 liv