97 GLOSSARY-INDEX. Portrait of Matthbw Parker. (Frontispiece described.) I omitted to mention at p. cxiv that the abbreviated signature of the engraver, “R. Berg,” is at the bottom right hand side of the original picture .... Portrait op Queen Elizabeth (in Corpus Christi College Statutes) described Posye, a “ bouquet ” of herbs (see Bundle) POTAGE (see Gussett) .... POTAGE OF SANDE ELES AND LAMPERNS POTAGE OR STEWED BROATH, OR SEWE Potatoes (when introduced) Pottell, a liquid measure of 2 quarts - - 25, Poude of almodes, abbreviation of “ pounde of almondes ” Pouder, poudre, powder, powdered spices such as (besides those named at p. 56) powder of pepper, powder of clowes (cloves), good powder; powder marchant, a tart kind of pulverized spice; blaunche powder made of ginger, cinnamon and nutmegs; powder fort, a hot mixture of ginger, pepper, etc. This last, The Cook’s Oracle says, was very similar to a “ Savoury Ragout powder,” for which he gives the following recipe:—“Salt loz., mustard i oz., allspice % oz. (or if prefer, mace and cloves); black pepper ground and lemon peel grated, pounded and sifted fine, £ oz. each; ginger and nut- meg grated i oz. each ; cayenne pepper 2 drachms. Dry all in a Dutch oven before a gentle fire—not too close, or the fine flavour will evaporate. Infused in 1 quart of vinegar or wine, they make a savoury relish for soups, sauces, etc.” [Cotgrave says “ Pouldre blanche ” (white powder, the Blaynshe powder of the Northumberland Household Book), was “ a powder composed of ginger, cinnamon and nutmegs, much in use among Cookes.” Cotgrave also mentions Pouldre le due (probably a corruption of ■pouldre douce) which he says was a powder “made of sugair and cinnamon (sometimes) other aromaticall simples added unto them.”—J. H.] POUDERED, POWDRED, MEAT OR FISH, was salted or sprinkled with salt .... POUDERED CRUSTS .... POWRE (TO), to pour .... POYSONED PYE - Precedence at Feasts .... PAGE cxiv-xv cxvi 21 47 13 7 xxxiii 26,27,55 51 xxxvi, 56 7 10 18 xxxii xliii HH