76 GLOSSARY-INDEX. Moscow; two others, each weighing lOOlbs. with enormous clouble-heacleci eagles . . . others in the shape of a duck, a parrot or a dove; and great decorative gingerbreads representing the Kremlin with its turrets, surrounded by horse- soldiers, and so forth. Altogether there were offered to him on this occasion more than 120 gingerbreads and other sweet dishes. This same custom was also very widespread among the nobles and among the peasants ” Gentille (galentyne), beautiful Fashionable, elegant, refined, delicate.—(N. E. D.) Gently, courteously - Gerfalcon, gerfawcon; the large falcon used by Royalty for hawking; (here spelt jerfalcon). “ A Gerfawcon whyte as mylke In all thys worlde is non swylk ” (such) (Quoted by Halliwell.) Ghest, gest, really meant stranger; and so, guest. The great hall of the Deanery, Worcester, is still called the Gesten Hall .... Gobyns, gebenes ; pieces, lumps [Literally, mouthfuls; “Gob” being a Celtic word for mouth. — J. H.] - Goose Goose (Grene), a young or midsummer goose; for “A young goose,” says the Family Receipt Book, “ is never called a gosling in culinary language.” A Fair held at Bow in Essex was called Green Goose Fair. Young geese are called Green Geese till they are four months old. A green goose is only seasoned with pepper and salt; no onion, no sage. The Cook’s Oracle says geese are at their best between the middle of June and 1st Sept. Mrs. Glasse (1803 Edn:) gives the following recipe for Sorrel Sauce, which she calls “ Green Sauce, to be served in a boat for Green Geese ” : “ Take ipint of the juice of Sorrel, if no Sorrel, Spinage juice; have ready a cullis (a strong broth) of veal broth— about J pt., some sugar, the juice of an orange or lemon, boil it up for 5 or 6 minutes; then put your sorrel-juice in, and just boil it up. Be careful to keep it stirring all the time, or it will curdle; then put it in your boat.” (Regarding other Sorrel Sauces, see Sorrel.) .... Goose (Stubble), a grayling goose; this, according to Mrs. Glasse, you first hang up “ in the feathers” for page 12, 13 li cxii XV xxxviii li 3 3, 9