GLOSSAEY-INDEX. 112 Varlet, a servant; sometimes a knave Vaunte (fryter, a meat fritter). Halliwell says it was a clish made in a frying-pan and contained marrow, plums (raisins, as in plum pudding), and eggs [A Fruyter vaunte is viaunde, i.e. a meat fritter — J. H.] Vautes [Apparently this word is from Fr: Volter. It: Voltare, to turn; the same word as to vault or tumble; it is of a similar class to Sauter. It here means that the fritter has to be turned in the pan as a pancake is treated. . . The word is also spelled Voutes or Voivtes.—J. H.] Veale, best in Januarye Veale (breste of) for second course Veale (kidney of) for vautes Veale (loyne or brest of), with sauce orangers Veale (roosted), for fyrste course Veale (shoulder of), for jellye - Vegetables more numerous now than in tudor days Vellum, a fine parchment made from skins of calves, kids, &c: for writing on: skins of other animals prepared the same way are used for other purposes, as those of a he goat, or a wolf, for drum heads, and those of asses for battledores.—[Cent: Diet:). (see also Parchment). Vellum, Calfskin . . repre- sents the adj: of veal, ‘ calf.’ “By common consent the name of parchment has in modern times given place to that of vellum, a term properly applicable only to calf’s skin.”— (Cent: Diet:) - Veneson (baken), for second course Veneson (to bake), larded - Veneson (pestle, i.e. leg of), upon a browse Veneson (to ROOSTE), with cinamone sauce .- Vente, hole in top of pie to let out the steam - Verde sauce, or vert sauce or grene sauce (see Geese—Grene). The Forme of Cury gives another recipe : “ Verde sawse. Takeparsel, mynt, garlak, a litul serpell (wild thyme) and sawge, a litul canel, gynger, piper, wyne, brede, vynegar and salt; grynde it smale with saffron and messe (i.e. portion) it forth ” Vergis, vergious, vergys, veriuce, &c. [Vergis, means verjuice, i.e. green juice (Lat. jus viride), made from crab apples. It is not the PAGE cxliii 80 30, 31 3 7 31 9 7 23 xxxii xxiii, lxxi 7,9 19 9 19-21 44. 45 12