64 GLOSSARY-INDEX. Boar. “The wild boar under old forest laws was one of the ‘ beasts of the forest,’ and as such, under the Norman Kings, the unprivileged killing of it was punishable by death or the loss of a member. It was hunted in England on foot and on horseback, with dogs, the weapon of attack was always a spear. . . As an article of food the Boar’s head was long considered a special delicacy, and its serving attended with much ceremonial. At Queen’s College, Oxford, the dish is still brought in on Xmas Day in procession, accompanied by the singing of a carol.”—(Enc: Brit:, XI.Edn:) - Boggle ; to start with fright; to object Bolde (meat), boiled - Boleyn (Queen Anne) - Boltell Cloth (see Hippocras and Boulter) Bones op biepe, to stew - Bones used in bread . Bonys and Cotys, i.e. bones and coats Books, great destruction of, and Parker’s efforts to save them - PAGE 2 cxxiii 6 lxv, &c. Gloss: 53 44 lxriii clvi-lviii Books, Parker’s gifts to Corpus Christi College and Univ: Libraries - . ix, cxlv, cxlix, &c. Borage Flours (Tarte op) 39 Boulter, flour sieve, fine cloth, from which “boulted,” sifted. “ Such and so finely boulted didst thou seem” (Hen: V.) Boxall, Dean of Windsor - Brass representing Peacock Feast (King’s Lynn) - xxxviii Brawne, lean meat (brawn and muscle is the reverse of fat and flabby) - - xxxvi, 2, 3 9 Bra YE, to pound in a mortar - 50 Breake, term for carving venison: ‘ ‘ breake that deare ’ ’ xlii Breme, upon Soppes - . . - 15, 21 Brenninge, bren, brent; burning, burn, burnt - xciii-ir, cxxx BRETTE. The N. E. D. quotes : “ What they call Bret in Lincolnshire and Yorkshire and in all the East part of England is the Turbot of the West Country, where the name Bret is not known.” [Bret: Yarrell calls this Pleuronectes rhombus; and the Turbot Pleuronectes maximus.—J. H.] 14-15 Brewes, browes, brues, bread soaked in gravy; it also means broth. The similar word, brewet, or bruet, is from French ‘ brouet,’ pottage, or broth. (Note in Forme of Cury) - - - - 8, 9 Broath, broathe ; broth, sauce or gravy - - 14