75 lxvi GLOSSARY-INDEX. same word as that used when describing foods as being “ in galentyne,” which simply means “ in gelatine.” Fish, such as lampreys (see p. li, Introd :) were then often preserved in gelatine, and would keep so a long time, in a cool place ; like tenche in gelly, pp. 14, 15. “ A Nominaleof the 15th Century, ” Wright’sVocabu- laries, vol. 1, 1857, p. 242, gives Hec delicie v Hec lautica > dantyths. Hec galanticie ' J. H.] Game Pie (Sir Henry Peek’s) Gelly, Tenche in ; Cat in gely [see also Mr. Hodgkin’s note on Galentyne]. Lawmbre geele was amber jelly - Geneva Bible (the) - Gensbread, gengerbread, gyngebreed, gingerbread; originally “ gingibretum,” but the third syllable was early confounded with “ bread,” and the insertion of an 1 r ’ in the second syllable completed the semblance of a compounded word. Chaucer says: “ They sette hym Roial spicerye and gynge- breed” ; and Shakespeare: “An’ I had one penny in the world thou shoudst have it to buy ginger- bread” (Love's Lab: Lost). Originally no ginger was included; a recipe of 1430 for “ gyngerbrede ” includes “a quart of bony, safroun, pouder Pepir and gratyed Brede,” but no ginger is mentioned. The illustrations of the autumn number of The Studio, 1912, include some delightful instances of carved wooden moulds for gingerbread. Regard- ing these we read: “ Gingerbread was largely used in the XVIth and XVIIth, and even the XVIIIth Century, not only as a natural article of food, but also as a much appreciated gift. According to the meaning and subject of the design, it was offered at birth, wedding, and even at funeral feasts. There were also gingerbreads of ‘ honour ’ which, made to order and of exceptional size, were some- times more than a yard wide, and weighed as much as 1501bs. They were offered as a welcome, a gift of honour, by workmen to their patrons, by the young to the old, as a sign of humility and respect. Thus, on the occasion of the birth of the Czar, Peter the Great, many huge gingerbreads of different designs were presented to his father, amongst them one bearing the arms of the City of PAGE li, 10, &c. 54 xxx, 14