GLOSSARY-INDEX. 94 any pecok he was proud and gay” (1386, Chaucer). —(N. E. D.) also gives “eycltok”—(? from the “eyes” in his tail?) - Peacock and Pope Julius - Peacock “in his pride” at Feasts. Peacocks are said to be in their pride when they extend their tails in a circle and drop their wings.—(N. E. D.) Peacock, recipes for cooking Peacock (Brass of a Peacock Feast) Peacock, served at Entertainment given by Duke of Clarence - Peacock, Natural history of. See also “ clymmeth hye,” “ernefully,” and “feareth.” (Gloss:) With regard to “clymmeth,” I may add that Mr. Hodgkin’s note on this is confirmed by a quotation from Hortus Sanitatis, bk. iii, § 93, quoted in Natural History in Shakespeare’s Time: “ The Peacock when he ascends on high betokens rain.” On the other hand, in verses headed “ Signs of rain ” (Jenner) in The Modern Poetical Speaker, by Mrs. Palliser, 1848, occur the lines : “ Loud quack the ducks, the peacocks cry, The distant hills are seeming nigh.” Perhaps therefore the peacock “clymmeth” in both senses when rain threatens ? Peacock, oath of valour taken on head of Peacock [Gough is romancing somewhat in the passage quoted by Warner (see p. xxxvi-vii Introd:), apparently the oath was taken on the head of a live bird, not a dead one ; as was also the case with the pheasant mentioned by Mrs. Markham (see footnote, p. xxxvii). In the latter case the bird was brought in on the fist of the Principal Herald of the Golden Fleece (see Swainson’s Folk Lore of Brit: Birds, p. 171, &c., Folk Lore Society, 1885).—J. H.] - Peares for dessert; Pears (Wardens) to preserve Pece, a drinking cup (see Hippocras) Peces, pieces - People out op Work .... Perceiving, understanding Perche (in service for fyshe dayes) Perche (Pyke sauce for) .... Perche, a rod (see Hippocras) Peregrine, the kind of falcon used by Earls (mentioned in Proper Terms, see Bibliography) Perys, pears ..... PAGE 3, 11 xxxvii xxxvi xxxix, 2 xxxviii xl xl & Gloss: xxxvii 17, 5G Gloss: 35, 51 c xxii 15 21 Gloss : xv 40