73 GLOSSARY-INDEX. PAGE xcii xcii liv, 3, 51, 11 xxxix XXXV xlix xcv xxxix, &c. lxxxviii, cxxvii 5, &c. 15, 21 15 22 xcv Ferme, farm - Ferriage, feriage ; boat or ferry hire Fesande, fesante, ffesante ; pheasant; and with “onyon sauce” Feste rialle .... FlGGY PUDDING - Fireworks, at Kenilworth - Flawes, flakes - Flee ; to flay, skin Flemish, French, and Dutch Refugees Fless day, flesh day ; not a fast Flewke, floex, floke, floykes ; Flounders Flounders - Flower, flour (floer of rys, rice flour, ground rice) Fond, foolish .... Foreign invasion, threatened 1563, 1570, 1572 xcix, cxvii, cxxiv,&c Forks, imported from Italy in James I’s reign. But we know of one “forcke” that Queen Elizabeth herself possessed, which is mentioned in Nichols’ book describing the Processions of Queen Elizabeth; he quotes from a letter written by Rowland Whyte to Sir Robert Sidney: “A spoone and a forcke of fair agatte,” Whyte says, were among the things which, “ to grace his lordship more, she of herself took from him ” ; the Queen’s host being the lord keeper, Sir John Puckering, at whose house at Kew she was staying .... Forme, form, pattern, model. Forme of Cury Frasye [The printer or the scribe who wrote the MS. from which the book was originally printed frequently inverts the sequence of letters. Frciyse, or Froise, meant something fried. Palsgrave (1530) gives : “ Froyse of Egges, uovte doeuf = voute d’ceuf,” which we have seen was a fried dish. Cotgrave (1650) says: “ Fraise m. pain fraise, a Panadoe of the crummes of stale manchet, steeped some while in two or three changes of water, and then boiled in a pipkin with butter, or in chicken or capon broth, and often stirred with a spoon untill it be ready.”—J. H.] Free schools, many founded by Parker French books in fashion .... Frete, to rub (like to fret) - Fritteris. Halliwell says were small pancakes with apples in them; also a name for wafers - Fruit, greater variety now than in XYIth Century xli 38 50, 51 lix-lx cxliii 42 13 XXXll