121 BIBLIOGRAPHY. afterwards to Queen Elizabeth by Edward Lord Stafford, and now in the possession of Gustavus Brander, Esq. Illustrated, with Notes and a copious Index or Glossary. A manuscript of the Editor of the same age and subject with other congruous matters are subjoined. By an antiquary (Samuel Pegge, is written in). London. Printed by J. Nichols, printer to the Soc: of Antiquaries MDCCLXXX. B.M.; 42. e. 9. IJ.L.C. ; D. dd. 20. 26. In the latter is a charming portrait of old Dr. Samuel Pegge which I imagine was pasted in later, as the book is dated 1780 and the portrait 1785—engraved by J. Basire, from a painting by A. Davis, Jun., and it represents a dear old man of 81 in wig, bands and gown, and is inscribed “Impensis et ex voto Gustavi Brander, Arm: sibi et amicis.” (Pegge lived till 1796.) The modest and interesting Preface, full of research on the history of cookery, addressed “ to the curious antiquarian Reader,” is well worth study, with its many details of early English cookery. Among other things he says (p. xxx) of “ pouder douce ” (see Pouders, Gloss :): “ This Speght says is what gingerbread is made of.” The Forme of Cury is embodied by Warner in Antiquitates Culinarice, but this book by Dr. Samuel Pegge is more reliable, being nearer the original. Mr. Hodgkin believes that the MS. Roll at the British Museum is but the copy of a yet older one. Gleanings prom Natural History op the Ancients, by William Houghton, M.A., London, 1879. B.M. ; 2250. b. 8. U-L.C.; M.A. 27. 37. The Good huswife’s Jewell, wherein is to be found most excellent and rare Deuises, for conceites in Cookery found out of the practise of Thomas Dawson whereunto is adioyned Sundry approved receits for many soueraine oyles and the way to distill many precious waters with divers approved medicines for many diseases. Also certain approved points of husbandry, very necessary for all Husbandmen to know. Newly set forth with additions, 1596- Imprinted at London for Edward White dwelling at the little North doore of Paules at the Sign of the Sun. B.M.; 1037 |. (Parts of this book are the same as our Cookery Book, but differently arranged.) U.L.C.; 1711 Edn : U. 7. 12. and 1821 Edn: D. 30. 30. in 3 vols. The Good Huswives Handmaid for Cookerie in her kitchen in dressing all manner of meat with other wholsom diet for her and her houshold, &c., 158S. B.M.; 1037 e. I. The Good Houswives Treasurie. Imprinted at London by Edward Allde, 1588, being a very necessarie booke instructing to the dressing of meates. B.M.; 1038. d. 43. Hilda’s Diary op a Cape Housekeeper, by Hildagonda Duckitt. London, Chapman and Hall, 1902. (Unusual recipes.)