GLOSSARY-INDEX. 105 PAGE grydeyron or on the coles and they ben the more holsomer” ... - - 22-3 SODEINLY ..... xciii Solar, soler, here a summerhouse; generally an upper room, a boudoir or sittingroom for the master and mistress of the house, apart from the great hall cxx Solemn, Solemnpne, was used to describe a cere- monious or state occasion as here at p. xxii, or, as in Shakespeare: “My Lords a solemn hunting is in hand, there will the lovely Roman ladies troop.” The word also sometimes meant religious or sacred—as in: “And his faclir and modir wenten each jeer to Jerusalem in the solempne dai of pask” (Wycliff), Luke ii. 41 - xxii, xlvi Soles (fryed) ..... 15 Solomon’s feast. With regard to the great Israelitish Feasts, Mr. Herbert Loewe kindly explains that: In primitive Israel, a man might only kill meat for sacrifice, and therefore had to sacrifice if he desired a non-vegetarian dinner. It was the great reform of Deuteronomy, he says, to limit all sacrifice to the Central Sanctuary, but to allow the killing of animals elsewhere for food, provided that the blood was poured out, a vital condition (Deut: xii. 20, &c.) The Sacrifice meant a sacred family reunion before God in the Temple, a consecration of the family meal, such as Elkanah’s annual sacrifice. (I. Sam: i.) - - - - xxiii SOMER, summer - 2 Soppes, Sippets; toasted bread, soaked in gravy, sauce or wine; the names were also given to soup with sippets in it- - . - S-9, &c. Soppes (sorrell) for chekins, here meant sippets soaked in sorrell sauce. Sorrell Soppes was also the name of a drink used in fevers in the XVIth Century ..... 21 Sorell, Sorrell, Sorel, &c.: (1) “A Bucke the first year is a Fawne, the second yeare a Prickett, the third yeare a Sorrell ” (Return from Parnessus, 1606); (2) the sorrel plant, much used for sauces, &c. (see Sauce). To stewe Sorrel “ k, la Frangaise ” this 1842 recipe seems worth recording: “Strip the leaves from the stalks, wash them well, scald them in boiling water in a silver saucepan or in an earthern pipkin, strain and stew them in a little gravy till tender; serve with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. (The Practice of Cookery) - 5