80 GLOSSARY-INDEX. PAGE Hippocras, Ipocras, Ypocrasse, or wine of Hippocrates; named after the ancient Greek physician. In 1613 ‘1 The King and Queen were both present and tasted wafers and hippocras, as at ordinary weddings.” Court and Times of James I. “ After the christen- ing were brought wafers, comfits . . and hypocras and muscadine wine” (Strype, 1709.) See N. E. D. (abbrevd.) “A beverage composed of wine with spices and sugar, strained through a cloth. It is said to have taken its name from ‘ Hippocrates’ sleeve,’ the term apothecaries gave to a strainer” or filter of flannel—a jelly bag is very like a long pointed sleeve. “It was a great favourite with our ancestors, being served up at every entertainment, public or private. It generally made a part of the last course, and was taken immediately after dinner with wafers or some other light biscuits. According to Pegge, it was in use at St. John’s College, Cambridge, as late as the XYIIIth Century, and brought in at Christmas at the close of the dinner,” says Halliwell, who gives several recipes for it, of which the oldest, from the Forme of Cury, is as follows: “To make Ypocrasse for lords with gynger, synamon, and graynes, suguor and turnesoll; and for comyn pepull gynger, canell, longe peper and claryfyed hony. Loke ye have feyre pewter basens to kepe in your pouders and your ypocrasse to ren ynne, and to Yj basens ye muste have Yj renners on a perche . . . and loke your poudurs and your gynger be redy and well paryd or hit be beton into poudur. Gynger Colombyne is the best gynger. . . Now then thou knowest the properties of (i.e. what is wanted for) ypocras. Your poudurs must he everyche by themselfe, and leid in a bledder in stove, hang sure your perche with baggs and that no bagge twoyche other, but basen twoyche basen. The fyrst bagge of a galon, every on of the other a potell. Fyrst do into a basen a galon or ij of red wyne, then put in your poudurs and do it into the renners and so into the second bagge. Then take a pece and assay it and yef hit be anythyng to stronge of gynger, alay it withe synamon, and yef it be strong of synamon alay it withe sugour cute. And thus schall ye make parfyte ypocras. And loke your bagges be of