119 BIBLIOGRAPHY. Good drink also, luscious and fine, Blood of Allemaine, romnay and wine with Hey! Capons well baked with knuckles of the roe, Raisins and currants and other spices too, with Hey 1 [Show, see Shoes, p. 51, in which birds are used.] Brawn and mustard holds its own in a carol preserved on a solitary leaf of a book of carols printed by Wynkin de Worde, called “ A carol bryngyng in the Bore’s Head ”: “ Be glad lords both more or less For this hath ordained our steward To cheer you all this Christmas The boar’s head with mustard.” On the other side of the same leaf from Wynkin de Worde’s collection is a rollicking carol on Hunting, describing how: “ There came a great hart without guile, There he goeth, there he goeth, With hey go bet, hey go bet how, We shall have sport and game enow. Talbot, my hound, with a merry taste, All about the greenwood he gan cast, I took my horn and blew him a blast, With tro, ro, ro ; tro, ro, ro, ro.” [Halliwell gives the following: hey go bet, a hunting phrase, equivalent to go along! How or hoo, a hunting cry. Taste, smell. Trororoio, a cry of hunters returning home after the hunt is over.] Lastly from a “ code of instructions, for the guidance of a nobleman’s household of the Elizabethan era ”—origin not defined, we are told: “On Christmas Day, service in the church ended, the gentlemen presently repair into the hall to breakfast, with brawn, mustard and malmesey.” “ At dinner the . . . butlers of the house are decently to set bread, napkins and trenchers, in good form at every table; with spoons and knives,” no forks 1 “At the first course is served in a fair and large boar’s head, upon a silver platter, with minstrelsy.” The Closet op the Eminently Learned Sir Kenelme Digbie, Kt., opened, whereby is discovered several ways for making of Metheglin, Sider, Cherry Wine, &c.: together with excellent Directions for Cookery. As also for Preserving, Conserving, Candying, &c.: Published by his son’s consent. London. Printed by E. C. for H. Browne, at the Star in Little Britain, 1669. Newly edited with introductory Notes and Glossary, by Anne Maedonnel. P. Lee Warner, Publisher to the Medici Society, Ltd., 1910. U.L.C.; 719 C. 91. 2. B.M. ; 07942. h. 5.