106 GLOSSARY-INDEX. Sorrell Sauce. See also Goose (grene) for another recipe ; and yet another Sorrel Sauce is given in The Practice of Cookery (1842): Pick and wash some Sorrel, put it into a stewpan with a little water, stir it to prevent its burning, and when it is tender, drain and mince it finely; fry it for \ hour in a stewpan with a little butter, then dredge in a tablesp : of flour, moisten it with boiling cream, and let it stew on a slow fire for 1 hour, add a little salt, and if too acid, a little sugar. Before serving, thicken with the beaten (and strained) yolks of 4 eggs. “ Sauce Sorel” was eaten with “Plyace” - - - - - 9, 13, 20 Sorrell Syster, a three-year-old hind. (“ A Pricked and a Sorrell Syster is ever in season ”) - - 5 Soteltye, an ornamental, emblematic group, made of sugar, tinsel, wax, &c., which was brought in with the various courses at dinner. Forme of Cury says that no great entertainment was complete without these - - - xlvi Sour Sauce (figurative) .... cxxxv Souveraine, master .... xPy Sparowes (to stew with mutton) - - 55 Sparowes for a “game pie” ... 54 Sparrow Hawk, the bird used by priests for falconry, and sometimes called a Hobby—a very small kind of hawk which lived on mice, small birds and insects ..... xy Spices, lavish use of xxxv Spies, spices. See Hippocras - - - Gloss: Spight, spite, malice .... xxxii Square song ..... cxxxiv Stagge, “verve good tyll holye Rood daye” - 5 Stag—“a great fat” - - - - xcvii Stalling, stallacion, installation - - - xxiii, 10 Standing cup, tall cup with cover - - - cxxii State Visits of the Queen to the Primate. At Lambeth, 1560 and 1573; Croydon, 1573; Canter- bury, 1574. Besides the State visits recorded pp. lxxxvii and cxxxii-v, the Queen, as Dean Hook mentions, paid two others to the Primate, both in 1573. First at Lambeth, in March, for a day or two on her way to Greenwich ; and secondly in July, at his house at Croydon, at which place her Majesty was the Primate’s guest for 7 days, together with all her attendants. When at Lambeth, a Lenten sermon was preached before