93 GLOSSARY-INDEX. other two, is held, by many men of wide experience : this is that owing to the partridge of to-day having a weaker constitution than the partridge of 30 years ago, they succumb to ailments which they would not in old days have contracted. The writer traces this deterioration to the importation of partridges from Austria and Hungary, which first became fashionable, he says, in the ’90’s, when, wet seasons having greatly reduced the number of birds, the suggestion was made that live birds and eggs for hatching could be imported from abroad to supplement the home stock. Thousands of foreign eggs and birds were thus brought over, and as a result the strain of the English stock has been completely changed ; it is no longer the old native stock, but a contaminated strain unable to with- stand the English climate, or needing some food or corrective which the English soil does not supply. The climate finds out the weakness of the altered constitution of the birds, and they dis- appear. “ This is a theory which seems to rest on sound reasoning,” adds the writer, “ and if it could be proved it would doubtless do a great deal to stop importations of live partridges and eggs from abroad. But it is a theory which is by no means universally accepted ” - Partridges that have two hearts. With regard to ideas about birds and beasts in Tudor days, a delightful book already exists: Natural History in Shakespeare's Time (see Bibliography), full of charming facts and terrifying pictures. In this a similar description of the peacock is given to that quoted at p. xl, as being from Bartholomew (Berthelet), bk. xii, § 31, but with the addition that the peacock “hath a voice of a fiend, head of a serpent, pace of a thief ” ! Partridges, with ginger Partridges, with sugar and mustard Paryd, pared, peeled (see Hippocras) Past, paste - Pasties ...... Pasties of falow dere and of redde deare Pastry, the room in which pastry was made - Paul’s (Burning of St.) - Payn Puffe (see Panne puffe) Peacock (other spellings were pakok, pekok, pakoc, &c., while pehenne, pohenne, meant peahen.) “ As PAGE xviii-xix xli xxxvi, 2 lv Gloss: liii xxxii 11, 13 XXXV xx, xcii-v Gloss: