GLOSSARY-INDEX. 91 PAGE provided, cvi-vii. Three Feasts at Canterbury (1565) at Whitsuntide, cvii. Project for salt works in Kent. Parker’s contribution towards them, sug- gestion to repair Dover Haven. The Bishops' Bible, cix (and lxvi). Parker collects ancient MSS. The “ quire of antiquity,” cxi. Privy Council grant an office for preservation of ancient records; private owners requested to show theirs, cxii. Parker edits Matthew Paris, &c. His correspondence with Illyricus on old books. Matthew Paris regarding Papal abuses. Parker’s great care in comparing old copies, cxii-iii. Obtains (1568) New Statutes for Corpus Christi College. Parker’s portrait therein, described (Frontispiece), cxiv. Pictures in Book of Statutes of Archbishop preaching, and of Queen Elizabeth, cxv-vi. Cecil in danger. Threat of Foreign Invasion. Archbishop’s barge damaged. Rebellion in Norfolk, cxvii. Papal Bull to depose the Queen. Pope supports rebel Earls in the North. Action of Parliament, cxviii. Parker’s injunctions as to Church plate, &c. (1570). His hospitalities at Canterbury, cxix. Building at Lambeth, cxx. Death of Margaret Parker; her character; her tomb, cxx-i. Plot (1572) to murder Burghley. Massacre of St. Bartholomew. Pope Gregory Kill's Jubilee for same. Foreign plots against England. Apprehension in England. Queen’s trust in Papists, cxxiii-v. Fears for her safety. Vidam of Chartres’ warning, cxxvi. Prophecies forbidden. Leicester’s protege, cxxvii. Difficult times. Ruined churches. Irreligion. Parker’s gifts of books to Burghley, cxxviii-ix. Literary and Antiquarian studies. Antiquitates Britannica, etc., cxxx. Puritans and Romanists again. King of Poland and Cardinal of Loraine’s plots. Enemies of England, cxxxi. The Queen’s Progress in Kent (1573) and visit to Canterbury, cxxxii-v. Book against Burghley (1573). Parker’s advice to him, cxxxv. Designs against the Queen’s life. ‘‘Papists and Precisians.” A “ mighty deformity” in Essex, cxxxvi-vii. “ Prophesyings.” Protest against alienation of Church revenues, cxxxviii-ix. Parker’s last Visitation of Canterbury. Helps to increase salary of Hebrew Lecturer, Cambridge, cxxxviii-cxl. Reprint of King Alfred's Life. Death of Parker’s second son, Matthew ; his widow’s second marriage and character, cxli. Parker’s ill health and literary