90 GLOSSARY-INDEX. His Cambridge friends, Bilney, Bidley, Latimer, Nicholas Bacon, Cecil, lxiii. Bilney’s martyrdom, lxiv. Parker ordained and elected Fellow of his College. Chaplain to Queen Anne Boleyn. Dean of Stoke (that College eventually suppressed), Ixv. Anne Boleyn’s charge to Parker regarding Princess Elizabeth. His care for Stoke, Ixvi-vii. Preaches against worship of relics; and to the rebels in Kett’s rebellion. Helps to guard Norwich at night, lxviii-ix. Appointed Master of his College. His business qualities, and defence of College property, Ixx-lxxi. Marries Margaret Harlestone; her remarkable qualities. English women in Tudor days, lxxi-iii. Life at the Master’s Lodge, Corpus Christi College, Ixxiii. Despoiled by Queen Mary, and in danger of his life. Retires to Norfolk, Ixxiv. Literary pursuits. Defence of Priests’ Marriages, lxxvi. Question of Clerical Marriage, lxxiv-ix. On accession of Queen Elizabeth, Parker called to be Archbishop. His great reluctance to under- take it, lxxx-iii. Parker consecrated Archbishop 1559. Refutation of “Nag’s Head” story, lxxxiv. Paucity of Bishops, lxxxv. Posthumous honours to Bucer and Fagius, at Cambridge; and to Peter Martyr’s wife, at Oxford, lxxxvi-vii. Queen Elizabeth dines (1560) with the Archbishop at Lambeth, lxxxvii. Parker’s kindness to Flemish Refugees, lxxxviii. Walloons at Stamford. Help to foreign Protestants, lxxxix-xc. Yearly expenses of the Archbishop, xci. Destruction of St. Paul’s Steeple, in 1561, by lightning, xcii-v. The Thirty- Nine Articles, xcv. The Queen’s Supremacy. Parker repairs the Archbishop’s Palace at Canter- bury. His vast hospitality there, xcvi. Queen Elizabeth’s gift of “a great fat stag” killed by herself. Pestilence in London, 1563. Famine at Canterbury, xcvii. Due de Guise and Mary Queen of Scots, xcviii. French threat of Invasion. Unpre- paredness of England, xcix-c. Parker repairs the Chancels in Diocese, and the Great Hall at Canter- bury, c. Wednesday made a fish day, ci. Dispen- sation of the Universities and Winchester. Puritans and Romanists, cii-iii (and cxxxi and cxxxvi). Parker on authority of the Bible and of the ancient history of the Church, civ (and cx). Murder excused by both Romanists and Puritans, cv-vi. Threats of invasion. Armour to be PAGE I