107 GLOSSARY-INDEX. her by Dr. Pearse, from a pulpit erected in the quadrangle, and listened to by the Queen from an upper gallery. The people below, it was said, divided their attention between her Majesty and the preacher. The Queen was evidently attended by a large retinue, for at dinner, at the Archbishop’s table sat 9 Earls, and 7 Barons ; and at another were the Controller of the Queen’s household, her Secretary, and many other lmights and squires ; a third table was prepared for the great officers of State, the Lord Treasurer, the Lord High Admiral, the Chamberlain and other noblemen (see Hook, pp. 565-7). Dean Hook also quotes various details of the Queen’s stay at Canterbury in 1574 (see Hook, pp. 572, &c.), where, as the Archbishop’s guest, she sat in a marble chair which her ancestors for generations had been accustomed to occupy, and which was now adorned with gilded trappings, and over her was a canopy “ glittering with gold.” The two French Ambassadors, mentioned by Parker as being present, were the Count de Retz with 100 gentlemen in his train, and the Sire de la Motte, who were placed facing the Queen, so as to be able to converse more easily with her. The general public were so anxious to see the Queen that the centre of the Hall was inconveniently crowded, until the Queen—accustomed to direct—gave orders that they should be ranged at the sides of the Hall, so that the foreign guests should see the Hall and the assembled company. At the conclusion of the banquet, music and dancing followed, but the Queen did not dance nor remain long in the hall, but “ went up a secret passage to the Archbishop’s Gallery” to confer with the Ambassadors on matters of State. Before her departure she graciously and appreciatively thanked the Primate for his hospitality. “His Grace conducted her to her carnage, before she entered it she renewed her thanks,” and then passed through the loyal shout- ing crowds “and returned in high spirits to her palace ; ” (see also under Salt, Gloss : the Primate’s gifts to the Queen on this occasion) - lxxxvii, Statutes (new book of) for Corpus Christi College - Stekes, slices of mutton of which the dish “Alowes” was sometimes made Stekes, slices of mutton made into a stewed hash with vegetables .... PAGE cxxxii-xxxv cxiv 35 55