GLOSSARY-INDEX. PAGE two or three nights, and when you dress it you “season it well with pepper and salt, take two middle-sized onions, half a sour apple, a few sage leaves; chop these well and put them into the inside with a lump of butter the size of an egg, and a teacupful of water; tie it up close at both ends.” It will take one or one and a half hours to roast, according to size. “Dish it up; pour into your dish some brown gravy with two spoonfuls of red wine, the same of ale ; serve it up with apple sauce,” made as follows: “ Pare, core, and slice your apples, put them in a saucepan with as much water as will keep them from burning, set them over a slow fire, keep them close covered till they are all of a pulp, then put in a lump of butter, and sugar to your taste; beat them well . . . add a piece of lemon peel.” I see that Dilly—in Boswell’s Life of Johnson—says that Mrs. Glasse’s Art of Cookery was written by Dr. Hill - - 3, 9 GOOSEBERYES WITH CHEKINS ... 31 Gooseberyes (tarte of) - - - - 37 Goshawk, the (female) hawk allotted to yeomen for falconry. “ Ther is a Goshawke and that hawke is for a yemen,” says the Book of St. Albans. The male of the Goshawk was called a tercel - - xv Grammarian, head boy of Grammar School - - cxxxiii Granes, or Graines of Paradise, Greynes de Parys, a spice ; small pungent seeds brought from the East Indies (Warner) ; Cardamoms (N. Bk. of Cookery); but it is sometimes mentioned together with Carda- moms, as though a different spice - - xxxvi Grapes (with chekins) - - - - 31 Greenfish was the name for the kind of Cod which, when salted, was called Ling - - (See Lynge) Gloss : Greese, probably fat used for frying ; “ White Greese ” was lard - - . . . 8, 43 Grene Sauce (with Codde). For another Green Sauce see Goose (Green), above [Grene Sauce was one of the Standard sauces; “Vert Sauce” in French; “ Salsamentum Viride” in Latin.—J. H.] ... 12 Gressel [Probably should be the word Gussell (correctly spelt Jussell) soup is meant, similar to that at p. 47, and there put as Gussett—a chicken broth, for which recipe is given. Or the word gressell may possibly be Graisselle (?) which