GLOSSARY-INDEX. 95 lii Pescoddes; the name of a dish, “peascods” Pessen, peson, peasen, peasyn, &c., the plural of pease. Halliwell quotes from Holloway this couplet from a board in a peafleld in Berkshire: “ Shut the gate after you, I’ll tell you the reason, Because the pigs should not get into the peasen ” Pestle, the leg of an animal; in this case a pestle ("or, as we should say, a haunch) of venison. Pestles of chicken are often mentioned by Warner [The word is derived from pedestal, i.e. that on which the animal stands.—J. H.] Petty, little (see Cury) * Pety peruaut [The second word should be Peruaunf, i.e. Pervaunt, which I believe to be the same word as the modern German Proviant, i.e. Provision, and the ‘ u ’ being modern ‘ v,’ we should write it Provaunt; the English word Provender is of course akin; pety is merely petit, small. By “ Take male marrow, hole parade and kerve it,” they meant, take the marrow of an ox; when extracted from the marrow bone it comes out in a solid form, there being a thin skin containing the marrow itself; this skin is to be removed, leaving the pared marrow whole; this is then to be cut up into small pieces and cooked as directed. The passage is rather obscure, and probably wrongly copied into the Forme of Cury. I have quite clearly ascertained that the Roll now in the Brit: Mus: is a copy or compilation from an older MS. A transcript of the Roll was edited and published by Dr. Samuel Pegge in 1780.—J. H.] Petytoe (a Pygge’s) [It is somewhat questionable whether this name then had the modern meaning of pig’s trotters. In the Sloane MS. 7, one of the recipes f. 107 v., it is called a petitew, and is made from goose giblets. On f. 108 v. it is called a petidaiv, and recipe begins: “Take garbage of yonge gese.” The word has been derived by some from Petits d’oie, i.e. the garbage or giblets of a goose, and the two recipes mentioned above would seem to bear out the accuracy of the suggestion; so that it is possible that a pygge’s petytoe may after all PAGE 33 44 9 38