SWEET ENTREMETS. 317 GeUe au vin d'Oporto GeUe au kirsch GeUe au poires GeUe de coing Kirsch liqueur jelly Port wine jelly Pear jelly Quince jelly Gelee ^ la Dantzig.—Wine jelly flavoured with benedictine liqueur, mixed with gold leaves. — fouettee au jus de fruits.—Whipped fruit juice jelly. — a la macedoine de fruits.—Jelly with mixed fruits. — a la Mosaique.—Mould lined with jelly, and filled with alternate layers of lozenge-shaped slices of various coloured creams (bavarois), and jelly. — Moscovite.—Wine jelly flavoured with kiimmel liqueur, interior filled with whipped jelly (Russe). — Normande.—Inverted mould of wine jelly, with layers of thin slices of apples (cooked), red and white, centre filled with apple puree and cream. — panachee (Mixed Jelly).—Two or three different kinds of jelly, appropriately flavoured, set in alternate layers in the same mould. — a la Russe (Russian Jelly).—Wine jelly whisked to a froth and set in a mould. — a la Voltaire.—Vanilla jelly, flavoured with strong coffee, and kirsch or cognac. Chartreuse de fraise en gel6e.—Wine jelly, with salpicon or puree of strawberries in centre. — a la Chantilly.—Same as above, with vanilla cream in centre and on top. Grape Fruit a la Victoria.—Halves of grape fruit, centre scooped out, and filled with sweet tomato ice, flavoured with grape fruit juice and cura9oa decorated with whipped cream. M61on a la Creole (Cold).—Ripe rock melon, scooped out and filled with ripe strawberries and dice of pine- apple, mixed with syrup, kirsch, and maraschino, then iced. — a la Jeanette (Iced).—Small ripe melon, hollowed out, with flesh made into puree, mixed with cream and sugar, then frozen and refilled ; iced and cut into thick slices ; served with ice wafers. —- Orientale.—Same as k la Creole, omitting the pineapple, and adding some of the melon pulp or puree. — en surprise.—Melon peeled thinly, centre hollowed out and filled with fruit macedoine, flavoured with liqueur and iced, the whole covered with meringue and piped neatly, then browned in oven. M4lon—Melon.