POTAGES—SOUPS. 89 Consomm6 Vitellus. — Clear chicken - flavoured soup, thickened with pearl barley, and garnished with lozenge strips of nouille paste. — Vivian.—Cold chicken consomme, garnished with small dice-shaped cooked cucumber, tomato, and lettuce leaves, also cubes of royal custard made with aspic and cream, and cut out when set. — Voiaille.—Clear chicken soup. — Voiaille frapp6.—Iced clear chicken soup. — Windsor.—Turtle-flavoured clear soup, with finely-cut strips of calf’s foot and veal quenelles. — Xavier.—A vegetable-flavoured clear soup, with a kind of cheese-flavoured batter quenelles run through a colander into the soup. CREMES, PUREES—POTAGES LIES. (Creams, Purees, and other Thick 5oups). Bortsch Polonaise.—A rich beef soup of broth-like con- sistency, flavoured with duck essence, beetroot juice, and sour cream, dice of duck fillet as garnish. Bisque de Crevettes (Shrimp Soup, pink).—A cream-like puree of fish stock and shrimps or prawns. — Ecrevisses (d’) (pink).—Crayfish puree or cream soup. — Homard (de) a la Marini^re (Lobster Bisque).—Lobster cream soup with small fish quenelles as garnish. — Homard (de) a la Parisienne.—Lobster cream soup. — aux Huitres (Oyster Puree).—A light, cream-like oyster soup, served with croutons, — Langoustes (de) (Crawfish, pink).—A cream-like puree of sea crawfish or large lobsters. — Potencies (de).—Scallop cream or puree soup (white). Cr^me ^ PAfricaine.—Cream of rice soup, flavoured with curry, with small dice shapes of artichoke bottoms and aubergine, — Alg^rienne.—A rich cream soup made with sweet potatoes. — Ambassadrice.—Green pea cream, blended with sorrel and lettuce puree, chervil and green peas as garnish. — Andalouse (Maigre).—Cream of rice soup (fish or vegetable stock), with addition of very little tomato puree, — Artichauts (d’).—Green artichoke soup (cream or puree). — Asperges (d’) a la Printani^re.—Asparagus cream, with jardiniere vegetables as garnish. — Avoine (d’).—Oatmeal soup with cream (white).