SWEET ENTREMETS. 315 Fraises a la Capucine (Cold).—Border of wine jelly (masked), filled with small jellied strawberries (marine au liqueur); centre filled with whipped cream “ a la Chantilly.” — ^ la Cardinal (Iced).—Crushed sweetened ripe straw- berries, on a bar of vanilla ice, served in glass dish ; decorated with strips of almonds. — a la C6cil (Cold).—Large ripe strawberries, marinaded in orange and lemon-juice, mixed with whipped cream (Chantilly). — au champagne (Cold).—Selected fine ripe strawberries, dished up and masked with champagne jellied syrup. — ^ la Chantilly.—Ripe strawberries, covered with whipped cream, sweetened with vanilla sugar. — a la Chdtelaine (Iced).—Strawberries steeped in brandy and maraschino gourd on top, or with vanilla cream- ice mixed with crushed macaroons (kirsch flavour). — a la Maconnaise (Cold).—Strawberries poached in Bur- gundy wine syrup, served cold. — a la Marguerite (Cold).—Ripe strawberries in kirsch syrup, semi-frozen ; served in paste cassolettes. — a la Melba (Cold).—Ripe strawberries, iced and covered with whipped cream ; sauced over with raspberry syrup. — meringu6es (Hot).—Ripe strawberries, dished up, covered with meringue, and browned slowly in oven. — en oranges (Iced).—Small oranges filled with orange- flavoured whipped cream and strawberries, then iced. — ^ la Princesse Marie (Cold).—Small apples, peeled, hollowed out and cooked in lemon syrup and white wine; when cold filled with small ripe strawberries, sweetened and marinaded in kirsch ; then masked with strawberry meringue, and baked in sharp oven. The interior of the apples must be kept cold. — ^ la Romanoff.—Ripe strawberries, marinaded in port wine and sugar ; served in glasses, with whipped sweet cream on top, surmounted by a large straw- berry. — ^ la Royale (Iced).—Small boat-shaped puff-pastry cases, filled with small strawberries, then masked with strawberry pulp and coated with vanilla-ice. — Sarah Bernhardt (Iced).—Pine-apple cream ice, mixed with pounded praline almonds placed in cut-glass dish, with large ripe strawberries on top, masked over with iced raspberry syrup. — d la Wilhelmine.—Border of orange and kirsch jelly, filled with very large strawberries, hollowed out and filled with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla sugar.