THE MENU BOOK. 126 Filets de Soles en Ramequin.—Rings of pastry filled with layer of white sauce^ fillets of soles, soubise puree and grated cheese, etc., baked in sharp oven. — a la Regence (cold).—Stuffed rolled fillets of sole, masked in aspic, dished up in form of border, each fillet being decorated with truffles and cream, salad in centre. — a la Rouennaise.—Farced fillets of soles, folded, and poached ; served with mornay sauce, and garnished with mussels. — a la Royale.—Rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with minced truffles and champignons and bechamel sauce ; steamed in oven ; served with hot mousseline or hollandaise sauce. — a la Salisbury.—Lobster shells filled with sole and lobster forcemeat and veloute sauce, with folded fillets of soles on top of each ; steamed in oven ; dressed on rice border ; garnished with button mushrooms. — a la Suisse.—Fillets poached in fish stock, and ranged on a bed of finely cut nouilles, cooked in stock sauced over with Mornay sauce, grated cheese, and glazed under salamander. — a la Sezet.—Fillets of soles stewed in bechamel and tomato sauce, flavoured with anchovy butter; garnished with small lobster croquettes, truffles, anchovy fillets, and mushroom heads. — en Soufhe.—Fillets of soles set in dish, covered with mornay sauce and beaten egg-whites, and baked. — ^ la Suetone.—Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in the oven with butter and white wine ; sauced over with normande sauce, flavoured with pounded pis- tachio kernels ; garnished with small shells of prawns or shrimps, and pistachios. — a la Sulidan.—Fillets poached and dressed in star-shaped pattern; sauced over with Mornay and glazed; bouquets of green asparagus points in centre, also dice of truffle on each fillet. — ^ la Sully.—Fillets of soles egged and crumbed, slightly fried in butter, dressed with mushroom head on each fillet, sauced over with bearnaise, and around with anchovy sauce. — a la Tout Paris.—Folded fillets of sole, poached in fish fumet and lemon juice, arranged in fan-shape style, and garnished with fried marble potatoes (Parisienne) and fried oysters, eschallot butter sauce, flavoured with chervil, and meat glaze. — la Trouville.—Folded fillets, seasoned, broiled in saute-pan with white wine and mushroom liquor, dressed with mushrooms, oysters, fresh breadcrumbs, and white sauce ; surface browned in oven.