THE ENTREE COURSE {GAME). 237 Chevreuil h la Conti.—Venison cutlets, fried in butter, dressed with alternate slices of pickled ox-tongue on lentil puree ; sauce Poivrade. Cotelettes de, a la Turque.—Cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried ; fried parsley garnish ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Cumberland.—Braised with marinade sauce, port wine, and orange-juice flavour introduced. — a la Diane.—Heart-shaped venison fillets, dressed on similarly shaped croutes of game farce croquettes ; served with sauce Diane. Escalopes de, h la Chasseur.—Scallops, breaded and fried ; served with chasseur sauce mixed with red-currant jelly. Filets de, h la Basque.—Fillets of venison, broiled sharply in butter, dressed in hot game farce border; garnished with mushroom ragout, stuffed olives, and truffles ; sauce Poivrade. — au Geni^vre.—Larded fillets, braised with mirepoix and juniper berries; Poivrade sauce, with cream and lemon juice. — aux Olives.—Grilled venison steaks dressed with stoned olives and brown sauce. Cuissot de, a la Richemont.—Boned, larded, and braised or roasted leg; served with small fried sweet potatoes and red-currant jelly. Fricot de, a la Pi^montaise.—Jugged neck or breast with small savoury rice timbales ; tomato sauce. Grenadin de, aux truffes.—Small fillets, larded and braised > served with truffle sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Larded fillets or cutlets sauteed in butter ; served with sauce Hongroise. Longe de, ^ la Tomate.—Braised loin with tomato puree. — a la Mar6chale.—Fillets or cutlets spread over with Duxelle puree, egged, and crumbed, and fried; marechale garniture sauce; Demi-glace. — aux Marrons.—Fillets or cutlets dressed in crown- shape, with chestnut puree in centre ; sauce Poivrade. Noix de, k la gelee de groseille.—Braised kernel with brown sauce, flavoured with red-currant jelly. — a la Poivrade.—Jugged venison with pepper sauce. — la Romanoff.—Braised kernels (noisettes) of venison, with cucumber timbales filled with mushroom puree ; sauce Pounrade. Noix de Chevreuil, a la Sultane.—Marinaded neck, loin or fillet, stewed in Salmi sauce containing pickled sultanas ; reduce with port wine. Tournedos de, d. la Milanaise.—Very small fillets or steaks, broiled or grilled ; served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce.