243 COLD ENTRIES. Cotelettes h la Renaissance.—Broiled cutlets, pressed, and coated with liver farce, mixed with mushrooms and onion puree, masked with tomato aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle, and dressed round salad pyramids. — a la Rubens.—Braised veal cutlets, masked with aspic, blended with tomato sauce and hop sprigs. — de Sanglier en mayonnaise.—Cooked wild boar cutlets dressed with mayonnaise aspic. — a la Vallorbes.—As above, with celery and truffle salad mixed with tartare sauce in centre of dish, in place of the ordinary salad. — de Veau en Belle Vue.—Veal cutlets truffled, larded, and braised, set in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables ; when cold, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and garnished with truffles. — de Volaille a la Russe.—Cold chicken cutlets, truffled and larded, masked with mayonnaise aspic, and dressed on vegetable salad. Creme de Volaille en Tomates.—Scooped-out tomatoes filled with chicken cream, and poached ; when cold, skin removed and coated with aspic ; garnished with chopped aspic and parsley. Cuisses de Volaille, a la Belle Alliance.—Boned, stuffed, and braised legs of chicken, masked with chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; garnished with truffles, and dressed in aspic ; vegetable border. Darioles de Foie-Gras a la Vatel.—Fluted dariole moulds lined with aspic, and decorated with white of egg and truffle shces; filled with layer of foie-gras pate and aspic. — de Volaille a la Chartreuse.—Small dariole shapes of chicken cream, centre filled with mushroom, truffle, and chicken mince. Dodine de, d, la Chambertin.—Breasts of braised duck with foie-gras, etc., set in savoury aspic jelly, flavoured with Burgundy wine. Dominos de Foie-Gras.—Domino-shaped moulds lined with aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle spots to represent dominoes ; coated with mayon- naise, aspic or white chaudfroid sauce, and filled with foie-gras shces; dipped in madere flavoured sauce ; dished up on a delicate celery salad. Filets de Boeuf en Chaudfroid.—Fillets of beef larded, braised, glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; decorated with truffle and white of egg; garnished and dressed according to taste. — de Caneton h la Lorraine.—Roasted duckling fillets, spread over with foie-gras or ham puree, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; decorated with truffle, etc.; dressed on ham mousse border.