170 THE MENU BOOK. Beef Steak a la Su6doise.—Small beef steaks cut from rump, seasoned, and cooked in butter; dressed with onion finely cut and fried, and garnished with saute potatoes. — a la Turinoise.—Grilled steak ; garnished with small nouilles timbales ; tomato sauce. Entrecotes—Sirloin Steaks. Entrecote (Sirloin Steak) a la Bearnaise.—Grilled sirloin steak ; served with bearnaise sauce. — au beurre d’Anchois.—Grilled ; with anchovy butter. — a la Bordelaise (Sauteed).—Broiled or grilled, with beef-marrow and bordelaise sauce. — d. la Hambourg.—Finely chopped beefsteak, seasoned and shaped into fillets, floured and fried in butter, garnished with fried eggs ; onion sauce. — a la Maitre d*H6tel.—Broiled or sauteed sirloin steak, with maitre d’hotel butter. — a la Moelle.—Broiled sirloin steak, with blanched and grilled slices of beef-marrow. — a la Montagne.—Grilled sirloin steak, garnished with small stuffed tomatoes, and artichoke bottoms filled with tossed mushrooms. — a la Nicolas.—Sirloin steak, broiled in butter ; dressed in casserole, with whole truffles and slices of foie-gras. — a la Parisienne.—Sirloin steak, broiled or grilled ; spread over with crushed shallot and chopped parsley, lemon-juice and meat glaze, and garnished with marble shaped fried potatoes. — aux Pommes souffl6es.—Grilled sirloin steak, with parsley butter, garnished with puff or souffle potatoes. — a la Rockaway.—Grilled sirloin steak, served with fried onion rings and grated horseradish. — a la Russe.—Chopped lean beef, rump or fillet round, mixed with beef-marrow, seasoned with onion or shallots, etc., and shaped into fillets, fried in butter, and served with hot horseradish sauce. Note.—For other kinds of dressing and garnish, see Fillet and Tournedo. Filets de Bceuf—Fillets of Beef. {See also Chateaubriand and Tournedos.) Note.—Filets mignons, or cocurs de filets de bceuf, are rather smaller than ordinary fillets, and more closely trimmed than the former. Faux-filet is the name given to fillets cut from other parts, such as rump, suloin or the rib of beef. All these names are intended to be included