SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION. 21 French words, on account of there being in English no equivalents in many instances for the sounds in French. The accents must receive especial attention in writing or reading menus, as the meaning of a word may be completely changed by its use or omission. At the same time, it must be observed that there is, in general, no especial stress of voice on any one syllable in French, even when an accent is placed over a letter in that syllable. The accent determines the sound or pronunciation of the letter alone. The following suggestions and explanations having reference to the various courses comprising a luncheon or dinner menu may prove helpful, not only in the com- pilation of the latter, but also as an aid to the correct interpretation and pronunciation* of the phraseology generally in vogue. The following are a few examples of the names of dishes and words used in French menus, with their approximate pronunciations :— Aigre (ehgr), sour, acid or piquant. Aigrefin (eh-gre-fan), haddock. a la diable (ah lah dee-abl), devilled. a la (ah lah) , in the style of ; after the manner of. Alose (ah-lose), shad. Aloyau (al-oy-yo), sirloin of beef. Alouette (al-ou-et), lark. Ananas (an-an-ah), pineapple. Anguille (an-geeye), eel. Aspic (ahs-peek), savoury jelly. au bleu (o bluh), stewed in wine or in vinegar and water, with herbs. au gratin (o grah-tan), scalloped, au kari (o karee), curried. au maigre (o mehgr), dish in which no meat is used. au naturel (o nah-tu-rehl) , uncooked or boiled in water. Baba (bahbah), spongy yeast cake like savarin, but con- taining currants, or soaked in rum syrup. Bdarnaise (ber-nehz), rich white herb sauce with egg-yolk liaison. Becasse (beh-kas), woodcock. Bechamel (beh-shah-mel), French rich white sauce—the premier foundation sauce. Beignets {ba.Y'^-Y'eh), fritters. Beurre-noir (berr-nooahr), butter cooked to a brown colour. Bisque (beesq), thick soup, made from shellfish. Blanchailles (blan-shy), whitebait. * It is, however, impossible to give exact equivalents to the French u, the e in many instances, the oi, and the ou. Our phonetic rendering is approximate only.