POTAGES—SOUPS. 93 Potage Demidof!.—A light brown chicken puree, garnished with julienne strips of mushrooms, truffles, and carrots, also small braised button onions. — Diane.—Game (partridge) puree with small game quenelles and strips of truffles. — Dieppoise.—White fish soup with mussels and cream liaison (fried croutons). — Doyen.—A blend of green pea puree and chicken cream soup, with small chicken quenelles and green peas as garnish. — Dubarry.—Cream of cauliflower soup, with small cauliflower-buds as garnish. — Duchesse.—A light chicken cream, garnished with rice and savoury custard (royal). — Duchesne.—A light puree of fowl with minced chicken or game fillets, and truffles as garnish. — Dumonteuil.—A bisque of crawfish, blended with tomato puree, egg-yolk liaison and cream, garnished with small fish quenelles. — Ecossaise (Hotch-Potch).—National Scotch soup, con- sisting of mutton broth, finely-cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley, cauliflowers, and peas. — Egyptienne.—Puree of lentils, with finely shredded ham and fried croutons. — Ena.—Chicken cream soup with cucumber strips, also sorrel and chervil (pluche), and croutons. — Epinards.—Spinach puree, soup (green). — Espagnole (Spanish Soup).—A brown beef or mutton- blended soup with onion puree. — Esturgeon.—Sturgeon soup (white). — Excelsior.—Asparagus puree with barley cream liaison, and whole Nizam pearl barley as garnish. — Faisan.—Pheasant soup (light brown). — Faisan a la Diana.—A light puree of pheasant, flavoured with claret and cream, garnished with small game quenelles. — Faisan.—Puree of pheasant, with sherry flavour and cream liaison. — Faubonne.—Puree of French lentils and haricot beans, enriched with cream, garnished with green peas and fried-bread croutons. — Fausse Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup, thick).—A brown thick soup made from calf’s head, flavoured with .sherry or Marsala wine, garnished with small pieces of calf’s head. — Favorite.—White chicken puree diluted with consomme with Brunoise—i.e., finely-minced carrots, turnips, and leeks, as garnish.