POT AGES—SOUPS. 85 Consomm6 Nesselrode.—Clear soup with small chestnut quenelles. — Ni(oise.—Chicken consomme, garnished with tomato strips, dice of potatoes, and flageolets. — Nids d’Hirondelles.—Clear soup, garnished with Chinese bird’s nest (salenganes), previously poached. — Noailles.—Clear soup, with small game quenelles, also royal custard cut into dice, and strips of artichoke bottoms. — Normande.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with green peas and soup vegetables. — Nouilles.—A clear soup with nouilles (a kind of macaroni paste, only flat instead of round). — Nouveau R6gne.—Rich chicken consomme, with a special kind of chicken quenelle, made by having cubes of richly flavoured aspic and gold leaf intro- duced prior to being cooked, these quenelles being put into the soup just at the moment of serving. — CEufs files.—Clear soup with beaten egg run through a colander whilst the soup is boiling. — Olga.—Clarified chicken broth with julienne strips of chicken breast, ox-tongue, and truffles, also green peas. — Olla-Podrida (Spanish).—Clear soup or broth made from various kinds of meat—ox-tail, pig’s-tail, and mutton breasts, garnished v.dth sausage, ham, and vegetable, all cut in slices. — Orge perlee.—Consomme with pearl barley or Nizam barley. — Orientale.—Tomato-flavoured clear soup, garnished with curry flavoured chicken quenelles and rice. — Orleans (Maigre).—A rich clarified fish stock, garnished with small fish quenelles and green peas. — Orsey.—Chicken consomme, garnished with asparagus points and slices of pigeon fillet. — Ostende.—Consomme, flavoured with oyster liquor and garnished with bearded oysters. — Oukha (Russian).—Fish consomme, garnished with vegetable julienne, sorrel, and cepes, — Pain de Foie.—Clear soup with small liver quenelles. — Parisienne.—Clear soup with julienne vegetables and royal custard. — Pates d’ltalie.—Clear soup with Italian paste. — Paysanne (Peasant).—A clear gravy soup with carrots, cabbages, leeks, turnips, and lettuces cut into dice. — Petit-Due.—Clear soup with tapioca, and garnished with fine shreds of truffle and chicken fillets.