71 HORS-D’CEU VRES—A PPETISERS. Canap6s la Turbigo.—Halves of very small bread rolls (stuffing rolls), filled with crayfish tails, celery, truffle, and egg white ; dressed with tomato and remoulade sauce. — a la Windsor.—Pur6e of cooked chicken fillets, ham, tongue, butter, Cheshire cheese, mustard, and cayenne, spread on canapees of fried bread ; garnished with gherkins and hard-boiled egg whites. Carolines.—Name applied to small finger shapes or ball shapes of unsweetened choux paste baked, centre scooped out and filled with cold savoury fish, foie- gras or other dainty puree ; usually masked with chaudfroid sauce. Cassolettes de Betterave.—Small cases made of cooked beetroot, pickled, and filled with a salpicon of egg, anchovies, capers, gherkins, etc. — h I’Epicurienne.—Little pasty cases filled with seasoned lax, tongue, olives, and gherkins, all cut into fine shreds. Caviar ^ TAllemande.—Small cooked kidney potatoes, filled with caviare, with curled anchovy fillet on top, and covered with chopped hard-boiled egg. — en Belle-vue.—Halves of lemon prettily edged, centre filled with caviare; dressed on bread socle in pyramidal form ; garnished with parsley. — de Biluga, glac6.—Shallow ice cup shape of plain water ice and watercresses to form dish, which is filled with fresh iced Biluga or best Russian caviare ; served with lemons, and thinly cut toast or wafer biscuits. — aux Blinis.—This is a special Russian dish, the caviare being served on a glass dish set in a block of ice ; garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Blinis is served at the same time. It is a kind of light yeast batter, without sugar, made into small thin pancakes, and sent to table hot with a boat of sour cream. — sur Canap6 a la Remoulade.—Caviare canapees, remoulade style. — ^ la Capucine.—Small oval or boat-shaped bread crusts, filled with caviare and chopped prawns, seasoned with mayonnaise; garnished with hard- boiled egg and cress. — a la Duchesse.—Small unsweetened choux paste shapes baked, and filled with caviare, seasoned with mayonnaise, or plain and iced ; coated with aspic jelly, — aux Ecrevisses.—Small fried-bread cups, filled with caviare and prawns; garnished with olives and gherkins.