120 THE MENU BOOK. Sole ^ la Gond6.—Baked sole, with sliced tomato and white wine sauce. — a la Danicheff.—Similar to "Sole Breteuil," but gar- nished with poached oysters and slices of truffle. — ^ la Daumont.—Soles with centre bone removed, and filled with whiting farce, cooked in white wine and fish stock ; sauce nantua. — d, I’Espagnole.—Fried soles, garnished with sliced tomatoes sauteed in oil, and fried onion rings. — frite.—Fried sole, garnished with fried parsley and cut lemon. — dr la Gastronome. — Stuffed fried sole with shrimp sauce. — au gratin.—Baked sole, with brown sauce and mush- rooms, breaded and browned in oven. — gratinee.—Baked sole, gratin style. — grillee a la Maitre d’Hotel .—Grilled sole with parsley butter. — a la Hambourgeoise.—Steamed sole, garnished with julienne strips of carrot and celery root cooked in stock, sauced over with sauce vin blanc. — a la Normande.—Poached soles in white wine, etc., garnished with oysters, mussels, and button mush- rooms, sauced over with normande sauce, served with buttered and browned slices of French rolls. — au Parmesan.—Soles cooked in mushroom liquor, etc., sauced over with bechamel, flavoured with parmesan cheese ; browned under salamander, and served in same dish. — en souchet (Souchet of Soles). — Boiled soles with finely-cut strips of carrot and turnips and chopped parsley. — a la Vatel.—Baked soles, boned and stuffed, with whiting forcemeat, cooked in white wine and mush- room liquor ; masked over with white wine sauce; garnished with truffles, gherkins, cocks’ combs, and mushrooms. — au vin blanc.—Soles poached in white wine and served with white wine sauce. Filets de Sole k PAfricaine.—Fillets of sole poached in the oven, with butter, mushroom liquor, and wine ; garnished with fried bananas, hot horseradish sauce. — ^ I’Am^ricaine.—Fillets of soles cooked with white wine in gratin dish; sauced over with rich tomato sauce and lobster butter; breaded and browned in oven. — ^ I’Ariane.—Poached fillets of sole dressed with sauce Mornay, to which sliced fresh mushrooms sauteed in butter and sorrel have been incorporated.