THE ENTREE COURSE {POULARDE). 217 Pat6 de Pigeons k TAnglaise (English Pigeon Pie).—Par- broiled stuffed pigeons, cut into halves, filled into a pie-dish, with slices of rumpsteak, parsley, season- ing, and hard-boiled slices of eggs and stock, covered with piecrust, and baked ; served hot or cold. Ponding de Pigeon a I’Anglaise (English Pigeon Pudding).— Pigeons cut into neat pieces, seasoned, filled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), with thin slices of rumpsteak, hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and stock, covered with suet crust and boiled or steamed. Timbales de Pigeons a I’Espagnole.—A kind of raised pie (hot water crust) filled with braised pigeons, mush- rooms, chicken liver, olives, small chicken quenelles, and dice of bacon and brown sauce ; baked in usual way, served hot. Pintade—Guinea Fowl, (See Pheasant (Faisan) or Poularde for styles of cooking Guinea Fowl; also Poularde and Charon, and Light Entries.) Poularde—Pullet or Purge Surrey Fowl, {See also Poulets and Charon.) Poularde a PAlbufera.—Large Surrey fowl stuffed with cooked rice, foie-gras, and truffles ; cooked white ; served with supreme sauce enriched with foie-gras. — brais6e a la Chicor^e.—Braised with stewed endive or chicory. — Dame Blanche.—Large Surrey fowl boiled or braised white, stuffed with creamed chicken farce ; garnished with small quenelles ; sauce supreme. — ^ la Derby.—Same as “ Poularde Albufera,” but cooked brown, i.e., braised and served with demi-glace sauce. — en petit Deuil.—Braised capon or poularde with whole truffles inserted in bird whilst braising ; cut up and finished in veloute sauce. — a la Doria.—Stuffed with cooked rice mixed with dice shapes of foie-gras and truffles, and braised whole (white), dressed on rice socle ; garnished with arti- choke iDottoms ; sauce supreme. — ^ la Dreux.—Large fowl, breast larded with strips of truffle and tongue, cooked white or blond (poeler) ; garnished with chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels ; sauce supreme. — a la Grand Due.—Fat pullet or poularde, fried in casserole, and braised thin with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with port wine and old brandy ; garnished with asparagus points, slice of foie-gras, and truffles. — aux Lasagnes.—Braised with stewed nouilles.