THE ENTREE COURSE {POULTRY). 227 Poulet au riz grating.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce with dice shapes of bacon and chopped onions, dressed on a bed of rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in the oven. — a la Stanley.—Sauteed in butter with chopped or button onions ; finished in Bechamel cream sauce. — a la St. Georges.—Jointed and fried in oil, and stewed in veloute sauce and sliced mushrooms; surface glazed with meat extract. — a la Trianon.—Barded and roasted whole in fireproof casserole, finished with demi-glace sauce reduced with chablis; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled alternately with mushroom heads and green peas. — a la Vert-Pr6.—Boiled ; served with veloute or supreme sauce, containing chopped chervil and tarragon, and spinach greening. — ^ la Vigo. —Braised, and finished in Madeira sauce; garnished with small tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. — a la Zingara.—Sauteed and cooked in paprika sauce with strips of ham or tongue and truffles; garnished with rice croquettes. Timbales de, k la M6ridionale.—Souffle of chicken, filled in timbale moulds, with concentrated tomato puree in the centre, steamed in the oven, and served with madere sauce. Poussins—Very Young Chickens; Baby or Chic^Chickens. Poussin 4 la Hambourgeoise.—Stuffed with quenelle meat, and braised; garnished with noisette potatoes, truffles, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Cut into joints, blanched, and mari- naded in oil, vinegar, and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat; garnished with fried onion rings ; tomato sauce. — & la Marione.—Small chic-chickens, cut in quarters and sauteed with butter, then cooked in demi-glace with julienne of sorrel and chicory, also morilles ; served with beurre noisette, i.e., nut brown butter. — ^ la Parmentier.—Braised brown in casserole with cube-shaped fried potatoes added. — ^ la Portugaise.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce flavoured with sherry, with sliced tomatoes and cubes of cucumber. — ^ la Turenne.—Browned in butter and stewed in earthenv/are stewpan in the oven, with brown sauce, noisette potatoes, slices of tomatoes, and truffles.