86 THE MENU BOOK. Consomm6 Petites Marmites h la Parisienne.—A rich clear beef broth, garnished with boiled beef and soup vegetables, served in separate earthenware soup pots (marmites) ; served with crusts of toasted bread. — Petits Ghoux farcis.—Clear soup, garnished with small choux paste fritters, stuffed with forcemeat. — Petits Navets.—Clear soup, with olive-shaped young turnips, braised. — Picard6.—Clear soup with fried rounds of leek and cheese-coated croutes. — Pierre le Grand.—A clear soup with lettuce, turnips, celery, and champignons (preserved mushrooms) cut into julienne-shaped strips. — Pointes d’Asperges.—A clear soup, garnished with asparagus points. — Portugaise.—A rich clear soup, garnished with stoned French plums, strips of leeks, and ripe tomatoes. — Pot au Feu (the National French Soup).—A clear beef and veal soup with onions, carrots, turnips, and celery, and small rounds of toasted bread. — Prince de Galle (Prince of Wales).—Clear soup, gar- nished with royal custard, chicken quenelles, and asparagus points. — Prineesse.—Clarified chicken broth, garnished with small cube-shaped chicken quenelles (stamped-out) and asparagus points. — Prineesse Royale.—Clear soup with fine shreds of chicken fillet and green peas, artichoke bottoms. — Printani^re (Spring Soup).—A clear gravy soup, gar- nished with finely-cut spring vegetables. — Printani^re aux Quenelles.—Clear soup with poached chicken forcemeat quenelles and macedoine of spring vegetables. — Profiterolles.—Clear soup with very small cheese paste fritter. — Pyr6naise.—Clarified mutton stock with brunoise vegetables, tomato strips, and nouilles or Italian paste as garnish. — Quenelles frites.—Clear soup, garnished with very small fried choux paste quenelles. — Quenelles de Volaille (Chicken Quenelle Gravy Soup).— A clear soup with small, chicken forcemeat dumplings. — Queues de Boeuf.—Clear ox-tail soup. — Rabelais.—Game-flavoured consomme, garnished with small game quenelles and julienne strips of truffle and celery, — Rachbl.—A rickly flavoured clear soup with small chicken quenelles, dice of tongue, and truffles.