THE MENU BOOK. 208 Canard (or Caneton) a la Routi^re.—Roasted, and served with brown sauce containing finely chopped duck liver, duck juice, and shallots. (Ducklings or ducks can be served in the same manner as a roast by stuffing them with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg, and fresh butter.) — a la Rouennaise.—Boned duck, stuffed with liver farce, and braised ; demi-glace sauce, reduced with Burgundy wine. — a la Saint-Mand6.—Braised, and served with madere sauce; garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried-bread croutons. — a la Valencienne.—Roasted, garnished with rows of slices of orange, and served with orange sauce. — saute au Pecheur.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce ; garnished with crayfish tails. — a la Reforme.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, reduced with black-currant jelly and port wine. Croustade de Canard a la Chartraine.—French raised pie- crust lined with forcemeat and filled alternately with sausage meat and stewed fillets of duck, baked in the oven. Darioles de Canard a la St. Germain.—Dariole shapes made of braised duck, made into souffle and poached or steamed; garnished with paste crusts (tartlet shapes), filled with green pea puree, and glazed tangerine sections ; hot zingara sauce. Dodine de Canard au Chambertin.—Par-roasted, breast braised brown with Burgundy in closed terrine; garniture: ragout of mushroom heads, foie-gras, and truffles. — en Gel6e (Cold).—Braised duck fillets masked and served in port-wine jelly, mushroom heads and truffles. Mousse de Caneton.—A light souffle of duckling, with garniture of oranges, cherries, and vegetable puree ; Rouennaise or bigarade sauce. Quenelles de Canard 4 la Senn (invented by M. Chevriot, chef to the King of Spain).—Mousse of duck shaped into quenelles, with fried bacon strips inserted and poached, and dressed in border of chicken farce; financidre garniture and truffle sauce. Salmi de Canard.—Par-roasted, cut up, stewed in rich brown sauce made with duck giblets. — ^ la Bourgeoise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with button onions slightly fried, and reduced in espagnole sauce with red wine.