i82 THE MENU BOOK. Cotelettes de Veau a la Prusse.—Veal cutlets spread with a mixture of truffles and finely chopped shallots braised. — a la Reine.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed, broiled in butter ; served with demi-glace sauce, truffles, and preserved mushrooms. — saut6es au beurre.—Veal cutlets broiled in butter ; served with plain gravy. — ^ la Singarat.—Veal cutlets, larded, with small strips of smoked ox-tongue, and braised. — a la Soubise.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; served with white onion puree. — a la Saint-Cloud.—Veal cutlets, larded with strips of truffles, broiled in fresh butter, and garnished with forcemeat quenelles ; sauce allemande. — a la Zingara.—Fried veal cutlets dished up alternately with cutlet-shaped slices of broiled ham ; sauce madere. Csrvelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain. — au beignets.—Calf’s brain fritters. — au beurre noir.—Poached calf’s brain; served with nut-brown butter (beurre noisette). — d la Demi-glace.—Calf’s brain blanched and cooked in brown sauce. — h la Financiere.—Boiled calf’s brain with a rich financiere sauce and garniture. — friture or frites.—Fried calf’s brain. — au gratin.—Calf’s brain prepared with white sauce, dressed on dish, and browned in oven. — aux huitres.—Calf’s brain stewed with oysters and chopped parsley. — a la Milanaise.—Fried calf’s brain served with macaroni and tomato sauce; garnished with ham, tongue, finely shredded mushrooms, and truffles. — d, la Ravigote.—Fried calf’s brain with savoury herb sauce. — ^ la Tartare.—Fried calf’s brain served with tartare sauce. Matelotte de Cervelles de Veau.—Brown fricassee of calf’s brains, dressed in rice cassolettes or croutes of rice. SoufQ6 de Cervelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain souffle, baked in paper cases or shells. Escalopes de Veau are fillets of veal cut into cutlet, round, oval or heart shapes, flattened and trimmed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. — aux asperges.—With stewed asparagus points. — aux 6pinards.—With spinach as garnish. — ^ la Holstein.—Garnished with slices of hard-boiled egg, anchovy fillets, gherkins, and capers.