264 THE MENU BOOK. Champignons farcis ^ la Napolitaine.—Stuffed with cooked rice, mixed with finely chopped garlic, shallots, and parsley, grated parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and cheese, and sweet oil, and baked in the oven ; served with demi-glace sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Stewed in savoury herb sauce or grilled and served with parsley butter. — ft la Gourmet.—Turned cup mushrooms, hollow parts filled with minced champignons, butter, and truffles, braised in light butter, meat glaze sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — au gratln.—Stuffed with grated ham, herbs, shallots, etc., placed on buttered chopped parsley gratin dish, sauced with brown sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and baked in sharp oven. — grilles.—Grilled, and served with parsley butter. — ft la Livonienne.—Peeled, blanched, and boiled, marinaded in oil, and served with chopped beetroot, gherkins, and capers ; served hot or cold. — ft la Pl^montalse.—Cut in slices, tossed in butter, and finished in white sauce, flavoured with lemon juice and chopped parsley. — ft la Proven?ale.—Sauteed in oil, stewed in rich gravy with chopped shallots, crushed garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, seasoned, and served on croutons. Chicoree—Chicory or Endive. Chicor^e B<elge—Belgian Endive, Ghicorfte ft la Creme.—Stewed, with cream sauce. — a la Demi-glace.—Stewed, with brown sauce. — ft I’Espagnole.—Blanched, minced, and fried in butter ; finished in veal gravy and espagnole. — ft la Flamande.—Blanched, baked in butter and cream. — ft la Paysanne.—Blanched, sauteed in butter and stock, mixed with strips of hard-boiled eggs. — ft la Russe.—Sauteed in butter, with onions and fennel; served with bechamel, mixed with sour cream. Choux—Cabbages, Chou blanc farci.—Braised stuffed white cabbage. — Cantabres.—Braised cabbages, with slices of ham and Basque sausages. — ft I’ltalienne.—Boiled and stewed ; served with braised chestnuts and small fried sausages. Choux broccoli.—Broccoli sprouts. — ft la Lilloise.—Small pieces of boiled cabbage broiled in butter, seasoned with chopped onions and parsley.