184 the menu book. Fricandelles de Veau, sauce tomate.—Small veal force- meat dumplings, boiled, drained, and when cold egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — au gratin.—Veal forcemeat dumplings, boiled, placed in a buttered dish, covered with white sauce and breadcrumbs ; browned in the oven. Filets de Veau (Veal Fillets) a la Bechamel.—Fillets of veal, par-boiled and stewed in bechamel sauce. — a la Frangaise.—Braised fillets of veal, served with a brown sauce, blended with tomato puree. — fare! a la Fran^aise.—Larded fillets of veal stuffed, rolled, and braised ; served with brown sauce and marble-shaped fried potatoes. — aux Haricot Verts.—Broiled fillets of veal with French beans. — d, la Milanaise.—Fried fillets of veal, garnished with stewed macaroni mixed with white sauce, parmesan cheese, and finely shredded ox-tongue; tomato sauce. — a I’Oseille.—Small veal fillets broiled, and served with sorrel puree ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Pur6e de Concombres.—Broiled fillets of veal with mashed cucumber. — roti aux Pommes Pailles.—Roast fillet of veal, larded ; garnished with very finely-cut strips of fried potatoes. — a la Talleyrand.—Small circular or oval slices of veal fillets fried in butter, and finished by cooking in a cream sauce flavoured with lemon-juice and shallots, and enriched with egg-yolks. Fricass6e de Veau h PAnglaise.—Stewed veal in white sauce with shced preserved mushrooms ; served with thin slices of fried bacon. — a I’Allemande.—Stewed pieces of breast of veal in white sauce, garnished with small quenelles, crayfish tails, asparagus, and sprigs of cauliflower. Gateau de Veau aux trulles.—Savoury veal cake, baked and served with truffle sauce. — au bain-marie.—Veal cake, poached or steamed ; served with white sauce. Goulache de Veau k la Hongroise. — Finely-cut broiled veal with pepper sauce. Grenadins de Veau.—Larded veal fillets (collops), broiled or braised. — aux ^pinards.—Braised veal fillets with spinach puree. — a la Fermiere.—Garnished with groups of cooked carrots, lettuce, cauliflower, and small round fried potatoes ; sauce demi-glace.