2I6 THE MENU BOOK. Pigeon ^ la Polonaise.—Stuffed with gratin farce, braised “ en casserole,” sauced over with brown butter, lemon puree, and brown breadcrumbs. — en Salmis.—Par-roasted and jointed, then stewed in rich brown sauce, with sliced champignons and truffles ; garnished with farce - coated glazed croutons. — au Sauterne.—Braised in brown sauterne, wine sauce ; usually served in casserole. — a la Sevign6.—Boned, stuffed with mushroom and truffle stuffing, and braised; garnished with asparagus points ; sauce madere. — en Supreme.—Pigeon fillets coated with farce and slices of truffle, and cooked in butter, dished on poached farce border ; sauce madere. — a I’Espagnole.—Braised with dice shapes of fried ham, served with espagnole sauce, flavoured with white wine and chilli vinegar. — a la Marigny.—Cut in halves, seasoned, and braisedj dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven ; served with madere sauce. — en Matelote.—Cut into pieces, seasoned, broiled in butter and slices of bacon, stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped chives, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms; garnished with fried button onions. — a la Nivernaise.—Stewed with braised turnips. — en papillotes (Pigeons in Cases).—Cut in halves, seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver farce, chopped shallots, parsley, and sliced mushrooms; dressed in buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. — a la Paysanne.—Braised Bordeaux pigeons, cut in joints, dressed with green peas ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Sainte-Men6hould.—Boiled, in rich white sauce flavoured with parsley and savoury herbs; when cold cut up ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with the above sauce drained and poured round the dish. — a la Talleyrand.—Braised, garnished with artichoke bottoms, mushroom heads, braised chicken liver, and ox-tongue, heated in veloute sauce. Karl de Pigeons (Curried Pigeons).—Cut into quarters, fried in butter, and curried ; served in a rice border. Pat6 de Pigeons a la Frangaise (French Pigeon Pie).— Piecrust filled with stewed pigeons and sliced bacon and mushrooms baked ; served hot or cold (poivrade sauce).