SWEET ENTREMETS. 321 Poires a la Marquise.—Bartlett pears cooked in vanilla syrup, dressed on timbale of rice, flavoured with maraschino, meringued over, and baked ; served hot or cold. — ^ la Paillard (Cold).—Pyramid shape of cooked rice, enriched with cream, etc., surrounded by compote of pears, filled with frangipane custard ; garnished with crystallised violets and angelica ; vanilla sauce. — Parisienne (Cold).—Border of rice, with halves of pears ranged on top, centre filled with crushed macaroons soaked in kirsch sj^rup and mixed with whipped cream ; garnished with small meringues and glace fruit. — a la Princesse (Hot).—Pears cooked in raspberry syrup, placed in almond paste cassolettes, coated over with meringue, mixed with chopped hazel nuts, and browned in oven. — a la Reine (Hot).—Border of genoise cake and custard, poached, dressed with compote of pears, sauced over with raspberry syrup. — a la Sicilienne.—Halves of Bartlett pears, stewed in syrup, drained, filled with almond paste, placed on cake croutons, and glazed in oven ; served hot. — a la Viennoise (Cold).—Quarters of pears cooked in vanilla syrup, and dressed in centre of caramel- cream border. Soubric de poires ^ la Savarin.—Savarin cake basis, built up in pyramid form, with layers of cooked sweet rice and sections of stewed pears, surmounted by a row of glace cherries and small pears (whole) ; served with hot syrup, Pommes—Apples, Pommes a TAngelique (Cold).—Border of rice, flavoured with vanilla, with small halves of apple compote ranged on top, plentifully decorated with angelica strips ; sauced over with kirsch syrup. — ^ la Bardalouse.—See Poires (Pears). — a la Bonne Femme.—Same as “ au beurre.” — au beurre (Hot).—Peeled and cored apples, baked with butter in the oven, and glazed, sauced over with syrup, and flavoured with nutmeg or cinnamon. — d la Cevenole.—The same as “ Chatelaine,” but filled with chestnut puree and whipped cream, and served cold with vanilla syrup. — a la Chatelaine (Hot).—Apples hollowed out and cooked in vanilla syrup, centre filled with minced cherries and apricot puree, coated with confectioners’ custard and crushed macaroons, then browned in oven. X