187 MEAT ENTRl^ES {VEAL). Oreilles de Veau—Calfs Ears. Oreilles de Veau farcies, sauce tomate.—Calf’s ears stuffed with forcemeat and baked, and tomato sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled, cut into strips, stewed in brown sauce, and served with fried onion rings and bread croutons. — a la Tomate.—Calf’s ears fried with tomato sauce. Queue de Veau.—Calf’s tail. — k I’Allemande.—Calf’s tail stewed in white sauce. — a rindienne.—Curried calf’s tail with rice. Ragout de Veau.—Pieces of breast or other parts of veal fried and stewed in brown sauce, with sliced mush- rooms, carrots, turnips, and button onions. Ris de Veau—Siveethread, Ris de Veau a la Bristol.—Sauteed in butter, garnished with straw potatoes, tomato shreds, small poached eggs, and truffle ; sauce bearnaise. — a la Careme.—Braised sweetbread, stuffed with mush- room and truffle puree, coated with supreme or veloute sauce, dished and breaded with cheesecrumbs, and browned in oven. — d la Chanceliere.—Slices of cooked sweetbread, spread with Duxelle puree, then egged and crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with small young carrots, celery timbales, souffles, potatoes, and truffle slices ; sauce perigord (truffles). — a la Chasseur.—Stewed in brown sauce; served in a border of puree of game. — a la Chicoree.—With chicory or endive puree. — a la Colbert.—Shoes of cooked sweetbread, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled ; served with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.—Braised, garnished with small puff- paste bouchees filled with vegetable macedoine tossed in butter. — a la Creme sur Bordure de Riz.—White sweetbread stew; served on a border of rice. — a la Dauphine.—Larded and braised ; served with potato croquettes and sorrel puree. — en Demi-Deuil.—Braised sweetbreads, larded with black truffles only. — ^ la Duxelles.—Slices of sweetbread, coated with veloute sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, ox- tongue, and mushrooms, breaded and fried ; sauce supreme. — aux 6pinards.—Braised sweetbread with spinach.