245 COLD ENTRJ^ES. Medallions de Volaille dr la Rachel.—Round chicken fillets, sauteed in butter, and spread with cold mousseline farce, then masked with aspic, garnished with asparagus points salad. Mousse de Ganeton a la Tivollier.—Light souffle made of braised duckling, tongue, cream, aspic, supreme, and chutney flavour, shaped in timbales, with centre filling of tomato, pimiento, and pistachios ; garnished with aspic, truffles, and pimiento, also small green salad. — de Chapon, Belle H61ene.—Aspic coated or masked timbales, lined with foie-gras slices, filled with capon moussehne farce and aspic cream, and iced in charged ice cabinet. — de Foie-gras h la Reine.—Mousse or charlotte moulds- lined with aspic, decorated and masked with white chaudfroid sauce, filled with cold mixture of minced foie-gras, ham, truffle, meat glaze, and aspic, centre of same filled with green peas or asparagus points, dressed with mayonnaise. Mousseline de Foie-gras, Charentoise.—Cylindrical-shaped mould masked with champagne aspic, filled with foie-gras mousse, dressed on glass dish surrounded by small slices of truffled chicken galantine. Noisettes d’Agneau a la Pompadour.—Fillets of lamb cut from kernel, centre leg part, tossed in butter, and pressed, spread with liver farce, poached, and coated with aspic when cold ; dressed round tomato and pimiento salad, and garnished with small green pea and aspic darioles, decorated with truffles and cocks’ combs. Noix de Veau d la Su6doise.—Braised kernel of veal, cut in slices, spread over with horseradish butter, and masked with aspic, decorated with mayonnaise aspic, dressed in crown-shape, with lettuce heart in centre ; sauce Russe. — a la Viart.—Larded and braised kernel or cushion of veal, jellied with aspic when cold, and garnished with glazed braised chestnuts, small carrots, and cardoons ; decorated with green herb butter, and served with mayonnaise blended with tomato puree. Pain de Volaille aux Truffes.—Chicken farce mixed with truffles, shaped, and poached ; garnished with truffles and aspic. Pains de Foie-gras k la P§rigord.—Small goose-liver shapes decorated with truffles poached. — Gibier ^ la GeI6e.—Small game farce shapes ; cold game souffles. — de Volaille a I’Argenteuil.—Small timbale shapes of cooked chicken cream, mixed with supreme, centre filled with asparagus puree ; garnished with asparagus points, and truffles.