THE FISH COURSE. 133 Supreme de Turbot Florida.—Fillets of turbot poached in fish fumet and butter, served with a sauce composed of Genoise and tomato (blended), flavoured with anchovy, and mixed with a little cooked rice and finely-shredded lean ham ; when sauced besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and brown under salamander. — dr la Royale.—Fillets of turbot, poached in white wine, etc., dressed on gratin dish, covered with rich white fish sauce, sprinkled with grated Swiss cheese and butter, and browned in the oven. Timbales de Turbot h la Russe.—Small timbale shapes of cooked flakes of turbot, garnished with prawns, parsley, etc., dressed round a rice shape. Turbotin d la Lussinoise.—Small young turbot filleted and steeped in marinade, then cooked in an Onion mirepoix ; upon this a light layer of fish farce is placed, and then finished in the oven ; sauce aux champignons is poured over the top before serving ; served in casserole. Croquettes de Poisson.—Cork or cutlet shapes composed of chopped or shredded cold fish, bechamel sauce, anchovy essence, and egg-yolk, dipped in egg and breadcrumbs, and fried in deep fat. Entries de Poisson froid.—Cold dressed fish entrees; suitable also as luncheon, buffet, cold collation, and ball supper dishes. Pat6 de Poisson a l’Am6ricaine (American Fish Pie).— Pie crust filled with layers of mashed potatoes, cooked turbot, cod or haddock, flaked ; white sauce and grated cheese ; surface egged and sprinkled over with grated cheese, and baked in oven. — a la Marinidre.—French raised pie filled with twisted fillets of sole, pieces of eel, mushroom heads, prawn tails, button onions, anchovy sauce flavoured with claret, and baked. Timbales de Poisson a la Marigny.—Small dariole moulds lined with fish farce, centre filled with prawn tails, herring roes, and truffle, made up as salpicon ; sauce hollandaise with crayfish butter; served hot. Vol-au-Vent a la Chambord.—Round or oval puff-paste crust (vol-au-vent) filled with crayfish tails, truffles, mushrooms, small fish quenelles, bearded oysters, and genoise sauce.