228 THE MENU BOOK. Pilau de Volaille a la Grfique.—A kind of risotto, con- sisting of dice of chicken, rice, gravy, curry, and capsicum, sultanas, and currants. — a I’Orientale.—A finely cut chicken fricassee, mixed with rice and onion puree, and blended with tomatoes. — a la Turque.—Similar to Greque style, only sharper seasoning, with cayenne and saffron. Quenelles de Volaille a I’ltalienne.—Pounded chicken meat mixed with chopped mushrooms, shaped into quenelles, and poached in stock; served with sauce, containing chopped truffles, mushrooms, demi-glace, and ham. — a la Supreme.—Pounded chicken fillets, filled into quenelle moulds, with salpicon in the centre, and steamed in the oven ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Souffl§ de Volaille h la Reine.—Light chicken forcemeat enriched with cream, filled in moulds, and steamed ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. {See also Mousses and Souffles.) Alouettes d. la Gastronome.—Larks, boned, stuffed with chicken farce, and braised; served with sauce perigueux. (See also Mauviettes.) QIBIER—GAME. Volaille Sauvage—Wild Poultry. B6casse—B4cassine—Woodcock—Snipe, B6casse ^ la Minute.—Broiled woodcock or snipe, served with mad^re or demi-glace sauce. — brais^e h la fine Champagne.—Par-roasted snipe, jointed, and tossed in butter, with old cognac, fumet- flavoured sauce ; served in turine. — k I’Orange.—Braised woodcock or snipe, served with orange sauce. — ^ la Riche.—Stuffed with game gratin farce, and roasted or braised; mad^re sauce, enriched with foie-gras puree. — en _Salmi.—Par-roasted or par-fried, and stewed in salmi sauce ; garnished with olives, etc. — ^ la Stockholm.—Par-boiled, stuffed with beef and pork forcemeat, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and gherkins, braised in fire-proof casserole ; white wine sauce. Cailles—Quails, Cailles en caisses.—Boned quails, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised, cut in halves, and dressed in quail cases; served with perigueux sauce.