174 THE MENU BOOK. Tournedos de Bceiif, {See also Fillets of Beef.) Unless otherwise stated all tournedos are to he grilled, broiled or tossed in butter over a fairly quick fire, Tournedos de Boeuf.—Small fillets of beef, trimmed into oval shapes, weighing about two ounces. They are usually dressed on croutons of fried bread. — a TArlesienne.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, sauced over with demi-glace containing julienne strips of celery, — a rAlexandra.—Larded, braised, and glazed ; dressed on croutons with slice of truffle on each; garnished with quarters of artichokes ; sauce perigueux. — a I’Africaine.—Grilled or broiled in butter, garnished with fried bananas, and served with hot horseradish sauce. — a TArmand.—Grilled oval-shaped fillets of beef; dressed on fried-bread crouton, covered with foie-gras puree ; garnished with souffle potatoes and slices of truffles ; sauce bordelaise, — a la Baronne.—Grilled fillets, dressed on fried-bread croutons, in crown shape, surmounted with mush- room heads, sauced over with bearnaise, piped with tomato puree. Shces of truffle on top. — a la Bismarck.—Sauteed in butter, garnished with small baked potato cassolette shapes, filled with shredded morilles or mushrooms a la creme, each surmounted with a plover’s egg, sauced over with Hollandaise. Madere sauce round base of dish. — braises au C616ri.—Larded fillets of beef braised with celery, and finished in rich brown sauce ; dressed on croutons in a circle, with braised celery in centre. — ^ la Calcutta.—Sauteed ‘‘ k la Minute,” dressed on savoury rice timbale, flavoured with curry. Demi- glace sauce with chutney flavour added. — ^ la Carlton.—Grilled fillets with neatly poached egg on top of each, sauced over with bearnaise, and gar- nished with julienne of tongue, mushroom, and truffle. — ^ la Caroza.—Grilled, dressed on croutons with artichoke bottoms, shces of beef-marrow on top of each ; borde- laise sauce. — ^ la Chasseur.—Shghtly marinaded, fried in butter, and served with chasseur sauce. — 4 la Ch6ron.—Grilled, with artichoke bottoms filled with vegetable macedoine finished a la cr^me on top of each; sauce bearnaise.