189 MEAT ENTRJ^ES {VEAL). Ris de Veau a la Senn (invented by M. A. Meyer, New York).—Par-boiled, slit in two, dipped in butter and crumbed, and broiled in butter ; garnished with straw potatoes and watercress ; served with tarragon- flavoured butter sauce enriched with beef extract. — a la Talleyrand.—Larded and braised ; dressed on spinach or chicory puree ; truffle sauce. — a la Tomate.—Braised sweetbread with stewed tomatoes, and tomato sauce. — a la Toulouse.—Larded and braised white; served with trufiles, chicken quenelles, and cocks’ combs ; prepared in allemande sauce ; garnished with fried- bread croutons or fleurons. — a la Turque.—Blanched and braised, cut into slices, then egged, crumbed, and fried ; sauce tomate. — au Vol-au-Vent.—White sweetbread stew in a light puff-paste crust. — ^ la Villeroi.—Braised sweetbread, sliced, coated with veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — a la Viennoise.—Braised white, cooked in rich supreme sauce, tinted with paprika ; drained on rice border, and garnished with truffle slices, cocks’ combs and fleurons. Beignets de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread fritters. Coquilles de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread stew, baked in shells. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Huitres.—Slices of fried sweetbread, with stewed oysters as garnish. — a la Doria.—Slices of braised sweetbread, finished in veloute sauce; garnished with cooked cucumber slices. Hatelettes de Ris de Veau.—Larded sweetbread fried, grilled or broiled on silver skewers. Papilottes de Veau a la Maintenon.—Boned veal cutlets, fried in butter, stuffed with forcemeat and savoury herbs, wrapped in paper, and baked ; served with fried parsley. JRttgnon de Veau—Calf’s Kidney, Rognons de Veau d. la Bordelaise.—Fried and stewed ; red wine sauce with chopped shallots and parsley, and dice shapes of fried potatoes. — d, la Demidofl.—Shced, fried in butter, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and stewed in sauce madere; dressed in border of stewed rice mixed with truffles. — en Demi-glace.—Veal kidneys, larded and braised whole ; served with demi-glace sauce.