SA UCES. 149 Sauce Supreme.—A rich white sauce, made with chicken stock and white roux, enriched with egg-yolks, cream, and fresh butter ; a garniture of sliced truffles and mushrooms is sometimes added. — Tartare.—Mayonnaise mixed with French mustard,finely- chopped chives, spring onions, tarragon and chervil leaves, gherkins, capers, and parsley ; served cold. — Texienne (Texas),—A mild curry sauce with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon juice, finished with fresh butter. — Tomate (Tomato).—Fresh tomatoes, cooked with mirepoix, white wine, and veal stock, thickened with white roux, seasoned and strained ; or puree of tomatoes, mixed with a little brown sauce and meat glaze, flavoured with aromatic herbs and shallots, seasoned with salt and sugar. — Tortue (Turtle).—A brown sauce, made from turtle stock, with finely-chopped shallots, flavoured with anchovy essence, lemon juice, sherry, and finely- chopped lemon rind ; seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper; strained. — Toulouse.—Allemande or veloute sauce, flavoured with truffle and mushroom essence. — Tournedos.—Rich beef stock, reduced with white wine and tomato puree, mixed with blended shallots, capers, and chopped champignons. — Trianon (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with tomato pulp and soubise puree, tarragon flavour, mixed with finely-cut gherkin and pimiento strips. — Tyrolienne (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with tomato puree. — Tyrolienne (hot).—Hollandaise sauce, blended with tomato puree. — Universelle (Universal).—A highly-spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, etc., prepared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper, and anchovy essence. — Valoise.—Finely-chopped shallots, reduced in white wine, mixed with meat extract, egg-yolks, chopped parsley, cream, and butter ; whisked in bain-marie ; treated as Bdarnaise. — Velout§ (Foundation Sauce).—A rich white sauce prepared with chicken or veal stock, flavoured with savoury herbs, vegetable mirepoix, and white roux; when finished it should be as smooth as velvet ; hence its name veloute (velvet-like). — V6nitienne (Venetian).—A white fish sauce, thickened with egg-yolks and butter or cream, mixed with chopped parsley, flavoured with lemon juice, and garnished with small button mushrooms.