2II THE ENTRJSE course (TURKEY). Chapon a la Hollandaise.—Boiled or braised white, with new boiled potatoes and Hollandaise sauce. — ^ la Hongroise.—Braised, with thin paprika sauce, garnished with rice and tomato timbales; sauce Hongroise. — a I’lvoire.—Braised, sauced over with a rich ivory- coloured supreme sauce. — a la Louisiane.—Stuffed with cooked maize and pimientos, and braised, garnished with rice timbales, and baked bananas and maize tartlets. — a la Lucullus.—Stuffed with mousseline farce and truffle puree and braised, garnished with chicken quenelles, glazed truffles, and cocks’ combs ; sauce demi-glace with truffle essence. — a la Perigueux.—Stuffed with forcemeat and chopped truffles, and roasted ; served with perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. — a la Pi6montaise.—Stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truffles, and roasted ; served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste quenelles stuffed with veal forcemeat and tomato puree. — ^ la R6gence.^Stuffed, and braised with white supreme sauce and sliced truffles. — a la Stanley.—Stuffed with cooked rice, mushrooms (champignons), and truffles cut in julienne strips, and braised in onion and curry mirepoix ; veloute sauce, enriched with cream and curry flavour. — a la Souvaroff.—Breast part filled with mousseline farce, foie-gras, and truffle slice, and braised in veal stock “ en casserole ” (hermetically sealed). — braise aux truSes.—Braised (breast larded with truffles), and served with perigueux sauce. Quenelles de, a la Vatel.—Poached forcemeat quenelles made of capon, chopped truffles, and mushrooms; served with a brown truffle sauce. Chapon, hachis de, a la Victoria.—Minced, re-heated in supreme sauce, with poached eggs, sprinkled over with finely chopped truffles. Dinde—Turicey. Dindon or Dindonneau—Young Turkey* (See also Chapon and Poularde.) Dinde en Brioche.—Fricasseed turkey, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. Ailerons de, brais6e aux navets.—Braised wings, with mashed turnips. Ballotines.—Boned and stuffed legs, braised; served with spinach, tomatoes, or other suitable garnish.