THE MENU BOOK. 286 CEufs a la Maitre d’hotel.—Sliced hard-boiled eggs, cooked in parsley sauce. — a la Matelot.—Eggs poached in meat stock, dressed on rounds of toast, sauced over with a rich brown fine herb and onion sauce; garnished with fillets of anchovies. — ^ la Meyerbeer.—Poached eggs, dressed on grilled sheep’s kidneys, sauced over with perigueux sauce. — mollets k la Tyrolienne.—Eggs boiled for barely five minutes and carefully shelled, dressed on suitable croutons of bread, and served with tomato sauce, enriched with butter, egg-yolks, and cream. — a la Montpensier.—Poached eggs, dressed on fried- bread crofitons, spread with foie-gras puree, centre of dish green peas ; garnished with truffles. — *i la Neige.—Whisked whites of eggs, seasoned, steamed in moulds, and served with cream sauce. — a la Norfolk.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, egged, crumbed, fried in butter, and served with piquant sauce. — a la Pache.—Hard-boiled eggs sliced, mixed with mushroom heads, and heated in tomato sauce; dressed in centre of rice border. — sur pain grille.—Poached eggs on toast. — ^ la Pasqual.—Small eggs poached in seasoned milk, trimmed, drained, and masked with chaudfroid sauce ; when cold, dressed in a nest made of baked nouilles, and, if liked, a fish farce foundation. — poches a la Benedictine.—Poached eggs on croutons, with slices of grilled ham ; coating of sauce hol- landaise. — poch6s aux ^Ipinards.—Poached eggs with spinach. — poches a Tlmp^riale (Cold).—Poached eggs, dressed on artichoke bottoms ; garnished with macedoine of vegetables and julienne of tongue and tomatoes; sauced over with remoulade sauce. — a la Poincar6.—Poached eggs, dressed in puff pastry, cases lined with foie-gras and truffle salpicon; sauced over with Mornay sauce. — poch§s a la Portugaise.—Poached eggs, dressed on rounds of toasted bread, with stuffed halves of tomatoes. — ^ la Princesse Alice.—Hard-boiled eggs, cut into two, lengthways, centre filled with pur6e of egg-yolk, , asparagus tips, truffles, and cheese, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — a la pur6e de lentilles.—Poached eggs with lentil puree.