115 THE FISH COURSE. Rougets au beurre fondu.—Broiled mullets, served with melted butter. — aux fines herbes.—Stewed red mullets with fine herb sauce. — au gratin.—Baked red mullets, gratin style. — grilles, sauce ravigote.—Grilled mullets and ravigote sauce. — a ritalionne.—Broiled red mullets, served with Italian sauce. — ^ la Janin.—Red mullets, boned and stuffed, cooked in oven, same as in Papilottes; served with Genevoise sauce. — a la Juive.—Fillets of red mullets soaked in oil marinade, and fried garnished with parsley ; served with tartare or tomato sauce. — a la Marseillaise.—Red mullet broiled in butter, then finished in tomato and onion stew ; suitably flavoured and served like “ Bouillabaise.” — a la Nantaise.—Grilled red mullet, served with demi- glace sauce, flavoured with shallots, wine, and puree of fish roes ; garnished with slices of lemon. — a la Ni^oise.—Grilled red mullet, garnished with toma- toes tossed in butter, anchovy fillets, olives and capers. — en papillotes (Red Mullets in Paper Cases).—Fish wrapped separately in oiled paper, with the ends twisted, and thus baked or broiled, dished up, and served with brown fine herb sauce. — a la Polonaise.—Baked mullets with rich butter and cream sauce, breaded, and browned. — a la Portugaise.—Baked mullet, with chopped savoury herbs, sliced tomatoes, and claret sauce. — a la Proven^ale.—Baked mullets with chopped parsley and onion; served with tomato sauce (garlic- flavoured) and cucumber puree. — a la Trouville.—Boned mullet, poached in white wine and fish stock, then dished and sauced with Colbert sauce, and baked. — ^ la V6nitienne.—Baked red mullets with brown sauce garnished with Spanish olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom heads. — a la Villeroi.—Marinaded red mullet, dipped in Villeroi sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Saint Pierre—John I)ory, (Cooked and served like Brill, Flounder or Plaice.) Saunt on—Saim on. Saumon a I’Amiral.—Boiled salmon, garnished with lobster or crayfish and fried oysters, and served with Genevoise sauce.