84 THE MENU BOOK. Consomme Merc6d^s.—Rich clear soup with star shapes of cocks’ combs and cucumber, flavoured with Xeres wine, — Messaline.—Clarified chicken broth with tomato essence, garnished with cocks’ kernels, Carolina rice, and Spanish pimientos cut in julienne. — Metternich.—Clarified beef stock, flavoured with chicken, garnished with cooked tomatoes cut into dice, and chicken fillets. — Mignon (Maigre).—Fish consomme with crayfish tails, strips of truffle and fish quenelles. — Mikado.—A curry-flavoured clear chicken soup, gar- nished with finely-shredded chicken fillets and cooked rice. — Milanaise.—Clear soup, garnished with cooked rice, dice of ox-tongue, and shreds of ripe tomatoes. — Mirianne.—Clarified chicken stock with the following garnish : plainly cooked rice tossed in lobster butter, to which is added oysters cut in dice, chopped truffles and pistachios, the whole moistened with white sauce and cheese as for salpicon ; filled in very small shell-shaped thin paste crusts, which are handed round with the consomme. — Mock Turtle.—Clear soup with strips of calf’s head (turtle flavour). — a la Moelle de Boeuf (Beef Marrow).—Clear,soup with small marrow-fat quenelles, — Monaco.—Clear soup with stuffed fried-bread quenelles. — Monte Carlo.—Clear soup with small chicken quenelles and profiterolles, shredded lettuce, and chervil, — Monte Christo.—Chicken consomme with brunoise of vegetables and profiterolles, — Montesquin.—Clear soup, garnished with stuffed braised cucumber cut into small rounds. — Nansen.—Iced consomme, served with small cavaire croutons. — Nantaise.—Clear soup with pearl barley, garnished with chicken fillets and green peas. — Napoleon.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with small foie-gras Talmouse (triangle-shaped nouille paste stuffed with foie-gras puree), and poached in stock. — Napolitaine.—A game-flavoured clear soup with maca- roni, shreds of celery and ham as garnish. — Nationale.—Beef consomme with croute au pot garnish. — Nelson.—Turtle-flavoured clear soup with three varieties of chicken quenelles (red, white, and green). — Nemours.—Clear soup, garnished with diamond shapes of custard made with carrot puree, bechamel sauce, and egg-yolks,