RELEV :^S—REMO VES. 249 Boeuf a la Jardiniere.—Par-boiled and braised ; garnished with small spring vegetables. — a la Lorraine.—Roast sirloin ; garnished with braised button onions, mashed potatoes, and braised spring cabbages. — ^ la Mode.—Braised rump of beef with vegetable garnish. — a la Palermo.—Roast rib or sirloin, boned ; garnished with braised potatoes and small stuffed cucumber or vegetable marrow. — a la Pi^montaise.—Roast boned ribs ; garnished with timbales of cooked rice or macaroni, flavoured with tomato and saffron, and fried potatoes. — a la Russe.—Boiled, served with cucumber salad. Cotes de Boeuf brais6.—Braised boned ribs of beef. — ^ la Normande.—Braised ribs ; garnished with mashed potatoes and young glazed carrots. — a la Saint Hubert.—Roast or braised ; garnished with stuffed braised cabbages, lettuces, and glazed button onions. Culotte de Boeuf brais6.—Braised round of beef. Filet de Boeuf—Fillet of Beef, Filet de Boeuf a PAncienne.—Braised ; garnished with shces of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed and fried, braised haricot beans, and braised lettuces. — ^ PArlesienne.—Larded fillet, braised whole ; garnished with stuffed tomatoes and aubergines ; sauce Demi- glace. — ^ la B^richonne.—Larded fillet, braised whole, garnished with braised small spring cabbage, button onions, and bacon rolls ; Demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Brabanconne.—Fillet of beef trimmed whole, larded, and put in marinade for twenty-four hours, braised slowly, essence of braize used for sauce; garniture: carrots and turnips, round or olive shapes, glazed potato puree, brussels sprouts puree, spinach, and soubise (onion puree), all dressed in groups round the base of the fillet; brown sauce served separately. — en Chevreuil.—Pickled in red wine marinade and braised ; served with piquant sauce. — fi la Clairemont.—Roast (larded); garnished with kidney potatoes and glazed chestnuts. — ^ la Doria.—Braised fillet, garnished with cubes of cucumber and noisette potatoes ; Demi-glace. — a la Dubarry.—Braised (larded) fillet with small flower- ettes of cauliflower, breaded, and browned au gratin.