POT AGES—SOUPS. 91 Creme Volaille (de) Chevaliere.—Light white chicken cream, with truffles and tongue julienne as garnish. — Volaille (de) aux Ecrevisses (white).—Light chicken cream with crayfish tails as garnish. — Volaille (de) k la Frangaise (fawn).—A light brown chicken puree enriched with cream. Potage Albion.—Brown giblet soup with pea-shaped cucumber and carrots as garnish. — des Ambassadeurs.—A light cream soup, made with chicken stock, rice, and peas puree, and finely shredded sorrel. — Am6ricaine (American).—Tomato soup, blended with a little lobster puree (bisque), and thickened with rice or tapioca, garnished with crayfish tails. — Andalouse.—Light white soup (veal stock foundation), mixed with tomato puree, and nouilles as garniture. — Anguilles a I’Allemande.—German eel soup (white). — Ardenais.—Game (pheasant) puree, blended with red lentil puree and cream. — Argenteuil (Asparagus).—Filtered rice and cream soup with asparagus points. — d’Asperges a la Princesse (Asparagus Soup, Princesse Style, white).—Asparagus puree, garnished with asparagus points and rice. — d*Asperges aux Quenelles.—Asparagus puree with small chicken quenelles. — Aubergine.—Egg plant or vegetable marrow soup (white). — Bagration.—A light cream made of veal stock, gar- nished with small chicken quenelles. — Balmoral.—Puree of mutton, flavoured with turtle seasoning and finely cut calf’s foot. — Bavi^re (Bavarian).—Lentil puree with slices of smoked sausage. — Bdcasses.—Woodcock or snipe puree soup (brown). — Bercy.—Pur^e of young turnips with cream liaison. — Ble vert aux oeufs.—Green corn soup with eggs and cream liaison. — Bceuf (de).—A thick brown soup, made of beef. — Bonne Femme (Good Woman).—Sorrel cream soup, with small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — Bouille-a-Baisse.—A rich fish soup, with small fillets of fish, onions, and tomato strips as garnish. — Bourgeoise.—Chicken cream, with addition of finely- shredded turnips and celery. — Bretonne.—A puree of white haricot beans, blended with tomato pulp (fried-bread croutons). — Callles.—Quail soup (brown), puree or cream.