69 HORS-D’CE U VRES—A PPETISERS. Anchois en Surprise.—Small choux paste rolls, filled with a puree of hard-boiled yolk of egg, anchovy paste, capers, and herbs ; glazed and garnished with curled anchovy fillets. Artichauts ^ la Gr6que.—Very small, blanched artichokes, marinaded in oil, vinegar, coriander seed, fennel, and other herbs ; served with its liquor. Barquettes de concombre, Danoise.—Small boat-shapes of cucumber filled with a puree of smoked salmon, herring fillets, and hard-boiled eggs ; garnished with grated horseradish and pimiento strips. — ^ la Su^doise.—Small boat-shapes of savoury choux paste, baked and filled with caviare, masked with pink chaudfroid sauce, and garnished with gherkins, fillets, and lobster spawn or coral. — au pois verts, Clanet.—Boat-shaped thin tartlet paste crust, baked and filled with green pea puree, mixed with mayonnaise aspic, a little chutney in centre of each ; surface garnished with sliced radishes, and masked with aspic. Batons de Caviar, Russe.—Thin water biscuits, oblong, or triscuits cut to finger shape, spread with caviare, iced, and coated with whipped cream, and decorated with green herb butter. Boeuf fum6 a la Hambourgeoise.—Smoked Hamburg beef. — hachie a 1* Aspic.—Finely .shredded smoked beef, garnished with savoury aspic jelly Bonnes-Bouches a la Cardinal.—Small puff-pastry bouchees filled with lobster and anchovy. — de Caviar Russe.—Small artichoke bottoms, sur- mounted by a ring of cooked sole fillet, and filled with artichoke caviare ; served iced. — de Crevettes a 1’Avondale.—Bouche-shaped cups of pastry, filled with shrimps or prawn tails ; garnished with tomato aspic. — de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver ragout filled in puff-pastry patties. — de Sardines.—Fancifully cut shapes of brown bread filled with sardine paste ; decorated with hard-boiled egg and savoury butter. — de Sardines a la Royale.—Sardine patties, royal style. Brisolettes de Caviar.—Very small stuffing rolls, cut in halves and filled with caviare, surface masked with aspic, and garnished with anchovy fillets, parsley, etc. — ^ la Moscovite.—Caviare dressed in paste crusts, Moscow style.