lO THE MENU BOOK. only one copy could be conveniently placed at each end of the table. Another version is that Count Hugo de Montfort, at a dinner given in the year 1498, was noticed to have a piece of written parchment near his plate, which he frequently consulted, and when asked what it was he explained that he had ordered the head cook to write on it the various dishes that were being sent from the kitchen. The size of these parchments and paper lists gradually diminished, and, as they became smaller, larger numbers were placed at the table, until the present form of menu was generally introduced, when each guest is provided with a written or printed menu card. Modern Menus. Modem menus, as a rule, are much more prettily got up than those of olden times. In the matter of material for menus, white paper is mostly used, but more expensive material is also employed. I have seen some made of silk, papier-mach6 ; some in the form of shells, books, almanacks, cigars, cigarettes, matchboxes, newspapers, maps, post-cards, bank-notes, blank covers, envelopes, etc. Menus in the shape of envelopes are particularly pretty, and now very much in favour. One takes the form of a small, delicately-coloured envelope of thin cardboard, decorated with gold ; the flap is engraved with a motto, crest, name of host or hostess, some flowers, or a knife and fork crossed, and a sprig of herbs ; the post-mark is “ Bon App^tit.” On the address side is a stamp in gold, with some gastronomic design, and a post-mark bearing the name of the place where the meal is given, with the respective date and name of the diner. The enclosure is, of course, the menu itself. Hand-painted menus on paper, parchment, and satin are in great favour in all society circles. Some of the newest have a miniature of the host or hostess painted in the centre, and are occasionally the work of noted artists. In England, America, and France much art and luxury have been lavished on menu cards. Parchment of the Middle Ages competes with Japanese rice-paper. Some menus, with their seals and ribbons, are like a charter