58 THE MENU BOOK. SUPPER AND SUPPER MENUS. Souper et Menus de Soupers. This is the term for the last meal of the day, and one which has a wide and varied meaning. During the Middle Ages supper used to be served as early as 5 p.m., when it was customary to serve soup ; from this the name supper is supposed to have originated. History tells us that soups, or supper dishes, originally consisted of liquid food both savoury and sweet, such as frumenty, porridge, and various kinds of spoon meat, which were eaten with pieces of bread, called sops, soppets or sippets. Where late dinner is served, as is usually the case at the present time, supper is rarely eaten. So-called ball suppers and theatre suppers are fashion- able both here and abroad. There is no set rule as to the kind of dishes served for supper, but when partaken of as an every-day meal supper may consist of dishes hot or cold, with or without soups, vegetables or even sweets. Cheese and salad when in season are usually included, but this is not to be regarded as a hard-and-fast rule. Light cakes and fancy gSteaux, tea or coffee, are some- times included in a supper menu, which shows that many regard this meal as but a light repast. The following menus are selected as specimens for so-termed set suppers : SPECIMEN MENUS FOR SUPPERS. Menus de Soupers. French. I. English. Darne de Saumon a la R6moulade Roulade de Veau en Chaudfroid Jambon cl la Gelee Salade Risotto k ITtahenne Souffi6 k la Mexienne Denises aux Amandes Fruits et Dessert. f Ecrevisses en Aspic Darioles de Cr^me de Volaille Boeuf k la Presse Pates de Veau et Jambon Salade de Haricots Panaches Crdme k la Romaine Compote de Poires Fromage de Camembert Cel^ri. Salmon Steak, Rhmoulade style Veal Roll, coated with Chaudproid Sauce York Ham with Aspic Jelly Salad Italian Risotto Cold Chocolate Souffle Frosted A Imond Sandwiches Fruit and Dessert. Prawns in Savoury Jelly Chicken Creams Pressed Beef Veal and Ham Patties Haricot Bean Salad Roman Cream Stewed Pears Camembert Cheese Celery. II.