GLACES—ICES. 339 Granite a la Russe.—Semi-frozen green tea and lemon syrup, flavoured with kiimmel. — Voltaire.—Lemon and orange-water ice, mixed with meringue, and flavoured with kirsch ; filled in glasses containing slices of ripe peaches sprinkled with maraschino, with strawberry or glace cherry on top. Punch a la Cardinal.—As “ Romaine,” but flavoured with raspberry pulp, cinnamon, and port wine. — au kirsch.—As “ Romaine,” but flavoured with kirsch- wasser only. — au lait.—Semi-frozen sweetened milk, flavoured with vanilla ; served in small china cups. — Nansen.—Semi-frozen vanilla syrup, mixed with meringue and flavoured with maraschino. — Nigoise.—Like ” Romaine,” flavoured with rum and champagne, and served in frozen imitation goblets. — ^ la Romaine (Roman Punch).—Semi-frozen lemon- water, mixed with Italian meringue, flavoured with rum and kirsch. — d la Royale.—As “ Romaine,” but flavoured with curagoa or maraschino and champagne. Coupe.—Ice, etc., in stem glasses or glass cups. Coupe Archiduc.—Dice-cut pineapple with strawberry cream ice. — Ddme-blanche.—Almond-cream ice, with halves of small peaches poached in vanilla syrup on top, then coated with red-currant jelly. — Eugenie.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with chopped glace chestnuts, filled in cups with whipped cream on top, also crushed candied violets or rose leaves. — Favorite.—Vanilla cream ice mixed with dice-cut fresh pineapple, maraschino flavoured, with a straw- berry on top of each glass or cup. — Frapp^es a la Capucine.—Vanilla cream or custard flavoured with coffee, maraschino, and curagoa, mixed with cake (cut up small), semi-frozen, and filled in glasses, with roasted almonds on top. — Belle H61^ne.—Vanilla ice, mixed with chopped glace cherries, kirsch flavour, with half glace cherry on top. — St. Jacques.—Layers of vanilla cream ice and red- currant-water ice, filled in goblets, sprinkled over with maraschino and curagoa hqueur. — Jubil6.—Glasses rinsed with kirsch and maraschino, with a layer of brandied cherries, then filled with vanilla ice with top layer of whipped cream, chopped pistachios on top.