i8i MEAT ENTRJSES {VEAL). Cotelettes de Veau en Belle-Vue (Cold).—Fillets or cutlets of veal cooked set in aspic, coated with chaudfroid sauce ; garnished with truffles and jardiniere. — a la Bordelaise.—Broiled veal cutlets, dished up on fried-bread croutons, with stewed cepes in centre ; sauce bordelaise. — au Chicor^e.—Broiled veal cutlets with mashed or braised chicory. — a la Cracovie.—Broiled veal cutlets, larded with strips of anchovy fillets ; sauce madere. — en Crepinettes.—Veal cutlets wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried; demi-glace or plain gravy. — a la Dauphine.—Veal cutlets stuffed with chopped tongue and truffles; garnished with potato cro- quettes ; perigueux sauce. — ^ la Demi-glace.—Veal cutlets fried or grilled ; served with brown, i.e., demi-glace sauce. — a la Dreux.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins; served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and sweetbread ; sauce tomate. — aux Epinards.—Broiled veal cutlets with mashed spinach. — a I’Ecarlate.—Plain broiled veal cutlets, dressed alternately with heart-shaped slices of ox-tongue ; sauce tomate. — grill6es.—Plain grilled veal cutlets. — a ritalienne.—Plain broiled veal cutlets with Italian sauce. — a la Lorgnette.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; garnished with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour, and fried in clarified butter. — ^ la Maitre d’Hotel.—Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maatre d’hotel butter. — a la Mar6chal.—Egged and cheese-crumbed veal cutlets fried ; served with bigarade sauce. — ^ la Milanaise.—Veal cutlets, garnished with macaroni, stewed in tomato sauce and parmesan cheese. — au naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled veal cutlets. — pan6es.—Breaded and fried veal cutlets. — en papillotes.—Stuffed veal cutlets braised, served in paper cases. — ^ la Parjarski.—Cutlet shapes of minced veal, egged, crumbed, and fried ; sauces demi-glace and tomate. — a la Parma.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, and fried ; tomato or demi- glace sauce.