247 COLD ENTRIES. Ris de Veau a la Biarritz (or Monte Carlo).—Braised sweetbread, glazed, cut into slices, coated with fawn-coloured chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffles and chilli skins ; dressed on rice border or carved rice block (socle) with hatelet in centre. — a la Russe or Su6doise.—Braised calf’s sweetbread, cut into oval slices, masked with white chaudfroid or aspic, dressed on border, with vegetable salad in centre, surmounted by lettuce heart; sauce Russe, separately. Roulade Norv6gienne.—Cooked breast of veal, lean beef and bacon, minced up and shaped into roll, boiled or braised, and glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce ; garnished with slices of truffles, etc. Salade de Poulets or Volaille.—Chicken salad. Souffles de Jambon.—Pounded ham mixed with madere sauce, cream, and aspic, set in moulds ; decorated with truffle strips, etc., set on ice, and turned out when required. SuprSme de Veau a TAspic.—Braised, larded cushion piece of veal cut into fillets, and masked with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic, decorated with truffle, etc., and dressed on carved rice block (socle); garnished with chopped aspic. Tartines de Volaille en Surprise.—Sandwich shapes of chicken, tongue, and chicken farce, poached in sandwich moulds, and coated, when cold, with aspic cream; decorated with finely cut strips of tongue and truffle ; served on a bed of green salad. Terrine de Gibier a la Suisse.—Fireproof terrine lined with bacon, veal, and pork farce, and filled with boned and skinned sliced game (either hare, partridge or pheasant), moistened with stock, top covered with bacon and farce, and thus cooked in oven ; when cold, surface masked with aspic, and decorated with slices of hard-boiled egg and truffle. Timbale Toulousienne.—The same as “ Chartreuse de Faisan,” using white sauce to mask the mould, and cooked veal or chicken in place of pheasant. Tomates k PAlg^rienne.—Tomato moulds masked with tomato aspic, filled with cooked chicken cream, mixed with aspic, etc.; turned out when set, and garnished with chopped green aspic. Z^phires de Foie-Gras.—The same as “ Fleurettes,” but using zephyr moulds.