320 THE MENU BOOK. Peches a la Sultane (Cold.)—Compote of peaches, dressed on pistachio cream ice, coated with strawberry syrup, and spun sugar on top. Timbales de Peches Marie-Louise (Hot).—Small timbale shapes of genoise, hollowed out, and filled with peach puree mixed with whisked egg-white, baked and glazed ; halves of peaches, glazed, placed on top of each, and decorated with glace cherries cooked in kirsch-flavoured syrup. — a la Zeppelin.—Halves of large peaches poached in syrup, placed in tartlet crusts filled with a salpicon of bananas, flavoured with kirsch syrup ; then coated with custard or meringues, and glazed under sala- mander. Poires—Pears, Poires a la Bardalouse (Hot or Cold).—Compote of smal pears, filled in cake timbale crust lined with vanilla- flavoured almond cream, top meringued and browned. — flambees.—Whole pears (peeled and cored), cooked in sherry syrup, coated with apricot marmalade ; ranged on a dish with brandy poured over and lighted as it is served. — a la Dreux (Cold).—Brioche-paste balls, baked, cut in halves, and filled with pear in each, stalk replaced by angelica strip, and masked with sweet vanilla chaudfroid sauce, and chopped burnt almonds; served with apricot sauce. — a la Duchesse (Cold).—Border of maraschino jelly, lined with halves of pears, farced with almond custard, centre filled with vanilla cream. — a la Florentine (Cold).—Compote of pears, dressed on a bed of cooked semolina, flavoured with vanilla, sauced over with apricot marmalade. — ala St. George’s (Hot).—Whole pears (stewed) placed in cassolette pastry cases, lined with apricot marmalade, masked over with meringue, and baked ; served with kirsch syrup. — a I’lmp^ratrice.—Timbale shape of genoise, filled with compote of pears, with layers of almond cream, top layer chestnut puree and rice, meringue (hot or cold). — Lombardie (Cold).—Small pears, stewed in raspberry syrup, and dressed on border of rice, with whipped cream in centre ; maraschino syrup. . — a la Louis Philippe.—Halves of large Duchesse pears, peeled and cored and poached in vanilla syrup; when cold hollowed out and filled with strawberry ice ; dressed on heart-shaped slice of cake or biscuit ; garnished with whipped cream and pistachios.