144 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Mirabeau.—Veloute sauce with pounded garlic, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a liaison of butter and meat extract. — Miroton.—Demi-glace, blended with finely minced, blanched, and fried onions, tomato sauce, vinegar and mustard to flavour. — Moelle (Beef Marrow).—Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, vinegar and cayenne to taste. — Morley.—Velout6 sauce, enriched with mushroom essence and cream. — Mornay.—Bechamel, enriched with egg-yolks and grated cheese. — Moscovite.—Poivrade or pepper sauce mixed with sour cream, flavoured with juniper berries. —• Monies (Mussels).—Hollandaise sauce, with cooked mussels. — Mousseline.—A very light, froth-like sauce, hollandaise whisked with double cream. Other mousseline sauces are made with tomato or spinach foundations. — Mousseuse.—Hollandaise sauce, enriched with whipped cream. — Moutarde (Mustard).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, mixed with prepared mustard. — Nantua.—Bechamel, reduced with fish essence, finished with crayfish butter and cream. — Napolitaine.—A brown sauce, with finely-minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horseradish, flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves. — Nigoise.—Demi-glace, blended with concentrated Italian tomato puree. — Nivernaise.—Allemande or veloute with finely-shredded carrots. — Noisette.—Hollandaise sauce, mixed with baked, pounded, and sieved hazel-nuts, finished with double cream. — Nonpareille.—Hollandaise sauce enriched with cray- fish or lobster butter, mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles. — Norah.—Poivrade or pepper sauce with red-currant jelly, Worcester sauce, meat glaze, and lemon juice. — Normande.—A white fish sauce, thickened with egg- yolks, fresh butter and cream, flavoured with lemon juice and essence of fish. — Norv^gienne (Norwegian).— A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled egg-yolks (passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil, and vinegar, mixed with finely-chopped herbs.