140 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Financi^re.—Brown mad^re sauce reduced with chicken essence, truffle, and mushroom liquor, — Fines Herbes.—A white or brown sauce, with finely chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil) ; chopped shallots blended in butter are sometimes added. — Flamande (Flemish).—A white sauce, with egg-yolks, flavoured with mustard, — Fleurette.—Rich white cream sauce enriched with chicken essence. — Foyot.—Bearnaise sauce, enriched with meat glaze. — Fran^alse (French).—Bearnaise sauce with tomato puree and fish essence flavour. — Francois.—Tomato sauce reduced with white wine, with chopped mushrooms finished with butter. — Garibaldi.—A brown sauce flavoured with crushed garlic, capers, curry, anchov}'’ paste, and mustard ; served with fish or meat. — Gastronome.—Brown sauce, espagnole or demi-glace, reduced with champagne, seasoned with cayenne. — Generate.—A brown savoury sauce flavoured with lemon juice, tarragon vinegar, orange peel finely chopped, garlic, and sherry. — Gen^voise (Geneva).—Madere sauce reduced with fish essence, flavoured with garlic and anchovy essence. — G^noise (Genoese).—Demi-glace or espagnole reduced with fish stock and red wine, flavoured with anchovy essence, parsley, and mushrooms. — G6noise (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with bechamel, flavoured with pounded pignolis or almonds, also green herb puree. — Gibier (Game).—A brown sauce flavoured with essence of game. — Gloucester (cold).—Mayonnaise cream mixed with chopped tarragon, flavoured with mustard and chili vinegar ; served with fish or meat salads. — Godard.—Espagnole or demi-glace, reduced with chablis, mixed with chopped ham and champignons. — Gooseberry (groseille verte).—Gooseberry puree, blended with syrup, with or without cream, served with grilled mackerel or roast goose. — Gourmet.—A brown fish sauce mixed with lobster butter, chopped prawns, and truffles. — Grand Veneur.—Espagnole reduced with blood of game, hare, etc., highly spiced with pepper. — Granville.—White wine sauce mixed with chopped mushrooms, shrimps, and truffles. — Gratin.—White wine sauce, blended with demi-glace, mixed with dropped champignons (Duxelle).