285 SAVOURY EGG DISHES. (Eufs durs h la St. Germain (Cold).—Hard-boiled eggs, with yolks removed and mixed with mayonnaise and chopped shrimps, refilled, and dressed on a bed of chopped aspic, with a bearded oyster on top of each egg. — a I’Ecarlate.—Poached eggs dressed on rounds of fried bread, spread with tongue paste or slices. — a I’Ecossaise.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat or sausage meat, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat ; served with tomato sauce. — h l*Eug6nie.—Large cup mushrooms, scooped out, filled with mixture of smoked salmon, truffles, and foie-gras sauce, etc. ; place poached egg on top of each ; decorate with lobster coral and truffle. — fareis.—Stuffed eggs. — fareis aux Epinards.—Eggs stuffed with spinach. — a la Florentine.—Poached eggs placed in baked paste croustades lined with spinach puree, sauced over with mornay sauce, and browned in sharp oven. —frits a la Suisse.—Eggs, fried whole, sprinkled with grated gruy^re cheese and seasoning. — frits a la Tomate.^—Fried eggs with tomato sauce. — dr la Garfield.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat, egged, crumbed in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter ; served with piquant sauce. — a la Gourmet.—Stuffed with crayfish tails, chopped truffles, and smoked salmon, and baked. — a la Grand Due.—Scrambled eggs dressed on small croutons of fried bread, sauced over with rich bechamel and reduced tomato ; garnished with asparagus tips and shredded truffles. — ^ la Granville.—Coarsely shredded hard-boiled eggs, stewed in brown onion sauce, flavoured with lemon rind and mace. — la Gruyere.—Scrambled eggs, with grated gruyere cheese. — d la Hollande.—Poached eggs on croutons, sauced over with hollandaise, and slice of truffle on top. — 4 la Hussard.—Rounds of fried bread, spread with minced ham and mushrooms, with tomato slice on top and poached egg, sauced over with hollandaise ; served hot. — d, rindienne.—Curried eggs with rice. — a la Maire.—Poached eggs, trimmed, and dressed on toast, garnished with finely shredded ox-tongue, ham, and truffles ; sauced over with madere sauce.