SWEET ENTREMETS. 313 Charlotte h la Pompadour (Cold).—Croustade made of almond paste and small wafer cornets filled with whipped cream, centre filled with pineapple cream. — Portugaise (Hot).—Mould lined with slices of genoise cake, filled with crushed macaroons, custard, and apple puree, and baked. — a la Reine (Hot).—Genoise cake hollowed out and filled with vanilla souffle mixture, pineapple, and apricots, masked with meringue, and baked. — a la Renaissance (Cold).—Mould lined with biscuits, iced with lemon, chocolate, and green icing, filled with vanilla cream custard, and fruit salpicon in centre. — ^ la Russe (Cold).—Rich vanilla cream, set in mould lined with finger biscuits. — ^ la Savarin (Hot).—Baked brioche paste-crust filled with puree of pears, with apricot custard, and kirsch flavour ; served with pineapple syrup. — St. Jos6 (Cold).—Charlotte lined with Savoy biscuits, bottom decorated with jelly and glace fruit, and filled with pineapple cream. Coupes—See Chapter on Ices. Compotes de Fruits—Stewed Fruit. Compote d'ahricots Compdte d'ananas Compdte d’aiyelles Compdte de coings Compdte de censes Compdte de dattes Compdte d’epines-vinettes Compdte de figues Compdte de jraises Compdte de framhoises Stewed apricots Stewed pineapples Stewed cranberries Stewed quinces Stewed cherries Stewed dates Stewed barberries Stewed figs Stewed strawberries Stewed raspberries Compdte de gvoseilles blanches Stewed white currants Compdte de gvoseilles rouges Stewed red currants Compdte de gvoseilles vertes Compdte de melon Compdte de mivabelles Compdte de mivtilles Compdte de m'dres Compdte de mavvons Compdte d'oranges Compdte de peches Compdte de poives Compdte de pommes Compdte de prunes Compdte de pruneaux Compdte de reine-Claudes Compdte de rhuharbe Compdte de ronces Stewed gooseberries Stewed melon Stewed mirabelles Stewed bilberries Stewed mulberries Stewed chestnuts Stewed oranges Stewed peaches Stewed pears Stewed apples Stewed prunes Stewed plums Stewed greengages Stewed rhubarb Stewed brambleberries