102 THE MENU BOOK. Anguille a ritalienne (Eel Stewed, Italian style).—Stewed eel with small rice timbales. — a la Maconnaise.—Eel stewed in Burgundy wine sauce, with crayfish tails and oysters. — en Matelote.—Brown eel stew, flavoured with claret, button onions, and mushrooms. — ^ la Menagere.—Split eel, grilled, spread over with maitre d’hotel butter and mustard. — a la Meuni^re.—Boned eel, cut in portion pieces, dipped in flour and cooked in butter, served with Noisette butter, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. — a rOrly.—Fillets of eel, egged and crumbed or dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat, served with tomato sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Boiled eel, coated with white sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried ; egg sauce or choron sauce, and small potato balls. — a la Poulette.—Fricasseed eel in parsley sauce. — a la Proven^ale.—Fried eel, onion sauce. — a la Romaine.—Small piece of eel stewed with butter sauce, green peas, and finely cut lettuces, served in casserole. — a la Rouennaise.—Boned eel, cut in portions, stewed in matelotte sauce, garnished with oysters, soft roes, champignons, and fried smelts. — a la Tartare (Eel, Tartare style).—Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter and fried, dished up in circles, with tartare sauce in centre. — a la Venitienne.—Rolled eel fillets, cooked (i.e., poached) in court-bouillon and glazed in oven, garnished with dice-cut champignons, and fish roe ; sauce Venitienne. Blanquette d*Anguille.—Stewed eel in white sauce. Friture d’Anguille.—Skinned and boned pieces of eel, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, served with piquant, tomato, or tartare sauce. Barhue—Brill, Barbue brais6e d TAmiral.—Brill braised with chablis and white stock, garnished with fried oysters and mussels, pommes Parisienne, and thin slices of truffle and lemon ; served with cardinal sauce. — bouillie.—Boiled brill. — au gratin.—Baked brill, gratin style. Barbillon.—Young brill. Filets de Barbue frite.—Fried fillets of brill. — d la Boulonnaise.—Fillets of brill, poached in oven, with white wine sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, garnished with oysters, mussels, and soft roes.