THE MENU BOOK. 310 Beignets ^ la Portugaise.—(Portuguese fritters)—A kind of rice croquette, flavoured with cinnamon, with orange marmalade in centre. — soufQes, favorite.—Slices of pineapple or peaches dipped in kirsch or other liqueur, placed in portions of choux paste, and fried in deep fat. Croquettes de riz a I’ananas.—Rice croquettes, with dice- cut pineapple and served with pineapple sauce. — a la d’Egmont.—Rice croquettes made of rice, chopped pistachio nuts and chopped almonds, fried and served with brandy sauce. — aux fraises.—Rice croquettes with preserved straw- berries in centre. — aux peches.—Rice croquettes with peach preserve. Croquettes de semoule aux fraises.—Semolina croquettes with strawberry jam in centre. — ^ la vanille.—Vanilla rice croquettes. — de vermicelle.—Vermicelli croquettes. Pain frits au vin rouge.—Slices of milk roll dipped in egg and sugar and fried ; served with claret syrup. Bordures or Turbans—Borders. Bordure de Agues (Cold).—Stewed figs pulped and mixed with cream, then set with wine jelly in border mould. — de marrons ^ la Chantilly (Cold).—Border of chestnut puree, etc., centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. — Pierre le Grand (Cold).—Rich savarin border, centre filled with whipped cream, then masked with apricot marmalade, and studded with strips of almonds and pistachios. — de prunes (Cold).—Border of rice and stoned stewed prunes, masked with apricot marmalade, and sprinkled with chopped pistachios ; centre filled with whipped cream ; garnished with glace cherries and angelica. — ^ la Japonaise (Cold).—Savarin border, soaked in maraschino syrup and set in jelly. — a la Victoria (Hot or Cold).—Genoise border, with halves of peaches or apricots in centre, masked with apricot sauce, flavoured with maraschino ; decorated with angelica, glace cherries, and pistachios. Turban de p§ches ^ la Pdoderne (Cold).—Genoise border cake set in decorated wine jelly and peach border, enriched with vanilla custard ; centre of dish (border) filled with compote of peaches.