179 MEAT ENTRIES {BEEF). Langue de Boeuf a la Robert.—Braised ox-tongue with brown onion sauce. — d la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with a sauce composed of espagnole sauce, white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignolis), flavoured with chilli vinegar and castor sugar. Miroton de Boeuf.—Shced cooked beef broiled in butter and chopped onions, and stewed in brown sauce. Noix de Boeuf h la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or cushion of beef larded, finished in a richly flavoured brown sauce with a little tomato puree, garnished with braised carrots and button onions. — a l’6touffade.—Kernel of beef with brown sauce, stewed in the oven. Olives de Boeuf a I’Anglaise.—Thin slices of rump steak spread over with suet stuffing, rolled and braised, served with richly flavoured brown sauce, chopped parsley, and thin slices of fried bacon. Oreilles de Boeuf a la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled pickled ox-ears; when cold dipped in batter and fried in deep fat. Paupiettes de Boeuf a la Richelieu.—Sliced fillets of beef spread with forcemeat, rolled and braised ; garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, mushrooms ; served with Richelieu sauce. Palais de Boeuf (Ox-palate) au gratin.—Braised ox-palates prepared and baked in gratin style. — grilles.—Pickled ox-palates egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter and grilled, served with a piquant tomato sauce. — a ITndienne.—Curried ox-palate with boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Stewed ox-palates dished up in a circle with fried-bread croutons ; Italian sauce. — aux Macaroni.—Braised ox-palates with macaroni. — a I’Orly.—Stewed ox-palates ; when cold spread with forcemeat mixed with savoury herbs, rolled, coated with white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Ravigote.—Stewed ox-palates dressed in a border of fried bread, sauced over with ravigote sauce. Poitrine de Boeuf frite h la Sainte-Men6hould.—Boned and braised breast of beef cut into slices, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat.