MEAT ENTRIES {BEEF). 177 Tournedos de Boeuf ^ la Portugaise.—Sauteed in butter, garnished with small stuffed tomatoes ; tomato sauce. — la Prince Murat.—Small fillets of beef and slices of raw foie-gras, of similar size, broiled separately, dressed together on bread croutons ; garnished with turned Spanish olives, stuffed with farce de cham- pignons and olive-shaped potatoes baked in butter ; sauced over with tomato and madere blended sauce. — ^ la Quirinal.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons, spread with duxelle or champignon puree ; garnished with straw potatoes ; sauce madere. — a la RachM.—Tournedos dressed on artichoke bottoms, sauced over with beef-marrow sauce (moHle). — a la Riche.—Artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas, placed on each tournedo, with a slice of truffle on top ; sauce choron. — a la Savoisienne.—Braised tournedos done in casserole, with demi-glace sauce, small button onions, cham- pignons, green peas, and chateau potatoes. — a la Scribe.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of rice, spread over with foie-gras puree ; sauce madere. — a la Strasbourgeoise.—Slice of braised foie-gras and a slice of smoked sausage on each tournedo ; sauce madere. — a la Thiers.—Par-fried tournedos finished in casserole, with braised button onions, slices of truffles, stoned olives, and brown sauce flavoured with sauterne. — a la Troja.—Grilled tournedos with anchovy fillet and slice of truffle on top of each ; when cold enclosed in brioche paste and baked in a quick oven; served with madere sauce, containing finely cut strips of truffle. — ^ la Valliere.—Sauteed and dressed on croutons, coated with demi-glace sauce, containing julienne strips of truffle, mushrooms, and tongue. — ^ la Victoria.—Grilled tournedos of beef, garnished with broiled small cup mushrooms, filled with bearnaise sauce ; served with truffle sauce. Beignets de Boeuf k la Minute.—Cold roast beef cut in strips, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. Boeuf saut6 ^ la Bourgeoise.—Coarsely minced broiled beef with braised button onions ; brown sauce. — a la Flamande.—Braised pieces of rump of beef; garnished with stuffed spring cabbages ; brown sauce. Carbonade de Boeuf k la Flamande.—Thin slices of lean beef stewed in casserole, in rich brown sauce, with minced onions, neatly shaped, plain boiled potatoes placed on top of stew ; served in casserole. M