THE MENU BOOK, 234 Mauviettes a la Paysanne.—Breast portion covered with bay-leaf and bacon ; then roast ; served with brown onion puree and noisette potatoes as garnish. — P^re Philippe.—Par-roasted boned larks, placed in hollowed-out potatoes, then wrapped in oiled paper and cooked in hot embers. — a la Pompadour.—Boned, stuffed with chopped beef, crumb bread, braised, and served with Perigueux (truffle) sauce. — ^ la Turque.—Boned and stuffed with veal or chicken farce, braised and dressed on savoury rice (pillaw). Ortolans—Ortolans, Ortolans h I’ltalienne.—Roast ortolans (a la broche), in front of fire ; dressed on fried-bread croutes lined with grilled ham. — a la Lucullus.—Boned, braised in casserole; garniture : dice of foie-gras, mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and kernels ; sauce Supreme. — a la Maltaise (Cold).—Boned, roasted, and cut in fillets, dressed in halves of oranges, masked with port-wine flavoured aspic with julienne cut tomato, decorated with jellied glace cherries. — en Surprise.—Boned, stuffed, and par-roasted ; then placed in hollowed-out potatoes with slices of truffle, and baked. — en Cocotte.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras and calf’s liver farce; par-cooked, i.e., braised in “casserole,” then placed in cocotte pans, lined with farce chopped truffle and bacon ; sauced with Madere and finished in oven. — aux C6rises.—Same as “ Cocotte,” but served in border of farce, with stoned cherries cooked in port-wine flavoured Demi-glace sauce. — a la Delmonico.—Boned, stuffed with ham farce and chopped truffles, braised in earthenware pot (casse- role), covered with paste crust; sent to table in the casserole. — a la Marianne.—Braised in casserole with spinach and Demi-glace sauce. — a la P6rigord.—Braised and served with Truffle sauce. — ^ la Polonaise.—Broiled and stewed ; garnished with sauerkraut, small pease dumplings, and pieces of smoked sausage. — a la Provengale.—Braised ortolans with richly stewed onions ; sauce Robert. JBerdreau—Perdrix—Partridge, Perdreau d. la Bateli^re.—Braised partridge with button onions, mushrooms, fried eggs, and crayfish tails; Demi-glace sauce.