THE MENU BOOK. 166 Rissoles de Homard.—Lobster rissoles. — aux Huitres.—Oyster rissoles. — de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread rissoles. — de Volaille d I’Indienne.—Curried fowl rissoles. Ravioles a la Napolitaine (Neapolitan Ravioles).—These are very small round flat patties made of nouille paste and filled with a mixture of grated parmesan cheese, yolks of eggs, and cayenne, poached in stock or baked in the oven, and served with tomato sauce. 3Iousses and SonfflSs.—A souffle or mousse usually consists of a very light souffle mixture, and is prepared to be served either hot or cold. Ham mousse, as a rule, is made with pounded cooked or raw ham, with panada, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Aspic or aspic cream is incorporated in the case of cold mousses. There are also other and more modern styles of preparing mousse, as indicated by the new formulas. “ Mousselines ” is applied to smaller shapes or single portion shapes of mousse. Souffle or souffles are also adapted for dishes of this character. Mousse a la Brandimbourg (Cold).—York ham, boiled and braised, top half cut off and cut partly in slices, glazed with aspic ; other part pounded with foie-gras and made into mousse; then refilled with shced ham and mousse mixture (cold), surface coated with chaudfroid sauce and decorated with truffle and white of egg squares to resemble a chessboard. — la Carmen.—A light ham souffle, centre filled with a salpicon of artichoke bottom, champignon, and supreme sauce. Pimiento or paprika sauce. — a la Clamart.—Souffle of ham, made from raw ham, pounded with bechamel, cream, and egg whites and seasoning ; moulded with centre filled with green pea puree, and poached or steamed ; sauce supreme. — de Jambon en surprise.—Boiled or braised York ham (whole), centre part cut out when cold, and refilled with hot or cold ham mousse ; served with reform sauce when hot, or with Cumberland sauce when served cold. — a la Perigourdin.—Mousse of ham, mixed with sliced truffles ; served hot with perigord sauce. Mousselines de Jambon a 1’Alexandra.—Quenelles of ham, decorated with slices of truffles, poached ; garnished with asparagus tips tossed in butter ; served with cheese-flavoured allemande sauce.