SA UCES. 143 Sauce Marini6re.—White wine sauce, with finely-chopped herbs, shallots, and fish essence. — Marseillaise.—Hollandaise sauce blended with tomato puree. — Matelote (blanche).—A white fish sauce, with mush- room juice, white wine, and button mushrooms, flavoured with savoury herbs. — Matelote (brune).—A red wine sauce reduced with fish essence, mushroom liquor, and anchovy essence. — Matignon.—Ham essence reduced with Madere sauce blended with port wine, and mixed with peeled muscate grapes, paprika seasoning. — Maximilian.—Tartare sauce, with tomato pulp and finely-chopped tarragon leaves to flavour. — Mayonnaise.—A cold sauce composed of yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, salad oil, and vinegar ; a little cold bechamel sauce or cream is sometimes added as foundation. — Mayonnaise collie.—Mayonnaise sauce, fortified with liquified gelatine or aspic, used for coating or masking. — Mayonnaise Bulgarienne.—Mayonnaise mixed with tomato pulp ; liquified meat extract or marmite and chopped cooked celery. — Mayonnaise Caboul.—Mayonnaise flavoured with curry * powder. — Mayonnaise Cardinal.—Mayonnaise mixed with finely- chopped lobster and coloured with the pulp of red carrots. —Mayonnaise Chantilly.—Mayonnaise blended with semi- hquid aspic and whipped cream. — Mayonnaise Espagnole (Spanish).—Mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely-chopped and sieved lean ham and a suspicion of garlic as flavour. — Mayonnaise Rouge.—Mayonnaise sauce mixed with sufficient lobster or cra;^sh butter to impart a red colour. — Mayonnaise Russe (Russian).—Mayonnaise blended with finely-chopped parsley, chives, tarragon, shallots, capers, and gherkins; also a little finely grated horse- radish and castor sugar. — Mayonnaise au Vin blanc.—Mayonnaise flavoured with chablis or sauterne wine. — M6dicis.—Bearnaise, flavoured with tomato puree and very httle red wine. — Melba.—Chopped shallots cooked in chablis, reduced in tomato sauce, and thickened with egg-yolks, finished like hollandaise. — Menthe (Mint).—Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint leaves, and moist sugar to flavour.