302 THE MENU BOOK. Salade Pompadour.—Sprigs of cooked cauliflower, celeriac, and potatoes ; seasoned with vinaigrette. — Portugaise.—Sliced tomatoes, watercress, finely chopped onions and parsley ; vinaigrette dressing, — quatre saisons.—Composed and arranged in four distinct parts; sliced radishes, shreds of lettuce, sliced cucumber, and sliced tomatoes, each served separately with mayonnaise or tartare border. — Rachel.—White celery root cut into fine strips, hard- boiled eggs, truffles, beetroot, and gherkins shredded finely, mixed with mayonnaise, and suitably decorated. — Reine.—White celery stalks, hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into fine strips; seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of salami or Brunswick sausage and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. — Riviera.—Young carrots, cooked, white celery (heart), black radish, all cut in julienne, dressed with vinaigrette. — Russe (Russian).—Consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, and gherkins, cut in small squares or cubes, capers, grated horseradish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with mayonnaise aspic in cylindrical shaped mould; garnished with border of aspic jelly and caviare. — Sahara.—Consists of dice-shaped cold potatoes, cold cooked celery root or celeriac, truffles, and bananas ; seasoned with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley and chervil. — Sicillienne.—The same as “ Portugaise,” with addition of finely shredded celery and cold potatoes. — Sotteville.—Cos-lettuce salad, seasoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, cream, and chopped parsley. — Su6doise (Swedish).—Filleted smoked herrings, cold beef, boiled potatoes, sour apples (all cut into dice), chopped capers and gherkins, tarragon and chervil, seasoned with plain salad dressing ; garnished with olives, fillets of anchovies, and oysters. — Th6rese.—White celery hearts cut into strips, also russet apples, and potatoes cut similarly, and dressed with mayonnaise. — Tourangelle.—Composed of cooked green asparagus, julienne of celery, tomatoes and gherkins, also French beans. Mayonnaise or Vinaigrette dressing. — Waldorf.—Celery root or celeriac cut into julienne strips, russet apples, and walnuts, blended with mayonnaise sauce. — Windsor.—Shredded white celery, chicken fillets (cooked), tongue, and truffles ; seasoned with mayon- naise, mixed with chopped piccalilli,