210 THE MENU BOOK. Chapon a la Bourgecise.—Braised, finished in a rich brown sauce reduced with tomato sauce and white wine, garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions. — a la Cavour.—Stuffed and braised (breast larded and glazed), served with allemande sauce flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice, garnished with small baked nouille or macaroni timbales. — ^ la Chanceliere.—Braised capon (breast larded), finished and served with a well-spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon glazed). —Chateleine.—Braised in oven, garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with pieces of cooked chestnuts and onion puree, also noisette potatoes ; sauce madere. — a la Ghimay.—Boned, stuffed with mousseline farce mixed with nouilles, and braised slov/ly in oven; garnished with asparagus points and nouilles. — ^ la C16ry .—Broiled in butter and stewed in parsley and onion sauce. — brais6 a la St. Cloud.—Braised (breast larded with strips of truffles and bacon) ; Madeira sauce. — a la Edouard VII.—Stuffed with cooked rice and foie-gras, cut in dice, braised white, and finished in supreme sauce slightly flavoured with curry ; gar- nished with diamonds of Spanish pimientos ; served in casserole. — a TElys^e.—Stuffed with mousseline farce mixed with foie-gras cubes and truffles, and braised white ; garnished with cocks’ combs, quenelles, and cham- pignons ; sauce supreme. — brais6 a I’Estragon.—Braised with tarragon sauce. — saut6 a la Frangaise.—Par-boiled and braised, finished in white wine sauce, with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — brais6 a la Garfield.—Braised (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly. — (or Poularde) a la Gastronome.—Filled with morilles (a species of mushroom) tossed in butter, braised with Champagne sauce, garnished with glazed chestnuts, truffles, and cocks’ kernels ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Gr6que.—Stuffed with cooked rice, tossed in butter, and braised white. — au gros sel.—Braised (breast larded and covered with strips of lemon rind), served with demi-glace sauce, containing a little coarse freezing salt added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel). — la H^loise.—Braised white, heart part removed and filled with mousseline farce and fresh truffles, then poached in oven ; sauce allemande.