THE MENU BOOK. 340 Coupe Malmaison.—Apricot cream ice, mixed with skinned seedless grapes, with spun sugar on top of each glass or cup. — St. Martin.—Fresh fruit macedoine, in cups or glasses, with lemon and raspberry ice on top, surmounted with a ripe strawberry dipped in maraschino. — Maritine.—Glasses mixed with kirsch and lemon juice, hned with small cut mixed fruit, then filled with moka cream ice ; shreds of baked almonds on top. — d’orange au champagne.—Orange and lemon-water ice, coloured pink with champagne flavour; served in glasses. — Tutti-Frutti.—Raspberry or strawberry-water ice, mixed with chopped mixed fruit, whipped cream on top. — Victoria.—Glasses filled with vanilla cream and pine- apple ice ; top decorated with glace fruit. Mixed Ices, Ice Puddings, aud Souffles, Note.—A number of iced dishes, frozen or semi-frozen, will also be found under Bombes and Mousses. Biscuits glaces.—The basis for these is, as a rule (i) a genoise mixture worked to a cream-like consistency over hot water ; (2) egg-yolks and syrup, with Italian meringue, worked similarly ; (3) fruit purees or fruit syrups and Italian meringue beaten or whisked over hot water. Cream usually whipped is always added when the mixture is cold ; in other respects biscuits glaces are treated the same as iced souffles, i.e., frozen or iced in charged ice cabinets. Biscuits glac6s a la vanilie.—Vanilla souffle ice, mixed with cream, and lined with wafer biscuits. Abricots glacis a la Parisienne.—Bombe shape of vanilla cream ice, with layers of apricots (sliced or dice), and crushed macaroons ; when served coated with whipped cream, vanilla flavour. Glace Beatrix.—Vanilla cream, mixed with honey, lemon juice, flavoured with cognac. — Benedictine.—Strawberry cream, flavoured with bene- dictine liqueur, and iced. — Carmen.—Vanilla cream, with strawberry flavour , mocha cream in centre. Charlotte glac^e.—Ice-cream pudding, lined with thin finger, genoise or savoy biscuits. Glace Comtesse.—Vanilla cream, with coffee flavour.