THE MENU BOOK. 104 Brochet frit.—Fried pike garnished with lemon and parsley, —farci et gratine.—Stuffed pike, baked, gratin style. — grille.—Grilled or broiled pike. — ^ la Remoulade (Pike, Remoulade style).—Grilled pike served with a remoulade sauce. Filets de Brochet pique a la Colbert.—Fillets of pike, larded, cooked in the oven, with brown wine sauce. — piqu§ d> la Lyonnaise.—Fillets of pike stewed in white wine sauce, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. Grenadines de Brochet.—Round or oval-shaped fillets, larded, with truffles, and poached in court-bouillon and butter, then glazed, and served with brown fish sauce. — a la Regence.—Small oval fillets spread with butter and slices of truffles, wrapped in oiled paper, and cooked in oven with white wine and butter ; garniture Regence and sauce. Cahillaud—Cod, Cabillaud a TAndalouse.—Slices of cod cooked in white wine sauce and tomato puree; garnished with noisette potatoes. — k I’Anglaise.—Boiled cod with melted butter sauce. — bouilli.—Boiled cod. — bouilli aux Capres.—Boiled cod with caper sauce. — en coquilles.—Codfish baked and served in shells. — aux Crevettes.—Boiled cod and shrimp sauce. — a la Di6ppoise.—Shces of cod dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, and served with white matelotte sauce. — ^ la Flamande.—Cod slices, baked in white sauce, flavoured with white Bordeaux wine and chopped herbs. — frit, sauce Anchois.—Fried cod and anchovy sauce. — au gratin.—Baked cod, gratin style. — grill6 ^ la Colbert (Grilled Cod, Colbert style).—Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and flour, grilled, and served with maitre d’hotel butter. — sauce aux Huitres.—Boiled cod, oyster sauce. — d I’Indienne.—Fried or grilled cod with curry sauce. — d, la Maltaise.—Cod stewed in veloute sauce, white wine, stock, shallots, and bouquet garni; sauce flavoured with anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers. — a la Nantaise.—Slices of cod, spread over with lobster puree or farced, baked, and served with fish supreme sauce.