THE MENU BOOK. 3i8 CEufs—Eggs, {See also Sweet Omelettes, p, 329.) (Eufs glacis h la Florida (Iced).—Egg shapes made of lemon-water ice, almond and vanilla cream, centre (yolk) made of almond paste and genoise, served in swan-shaped souffle cases placed round coloured water ice column, and garnished with sprays of green fern. — vanillas d la neige (Hot or Cold).—Quenelles of whisked whites of eggs poached, in egg moulds, in milk ; served with vanilla custard. — en surprise (Cold).—Halves of apricots masked with jelly, and set in whisked and set jelly so as to resemble poached eggs ; sauced over with maraschino syrup. Oranges—Oranges. Oranges ^ la Centrale (Cold).—Oranges scooped out care- fully, and filled with wine jelly coloured red and flavoured with orange juice; when cold cut into quarters. — a I’Infante (Cold).—Oranges filled with orange ice or mousse, then masked with meringue, and browned in sharp oven. — au Riz a la Fraise.—Rice cooked in vanilla-flavoured milk, with halves of peaches on top, masked with meringues, and baked ; served with cold strawberry sauce. — souffl6es a la Javannaise (Cold).—Halves of Jaffa oranges, filled with vanilla cream ice, flavoured with ginger and cura^oa, set in cups, coated with meringue mixture, and baked quickly in sharp oven to set surface. — ^ la Maltaise.—Oranges filled with port-wine jelly and vanilla cream, two or three layers, cut into quarters when cold and dressed on rice or vanilla ice. — a la Napolitaine.—Oranges filled with vanilla and raspberry ice ; when frozen cut into quarters. Compote d*oranges.—Orange quarters stewed in syrup. Sabot d’orange au curacao (Hot).—Caramel coated orange sections ranged in mould and filled with custard mixed with slices of cake, orange sections, and apples ; steamed or baked, served hot or cold, with orange and cura9oa flavoured whipped cream. Eeches—Peaches, Peches a 1* Alexandra.—Whole peaches poached in rasp- berry syrup and skinned, dressed on rounds of genoise cake or border, meringued over, and browned in oven ; served hot or cold, with raspberry syrup.