281 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Macaroni a la Cardinal.—Cooked in salted water, drained and seasoned with paprika and parmesan, blended with crayfish tails or prawns and lobster butter. — a la Hussarde.—Same as “ Cardinal,” but truffles instead of crayfish, etc., also fresh butter, and bechamel sauce and beef broth. — a la Montglas.—Plain boiled, sauteed in butter, with grated parmesan added, also veloute, and dice shapes of truffles and mushrooms. — a la Napolitaine.—Pre-cooked macaroni, finished in rich ham flavoured stock enriched with tomato puree and parmesan cheese (grated). — a la Prineesse.—Cheese flavoured macaroni, mixed with chopped or pulped partridge or chicken fillet, finished with rich veal gravy. — a la Reine.—Puree of chicken breast, enriched with meat glaze, mixed with cooked macaroni, finished with grated parmesan cheese and good beef broth, — a la Livournaise.—Pre-cooked macaroni, finished with bechamel sauce, butter and grated parmesan, drained in layers with tomato puree. — a la Sicilienne.—Cooked macaroni, cheese flavoured and finished k la bechamel, filled in halves of baked aubergines (gratinee). — a la Caponi.—Par-cooked macaroni, finished in beef broth, fried onions and dice-cut fried ham or bacon, crushed tomatoes and tomato puree, strewn with parmesan and gratinee.. Riz—Rice, Savoury Rice Dishes, Risotto aux tomates.—Stewed rice with tomato puree. Riz a rSspagnole.—Boiled rice, drained, and fried in olive oil, mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sweet pepper ; garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. — ^ la Florentine.—Stewed rice with picked shrimps, crayfish tails or prawns, curry paste, grated parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. — k I’Indienne.—Curried rice. — Milanaise.—Rice cooked with grated parmesan cheese, mixed with chopped fowl, game, tongue, or ham, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. — Pi^montaise.—Stewed rice with mashed potatoes, finely chopped fried shallots, grated parmesan cheese, butter, and cayenne pepper.