70 THE MENU BOOK. '*Canap6s Alberta.—Oval or finger-shaped croutes spread with anchovy paste, lined with lax, decorated with chopped beetroot, green herb butter, anchovy butter, and aspic. — a rArlequin.—Oblong or crescent shapes of toasted and buttered bread, with strips of tongue, smoked sal- mon, gherkins, and truffles, arranged in harlequin style. — a la Coquelin.—Croutons of fried bread, spread over with a paste composed of cooked ham, chicken, butter, and grated cheese ; garnished with gherkins, beetroot, and capers. — a la Diana.—Layers of chopped ham, truffles, and hard- boiled egg-yolks placed alternately on croutons of bread ; decorated with chopped aspic. — a la Darvelle.—Oval-shaped pieces of toasted or fried bread, spread with anchovy paste, and finished with layers of ham and caviare ; decorated with hard- boiled eggs and aspic. — de Foie-gras ^ la Russe.—Rounds of toasted bread spread with foie-gras puree, a dice of hard-boiled egg placed on top ; garnished with anchovy fillets and caviare. — Frivolit^s Bohemienne.—This name is applied to any variety of light and daintily dressed hors-d’oeuvres, mostly of fancy character. — a la Geneve.—Oblong croutons of fried bread, spread with a paste composed of anchovy, sardine, and ham ; garnished with hard-boiled egg-yolk and white, and parsley. — de Harengs a la Russe.—Fingers of fried bread spread with anchovy butter mixed with herring roes ; fillets of kippered herrings are placed on each ; garnished with gherkins. — de Homard a la Reine.—Lobster canapees, queen style. — de Sardines d la Frangaise.—Small fried-bread croutons masked with sardine paste or butter, layers of sardines, chopped parsley, and coated with remoulade sauce. — de Saumon fum6.—Smoked salmon on toast. — a la Selon.—Buttered water biscuits covered with slices of hard-boiled egg dipped in lemon juice and chopped parsley, caviare in centre, and garnished with prawns. — d la Turque.—Finger-shaped pieces of fried bread, spread with savoury ham mixture, decorated with three distinct coloured butters, anchovy, herb, and yolk of egg. "■ Canapes.—This word is applied to Hors-d’oeuvre and Savouries, which are made of toasted or fried bread, previously cut into suitable sizes and shape slices.