THE ENTREE COURSE {POULET). 223 Poulet frit a la Dauphine. — Broiled, coated with veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with small potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — frit a la Duchesse.—Boned, cut into small portions and flattened, steeped in oil and lemon juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with veloute sauce, blended with cream and minced ham. — frit a rOrly.—Par-boiled, cut into neat pieces, and marinaded ; dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — frit a la Tartare.—Boiled ; when cold, cut into joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce. — frit h la Tyrolienne.—Jointed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried slowly in clarified butter; served with tomato sauce. — frit a la Viennoise.—Boned, cut into small portions, and flattened, marinaded, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la General.—Braised ; garnished with groups of green peas and asparagus points; served with madere sauce. — hachis, h I’Ecarlate.—Stewed in demi-glace sauce, and garnished with slices of braised ox-tongue. — a rindienne.—Stewed in curry sauce, with Indian pickles or piccalilli, cut in fine strips ; served with boiled rice. — ^ I’lvoire.—Boiled ; breast covered with slices of lemon, and barded ; served with supreme sauce. — a la Livournaise.—Split open from back, flattened, steeped in lemon juice and sweet oil, flavoured with bay-leaf, parsley, and onions ; drained, breaded, egged, and broiled in butter ; served with mayon- naise sauce flavoured with anchovy essence. — ^ la marine frit.—Boiled and cut into pieces, steeped in lemon juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried. — a la Montmorency.—Stuffed with a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles, and mushrooms, breast larded and braised ; garnished with sliced sweetbreads and mushroom heads ; served with madere sauce. — h la Montreuil.—Boned, stuffed with sausage force- meat mixed with chopped truffles, and breast larded ; braised, cut up, and served with demi-glace sauce. — a I’Orientale.—Stewed in white sauce, with curry flavour, dressed in border of rice or risotto, timbale garnish.