GLACES—ICES. 341 Glace D&me-blanche.—Almond cream ice, semi-frozen, with slices of ripe peaches, coated with red-currant jelly. — Demi-glace de groseilles vertes.—Gooseberry fool. — Eugenie.—Pineapple-water ice in bomb shapes, centres filled with crystallised violette-fiavoured mousse. — Excelsior.—Vanilla cream, semi-frozen, with glace chestnuts, and whipped cream on top, and crystallised orange flavour. — Favorite.—Vanilla cream, semi-frozen, with slices of ripe pineapple, soaked in maraschino, fresh or pre- served strawberry on top. — Fedora.—Peach cream, with noyeau flavour. — Aida.—Orange and lemon-water ice, mixed with whipped cream and iced in timbale or souffle mould ; served in wafer cups with compote of fresh pineapple ; rich vanilla custard served same time. — Albufera.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with chestnut puree and maraschino. — Alexandra.—Bomb mould, lined with vanilla cream ice, and filled with peach and strawberry cream ice. — Plombiere d’ananas.—A rich cream ice, made with one quart of cream, six egg-yolks, |-lb. sugar, vanilla flavour and pineapple juice ; pineapple cut in dice is mixed with cream when partially frozen. — Bresilienne.—Vanilla cream mousse with kirsch flavour, mixed with chopped pineapple. — au ca?6 a la Ninette.—Coffee cream ice, shaped like cutlets, with bones made of marzipan or almond paste inserted at small end ; served border style on similarly shaped sand biscuits. — Cardinal.—Bomb mould lined with raspberry or strawberry-water ice, centre filled with vanilla cream flavoured with maraschino. — Chateaubriand.—Vanilla cream ice, mixed with glace or crystallised fruits and whipped cream. — a la C16opatre.—Vanilla cream ice, chopped pistachios, flavoured with cura9oa and rum ; centre whipped sweetened cream. — Comtesse.—Strawberry cream ice, frozen in small cases, with fresh fruit on top, garnished with angelica leaves. — Courcelles.—Bomb of orange-water ice, with centre filling of vanilla cream and glace fruit. — Cr6ole.—Chocolate flavoured ice cream, mixed with pounded burnt sugar almonds.