THE MENU BOOK. 322 Pommes a la Chevreuse (Hot).—Semolina border with fruit macedoine in centre, surmounted by halves of apples (cooked), masked with meringue and chopped baked almonds, browned in oven, served with apricot sauce. — a la Conde.—Apples, pared and cored, cooked in the oven, with sugar, lemon juice, and butter ; dressed on a bed of rice ornamented with angelica, glace cherries, raisins and almonds ; served hot or cold with apple syrup. — a la Dauphine (Cold).—Cooked in vanilla syrup, centre scooped out, and filled with confectioners’ custard, dressed on genoise border, and coated with red-currant syrup. — a la Duchesse.—Peeled apples, scooped out in small rounds, cooked in syrup, dressed in genoise croute, with a layer of apple marmalade ornamented with small sticks of angelica stuck in each round of apple ; served with hot or cold apple syrup. — a la Grimaldi (Hot).—Pastry crust (flan), lined with cooked rice, and filled with sliced apples, masked with almond cream, and browned in oven ; served with lemon syrup. — a la Lexington.—Peeled and cored apples, steamed whole ; when cold, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons or cake crumbs ; centre filled with pine- apple pulp and red-currant jelly ; served hot with fruit syrup. — meringu^es (Hot).—Apples cooked whole or in halves dressed on rice, masked with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in oven. — ^ la neige (Hot).—Apple puree mixed with whisked whites of eggs, filled in gratin dish with custard, and browned in oven. — ^ la Polonaise (Hot),—Shces of apples, cut crosswise, ranged on a layer of marmalade on a gratin dish, masked with syrup, sprinkled with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon, and sugar; baked in a moderate oven, and served in the baking dish. — ^ la Portugaise (Cold).—Small cored apples, rubbed over with lemon-juice, stewed in syrup with maras- chino liqueur ; centre of apples filled with red-currant jelly, with a crystallised cherry over top ; served with the syrup. — ^ la Windsor (Hot).—Halves of apples cooked in lemon syrup, dressed on small rice cakes (croquettes), with fruit salpicon in centre ; vanilla sauce.