THE MENU BOOK. 242 Chaudfroid (Meat, Fish or Poultry),—Cooked (boiled, broiled, or braised), and, when cold, masked with suitably flavoured and tinted chaudfroid sauce, coated and decorated with aspic or some other special garnish ; often dressed on a bed of seasoned salad. — de B^casses.—Chaudfroid of woodcock or snipe. — de Cailles.—Chaudfroid of quails. — de Coq de Bruyere.—Heathcock or grouse. — de Faisan.—Braised or boiled pheasant fillets and wings, masked with white chaudfroid sauce ; decorated with truffles and aspic. — de Foie-gras en caisse.—Round or oval-shaped slices of foie-gras, masked with white or fawn chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with slices of truffle. — de Gelinottes,—Chaudfroid of hazel-hen. — de Poulets.—Cooked chicken fillets, wings and legs skinned, masked with chaudfroid sauce or savoury jelly ; decorated with truffles. — de Perdreaux.—Chaudfroid of partridge. Coq de Bois en Gel6e.—Fillets of cold black grouse set in mould in savoury jelly. — de Chevreuil en GeI6e.—Braised venison cutlets masked with savoury jelly. Cotelettes d’Agneau en chaudfroid.—Chaudfroid of lamb cutlets. — a la Danzig.—Braised or broiled cutlets, pressed, coated with foie-gras farce, and masked with white chaud- froid sauce blended with green pea puree ; orna- mented with truffle and white of egg, dressed on vegetable aspic border. — de Foie-gras d la Reine.—Goose-liver cutlets, coated with white chaudfroid sauce, and set in savoury aspic jelly, — a la Moscovienne.—Neck braised whole, cut into cutlets, set in aspic blended with chopped green mint, dressed on border of tongue, truffles, peas, beans, and egg, set in aspic, macedoine of vegetables seasoned with tartare in centre of dish. — de Mouton.—Mutton cutlets can be prepared and dressed in the same manner as described for lamb cutlets. — de Mouton en Belle Vue.—Broiled or braised mutton cutlets, masked with chaudfroid sauce, dressed cold in savoury jelly, with truffles and fancifully cut vegetables.