311 SWEET ENTREMETS. Cerises—Cherries, Chrises en compote.—Stoned cherries cooked in syrup, flavoured with cinnamon or lemon. — a la Dijonaise.—Stoned cherries, cooked in port-wine syrup, dressed on croutes of sponge or savoy cake, masked with jellied cassis. — a la Jubil6 (Cold).—Large stoned cherries, cooked in syrup, kirsch flavour, dressed in small cassolettes, with kirsch, and served burning. — ^ la Melba.—Vanilla cream ice, in cut glass dish, with large stoneless cherries poached in raspberry syrup on top. — a la Valerie.—Flan paste crust, filled with compote of cherries, masked with red-currant jelly, meringued over, and browned in oven. Flan de C6rises.—Open cherry-tart. Charlottes, Note.—There are two kinds of charlottes, i.e., those served hot and those served cold ; they are made quite differently. For the former, the hot, the interior of plain charlotte moulds are lined with slices of bread dipped or slightly browned in butter ; they are then filled with the respective fruit puree, and baked. For cold charlottes the moulds are lined with slices of genoise cake, finger or Savoy biscuits, and then filled with certain creams or ice mixtures. In the latter case the word glacee (frozen) should be placed after the name on the menu. Charlotte a la Calville (Cold).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, and filled with apple puree and cream. — a la Carmen (Cold).—Mould lined with wafer biscuits, and filled with strawberry or raspberry cream, mixed with chopped preserved ginger. — aux c6rises (Hot or Cold).—Cherry charlotte. — ^ la Chantilly (Cold).—Charlotte mould lined with finger biscuits, and filled with vanilla cream. — a la Colville (Cold).—Like “ Charlotte Russe,” but cream is mixed with pear or apple puree. — ^ la Cornville (Hot).—Mould lined with thin slices of bread dipped in oiled butter, and filled with alternate layers 01 purees of pineapple, and crushed macaroons ; served with pineapple sauce. — Florentine (Iced).—Mould lined with biscuits, filled with orange-water ice mixed with whipped cream, and set to freeze.