99 POTAGES—SOUPS. Potage Soissonaire.—A puree of white haricot beans with small fried-bread croutons. — Souveraine.—Chicken cream soup, enriched with pistachio pounded kernels and butter liaison. — St. Cloud.—Puree of French beans and broad beans, with finely chopped lettuce. — St. Germain.—Pea puree enriched with cream (croutons). — St. Hubert.—Puree of game (hare or other game), with small game quenelles or dice-cut fillets of game. — St. Martha.—A blend of green pea, leek, and lettuce purees, with cream liaison. — St. Martin.—Potato puree with sorrel and watercress purees added, cream liaison (croutons). — Sultane.—White chicken puree with pistachios and truffles as garniture. — Suzette.—Puree of cucumber and peas, blended, garnished with poached yolks of eggs. — Sylvestra.—Chicken consomme, blended with veloute cream and egg-yolks, garnished with asparagus points and small chicken quenelles stuffed with spinach. — Tapioca au Lait.—Tapioca soup with milk. — Terapene (River Turtle Soup).—A kind of thick turtle soup made with terrapin turtle. — Tomates (aux).—Thick tomato soup. — Tomate Maigre (red).—Tomato soup made from vege- table or fish stock. — Tomate a la St. Louis.—Tomato puree thickened with tapioca, garnished with small chicken quenelles. — Topinambours.—Palestine or artichoke soup (white). — Tortue liee.—Thick real turtle soup (brown). — Tortue Fausse.—Mock turtle soup (brown). — Trazon^re.—Salsify puree, enriched with cream (croutons). — Truffes (aux).—A light puree of fresh truffles, made with veal stock, egg, and cream liaison, and consomme. — Tschi de Soldat (a Russian Soup).—A rich beef broth, slightly thickened with brown roux, and flavoured with sour cream ; served with small fried choux paste balls and shredded ham. — Turque (Turkish).—Tomato puree with rice. — Tyrolienne (Tyrolian Soup).—Barley cream soup with onions and carrots. — Tzarina.—Puree of grouse and celery cream, with celery strips as garnish. — Valery.—Puree of partridge with small quenelles. — Veau (Veal Soup, white).—A thick soup made of veal. — Valour (au) (Velvet).—Chicken cream soup thickened with rice and tapioca.