146 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Piccadilly.—Demi-glace sauce, blended with anchovy butter, shallot flavour, and English mustard. — Pidmontaise.—Veloute sauce, enriched with veal essence, anchovy butter, and chopped truffles. — Pignol.—Poivrade sauce, enriched with cream and chopped pignolis (pine kernels). — Piment.—Demi-glace sauce blended with tomato puree, highly seasoned with chopped pimentos and cayenne. — Piquante (Sharp).—A sharp brown sauce with chopped gherkins, capers, and shallots, seasoned with plenty of pepper and essence of anchovy. — Poivrade (Pepper).—A brown pepper sauce, flavoured with lean bacon or ham, celery, onions, thyme, and bay-leaf, reduced with vinegar, anchovy essence, and black pepper. — Polignac.—White wine sauce, enriched with cream and fresh mushrooms cut into fine shreds. — Polonaise (Polish).—Veloute sauce, with sour cream, grated horseradish, chopped fennel, and lemon juice ; served with cutlets or steaks. — Pomme (Apple).—Apple pulp, slightly sweetened, enriched with whipped cream ; served hot with roast pork, goose or duck. — Pompadour.—Allemande or veloute sauce with shallots (fried), cream, egg-yolks, chopped mushrooms, and parsley. — Porto.—Demi-glace sauce reduced with port-wine, and fried onion flavour. — Portugaise.—Tomato sauce diluted with well-reduced veal gravy, flavoured with onion and garlic, blanched and fried. — Poulette (Veloute).—A white sauce, flavoured with aromatic herbs, thickened with egg-yolks and fresh butter, finished with chopped parsley and lemon juice. — Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales).—A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled and raw egg-yolks, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely-chopped herbs and French mustard ; served with grilled or fried fish or meat. — Princesse.—Well-reduced allemande or bechamel with chicken essence and mushroom liquor, sliced mushrooms and double cream. — Princi^re.—White fish sauce, enriched with cray- fish butter, finely shredded crayfish tails, and truffles. — Printani^re.—Veloute sauce, enriched with fresh butter, and green vegetable pur6e or cubes.