II MODERN MENUS. of nobility, whilst others are in the form of beautiful miniature fans. For some time there has been a reaction against extra- vagant luxury, which is being replaced by a simphcity not less excessive. Sometimes the names of the dishes are written by hand on thick paper, without any orna- mentation. As usual, the best kind are between these excesses of ostentation and severity. Menus of out-of- the-way and awkward shapes are at all times to be avoided, because they encumber the table, and are difficult to consult. Without microscopical print, they should be suffi- ciently small to be readable without much difficulty, and not add to the embarrassment caused by a succession of glasses and other articles on the table. The menu card is a simple accessory, and should be treated as such. This rule ought to be taken into consideration when ordering the menu cards. The Art of Compiling Menus. To be able to compose or construct a menu is an art learnt only by experience ; it is by no means as easy as some people imagine. But few of the guests partaking of an elaborately prepared banquet have any idea of the amount of skill that is devoted to the composition of the menu, selecting choice provisions, and planning the dishes so that all have the desired harmonising effect which bring about the gastronomic success of the banquet. It is, of course, comparatively easy to make out a menu for a luncheon or a small dinner, consisting merely of soup, fish, joint, vegetable, and a sweet—for such presents no difficulty to the average cook or housekeeper. But when it comes to arranging a first-class and well- planned dinner of recherch6 character, it is quite a different matter, for then every course, from the hors d’csuvre to the entremets, present more or less difficulties, especially to those inexperienced in the art of menu composition. There are many hard-and-fast rules in the gastronomic laws which must be observed if one is to attain success, for a badly-composed menu is likely to spoil the best dinner. That great gastronomic and