246 THE MENU BOOK. Palmettes de volaille Valeska.—Braised fillets of Surrey fowl, heart-shaped, and coated with white chaudfroid sauce, ranged in kite-shaped flat souffle cases made of thin pastry crust, and hned with small salad ; dished on cold chicken souffle basis or socle ; decora- tion ; tarragon leaves, truffles, and set aspic. Parfait de Foie-gras.—Delicately flavoured potted foie- gras (souffle), dressed in tureen ; when cold, garnished with aspic, etc. — en GeI6e,—Slices of foie-gras set in consomme aspic flavoured with sherry, and placed in cut glass or china bowl; truffle decoration; served with thinly cut and buttered slices of black bread (Pumpernickel). Pdt6 de Becassine aux Truffes.—Cold snipe pie with truffles. — de Cailles Froid.—Cold quail raised pie. — de Pintade.—Cold guinea-fowl raised pie. — de Pigeons Froid.—Cold pigeon pie. — froid de Saumon.—Cold salmon pie. — froid de Veau ^ TAnglaise.—Cold veal and ham pie. Petites Bombes k la Victoria.—Small bomb or bouche shapes, flavoured with tomato aspic, and filled with pounded cooked chicken breasts, mixed with supreme sauce, and chopped truffles, aspic, etc. ; each shape surmounted with a Spanish olive stufied with foie-gras. — Groustades a la Milanaise.—Puff-paste tartlet crusts, flavoured with cheese ; when cold, lined with tomato cream, filled with light ham souffle mixture ; decorated with whipped cream. — Langues k I’Espagnole.—Ox-tongue and chicken or veal farce poached in small tongue moulds, masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; garnished with macedoine of vegetables, etc. Poularde a la Jeanette.—Capon or large Surrey fowl, cooked in veal stock; when cold breast removed and sauced with white chaudfroid, and cavity filled with foie-gras puree ; then coated with aspic and decorated with tarragon leaves. — a la N6va.—Cold boiled capon filled with foie-gras cubes, truffles, and mousseline farce, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic, dressed on rice socle, and garnished with vegetable macedoine. Ris d’Agneau ^ la Sevign§.—Lamb’s breads, braised, pressed in pastry rings, coated with villeroi sauce and aspic; garnished with green pea puree, and dressed on seasoned salad. — a FAmiral.—Oval slices of braised sweetbread, masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles ; dressed on vegetable aspic border, with suitable salad in centre of dish.