THE MENU BOOK. 74 Petites Bouch^es h la Caroline.—Very small rice cassolettes, filled with chopped hard-boiled white of egg and truffles, seasoned with mayonnaise. — do Jambon ^ la Creme.—Small puff-paste patties filled with minced ham and cream. Petites Caisses a la Casanova.—Small china or paper ramakin cases, filled with celery and truffle shreds, seasoned with tartare sauce, an oyster, slice of egg on top, and decorated with green herb butter. Poireaux a la Russe.—The inner part (heart) of leek cut into cube shapes, blanched, and marinaded, farced with caviare, seasoned with mayonnaise and grated horseradish. Rosettes aux Anchois.—Small heart-shaped slices of fried bread spread with anchovy butter and garnished with anchovy fillets, with small mushroom head im centre, arranged in rosette form, and decorated with green herb butter and chopped hard-boiled egg. — de Caviar.—Small heart-shaped slices of brown bread toasted, spread with caviare, decorated with lobster butter, and dished up in rosette form. Roulettes d, la Crdole.—Thinly cut slices of brown bread, spread with game or chicken puree, mixed with pounded capers and anchovy paste rolled up, buttered, and sprinkled alternately with chopped parsley and lobster coral. Sakuska.—A selection of Russian hors-d’oeuvre dishes, comprised chiefly of caviare and smoked fish. Salades as Hors-d’oeuvre.—Cucumber, celery, celeriac, melon, beetroot, tomatoes, hard-boiled eggs, cauli- flower (cooked), artichokes (raw and cooked), cold potatoes, French beans, etc., cut up small in shreds or dice, dressed with mayonnaise or oil and vinegar, are served as hors-d’oeuvre. These salads, however, must not be confused with salads served with roasts. Salade Bagration.—Finely-shredded lettuce hearts, tunny fish, and lobster cut in dice, also pickled beetroot, seasoned with mayonnaise and garnished with stoned olives and anchovy fillets. — Russe.—Russian vegetable salad made of cooked vegetables, set in aspic, with caviare in centre. — Su6doise.—Cooked lean veal, fillets of salt herrings or kippers ; cooked potatoes and beetroot, all cut in dice : seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; garnished with hard-boiled egg-yolks. Sardines sur Canap6s.—Sardine canapes (boned and skinned, and dressed on fried or toasted bread). Souvenirs, Viennoise.—Small chicken quenelles, poached and set in aspic, with vegetable macedoine garnish.