MEAT ENTRIES {MUTTON). 197 Epaule d’Agneaii (de Mouton) d la Paysanne.—Boned and braised ; garnished with small stewed carrots, turnips, and peeled tomatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Polonaise.—Boned, braised, and sliced ; dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes ; sauced over with gravy, sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs, and baked. — a la Sainte-Mendhould.—Boned and braised, with carrots, turnips, bacon, and savoury herbs ; when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under the salamander. — aux tomates farcies.—Braised with baked stuffed tomatoes and demi-glace sauce. — a la Windsor.—Boned, rolled, and braised ; garnished with cauliflower, carrots, turnips, capers, and fried potato croquettes ; espagnole sauce. Epigrammes.—Boned breast of lamb or mutton, braised or boiled, pressed, and cut into small portions (collops) ; denotes also a dish of alternate cutlets, cut from the neck and the breast, according to the style adopted. Epigrammes d’Agneau (de Mouton) ^ la Pdrigord.— Fried slices of lamb stewed in truffle sauce. — ^ la B^arnaise.—Prepared as above; when cold, coated with veloute sauce, dipped in eggs and bread- crumbs, and fried in clarified butter ; served with bearnaise sauce in the centre of dish. — d’Agneau a la Dauphine.—Cooked, pressed, cut up, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolks of eggs, and crumbed, fried, and served with a puree of green peas and potato croquettes. — a la Macedoine.—As above, with a mixture of vegetables in centre of dish ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Fried, served with stewed macaroni and tomato puree. — a la Parme.—Braised, pressed, cut up, egged, and crumbed in bread and grated parmesan cheese, and fried in butter. — au Pur6e de Marrons.—As above, with chestnut puree in centre of dish ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — Si la Soubise.—Prepared as above and fried in butter ; served with white onion puree in centre of dish ; demi-glace sauce. Escalopes.—Fillets or cutlets cut from the neck or loin (chump end) of lamb or mutton, freed from bone or fat : egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. — S la Chipolata.—Crumbed and fried ; garnished with braised chestnuts, carrots, turnips, and button onions, pieces of fried sausages, and potato croquettes.