327 SWEET ENTREMETS. Pouding Singapore.—Vanilla souffle mixture, with pineapple puree, steamed ; pineapple sauce. — Suzanne.—Ground rice pudding, flavoured with candied lemon (citron). — TrautmannsdorfE (Cold).—Border or timbale of cold rice, enriched with cream and glace cherries, masked with raspberry syrup. — Tyrolienne.—A light steamed chocolate pudding, with ground almonds, served with chocolate sauce and whipped cream in centre of pudding. — Victoria.—Prepared with chopped marrow, apples, flour, eggs, milk, sugar, apricot jam, breadcrumbs, and glace fruit; steamed or baked in moulds. — Viennoise.—Milk bread or cake, cut up small, and custard, flavoured with caramel; steamed, and served with sabayon or custard sauce. — Vincent.—Souffle of chestnut puree, with crushed biscuits, minced glace fruit, flavoured with kirsch syrup in centre. — Wellington.—Thin pancakes spread with apricot jam, rolled and placed in buttered mould, as for charlotte ; centre filled with lemon souffle mixture, and steamed or baked ; served with apple cream sauce. Pain de riz aux fraises (Hot).—Timbale of rice, with compote of strawberries in centre, sauced over with strawberry syrup. Timbales de riz aux fraises.—Light rice cream in the form of a timbale, masked with strawberry jelly, and decorated with fresh fruit. Savarins, Savarin a I’Algerien.—Savarin border, steeped in maras- chino syrup, lined with slices of pineapple, filled with cream custard, with chopped pistachios on top and baked “ au bain marie.” — a la Medici.—Baked savarin border dipped in maras- chino syrup, centre filled with firm rich almond cream ; decorated with whipped cream. — aux fruits.—Savarin soaked in syrup, studded with strips of almonds and garnished with fruit. — au kirsch.—Savarin, with kirsch syrup. — au rhum.—Savarin, with rum syrup. — a la Romaine.—Savarin dipped in rum syrup, three parts -filled with confectioners’ custard (creme patissiere) and decorated with Italian meringue (pyramidal form), glazed with apricot jam, strewn with almond chips, and baked.