178 THE MENU BOOK. Croquettes de Bcouf a TAnglaise (Beef Croquettes),— Finely minced cooked beef, made into square, cork, cutlet or ball shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried. — ^ I’ltalienne.—Fried beef croquettes with Italian sauce. Culottes de Bceuf, Maintenon.—Braised beef cut in slices and dressed in pyramids; garnished with small timbales of nouilles; seasoned with soubise and duchesse potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. Fricot de Boeuf a la Charles X.—Braised rump steak, when cold cut into strips ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with brown eschalot sauce. — a I’Indienne.—Curried beef stew, served with boiled rice. — h I’lrlandaise.—Stewed beef with potatoes cut in cubes, and onions ; brown sauce, Goulasch de Bceuf.—Lean beef cut in dice shapes, and tossed in butter ; mixed with dice-shaped potatoes ; seasoned with paprika, and finished in brown sauce. — a la Herz6govine.—Saute of beef, sliced finely, and fried onions ; tomato sauce and claret flavour ; seasoned with salt and paprika ; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes. — ^ la Polonaise.—SHced beef, stewed, with fried bacon and potato cut in dice ; seasoned with Hungarian red pepper. Hachis de Boeuf a la Fran^aise.—SHced cold beef braised in butter and finely chopped onions, finished in brown sauce and chopped parsley. — a TAnglaise.—Minced or hashed beef with poached eggs ; garnished with fried-bread sippets. Langue de Bceuf (Ox-tongue) a la Flamande.—Braised ox- tongue, garnished with groups of cooked carrots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised spring cabbage ; sauced over with brown sauce. — fumee aux petits pois.—Smoked, braised ox-tongue, with green peas. — au gratin (Baked Ox-tongue).—SHced boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking-dish, with a mixture of brown sauce, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and served on the dish it is baked in. — a rindienne.—Curried ox-tongue with boiled rice. — a la Napolitaine.—Braised ox-tongue with stewed macaroni, tomato puree, and parmesan cheese. — au Parmesan.—Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven.