201 MEAT ENTRJ^ES {LAMB). Pieds d’Agneau.—Lamb’s feet. — de Mouton.—Sheep’s trotters. — farcis et braises.—Lamb’s or sheep’s feet boiled, boned, stuffed, and braised ; sauce demi-glace. — frits a I’Horley.—Cooked in stock, boned, and cut in slices, marinaded in oil, vinegar, and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat ; tomato sauce. — a rindienne.—Boiled, boned, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — ^ la Poulette.—Cooked in stock, boned, and stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. — h la Rouennaise.—Boiled, boned, and stuffed with sausage meat, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat; served with piquant sauce. — frits a la Tartare.—Sheep’s trotters fried as above ; served with tartare sauce. — a la Villeroi.—Boiled, boned, stuffed, rolled, coated with supreme sauce, then egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Poitrine d’Agneau.—Breast of lamb. — aux Asperges.—Braised ; served with asparagus points. — a I’Espagnole.—Boned, stuffed, rolled, and braised ; garnished with olives, and served with Spanish sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Braised ; dressed on a bed of rice, stewed in tomato sauce, etc. — farcie ^ la V6ry.—Boned, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and braised ; served with saute of French beans and demi-glace sauce. — d’Agneau ^ la Turque.—Boned, stuffed, with sausage meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, flavoured with saffron, sauced over with demi-glace. Poitrine de Mouton.—Breast of mutton. — aux Haricots Verts.—Braised; served with French beans. — aux Macaroni.—Cut into pieces, stewed, and served with macaroni stewed in tomato sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Stuffed and braised ; garnished with braised turnips and button onions. — aux Petits Pols.—Stewed the same way as ragout or haricot ; served with green peas. — ^ la Robert.—Braised ; served with brown onion sauce. Queue d’Agneau.—Lamb’s tail. — sautees.—Sheep’s or lamb’s tails fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce.