266 THE MENU BOOK. Chou-fleur h la Florentine.—Parboiled and stewed in white sauce with braised chestnuts and spinach. — a la Fran^aise.—Cut into quarters, boiled, and stewed in white sauce, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. — au gratin.—Boiled, coated with white sauce, bread- crumbs, grated cheese, oiled butter, and baked in oven. — a la Hollandaise.—Boiled with hollandaise sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Boiled, dressed on gratin dish, sprinkled over with grated parmesan cheese, and browned under salamander. — a la Pi^montaise.—Boiled, sauced over with white sauce mixed with grated parmesan cheese. — ^ la Polonaise.—Boiled, breaded with fried bread- crumbs, nut-brown butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. Chou-crout (Sauerkraut).—Finely shredded white cabbage, preserved in brine, and cooked in various styles. Fritot de, or Beignets.—Sprigs of cooked cauliflower dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. Re jet de chou.—Cabbage sprout. Concombre—Cucumber, Concombre a la cr§me.—Peeled, parboiled, and stewed with cream sauce. — a la Doria.—Small cubes or olive shapes of cucumber, blanched and cooked in rich cream sauce. — d, I’Espagnole.—Peeled, cut in quarters, parboiled, drained, and fried in butter ; served with espagnole sauce. — farcie.—Stuffed and braised. — dr la Fermidre.—Halved, scooped out, and farced with sausage meat and herbs, braised in oven ; brown sauce. — saute aux fines herbes.—Peeled, sliced, and broiled in butter, with finely chopped parsley, etc. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Peeled, and boiled in white stock ; served with parsley sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Peeled, halved, stuffed with chopped mushrooms and savoury herbs, and braised, ranged on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with veloute sauce. — a la Romaine.—Olive shapes, blanched and finished in nut-brown butter, with anchovy fillets. — a la Tartars.—Thinly-peeled cucumber sliced, without detaching, filled with tartare sauce between slices ; seasoned, small salad in centre.