THE MENU BOOK. 226 Poulet h la Godard.—Breast, fillets, and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and stewed in white sauce with chopped mushrooms ; garnished with whole truffles, mushroom heads, and fleurons. — la Hongroise.—Sauteed and stewed in veloute sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. — aux Huitres.—Par-fried, and stewed in white sauce, with bearded oysters. — a PIndienne.—Sauteed, and finished in brown curry sauce, dressed in rice border. — d la Inkermann.—Sauteed and stewed in tomato sauce, flavoured with curry and meat glaze ; garnished with fried eggs and small slices of broiled ham. — a ritalienne.—Par-fried, and stewed with brown sauce flavoured with tomato, dished in border of rice; seasoned with tomato puree and parmesan cheese. — a la Lathuile.—Jointed, tossed in butter, mixed with dice shapes of par-fried potatoes and slices of arti- choke bottoms, and finished in demi-glace sauce; garnished with groups of braised button onions and fried parsley. — ^ la Lyonnaise.—Broiled, jointed, and stewed in tomato and espagnole sauce, reduced with white wine, minced onions, and fried in butter. — ^ la Marengo.—Jointed, seasoned, and fried in oil, stewed in rich brown sauce with sliced mushrooms and truffles; garnished with whole fried eggs, bread croutons, and braised button onions. — ^ la Mascotte.—Jointed, tossed in butter, and stewed in madere sauce, with slices of truffles ; garnished with artichoke bottoms and noisette potatoes. — saut6 ^ la Mexicaine.—Sauteed with peeled and crushed tomatoes, chopped mushrooms and pimientos. — ^ la Mousquetaire.—Cut in joints and sauteed in butter and chopped ham, drained, and finished in a tomato sauce, flavoured with claret, meat glaze, and lemon juice ; garniture ; cubes of foie-gras, fleurons, cocks’ combs, cepes, and truffles. — ^ la Parmentier.—Sauteed and cooked in casserole with noisette potatoes ; brown sauce. — ^ la Paysanne.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce with olive-shaped carrots, turnips, and celery root. — saut6 ^ la P6rigueux.—Par-fried and stewed chicken with truffle sauce. — saut6 ^ la Printani^re.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce; garnished with groups of green peas, small cut carrots, and French beans.