THE ENTREE course [GAME). 235 Perdreau a la Beauharnais.—Braised, garnished with asparagus tips, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms ; Truffle sauce served separately. — a la Bourguignonne.—Braised in casserole with cham- pignons, button onions ; Burgundy wine sauce. — 6n Casserole.—Braised in earthenware stewpan with dice shapes of bacon, button onions, mushrooms, and bouquet garni; Demi-glace or brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice. — a la Chasseur.—Par-roasted and stewed with chopped mushrooms, claret sauce, and chopped lemon rind ; garnished with fleurons or sippets of bread. Chartreuse de.—Stewed with braised spring cabbages and young carrots, dressed in timbale with alternate layers of vegetables ; Demi-glace or brown sauce. Perdreau k la Chantilly.—Stuffed with foie-gras and braised; garnished with lentil puree in border or timbales ; served with sauce Maddre. — aux Choux.—Braised with bacon and stewed spring cabbages ; jus or gravy. — farcis aux Champignons.—Stuffed and braised ; served with mushroom sauce. — a la petit Due.—Split, flattened, and grilled ; served on bed of Anna potatoes, garnished with grilled mush- rooms ; served with sauce Madere. — ^ la Fermi^re.—Stewed in casserole with brown sauce ; Fermiere garnish. — a la Gitana.—Jointed, sauteed in oil, garlic, and red pepper, pimientos. Tomato sauce, and olives. — a la Lorraine.—Braised, with finely-cut red cabbage and brown sauce, garnished with Parisian potatoes ; Sauce Gibier—game sauce. — a la Marechal.—Braised breasts and wings, with truffles, mushrooms, and fried potato croquettes; served with Madere sauce. Pains de, ^ la Dauphine.—Darioles or timbales of partridge farce mixed with truffles and mushrooms, poached, and garnished with asparagus points, potato croquettes and button mushrooms ; Madere sauce. Perdreau k la Princesse.—Breasts, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, and braised ; Madere sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Stuffed with liver farce, larded, and braised ; served with goose-liver and truffle stew ; Sauce Perigueux. Salmi de Perdreau, aux trufles.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce with truffles. — d, la Valencienne.—Braised, with slices of pickled pork and brown sauce, dressed in rice border, garnished with potato croquettes and small sausages.