THE MENU BOOK. 142 Sauce Jambon (Ham).—A brown sauce, with finely shredded ham, chopped chives, shallots, and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice and paprika or krone pepper. — Joinville.—A white fish sauce enriched with yolks of eggs, fresh butter, and lobster coral; flavoured with lemon juice and cayenne pepper. — Juliette.—Supreme sauce with tarragon and chervil flavour. Jus ^ l*Estragon.—Gravy sauce with tarragon flavour. Jus Tomato.—Gravy sauce with tomato flavour. Sauce Kari.—Indian curry sauce. White or brown sauce with curry flavour. — Laguipiere.—Melted butter sauce with fish, essence and lemon juice. — Lavalli^re.—Demi-glace sauce with game fumet (essence), blended with sour cream, mixed with finely shredded truffles and mushrooms. — Livonienne.—Dissolved meat glaze, blended with sour cream and fennel puree, finished with butter. — Livournaise.—A cold sauce prepared with anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper, and nutmeg. — Lyonnaise (Lyons sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce, with minced Spanish onions (previously fried in butter), flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice ; also made with bechamel foundation. — Madere (Madeira).—A brown sauce composed of demi- glace sauce, and tomato puree, Madeira wine. — Maillet.—Madere sauce mixed with hard egg-yolks, sieved and blended shallots, cayenne seasoning. — Maintenon.—White onion puree thickened with egg- yolks and veloute sauce. — Maitre d’Hotel (Hotel-keeper).—A white sauce with butter, cream, and chopped parsley. — Malaga (Port Wine).—A brown sauce prepared with meat glaze, port wine, and lemon juice, flavoured with shallots and cayenne. — Maltaise.—Veloute sauce with chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, diluted with sherry wine, flavoured with lemon juice and finely shredded orange peel. — Marchand de Vin (Wine Merchant).—Demi-glace, reduced with fried shallots, claret, and meat glaze. — Mar6chale.—Allemande or veloute sauce mixed with champignon pur6e. — Margu6ry.—White fish sauce, blended with oyster puree, and finished with cream. — Marigny.—Demi-glace sauce with tomato pur6e and mushroom liquor, white wine reduction.