THE MENU BOOK. 124 Filets de Soles a la Louisa-Anna.—Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in white wine, dressed on bread croutons, sauced over with rich tomato puree, with slice of truffle in centre. — ^ la Marcelle.—Fillets of soles spread over with champignon puree, folded and poached ; dressed on dish in border form, sauced over with perigueux sauce, pommes de terre Anna (potatoes) in centre. — ^ la Marie-Louise.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed in centre of oblong dish, with a fancy border of potato puree ; baked in oven ; sauced over with supreme sauce, with border of green mousseline sauce, julienne strips of truffles sprinkled over the fillets ; served hot. — a la Mar6cliale.—Stewed fillets of soles in reduced white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; bechamel sauce served separate. — a la Marianne.—Fillets poached in fish stock with chopped onion and parsley dressed on a bed of spinach, garnished with cooked mussels ; sauce Vin-blanc. — a la Mayonnaise.—Fillets of soles set in border mould with mayonnaise aspic, centre filled with dressed salad. — a la Menag^re.—Poached in red-wine flavoured stock, and served with bordelaise sauce. — a la Meuniere.—Sole fillets dipped in flour and cooked in butter, flavoured with lemon juice, and brown butter (beurre noisette) and herbs poured over. — a la Messaline.—Fillets of soles poached in champagne, dressed, and sauced over with tomato sauce, flavoured with Italian pimientos; garnished with artichoke bottoms. — a la Minute.—Similar to “ Sole a la Meuniere.” — a la Mirabeau.—Poached sole fillets, sauced over with tarragon-flavoured anchovy sauce, and garnished with anchovy fillets. — ^ la Montgolfier.—Cooked in white wine sauce, and garnished with slices of lobster and mushroom heads, truffles, and fleurons. — a la Montpensier.—Fillets of sole rolled round crayfish, and poached ; dressed on a fish farce border, centre filled with ragout of lobster, truffles, and mushrooms ; sauce cardinal, and fleurons as garnish. — ^ la Montreuil.—Fillets of soles cooked in white wine, dressed in a circle, with fried potato balls in centre ; fillets sauced over with veloute sauce, enriched with fish essence. — ^ la Mornay.—Baked fillets of soles, dressed on dish with rich white sauce and grated cheese; browned under 'salamander.