305 SWEET ENTREMETS. Ananas h la Cr6oIe (Hot or Cold).—Slices of pineapple dressed on a border of cooked rice ; garnished with angelica and glace cherries ; served with maraschino syrup. — ^ la Curtet (Cold).—Sliced pineapple, ranged on border of kirsch jelly, coated with jellied apricot sauce, and decorated to taste. — a la Cussy (Cold).—Border shape of wine jelly set with pineapple slices, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with apricot puree, and suitably decorated. — ^ la Georgette (Cold).—Whole peeled pineapple, centre scooped out and filled with pineapple mousse, then iced, and coated with maraschino jelly. — a la Mascotte.—Pineapple shape made up with slices of pineapple and genoise cake, alternately placed, with apricot marmalade and liqueur flavour, coated with meringue mixture, besprinkled with pistachios, and baked ; served hot or cold with pineapple sauce or syrup. — Meringue Astoria.—Small savarins dipped in pineapple syrup, filled with slices of pineapple, coated with apricot marmalade, then masked with meringue mixture, and baked ; decorated with red-currant jelly. — a la d’0rl6ans (Hot or Cold).—Slices of pineapple and cooked sweet rice, ranged in layers and pineapple shape, coated with meringue; decorated with currants and angelica; sauced over with apricot syrup, maraschino flavour. — a la Reine (Cold).—Border of light genoise poached or steamed, with slices of pineapple ranged on top, centre of dish filled with pineapple, glace cherries, and apricots cut in dice and moistened with hot syrup ; liqueur flavour. — en turban.—Savarin border, flavoured with rum syrup, centre of dish filled with compote of pineapple. — ^ la Verdier.—Slices of fresh pineapple, and quarters of sour apples poached in syrup, the latter glazed with apricot marmalade ranged as border, with pine- apple in centre of dish; chopped, baked hazelnuts sprinkled on top. Mousse d’Ananas a la Nesselrode (Cold).—Dome shape composed of vanilla cream, dice of pineapple and chestnut puree as interior (maraschino flavour), set in charged ice cave or cabinet. Parfait d*Ananas, Tostini.—Whole pineapple, scooped out in centre, stewed in maraschino liqueur, filled with confectioners’ custard, placed in genoise border, masked with meringue, and baked ; served hot or cold with fruit syrup. U