196 THE MENU BOOK. sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton ^ la Salvanty. — Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dished up with puree of green peas in centre ; sauce demi-glace, — a la St. Cloud.—Larded with truffles and broiled ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Germain.—Grilled or broiled with greenpea puree. — a la Soubise.—Broiled or braised with white onion soubise sauce. — a la Soyer.—Par-broiled and pressed, seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, and savoury herbs, crumbed, and fried in butter; served with demi-glace sauce, and flavoured with garlic and red-currant jelly. — aux Tomates.—Crumbed and fried, with stewed tomatoes or tomato puree. — a la Vatel.—Stuffed from the sides with chicken farce, mixed with chopped truffles, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with financidre ragout. — a la Vicomtesse.—Grilled and pressed, coated with reduced madere sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with macedoine of spring vegetables; demi-glace sauce. Carbonades de Mouton en Ragout.—Stewed mutton, neck or loin chops, with carrots, turnips, onions, and mushrooms, and brown sauce. — a la Jardiniere.—A brown stew of mutton, garnished with a mixture of carrots, turnips, peas, and French beans. Epaiile—Shoulder (Lamb or Mutton), {See also Rel^;v^:s—Removes.) Epaule d’Agneau (de Mouton) roulee aux petits pois.— Boned, rolled shoulder of lamb, braised, served with green peas. — a la Bretonne.—Braised ; served with a puree of white haricot beans and demi-glace sauce. — braisee aux truffes.—Boned, stuffed, and rolled, braised ; served with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce. — a la Che vet.—Boned, rolled, roasted, and glazed ; served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, flavoured with chopped shallots and parsley. — glac6e.—Boned, rolled, braised, and glazed ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Boned, stuffed with forcemeat, larded and braised ; served with a garniture of cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloute or allemande