THE MENU BOOK. 122 Filets de Soles d la Catalainc.—Poached fillets of soles dressed on border of Jerusalem artichokes, centre filled with cepes tossed in butter; sauced over with well-reduced rich bechamel sauce. — a la Chasseur Royal.—Steamed fillets of soles dressed on a white fish border, decorated with truffles and garnished with oysters, mushrooms, and truffles ; royal chasseur sauce. — ^ la Cherbourg.—Rolled fillets of soles braised in white wine, dished up and garnished with oysters, crayfish, and mussels ; sauced over with cardinal sauce. — en fers a Cheval (cold).—Stuffed rolled fillets of soles set in horseshoe-shaped moulds, with mayonnaise or aspic cream, decorated with truffles. — a la Chevaliere.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with fish farce mixed with chopped truffles ; poached in white wine ; sauced over with crayfish or bisque sauce, with finely chopped truffles on top. — ^ la Cumberland.—Fillets of sole poached in oven, served with anchovy-flavoured shrimp sauce, and garnished with oyster and crayfish tails. — ^ la Czarina.—Baked fillets of soles dressed on potato puree, scraped horseradish on each fillet ; served with a rich brown fish sauce, flavoured with tomato and meat glaze. — ^ la Dauphine.—Sole fillets spread over with a mixture of forcemeat, chopped shallots, parsley, and mush- rooms, folded and braised; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with lobster sauce. — ^ la Diable.—Rolled fillets of soles, crumbed and fried, served in paper cases, with devilled sauce poured over. — a la Diocletien.—Fillets of soles spread with fish farce, folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and Marsala wine; garnished with small braised lettuces and small fish quenelles ; rich espagnole sauce, flavoured with fish liquor and chopped truffles. — a la Dor6e.—Fillets of sole, dipped in flour and cream or milk, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato- flavoured bearnaise sauce. — a la Dugl6r6.—Fillets of sole, marinaded in gratin dish with crushed tomatoes, onions, and parsley, savoury herbs, white wine, and lemon juice ; seasoned and cooked in dish. Pour off liquid, mix with flour and butter liaison, work up with fresh butter, and serve over the fish. — ^ la Dumas.—Fillets of soles braised with butter, sauced over with white wine sauce mixed with tomato pur6e and chopped savoury herbs.