195 MEAT ENTRIES (MUTTON). Cdtelettes de Mouton aux Haricots Verts.—Fried or broiled mutton cutlets, garnished with French beans. — en Casserole a la Hongroise.—Cutlets sauteed in butter till three parts done; placed in casserole with onion and bacon mirepoix, finished cooking in rich cream sauce and paprika seasoning ; served with straw potatoes. — a rindienne.—Breaded and fried cutlets, served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Marinaded in a mixture of salad oil and chopped savoury herbs, egged and crumbed in finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon peel, a pinch of mace, and breadcrumbs, fried in butter ; Italian sauce. — a la Maintenon.—Split open from side, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and chicken forcemeat, broiled or baked in the oven, dressed alternately with heart shapes of tongue and ham ; Italian sauce. — a la Madras.—Breaded and fried (crumbs mixed with finely chopped ham) ; garnished with piccalilli cut in julienne shreds, and served with curry sauce. — a la Mancelle.—Plain broiled or grilled, dressed round a puree of chestnuts ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Grilled, dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and parmesan cheese ; demi-glace or tomato sauce. — a la Minute.—Plain grilled or broiled, with gravy or brown sauce, chopped mushrooms and shallots. — au naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled mutton cutlets. — a la Nelson.—Par-broiled and pressed, covered with chicken forcemeat, onion puree, and grated cheese, baked in the oven ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Plain broiled ; served with glazed turnips in centre ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Stufied with onion puree, fried, and garnished with stuffed tomatoes. — a la Provenjjale.—Par-broiled, one side coated with onion puree, egged, and breaded (crumbs mixed with grated cheese), fried, and served v/ith olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Pur6e de Pommes de Terre.—Breaded and fried, dressed round mashed potatoes. — a la R6forme.—Breaded with white breadcrumbs, mixed with finely chopped ham, and fried in butter ; garnished with mushrooms, truffles, gherkins, ham, and hard-boiled white of eggs, all cut into fine julienne strips, and served with poivrade sauce, mixed with red-currant jelly.