13 SELECTION OF DISHES. day or more in advance, so ihat the needful provisions may be purchased and other necessary arrangements made, thus allowing ample leisure to get everything ready in good time, and avoiding much confusion when the moment for cooking and serving arrives. The menu, it is hardly necessary to say, must in all cases be strictly followed. Selection of Dishes. In compiling a menu it is necessary to study the variety of dishes, and their selection, for each dish should vary both in colour and taste from those served before or after. The character of dishes must be retained throughout; sauces (except sauces served with fish) should correspond in taste and colour with the viands with which they are intended to be served. If two soups appear on a menu, one ought to be clear and the other thick ; should the thick soup be a puree of vegetables, the clear soup must contain no vegetable roots as garnishing. When two or more fish are to be served, the*first, as a rule, is boiled, and generally a large fish, such as turbot, salmon, cod, etc. ; the next one would be a small fish, either fried or broiled. Whitebait are often served as a third dish. The entrees should always be so classified that light dishes, such as rissoles, bouch^es, croquettes, quenelles, kromeskis, etc., are served first. If there are two removes, poultry is served before the butcher’s meat. The cardinal point is to have all dressed removes served before the plain roasted ones. What is called the second service on a menu includes the roast, the savoury, and the sweet entremets, the dessert, and cheese. When two or more sweets are served, the first one should be hot and the other cold. If fancy savouries are given, they come in after the sweets, for they are intended to prepare the palate for the choice wines which usually follow a good dinner. Naming the Dishes. In preparing a bill of fare for a large dinner, it is advis- able to avoid such dishes as are difficult to dress when done in a great number, for they will cause complication