326 THE MENU BOOK. Pouding Mascotto.—The same as “ Marquise," with addition of chocolate powder in place of strawberry ; vanilla or chocolate sauce. — a la minute (Hasty Pudding).—Usually made with eggs, milk, flour, and sugar, well mixed, baked in a tin mould ; a little jam or marmalade is also introduced. — Montmorency.—Ground rice souffle mixture, with stoned cherries; steamed and served with cherry sauce. — Mousseline.—A very light vanilla souffle, steamed and served with sweet vanilla-flavoured mousseline sauce. — Nesselrode.—A light cold chestnut pudding, flavoured with maraschino liqueur ; garnished with whipped cream and crystallised cherries. — Normande.—Cooked rice in milk, with apple puree, filled in layers in buttered mould, and steamed ; served with lemon-flavoured apple sauce. — d’Orl^ans (Hot).—Vanilla souffle mixture, flavoured with honey, and mixed with cherries and angelica ; steamed ; sabayon sauce. — a rOrldans.—Cold custard or blancmange, mixed with biscuit or cake crumbs, and chopped candied fruit ; set in fancy moulds. — d. la Pasteur (Curate’s Pudding).—Egg custard mixed with mashed potato, flavoured with sugar and lemon ; baked in cups. — Prince Albert.—Made from eggs, butter, flour, sugar, and lemon rind, mould lined with slices of citron peel, angelica, cherries, etc., to garnish ; steamed. — Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales’s Pudding).—Made from yolks of eggs, sugar, lemon rind, almonds, flour, and butter ; baked in fancy tin moulds. — R6gence.—Ground rice souffle mixture, with peach puree, steamed ; caramel sauce. — d la Reine.—Lemon souffle, with minced fruit and crushed macaroons in centre, flavoured with liqueur. — d. la Renaissance.—Almond souffle mixture, filled in mould, buttered, and thickly sprinkled with pistachios, steamed, and served with pistachio cream sauce. — Royale.—Vanilla souffle, mixed with crushed finger biscuits before steaming ; vanilla sauce. — St. Cloud.—Brown bread pudding, mixed with almonds and glace cherries; steamed, and coated with apricot marmalade. — Saxonne.—Brown bread pudding, mixed with ground almonds and crystallised fruit; baked or steamed. — Sicilienne.—Made from rice cooked in milk, fruits, eggs, cream, and sugar.