138 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Chivry. — Veloute sauce with infusion of chablis, tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives, finished with green herb butter. — Choron.—Bearnaise sauce, blended with tomato puree. — Citron au (Lemon).—Hollandaise sauce with finely- grated lemon rind added. — Colbert.—Thin brown fish sauce, enriched with butter and glaze, finely chopped herbs, and lemon juice. — Comtesse.—White wine sauce, enriched with fish essence and truffle puree. — Concombre (Cucumber).—Bechamel or white cream sauce, blended with cucumber puree. — Cordolier.—Madere sauce, enriched with truffle and foie-gras puree. — Cornichon (Gherkin).—A brown sharp sauce, like poivrade, with finely chopped gherkins. — Crapaudine.—Espagnole, reduced with veal stock, vinegar, shallots, and bouquet garni, enriched with fresh butter. — Creme (Cream).—Bechamel sauce enriched with fresh cream. — Crdole.—Tomato sauce, blended with finely chopped shallots reduced in white wine, mixed with thin strips of pimiento. — Crevettes (Shrimp).—Pink fish sauce with picked shrimps. — Cumberland.—Thin brown sauce, with meat glaze, orange juice, red-currant jelly, lemon juice, and port wine, fine shreds of orange rind, seasoned with mustard, paprika, and ginger. — Curry (Currie).—A pale brown or fawn coloured sauce made with velout6 gravy, finely chopped onion fried in butter, and curry powder, well reduced and tamined. — Cussy.—Espagnole sauce, blended with fumet of pigeon, reduced with sherry. — Czarine.—Demi-glace sauce with chopped gherkins, capers, and bleached raisins. — Danoise (Danish).—White wine sauce flavoured with grated cheese, anchovy cream, and lobster butter. — Daumont.—Fish sauce made like “ Hollandaise,” using oyster liquor, egg-yolks, lemon juice, with sliced oysters, mushrooms, and truffles. — Demi-Deuil.—Veloute sauce, mixed with finely chopped truffles. — Demidoff.—Madere sauce with sliced truffles. — Demi-glace (Half-glaze).—Espagnole reduced with veal stock or gravy of light consistency.