LIGHT ENTRl^ES. i6i Cassolettes d’Issiny.—Small cake or cork shapes of fresh butter, twice egged and crumbed, fried in deep fat, carefully drained and cut open to allow the liquid butter to run out, when they are filled with the desired mixtures. — ^ la Montglas.—Cornucopian shapes of puff-paste, baked and filled with braised lambs’ breads, cut in dice, mushrooms, and truffles, with allemande sauce. — a la Picquart.—Semolina or rice cassolettes filled with salpicon of tongue, ham, calf’s brain, bechamel, and truffle. — a la Suzanne.—Potato or duchesse cassolette shapes, filled with minced chicken fillets, asparagus points, supreme sauce, and round of truffle on top of each. (For other varieties see “ Croi3stades ” and “ Bouchees,” which can be adopted.) — de Jambon.—Small ham souffles (dariole-shaped). Vol-au-Vent»—The name “ Vol-au-vent ” is given to a large, light puff-paste crust made oval or round in shape, the interior of which is filled with delicately- flavoured ragouts of fish, lobster, oyster, etc., meat, veal, rabbit, and sweetbread or chicken. This dish is always served hot. For other fillings see Bouchees. Vol-au-Vent 4 la Chambord.—Small fish quenelles, mush- rooms, and truffles heated up in veloute sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent cases. — a la Duchesse.—Boned boiled fowl, cut up small, with mushrooms and truffles, heated in supreme sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent cases. — ^ la Financi^re.—A brown stew of sweetbread, truffles, cocks’ combs, kernels, small chicken quenelles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, dressed in vol-au-vent, — ^ la Toulouse.—A white stew of small chicken quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, and veal fillets, dressed in vol- au-vent. Coquilles are scallop shells, filled with coarsely- minced meats, etc., baked in the oven to brown the surface. Coquilles de Volaille truffle.—Chicken fillets minced and mixed with truffle and white sauce, baked in shells. — de Champignons.—Mushroom and white sauce baked in shells. — de Cervelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain and white sauce baked in shells. — de Perdreau.—Partridge fillets baked in shells. L