225 THE ENTREE course (POULET). Supreme de Volaille ^ la Mardchale.—Chicken breasts coated with chopped truffle, and crumbed, fried in butter ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points. — dr la Pojarskl.—Chopped chicken breasts shaped into cutlets, egged and crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with green peas and other vegetables. — d la R6gence.—Heart-shaped chicken fillets, poached white, dressed on lobster farce border, garnished with truffles, cocks’ combs, and kernels; sauce allemande, with truffle flavour. Poulet saut6 d I’Archidue.—Sauteed white and finished in cream sauce with sliced truffles and brandy as flavour. — saut6 d la Bayonnaise.—Fried, with coarsely minced ham, stewed in brown sauce, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes, dressed in a border of stewed rice. — d la Bdarnaise.—Sauteed, finished in a veloute sauce, enriched with cream, meat glaze, white wine, chopped parsley, and tarragon leaves. — d la Beaulieu.—Like “ Cocotte,” to which a garniture of marble-shaped fried potatoes and dice shapes of artichoke bottoms is added. — d la Bordelaise.—Sauteed chicken, cooked in brown sauce, enriched with chablis, garnished with quarters of artichoke bottoms. — d ’a Bourgeolse.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce with chopped mushrooms and red wine ; garnished with green peas and young carrots. — d la Bretonne.—Sauteed, with haricot beans, celeriac, and mushrooms, cut in fine strips. — d la Chasseur.—Sauteed, and stewed in espagnole and tomato sauce, with white wine, chopped parsley, chopped mushrooms, and lemon juice. — d la Demidoff.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce diluted with sherry ; dressed in a border of cooked rice. — d la Duse.—Cut into joints, fried in oil, and stewed in tomato sauce with artichoke bottoms cut in dice dressed in border of risotto (stewed savoury rice), sprinkled over with chopped white Piemont truffle. — sautd a I’Estragon.—Sauteed in butter, and finished in white wine sauce, rich gravy, and bouquet of tarragon. — d la Fermiere.—Sauteed, stewed in demi-glace sauce diluted with cream, lemon juice, sprinkled with chopped parsley, and garnished with groups of small cut spring vegetables. — d la Florentine.—Sauteed and stewed in brown sauce and tomato puree, and flavoured with chopped shallots, green pepper, and white wine. P