127 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Sole a la Tyrolienne.—Rolled fillets of sole, poached, sauced over with sauce bercy blended with tomato puree, and garnished with fried onion and fried parsley. — a la Val6ry.—Rolled fillets of sole with white wine sauce, and champignons as garnish, breaded, and browned in oven. — a la Vendome.—Poached rolled fillets of sole, dressed on spaghetti border, and sauced over with nantua sauce. — ^ la V^nitienne.—Folded fillets of soles poached in white wine, butter, and parsley ; dressed in circle, centre garnished with mushroom heads, sauced with hollandaise sauce. — Veronique.—Fillets rolled and poached, dressed with three muscat grapes on each fillet ; sauced over with Hollandaise blended with Vin blanc sauce, and glazed under salamander. — a la Victoria.—Folded fillets of soles cooked with a little white wine, dressed on border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in oven ; sauced over with white wine sauce; garnished with chopped truffle and tongue and small fleurons of puff- paste. — Waleska.—Poached fillets dressed on a ragout of dice- cut lobster truffles and fresh mushrooms moistened with lobster sauce, sauced over with white wine sauce, grated cheese and glazed. — a la Xavier.—Baked fillets of soles tied in knots, dressed on a border of whiting forcemeat, covered with hot Xavier sauce ; liquid meat glaze sprinkled over surface. — en Zephires (cold).—Cold fillets of sole set in aspic cream in small zephyr moulds. Chaudfroid de Filets de Soles a la Capacine (cold).—Stuffed and rolled fillets of sole dressed on pink rice border, decorated with prawns, truffles, etc. ; seasoned salad in centre. Coquilles de Filets de Soles a la Favorite.—Cockle-shell moulds filled with cooked fillets of sole and lobster meat, coated with mayonnaise, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon (Scallops of Soles, Vernon style).—Braised fillets of soles dressed on rice; garnished with stewed oysters and mussels ; rich white sauce. Hatelets de Sole a la Villeroi.—Rolled sole fillets stuffed with forcemeat, placed on silver skewers, seasoned, crumbed, and baked in the saute-pan ; served with a richly buttered tomato sauce.