94 THE MENU BOOK. Potage Fermi^re (Farmhouse Soup).—Potato soup with minced carrots and turnips. — Flamande (Flemish).—Puree of Brussels sprouts > celery, and potato, with cream liaison (croutons). — Florentine.—Spinach puree with cream liaison and croutons. — Fonds d*Artichauts (de).—Artichoke bottom soup (white). — Freneuse.—Puree of young turnips with cream liaison, pea-shaped turnip and carrot as garnish. — Garbure.—White vegetable pur6e with small cheese- coated croutons. — Gascogne.—Potato puree with grated parmesan cheese, cream and egg liaisons, and small ravioles or profite- rolles. — Gelinotte.—Grouse soup (brown). — Gentilhomme (Gentleman’s Soup, brown).—Puree of rabbit, pork, and ham, garnished with minced sausages and mushrooms. — Gentilhomme.—Puree of game with sherry or marsala flavour, and croutons. — Georges Sand.—White fish cream soup with shredded lettuce and crayfish tails. — Georgette.—Tomato and carrot puree, blended together with pearl barley as garnish. — Gibier (de) —Filtered game soup (brown). — Gibier ^ I’Anglaise.—English game giblet soup. — Gibier a la Gond6.—Venison soup with lentils. — Gounod.—A light green peas puree made with rich chicken stock, garnished with julienne of chicken fillets. — Grenouilles (de).—Filtered frog soup (white). — Gr6que (Greek).—Puree of peas and mutton broth (blended), garnished with julienne strips of vegetables. — Gulyas (Hungarian).—Puree of beef and green peas (onion flavour), potato dice, and paprika seasoning. — Haricot Blanc.—White haricot bean puree. — Huitres (aux).—Oyster soup (white). — Imperiale.—A white soup composed of cream of rice and tapioca, garnished with shreds of truffle. — Indienne.—Mulligatawny soup, with addition of cocoa- nut milk and rice. — Irlandaise.—A kind of thick mutton broth. — Istrienne.—Puree of chestnuts and tomatoes, flavoured with juice of pomegranates, and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks and cream (Austrian origin). — Italienne.—A light mutton or lamb puree, garnished with macaroni, slices of fowl, and macedoine.