POT AGES—SOUPS. 83 Consomm6 Judic.—Clear soup, garnished with finely shredded lettuce, chive, and chervil. — Julienne.—Clear soup with carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, cabbage, and lettuces, cut into very thin strips, called julienne, about an inch long. — Juliette.—Clarified chicken stock, with a garnish con- sisting of very small cream quenelles, green pea puree 4 la Royal cut in cubes, tiny rounds of truffle, and lozenge shapes of hard-boiled white of egg. — Kapriva (Russian).—Consomme with small fried eggs, sorrel, and slices of smoked sausage, served with sour cream. — Kiselefl (Russian).—Chicken consomme with julienne strips of celeriac and leek, strips of ham, and chicken fiUet. — Kolodnik (Polish).—Iced chicken consomme, garnished with hard white of egg and cucumber cut in fine strips, also crayfish tails. — ^ la Lafitte.—Chicken consomme flavoured with sherry or marsala, garnished with financidre. — Laitues.—Clear soup with finely shredded lettuce (tossed in butter). — Leopold.—Clear soup with semolina, shredded lettuce, and sorrel. — Lilienne.—Clear soup, flavoured with tarragon and chervil, and garnished with a julienne of slightly baked almonds, truffles, and mushrooms. — Longchamps.—Clear soup garnished with chiffonade of sorrel and vermicelli. — Lorette.—Clear soup with finely cut strips of celeriac, potato, pimiento, and truffle. — Macaroni.—Clear soup, garnished with cooked macaroni cut into short pieces. — Madrid.—Tomato-flavoured clear soup, garnished with thin shces of skinned and cooked tomatoes. — Magenta.—Rich clear soup, flavoured and coloured with ripe tomatoes, and macedoine of vegetables as garnish. — Maigre.—Clear fish soup (Lenten soup) made with fish stock and vegetables. — Maintenon.—Clear soup with strips of tomato and leeks, served with small toasted cheese croutons. — Mancelle.—Clarified beef and veal stock, garnished with dice shapes of roasted chestnuts and julienne strips of cooked game or poultry. — Mddicis.—Clear soup with julienne of sorrel, and small cube shapes of two kinds of royal custard, one flavoured with carrot (Crecy). and the other with green peas.