i6o THE MENU BOOK. Petites Bouch^es a la Su^doise.—Pastry crusts, or patties of puff-paste, filled with ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails, and broiled bacon; top of bouchees sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and lobster butter, and browned in oven. Petites Bouchees froide a la Reine.—Small puff-paste bouchees filled with a salpicon of cooked chicken breasts, champignons, tongue, and truffle, all cut into small squares ; served cold. Biscuits glacis a la tomate (cold).—A delicately prepared tomato puree, enriched with cream and paprika seasoning, frozen in brick shape, then sliced and placed on thin oblong wafer biscuits ; decorated with whipped cream and parsley sprigs. Bfiches de tomates ^ la Rossini (cold).—Leaf or heart- shaped tartlet crusts, filled with halves of tomatoes containing foie-gras puree, flavoured with tomato pulp and aspic ; garnished with truffles and pimientos, also small salad. Cannelous are small rolls of puff-paste filled with a savoury mince of game, poultry, meats, etc. They are either egged and baked in the oven, or egged and rolled in crushed vermicelli or breadcrumbs, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Cannelons k la puree de champignons.—Cannelons filled with mushroom puree. — a la pur6e de gibier.—Cannelons filled with game puree. — aux saucisses.—Sausage-meat cannelons. — d la pur6e de truffes.—Cannelons filled with truffle puree. — a la purde de Volaille.—Cannelons filled with chicken farce. Cassolettes,—These, like croustades, are small, thin- crusted, oval, round or other suitable shapes, hollowed out to receive any desired mixture, savoury, fish, meat, poultry or game, vegetable puree, salpicons, etc. Cassolettes are made from potato puree, semolina^ cornflour, rice or riceflour, etc., all of which are previously cooked in thick puree or pulp form, shaped to the desired sizes when cold, and subsequently egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. The fat must be very hot to ensure the crust being crisp. Silver-plated and earthenware porcelain fireproof cassolettes have also lately been introduced, and are most useful for this purpose.