2q8 the menu book. Salade Comtoise.—Seasoned lettuce salad, with coarsely minced streaky bacon (petit sale), fried crisp in butter, poured hot over the salad, and well mixed. Salt should be omitted in this salad, as the pork is usually salt enough. — a la Convent.—Sliced cold potatoes and cucumber, dressed with vinaigrette ^containing chopped chive and tarragon. — Cressonniere.—Watercress, sliced potatoes, and hard- boiled eggs, dressed with vinaigrette. — Danicheff.—Thinly sliced celeriac, cold potatoes, asparagus tips, artichoke bottoms, and truffles, dressed with mayonnaise. — Danoise (Danish).—Sliced pickled cucumber, beetroot, and celeriac, blended with smoked salmon strips and slices of hard-boiled eggs, seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing, chopped chives, tarragon, and chervil. —Demi-deuil.—Sliced cold potatoes and sliced truffle, blended with cream, and mustard flavour. — Demidofl.—Same as Demi-deuil, which see, with addition of sliced artichoke bottoms. — Doria.—Thick slices of peeled cucumber, centre cut out and blanched, seasoned with tarragon vinegar and mayonnaise, chopped tarragon on top. — Dumas.—Dice shapes of cooked potatoes, beetroots, gherkins, or pickled cucumbers, and sliced tomatoes, dressed with a mixture of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; garnished with chopped whites of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroot, chives, and white lettuce leaves. — d*£t6 (Summer).—Composed of lettuce, cucumber, arti- choke bottoms, all cut into thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with radishes and pickled beetroot. — Ecossaise (Scotch).—Lettuce salad mixed with slices of smoked salmon and cold potatoes ; seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing. — Elva.—Beetroot salad, garnished with Elva plums stuffed with tartare sauce. — ^ I’Espagnole (Spanish).—Sliced tomatoes, cooked kidney beans, French beans, Spanish peas, picked button onions ; dressed with mayonnaise sauce. — Eugenie.—Composed of Belgian chicory or endive, celery, dandelion, corn salad, cucumber, and fourniture of herbs, dressed with vinaigrette ; garnished with rings of hard-boiled egg, etc.