14 THE MENU BOOK. and needless confusion in the kitchen, and often lead to disorganised service. It is also most unwise to use new names of dishes which are not known, or which may be known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who might not know the standard names of old dishes. Avoid also the use of pompous names of dishes, especially when inexpensive in character, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high-standing personalities, towns, coun- tries, etc., are apphed in connection with many dishes ; the French cuisine especially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers, artists, or such as have distinguished themselves by their gastro- nomic or epicurean merits. Hence we have such names in connection with certain dishes as Lucullus, Savarin, Louis XV., Soubise, Richeheu, Careme, Maintenon, Cond6, Colbert, Villeroy, Talleyrand, Nesselrode, Demi- doff, Marie-Louise, Montglas, Victoria, etc. These names, as well as very many others registered in this book, are associated with various culinary preparations and are recognised by cooks of all nations. There are, unfortunately, some cooks in the habit of altering the genuine names of dishes, to which they apply some other high-sounding names in order to make themselves famous, but they only succeed in making themselves look ridiculous in the eyes of a real gourmet, who is not likely to be thus deceived. If, however, the composition of a certain dish is due to the talent and initiative of a cook, then the case is different, and he or she will have a perfect right to name such a dish according to his fancy. The foregoing remarks show that the composition of a menu may mar or make the success of a dinner. Defectively composed menus can often compromise the reputation of a good chef. Although the menu may be of little use to some people, it is indispensable to con- noisseurs who understand the language of the kitchen, for they will be able to judge the kind of dinner on analysing the menu, and by so doing be able to give their verdict as to the capacity of the chef, according to the arrangement of the dishes and the combination of the viands.