173 MEAT ENTRJ^ES {BEEF). Filets de Boeuf d la Russe.—Sauteed in butter, served with hot horseradish sauce, and garnished with small croutons filled with caviare. — a la Sicilienne.—Grilled ; served with rings of fried onion ; sauce madere. — a la Sigurd.—Larded fillet of beef, marinaded in madere, and braised ; garnished with small potato cassolettes filled with asparagus-point puree, sauteed artichoke bottoms cut in dice, chestnut croquettes, and mush- room heads. — d la Stanley.—Grilled or broiled, dressed on reduced horseradish sauce, and garnished with fried bananas and fleurons. — a la St. Jean.—Broiled or sauteed ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with tossed tomato dice and covered with bearnaise, with farced olive on top ; demi-glace sauce. — aux trufles.—Broiled or grilled ; served with brown sauce containing sliced truffles. — a la Theodora.—Broiled ; dressed on a bed of mush- room puree, sprinkled with finely chopped herbs, garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes and truffles, sauced over with nut brown butter and Worcester sauce. — a la Toreador.—Grilled, rather underdone ; garnished with sauteed fresh muslirooms and Spanish pimientos ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Trianon.—Grilled or broiled, dressed on reduced bearnaise sauce, surmounted with slices of truffle ; garnished with straw potatoes. — a la Vlennolse.—Fillet or other tender leaii beef chopped finely and shaped into small fillets, fried in butter, garnished with onion puree and fried onion rings ; brown sauce. — ^ la Wellington.—Tossed in butter over a brisk fire, cooled and wrapped carefully in thinly rolled-out puff-paste, with a layer of fine herbs spread over the fillets ; brush over the paste with egg-yolk, and bake in moderate oven lo to 15 minutes; dress on potato puree (socle), garnish with green peas, French beans, truffles, and potatoes cut in cubes and tossed in butter. — a la Zlmmermann.—Grilled, dressed on bearnaise sauce with fried egg on top of each, slices of truffle and fleuron garnish.