THE MENU BOOK. 72 Caviar en Mayonnaise.—Fresh Russian caviare, pounded, with breadcrumbs, soaked in cream, and seasoned with mayonnaise. — en Salade.—A neatly-dressed salad of caviare, and small dice of tomato and hard-boiled egg. C616ri d, la Roquefort.—Short pieces of white celery filled with puree of Roquefort cheese. Chantrelles en Salade.—^^Chantrelles are a species of mush- room grown in Switzerland. When cooked they are dressed with plain salad dressing, seasoning, and served as hors-d’oeuvre. Concombres ^ la Danoise.—Cassolette shapes of cucumber pickled, and filled with a salpicon of smoked salmon, hard-boiled egg, with salad anchovy, seasoned with mayonnaise. Crabe-garnie.—Dressed Crab. The meat of crab, seasoned with salad or cream dressing, refilled into the shell, and garnished neatly. Crofites d’Ecrevisses h la Tartare.—Croutes of crayfish or prawn tails, dressed with tartare sauce. Croutons h TEspagnole.—Large Spanish olives, stuffed with tartare sauce, placed on round croutons, with anchovy fillets twisted round olives ; decorated with lobster coral, egg-yolk, and parsley. Darioles de Caviar.—Caviare darioles, dressed in small tartlet pastry crust, seasoned. — de Foie-gras.—Goose liver darioles. — de Homard a la Tomate.—Lobster darioles with tomatoes. — d’Huitres a la Carlton.—Oyster darioles, Carlton style. — de Tomate a la Creme.—Tomato darioles with cream. Delicatesse Russe.—Name given to a collection of selected small hors-d’oeuvre dishes of the Russian type. Denises a la Turque.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with prawns, tomato puree, hard-boiled egg, and anchovy, and decorated with paprika butter. — ^ la Princesse.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with chicken puree, walnuts, and cream mixture; garnished with small cress. Dominos Rochelais.—Small domino shapes of savoury fish cream, decorated with truffle and lined with ox- tongue slices. Duchesse ^ la Russe.—Small ball shapes of baked un- sweetened choux paste, filled with a delicate chicken puree, sauced, with mayonnaise, and coated with chaudfroid sauce. Eclairs Karoly.—Baked choux paste eclairs (unsweetened), filled with savoury game puree, and coated with brown chaudfroid sauce.