THE ENTREE COURSE {CAILLES). 229 Cailles en casserole.—Braised whole in fireproof earthen- ware stewpan (casserole); garnished at will with braised lettuce, endive, mushrooms, button onions, truffles, financiere, etc. ; sent to table in the casserole. — a TAlbufera.—Braised in cocotte with garniture of artichoke bottoms, celery root, and green peas; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Cavour.—Cooked in cocotte pans, and served with small raviolis and sliced truffles ; Demi-glace sauce. — Cafe de Paris.—Large potatoes hollowed out, with boned quails, stuffed with foie-gras in each; cooked in oven and served with mushroom sauce. — sous la Cendre.—Quails barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers, the same as baked potatoes ; remove paper when done ; brown sauce reduced with white wine. — en robe de chambre.—Trussed quails, barded, wrapped in plain paste crust, and roasted for thirty minutes ; garnished with cresses, and served with truffle sauce. — en Compote.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with dice of broiled bacon and fried-bread croutons, small mushrooms, and braised button onions. — a la Dauphinoise.—Braised quails, dressed in border of green pea puree, covered with grilled ham slices, and browned in oven. — ^ la Demidoff.—Braised whole in casserole with small shapes of carrots, turnips, sliced truffles ; Demi-glace sauce ; sent to table en casserole. — a la Diane.—Boned, stuffed, and braised in hearts of lettuce en casserole ; financiere garniture. — a la Dickson.—Cooked in cocotte pans and served with stoned olives and sliced truffles; Demi-glace sauce. — farcies aux Nouillettes.—Boned quails, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised and dressed in a delicately- baked border made of very finely cut nouilles; demi-glace sauce, with port wine flavour. — ^ la Georges Sand.—Boned, stuffed, and par-braised ; when cold, rolled in puff paste and baked in oven. — a la Jardiniere.—Broiled or braised quails with finely cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, peas, etc. ; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Judic.—Braised, with sliced truffles and cocks’ kernels, garnished with braised lettuce ; Demi-glace sauce (fumet). — a la Julie.—Halved, flattened, and breaded with bread- crumbs and chopped truffles, grilled or broiled in butter ; sauce mad^re. — a la Lucullus.—Boned, stuffed, and braised, with game quenelles and sliced truffles.