SA LA DESS A LA DS. 301 Salade Mimosa.—Composed of large pea-shaped rounds of truffle, cooked carrot, celery root and cooked potatoes, seasoned with mayonnaise, with bouquet of green asparagus points in centre. — Monte Cristo.—Sliced lobster meat, cold potatoes, hard-boiled eggs and truffles, mixed with mayonnaise, with border of shredded lettuce round. — Moscovite.—Various kinds of lean cooked meat cut into fine julienne strips, also cepes ; dressed with vinaigrette and garnished with small tartlet crusts filled with cavaire. — Nantoise.—Composed of cabbage lettuce, cooked asparagus tips, hard-boiled egg, smoked salmon, crab meat, parsley and chives, and seasoning. — Napolitaine.—Thin slices of Bologna sausage and sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately (crown shape) ; centre filled with shredded celery, lettuce, and beet- root ; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — Nigoise.—Cold potatoes in dice shapes, French beans, and tomatoes cut in fillets, capers, olives, and anchovy fillets ; dressed with vinaigrette. — Ninette.—Lettuce and tomato salad, mixed with cooked French beans and potato slices ; seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing, and chopped tarragon. — Norge.—Composed of finely shredded white celery, peeled walnuts, cucumber dressed with mayonnaise and cream, paprika seasoning, garnished with julienne of truffles. — Opera.—Julienne strips of ox-tongue and truffles, made up in border, with asparagus points, centre piled up with lettuce hearts, hard eggs, and beetroot, mayonnaise, and vinaigrette. — Orientale.—Composed of endive and lettuces, fine strips of pineapple and tomatoes, also pimiento, dressed with cream, lemon juice, and usual seasoning. — Panach^e (Mixed Salad).—Usually made with cooked green peas, beans, and flageolets and lettuces, seasoned with vinaigrette. — de pauvre homme.—Potato salad mixed with cooked haricot beans and buds of cooked cauliflower ; seasoned with oil and vinegar, salt, etc,, and chopped parsley. — Paysanne (Farmhouse Salad).—Consists of sliced pickled red cabbage, cold potatoes, and celery root, all cut in thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing. — Polonaise (Polish).—Lettuce, endive, celery, sliced cold potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies, seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with minced ham and hard-boiled eggs.