147 SA UCES. Sauce Provenfale.—Demi-glace with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley and olives, flavoured with lemon juice and garlic. — Raifort (chaude) (Horseradish, hot).—Bechamel sauce# mixed with grated horseradish and a little cream. — Raifort (froide) (Horseradish, cold).—Sour cream, mixed with freshly grated horseradish and a little vinegar, seasoned with sugar and salt. — Ravigote (chaude).—A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with wine vinegar, finished with fine herbs, butter, and cream (hot). — Ravigote (froide).—Mayonnaise sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening (cold). — R^forme.—Poivrade sauce, diluted with port wine, red-currant jelly, and Worcester sauce. — Regence.—Demi-glace or gravy sauce, reduced with white wine and truffle essence, flavoured with finely minced and blended onions. — R^gente.—Rich white sauce with truffle and mushroom essence incorporated. — Reine-Marie (Queen Mary).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies; served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. — R^moulade.—A mayonnaise sauce with chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and pre- pared mustard. — Ricardo.—A brown sauce, prepared with the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, thickened with a little meat glaze ; served with dishes of game, etc. — Riche.—Hollandaise, enriched with lobster butter or spawn, with dice shapes of truffles and crayfish tails. — Richelieu.—A brown game sauce, reduced with Madeira wine and meat extract. — Robert (Robert).—A brown sauce with finely chopped onions fried in butter, chili vinegar, prepared mustard, and a little anchovy essence. — Romaine (Roman).—Demi-glace or espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds {pignoli), diluted and reduced with white wine vinegar, and strained. — Roosevelt.—Tomato sauce blended with apple puree, flavoured with lemon rind grated. — Rouennaise.—Mad^re sauce, blended with raw duck- liver puree.