314 THE MENU BOOK. Croutes. Groutes aux fruits.—These are compotes of fruit dressed on fried slices of cake or bread croutons, and are usually garnished with glace fruit, angelica, cherries, raisins, and almonds, sauced over with fruit syrup. Croutes aux ahricots Croutes aux pommes CroHites d, Vorange CroiUes aux cerises CroMes aux peches Cro'^tes aux framhoises Croiites aux /raises Apricot croutes Apple croutes Orange croutes Cherry croutes Peach croutes Raspberry croutes Strawberry croutes Crofites Espagnoles.—Brioche paste croutes coated with apricot jam, covered with glazed chestnuts, sultanas, and pistachio kernels, as garnish. — Lyonnaise.—Similar to “ Espagnole,” but Savoy biscuit croutes in place of brioche. — au Madere.—Any kind of compdte of fruit, dressed on fried bread or cake crusts, and served with hot fruit syrup flavoured with sherry. — a a Mar^chale.—Croutes of Zwieback or toasted cake, coated with marmalade, and covered with compote of apple, slices of pineapple, cherries, and grapes. — a la Normande (Hot).—Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon-juice and sherry, dressed on fried-bread croutons, coated with dissolved peach jam ; served with hot syrup. — Parisienne.—Small timbale cakes (savoy or genoise), hollowed out and filled with salpicon of mixed fruit ; garnished with halves of apricots and glace cherries. JDattes—Dates. Dattes farcies, frites (Hot or Cold).—Stoned dates filled with confectioners’ custard, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons, and fried in butter ; served with hot or cold vanilla cream sauce. Fraises—Strawberries. Praises k I’Am^ricaine (Strawberry Whips).—Small ripe strawberries, sweetened with castor sugar, placed in stem glasses (half full), then filled with whipped cream, served with handy fingers. — Brillat Savarin (Cold).—Baked savarin border, steeped in cura9oa syrup and glazed with strawberry marma- lade ; then filled with large ripe strawberries, pre- viously flavoured with cura9oa and maraschino and orange wafer. Kept on ice till required.