THE MENU BOOK. i88 Ris de Veau frit ^ la tomate.—Fried sweetbread with tomato sauce. — a la Financiere.—Same as “ Toulouse,” but garniture is prepared in brown Madeira sauce. — la Gentilhomme.—Larded with bacon and truffle, and braised ; served with perigord sauce. — a la Godard.—The same as ” Financiere,” with addition of stuffed olives. — a ITndienne.—Braised and cut in slices, sauteed in butter with finely chopped onion finished in cream and curry sauce, dressed in border of saffron rice ; garnished with large olives filled with onion puree. — ^ I’ltalienne.—Fried sweetbread, masked with white sauce and breaded ; Italian sauce. — a la Jardiniere.—Larded and braised, with neatly-cut groups of spring vegetables ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Matignon.—Parboiled, slightly marinaded in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Larded, braised and glazed ; served with stewed macaroni, flavoured with parmesan cheese, and mingled with shreds of ox-tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Montpensier.—Larded and braised ; served in a border of rice with truffles. — a la Napolitaine.—Braised brown, garnished with small tartlet crusts filled with spaghetti a la Napolitaine, with slices of truffle on top of each ; tomate sauce. — ^ rOseille.—Braised sweetbread with sorrel puree. — en papillotes.—Braised sweetbread, served in paper cases. — a la Parisienne.—Braised, cut into shces and sauteed in butter ; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas and asparagus tips, coated with Hollandaise sauce ; fondantes potatoes, and gravy (jus lie). — aux petits pois.—Braised sweetbread with green peas. — piqu6 aux champignons.—Larded and braised, with mushrooms ; demi-glace sauce. — aux pointes d’asperges.—With asparagus points. — a la Rachel.—Larded and braised ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with finely shredded truffles. — a la Russe.—Braised, cut in slices, sauteed in butter with shallots and fresh mushrooms ; finished in sour cream sauce and gravy, served in casserole with bouquet of small glazed gherkins in centre. — d. la St. Cloud.—Braised sweetbread, larded, served with tomato sauce and sliced truffles.