THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 277 Pommes de terre Saxonne.—Medium-sized balls of potato puree (same as for croquettes), egged and crumbed twice, well fried in hot fat; when done, scooped out and filled with onion pur6e, re-closed, and served quickly. — a la Schneider.—Sliced, cooked in consomme stock, and finished in butter and chopped parsley. — d la Senn.—Lettuce or trellise-work pattern slices of potatoes, cut by means of a special vegetable cutter, fried crisp in deep fat. — Strasbourgeoise.—Sliced, stewed in white sauce, dished up, and baked in the oven. — Su^doise.—Sliced, and stewed with fried onions and gravy. — en Surprise.—Baked in their skins, opened, and the interior mixed with butter, cream, fine herbs, and seasoning, re-filled and re-baked. — Suzette.—Small potatoes, stuffed with chicken, ham, and truffle puree, and browned in oven. — Turque. — Puree as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes, filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — Tyrolienne.—Medium-sized kidney potatoes, seasoned, stewed with cream, beef broth, and small pieces of butter ; when dished sprinkled with grated cheese. — Varsovienne.—Choux-paste fritters, emptied, and filled with seasoned potato puree. — Vaudoise.—Peeled and sliced, ranged in layers on a buttered baking dish, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated gruydre cheese, top sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter ; baked in the oven. — Viennoise.—Cut into dice, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley when dished up. — Villageoise.—Finely chopped cold potatoes, seasoned, stewed in fresh milk, cream, and butter. — Voisin.—Same as Anna potatoes, with addition of minced onions previously blended in butter and grated cheese. — Worlitz.—Puree prepared as for croquettes, shaped into squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, on one side only, v/ith a small piece of lobster butter on centre of each, and baked in sharp oven. — Yvette.—Thinly sliced, blended in butter, and filled in small bombe or bouche moulds, and baked.