ii6 THE MENU BOOK. Saumon a la Balmoral.—Thick slices of salmon, poached in fish stock, garnished with fish quenelles, crayfish, truffles, and small potato balls ; served with chambord sauce. — ^ la champ6ry.—Thick slices of salmon, baked in butter and white wine, served with brown caper sauce and olive-shaped potatoes. — a la Danoise (Danish).—Boiled salmon, served with hollandaise sauce, blended with anchovy essence. — a la Dieppoise.—Boiled or baked slices of salmon with mussel sauce, garnished with potato balls. — ^ la Godard.—Braised salmon with a collection of cooked vegetable macedoine dressed round the dish. — ^ la Hollandaise.—Boiled salmon with Dutch sauce, garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — ^ la Marianne.—Baked slices of salmon, dressed on spinach puree or with spinach timbales, mariniere sauce, with addition of mussels. — a la Matelote.—Sauteed slices of salmon with espagnole sauce, poached fish quenelles, slices of mushrooms, and truffles ; garnished with braised button onions, truffles, etc. — en tranches a la Meurice.—Slices of salmon braised and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs. — a la Monte-Carlo.—Centre piece of salmon, boiled, sauced with Nantua sauce, and garnished with asparagus tips, French beans, and carrots; also small carrolette of potato or rice. — a la Montmorency.—Head piece or middle cut of salmon baked, dished up, upper skin removed ; sauced over with matelote sauce ; garnished with stoned and stuffed Spanish olives. — a la Michat Pacha.—Boiled salmon with date sauce. — en papillotes.—Heart-shaped slices of salmon wrapped in grease-proof paper, and thus boiled or baked ; served with a rich brown herb sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Slices of salmon, cut rather thick, braised in mirepoix and claret; dished up and garnished with groups of champignons, little fish croquettes, crayfish tails, and poached oysters; sauce Genoise is served with it. — a la P6rigueux.—Broiled salmon or salmon trout stuffed with truffles and served with truffle sauce. — a la Pi6montaise.—Fried fillets of salmon ; garnished with small timbales of savoury rice ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Richelieu.—Centre piece of salmon, boiled or baked, coated with lobster mousse sauce, and gar- nished with fried soft roes, oysters, and crayfish or prawns.