THE ENTREE COURSE {DUCK). 207 Canard (or Caneton) a la Clamart.—Braised duck, with green peas, dice of ham ; demi-glace sauce, and fleurons as garniture, — a la Duclair.—Stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopped shallots, parsley, and seasoning, roasted, and sauced with demi-glace reduced with claret, orange juice, and chopped chives. — brais^ a la Frangaise.—Braised (breast larded), stuffed with chestnuts, chopped onions, and savoury herbs ; served with port-wine sauce. — ^ I’ltalienne.—Par-roasted duck or duckling, cut up, fried in oil, wdth chopped chives, parsley, and herbs, then finished in Italian sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Braised duck, liquor reduced to demi-glace, with small glazed button onions and glazed chestnuts. — a la Marcelle.—Braised with onion and liver mirepoix flavoured with claret; when cold masked with port wine flavoured aspic jelly. — a la Moliere.—Boned duck, stuffed with liver farce, and braised ; sauce madere. — aux Navets.—Stewed duck with new turnips; brown or salmi sauce. — ^ la Nivelle.—Boned, and stuffed with chopped ham and beef, braised, cut up, and sauced over with demi-glace. — 4 la Nivernaise.—Braised duck, with glazed turnips and button onions, and demi-glace sauce. — aux Olives.—Stewed duck with olives and brown sauce. — a I’Orange.—Braised duck, with sections of orange, glazed ; orange-flavoured brovm sauce. — a la Palestine.—Braised, with quarters of Jerusalem artichokes and demi-glace sauce. — au ^ Porto.—Par-roasted duck, braised in casserole, with port-wine sauce. — a la Proven?ale.—Broiled, and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with braised carrots, turnips, and button onions. — ^ la puree de Lentilles.—Par-roasted, cut up, and braised in casserole with ham and lentil puree ; brown sauce. — ^ la Presse.—Roast fillets and wing portions removed, carcase chopped and pressed, and the juice thus obtained is blended with chopped liver and port- wine sauce ; this is strained over the dish. Escalopes or Filets de Canard.—Breast part of duck or duckling, braised and cut into slices, served with suitable sauce.