THE FISH COURSE. 131 Filets de Truite au vin blanc.—Broiled fillets of trout, with white wine sauce. — ^ la Mayonnaise (cold).—Cold fillets of trout, in border of aspic and mayonnaise, centre filled with dressed salad. — frites ^ la Milanaise.—Fillets of trout marinaded in oil, etc., then rolled in breadcrumbs and grated cheese, then in egg and chopped parsley, and fried in oil; served with Italian sauce. — ^ la Mirabeau.—Braised fillets of trout with mirabeau sauce. — au vin rouge.—Fillets of trout poached in court- bouillon, and sauced with bordelaise (red wine sauce). — a la Tomate.—Fried fillets of trout with tomato sauce. Mousseline de Truite a la Tosca.—Quenelles of trout (mousseline farce) poached, garnished with slice of lobster and truffle ; sauce mornay. TronQons de truite ^ la Gr6que.—Slices of large trout, or salmon-trout, cooked in “ court-bouillon," skimmed and masked with fish aspic, centre of each filled with cold fish farce (cooked) ; garnished with hard-boiled egg slices, truffles, and small salad. Turbot—Turbot, Turbotln—Young Turbot. Turbot & FAmiral.—Slices of turbot poached in fish stock with sauterne, garnished with groups of oysters, mussels, mushrooms, and truffles, also crayfish bouchees ; sauce normande. — bouilli.—Boiled turbot. — ^ la Cambac6r6s.—Braised turbot with veloute sauce, garnished with celery strips, crayfish croquettes, and mussels. — a la Daumont.—Same as " a I’Amiral," but garnished with fish quenelles, fried fish roes, prawns, and mushrooms, also fish potatoes; sauce nantua. — sauce aux Crevettes.—Boiled turbot with shrimp sauce. — sauce Homard.—Boiled turbot with lobster sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Boiled slices of turbot, dished, and sauced over with paprika or Hongroise sauce, and browned in oven, garnished with Parisian potatoes. — sauce aux Huitres.—Boiled turbot with oyster sauce. — ^ la Proven§ale.—Small whole turbot (or thick slices) cooked in veloute sauce, white wine, white stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni ; dished up with a rich white herb sauce, flavoured with anchovy essence, chopped parsley, and capers. — sauce aux ceufs.—Boiled turbot with egg sauce.J^^