176 THE MENU BOOK. Tournedos de Boeuf h la Mercedes.—Broiled or sauteed tournedos coated with artichoke puree and mushroom heads ; demi-glace or madere sauce. — a la Meridionale.—Grilled, garnished with sorrel, stuffed tomatoes, green peas, and cepes ; plain gravy. — a la Mikado.—Grilled and garnished with half a stuffed and baked tomato on each tournedo ; sauce madere. — a la Mireille.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons of brioche paste ; garnished with asparagus points ; sauce tomate. — a la Monaco.—Grilled tournedos dressed on bread croutons spread with foie-gras farce; garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tongue ; demi- glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Grilled tournedos placed on rice croutons ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus points ; plain gravy. — a la Monte Carlo.—Garnished with shce of foie-gras and truffle on top of each, and dish surrounded with fried shces of sweetbread and fried calf’s brain ; sauce madere. — ^ la Mozart.—Sauteed in butter, with a slice of tongue and small poached egg on top of each, surmounted with a thin slice of truffle ; sauce Colbert. — a la Nelson.—Par-fried tournedos, finished in casserole, with braised button onions, demi-glace or madere sauce, and dice of fried potatoes. — ^ la Nesselrode.—Garnished with chestnut puree, potato chips, sauced round with demi-glace. — a la Nigoise.—Sauteed beef fillets dressed on croutons; garnished with small French beans and small tossed tomatoes ; sauce demi-glace. — a la d’Orsay.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with stoned olives, mushrooms, and chateau potatoes ; sauce madere. — a la Othello.—Poached or fried egg on each grilled or broiled tournedo, with perigueux sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Broiled, with a garnish of asparagus points, noisette potatoes, and bearnaise sauce. — a la Pi6montaise.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with small timbales of rice mixed with chopped truffles, with mushroom head on each ; sauce demi-glace. — Polonaise.—Sauteed in butter, with little chopped onion, coated with reduced demi-glace flavoured with grated horseradish, and glazed under salamander. — ^ la Pompadour.—Grilled tournedos spread with tomato puree, with a slice of fried ham and a slice of truffle on top of each ; clear gravy.