156 THE MENU BOOK. Garniture h. la Orientate (for Poultry or Meat).—Savoury rice timbales and potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — a la Portugaise (for Meat).—Small tomatoes stuffed with duxelle puree, and chateau potatoes ; tomato sauce. — a la Proven^ale (for Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and fried aubergines, French beans, and new potatoes ranged in groups; gravy. — a la Providence (for Poultry or Meat).—Sliced mush- rooms and truffles, olives and slices of foie-gras; Madeira or demi-glace sauce. — a la Rachel (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with braised beef marrow, mixed with chopped parsley ; bordelaise sauce. — a la Radziwyl (for Fish).—Soft roe, truffles, mush- rooms, French gherkins, and crayfish quenelles; Genevoise sauce. — a la Reforme (for Meat).—Julienne strips of truffles, carrots, hard-boiled white of egg and tongue ; gravy or demi-glace. — a la Regence (for Fish).—Fish quenelles, oysters, truffles, mushrooms, and soft roe ; Normande sauce. — a la Regence (for Meat or Poultry).—Chicken quenelles, truffles, foie-gras, mushrooms, and cocks’ kernels ; allemande sauce. — a la Renaissance (for Fish or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with macedoine of vegetables, also small cauliflower buds coated with Hollandaise sauce. — a la Riche (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with green peas, and coated with choron sauce, and decorated'with truffles. — a la Richelieu (*for Poultry or Meat).—Braised stuffed mushrooms, braised cabbage-lettuces, and artichoke bottoms filled with chicken puree, also chateau potatoes ; demi-glace. — a la Romanoff (for Meat).—Stuffed and braised cubes of cucumbers, and potato croustades filled with salpicon of celeriac and mushrooms; demi-glace. — a la St. Mande (for Meat).—Baked potatoes filled with green peas and asparagus points. — a la Sarde (for Meat).—Rice croquettes flavoured with saffron and Parmesan cheese, also stufied tomatoes or cucumbers ; tomato sauce. — a la Savoisienne (for Meat).—Braised cucumbers, noisette potatoes, and artichoke bottoms; demi- glace sauce. — a la Saxonne (for Poultry or Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and braised cucumbers ; demi-glace sauce.