THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 261 Cardons—Cardoons, Gardens a la Bourgeoise.—Blanched cardoon, cooked in stock with onions and ham, and finished in lemon- flavoured butter sauce. — a la Cr6me.—Parboiled and stewed in rich stock ; served with cream sauce. — a TEspagnole.—Boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce (espagnole). — Frits.—Cooked cut in 2-inch lengths, dipped in batter, and fried in hot fat. — au Jus.—Parboiled, cooked in rich gravy, and served with gravy. — a la Moelle.—Parboiled, braised in demi-glace sauce ; garnished with slices of beef-marrow. — a la Nivernaise.—Blanched and braised white, sauced with veloute, and garnished with young carrots. — a la Veloute.—Stewed white ; dressed on croutons of bread, and served with veloute sauce. Caro ties—Carro ts. Garottes k I’Andalouse.—Braised young carrots, finished in rich port-wine sauce. — a la Bdchamel.—Boiled young carrots with white sauce. — k la Bourgeoise.—Parboiled, and stewed in white stock, thickened with flour and butter. — ^ la Grdme.—Turned, parboiled, and cooked in white sauce enriched with cream and butter. — ^ I’Espagnole.—Parboiled, stewed in stock and espag- nole sauce, seasoned with sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter. — farcies.—Young carrots hollowed out and stuffed with green pea puree, mixed with egg-yolks, and braised in butter and gravy. — ^ la Flamande.—Turned carrots (small), cooked and tossed in butter, bechamel liaison, chopped parsley. — au jus.—Young carrots cooked in stock and served with rich gravy. — a la Lilloise.—Cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season, finished in bechamel sauce, egg-yolks, cream, and chopped parsley. — i la Maitre d’Hdtel.—Parboiled (pared and cut in quarters), cooked in white stock, thickened with veloute sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar, and chopped parsley ; garnished with fried-bread croutons — a la Marianne.—Carrots cut into julienne strips, tossed in butter with stock, and maitre d’hotel butter, mixed with strips of cepes.