299 SALADES—SALADS. Salade Eva.—Artichoke bottoms cut in dice, cooked asparagus points, sliced mushrooms, and ham cut in strips ; dressed with remoulade sauce. — Flamande (Flemish).—Composed of fillets of Dutch herrings, apples, beetroot, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, seakale, and cauliflower, cut up neatly, seasoned with plain salad dressing. — Florida.—Lettuce salad, with slices of pumpkin, seasoned with oil and vinegar, and savoury herbs. — a la Frangaise (French).—Cabbage lettuce mixed with finely chopped salad herbs, and dressed with a mixture composed of two parts of olive oil, one of French wine, vinegar, salt, pepper, and French mustard ; garnish of slices of beetroot and hard- boiled eggs is optional. — Frangillon.—Olive-shaped cooked potatoes, oysters, and slices of truffles, seasoned with oil,vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. — de Fruits.—Fruit salad, dressed with syrup, liqueur or wine. — Gallati.—Blanched mushrooms, diced and tossed in butter, mixed while hot with cooked asparagus tips, French dressing, and a little French mustard. — Galloise (Welsh).—Blanched leeks cut in rounds, with lettuce leaves, and celery, oil and vinegar dressing, and beetroot border round it. — Georgette.—Cucumber, beetroot cut into fine strips, mixed with boiled rice, seasoned with mayonnaise, and filled in heart of artichoke; garnished with truffles. — a la Grimod.—Consists of cabbage lettuce, cooked French beans, beetroot, and slices of cold game ranged on slices of toasted bread, previously dipped in sweet oil; garnished with groups of whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot or chervil; seasoned with plain salad dressing. — Henriette.—Sprigs of cooked cold cauliflower, fine shreds of cooked carrots, turnips, French beans, and truffles, seasoned with French dressing. — d’hiver (Winter).—Endive, celery, beetroot, horse- radish, and boiled potatoes; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. ^ a la Humbert.—Composed of sliced peeled tomatoes, slices of pimiento, dressed with olive oil, tarragon vinegar, and usual seasoning ; garnished with border of watercresses. — Italienne (Italian).—Prepared with various kinds of smoked meats or salami sausage (shredded), cooked vegetables, tunny fish, anchovies, olives, and capers; seasoned with tartare sauce.