THE MENU BOOK. 230 Cailles a la M6dicis.—Boned and stuffed, braised, dressed on game farce border, with ragout of foie-gras, macaroni, and truffle in centre of dish. — a la Mirepoix.—Marinaded in white or red wine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, and juniper berries, etc. ; then braised ; sauce marinade. — au Nid.—Halves of boned quails, tossed in butter, and cooked “ en casserole ” with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce; served in nest-like border of shredded artichoke bottoms. — a POrientale.—Braised, served in casserole, with rice, blended with chopped pimientos ; rich gravy. — a la P^rigueux.—Braised ; brown sauce with truffles. — a la Piemontaise.—Braised whole, dressed in cooked rice, mixed with tossed chicken liver, foie-gras, and truffles, in casserole, and finished in oven ; sent to table in same pan as cooked in. — en Pilaff.—Like pilaw, stuffed and braised, cut up, and served with small rice timbales or risotto border; game sauce. — en Polenta.—Stewed in brown sauce, dressed in polenta border. (Polenta is Italian oatmeal.) — aux Raisins.—Cooked in cocotte pans and finished in white wine with green grapes ; gravy. — a la R6gence.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, and braised ; garnished with financiere ; truffle sauce. — en Surprise.—Ball-shaped galantines of quails ; when cooked and cold masked with aspic and rolled in chopped truffles ; dressed in pyramid form on aspic border. Cdtelettes de, ^ PAumale.—Boned quails, shaped in cutlets and spread with snipe farce poached, julienne cut strips of truffles and champignons as garnish ; Demi-glace sauce. — en caisses.—Stuffed and braised quails, cut in slices, and dressed in cutlet souffle cases, slice of truffle on top ; game flavoured demi-glace. Croffstades de, d, la Champenoise.—Braised halves of quails, stuffed with game forcemeat, chopped mush- rooms and liver, dressed on fried-bread croutons, glazed, and served with demi-glace sauce. Pouding de, ^ PAnglaise.—Quail pudding, mould lined with suet crust, filled with quails, slices of beef, seasoned, and then boiled or steamed. Souffld de cailles a la Mar^chale.—Boned quails, stuffed with veal and liver farce, and braised, cut in slices, and placed in dariole moulds, lined with chicken farce and poached ; dressed round a pyramid of savoury rice ; garnished with asparagus points and broad beans ; sauce madere.