119 THE FISH COURSE. Queue de Saumon aux huitres.—Braised tail-piece of salmon with stewed oysters. Tranchettes de Saumon en Belle Vue (cold).—Small sandwich-shaped moulds of salmon set in aspic and mayonnaise cream. Soles—Soles, Sole frite a TAnglaise.—Fried sole with anchovy sauce or melted butter. Soles d’Aumale.—Soles poached in white wine, garnished with oysters and truffles, sauced over and browned under salamander. — a rAfrieaine.—Grilled sole, garnished with fried bananas and slices of lemon, served with sauce Diable, mixed with chutney and tomato pulp. — a la Alaska.—Poached whole; half sauced with white wine sauce, and the other half with pink shrimp sauce ; garnished with oysters and Noisette potatoes. — a la Argenteuil.—Sole, whole or fillets, poached in white wine, sauced with white sauce, then glazed and garnished with asparagus points. — a la Bedford.—Grilled soles garnished with croustades half filled with mushroom and truffle, and other half with spinach ; sauce mornay — a la Bercy.—Skinned soles, cooked in oven, with butter, shallots, white wine, mushroom liquor, and chopped parsley ; coated with bercy sauce. — a la Bignon.—Steamed sole, with white wine sauce, blended with tomato puree a la Portugaise. — a la Bonne Femme.—Poached on mirepoix of fresh mushrooms, shallots, parsley, white wine, and fish stock ; fish veloute sauce. — a la Bosaniaque.—Steamed sole, seasoned with paprika and white wine ; garnished with julienne of carrots, celery, and mushrooms cooked in fish stock ; sauce au vin blanc. — a la Breteuil.—Poached in white wine with carrot slices, small button onions, and finished with white wine sauce ; garnished with fried or grilled oysters and fried-bread croutons. — a la Bretonne.—The same as “ Vin Blanc,” but coated with Bretonne sauce. — bouillie.—Boiled sole. — la Castillene.—Baked sole, with normande sauce, garnished with champignons, lobster dice, and glazed potato balls. — ^ la Colbert.—Fried sole with centre bone removed, stuffed with fine herb or parsley butter.