LIGHT ENTRIES. 165 Petites caisses de Champignons farcis.—Stuffed mushrooms in cases. — de Foie-gras aux truffes.—Goose liver truffled in cases. — ^ la Henri IV.—Chicken souffle mixture baked in cases, with mushroom head on top of each, — de Moelle.—Braised marrow fat in cases. — Pates aux Huitres.—Small oyster patties. — aux Alouettes.—Small lark patties. — aux Cailles.—Small quail patties. — a la Joinville.—Small patties filled with lobster, chicken and truffle. Petits Pains or Petits Souffles are made with certain kinds of preparation forcemeat, which are placed in suitable small buttered moulds, and poached in the oven ; usually served with rich white or brown sauces. Pains are made in plain and darioles in fluted moulds. Petits Pains de Cailles.—Small souffle darioles with quail farced with forcemeat; served with truffle sauce. — de Foie-gras.—Small goose liver and truffle timbales ; served with madere sauce. — de Jambon.—Small ham souffles (dariole shaped). — Souffles de Poisson en caisses.—Small fish souffles in china or paper cases. — de Volaille a la Creme.—Chicken cream souffles baked in china or paper cases. Pilau or Pillaw a I’lndienne.—Braised, boned, and stuffed fowl, cut into small slices, dressed with minced fried onions, mangoes, on small rice shapes ; curry sauce. Pilau a la Turque.—Minced chicken and ham with savoury rice, seasoned with savoury herbs and sherry wine. JRissoles are small half-moon shapes of short crust or puff-paste, filled with prepared minced fish, meat or game, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, dripping or lard ; they are usually garnished with fresh or fried parsley. Rissoles a la Russe (Russian Rissoles).—Filling ; salpicon of minced chicken, tongue, ham, and mushrooms. — a la Moelle de Boeuf.—Rissoles of beef-marrow. — de B^casse aux trulles.—Snipe rissoles with truffles. — ^ la Chasseur.—Venison or other game meat rissoles. — de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver rissoles. — de Gibier.—Game rissoles. — a la Hollandaise.—Oyster and truffle rissoles.