THE ENTREE COURSE {POULET). 221 Poulet brais6 a I’Estragon.—Larded, stuffed, and braised ; served with a rice brown sauce flavoured with tarragon. — brais6s aux Fines Herbes.—Braised, served with brown sauce, flavoured with chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, cress, and white wine. — a la Bordelaise.—Sauteed in butter, with chopped shal- lots, finished in claret sauce and sliced mushrooms; garnished with potato croquettes and fleurons. — ^ la Cettoise.—Jointed, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter; served with tomato sauce and garnished witli stuffed olives. — ^ la Cardinal.—Breast bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and boiled ; garnished with small quen- elles and slices of truffles ; served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, tomato essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. — a la Carbme.—Breast and wings flattened and cut into round shapes, braised and pressed, finished in madere sauce, and dressed on border of potato puree (baked); centre filled with julienne of truffle, mushroom, and tongue; bearnaise sauce on each medallion, and madere sauce round base of dish. — en Casserole.—Browned in butter, with or without mirepoix, stewed or braised in an earthenware fireproof stewpan, in brown sauce; sent to table in same pan. — a la Catalane.—Saute of chicken, ranged in earthen- ware casserole, with layers of rice, bouquet, etc., and finished in oven. — ^ la C6cil.—Breast and wings, larded with strips of tongue and truffles, braised white, dressed in border of potato puree (browned in oven) upon a foie-gras farce ; sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Chanut.—Saute of chicken (tossed in butter with garlic and shallot flavouring), white wine, demi- glace, and sliced tomatoes, dressed on croutons of bread; garnished with sauteed mushrooms, new potatoes (fried), and green peas, liquor reduced and strained over. — a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed (fillets larded with strips of truffles, braised and glazed), garnished with mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and small fried chicken croquettes. — a la Chivry. — Braised ; garnished with rings of Spanish onions, filled with onion puree, chives, and chopped tarragon, sauced over with a rich herb sauce. — en Cocotte or en Casserole.—Small fat chicken braised whole in a fire-proof casserole ; garnished with slice of ham, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms ; demi- glace sauce.