SWEET ENTREMETS. 319 P§ches Bardalouse.—Open puff-paste tart (flan) filled with vanilla custard with halves of peaches ranged on top ; masked with apricot marmalade, besprinkled with crushed macaroons and browned in oven. — h la Cardinal.—Halves of peaches, studded with almond strips, and stewed in raspberry syrup, dressed on genoise border ; served hot or cold. — d la Colbert.—See Abricots, and proceed the same. — h I’Enfer or a la Diable.—Cassolettes of nougat, with half peach in each, with kirsch poured over, and served burning. — flamb^es.—The same as “ k I’Enfer ” or " k la Diable,” with addition of jam in centre of peaches. — a la Greque (Cold).—Whole peaches, stoned and filled with fig puree, dressed on genoise, and coated with vanilla flavoured whipped cream. — a la Maintenon.—Genoise cake foundation, coated with almond custard, halves of peaches ranged as border, with fruit macedoine in centre; meringued over and browned ; served hot or cold with kirsch syrup. — a la Mariette.—Halves of large peaches poached in vanilla syrup, then filled with thick custard mixed with whisked eggs, and baked. — a la Melba (Iced).—Halves of peaches cooked in vanilla syrup, filled with vanilla cream ice, and dressed in pyramidal form, sauced over with raspberry puree, and sprinkled with chopped almonds or pistachios. — i la Montreuil.—Halves of peaches stewed in maras- chino syrup, dressed in centre of a semolina border served hot or cold. — 4 la Montrose (Cold).—Halves of fresh peaches poached lightly in kirsch syrup, skimmed and iced, filled with strawberry cream ice, and ranged in genoise croutes ; garnished with whipped cream, glace cherries or strawberries, and angelica. — ^ la Ninette (Cold).—Small brandied peaches, dressed on macaroons soaked in maraschino, sauced over with vanilla custard. — k rOrientale (Iced).—Halves of peaches, stewed in syrup, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, drained and cooled, filled with raspberry ice, and dressed on shapes of vanilla cream ice. — ^ la Pi6montaise.—Halves of peaches filled with almond paste (marzipan), dressed on croutons of genoise, and then cooked in oven ; served hot with syrup. — ^ la Richelieu (Hot).—Peaches stoned and filled with whipped cream, mixed with crushed almond rock or nougat; coated with meringue and browned ; served on genoise croutes.