THE MENU BOOK. 150 Sauce Verjus.—Espagnole sauce with mashed, unripe green grapes, cooked in stock, reduced with sherry and finished with fresh butter ; served with roast duck or pork. — Vernet.—Bechamel sauce with finely-chopped herbs, tarragon, and chervil, also shredded gherkin, truffle, and champignons. — Veron.—Bearnaise sauce, blended with veloute and anchovy essence. — Verte.—Green herb sauce (same as “ Verte-pre ”). — Verte-pr6 (Green Herb).—Composed of puree of cooked spinach, blanched parsley, chives, and tarragon, worked up with whipped cream or butter, and mixed with ravigote sauce. — Victoria.—Supreme sauce, enriched with lobster butter and champignon essence. — Viennoise.—Poivrade (pepper sauce), blended with lemon and orange juice, reduced and finished with cream. — Villageoise.—Allemande or veloute sauce, enriched with meat glaze or chicken essence. — Villeroi.—Veloute or bechamel, with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, enriched with egg-yolks and fresh butter. — Vinaigrette.—Composed of salad oil, vinegar, chopped shallots, parsley, chervil, and gherkins, seasoned with pepper and salt; served cold with calf’s head, seakale, asparagus, etc. — Vin-blanc.—Bechamel or veloute, flavoured with white wine, lemon juice, and fish essence. — Vincent.—Mayonnaise mixed with green herb puree (tarragon, chervil, chives, and parsley). — Vin-rouge (claret sauce).—Red wine, reduced in mireopix, thickened with espagnole sauce, flavoured with anchovy essence. — York, d* (Yorkshire).—Demi-glace sauce, fine shreds of orange rind, red currant jelly, port wine, orange juice, and a little ground cinnamon ; served with boiled ham, roast or pickled pork. — Yorkshire.—Orange shreds, reduced in port wine and orange juice, thickened with espagnole, seasoned with cinnamon and cayenne. — Zingara.—Espagnole or demi-glace or game sauce, blended with tomato puree, mixed with finely-shredded truffle and smoked ox-tongue. — Zouave.—Demi-glace with tomato sauce, blended, reduced with chili vinegar, flavoured with garlic, tarragon, and mustard.