141 SA UCES. Sauce Gribiche.—Mayonnaise mixed with mustard and finely chopped herbs, and hard white of egg. — Hach6e.—Espagnole and tomato sauce with shallot and vinegar reduction. — Hachis.—Brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms, capers, and gherkins. — Havroise.—White wine sauce reduced with liquor of mussels. — Hessoise.—Cold horseradish sauce made with sour cream, grated horseradish, and fresh breadcrumbs, seasoned with sugar and salt ; served with roast beef or steaks. — Hollandaise (Dutch).—A rich fish sauce prepared with butter, yolks of eggs, tarragon vinegar, lemon juice, and mignonette pepper. — Hollandaise verte.—Hollandaise sauce mixed with parsley leaves, blanched and pounded. — Holstein.—Bechamel sauce reduced with fish stock and white wine, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with nutmeg. — Homard (Lobster).—Bechamel, with chopped lobster meat, finished with lobster butter. — Hongroise (Hungarian).—Veloute or allemande sauce mixed with sour cream ; highly seasoned with paprika. — Horly .—A supreme (rich white) sauce blended with tomato puree, meat extract or glaze, and butter. — Horseradish (Raifort).—Cold cream sauce with grated horseradish, mustard, and vinegar, or hot white sauce blended with grated horseradish and mustard. — Huitres (Oyster).—Bechamel, ^yith oysters, bearded and cut in four, egg-yolks and lemon juice. — Hure de Sanglier (Boar’s Head).—A cold sauce pre- pared with bitter orange juice and finely-chopped rind, sugar, red-currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. A useful stock sauce. — Hussarde.—Espagnole sauce and veal stock reduced, mixed with onion and tomato purees, flavoured with grated horseradish. — Imp^ratrice.—Allemande or veloute sauce enriched with chicken and truffle essence, finished with cream. — Indienne (Indian).—A brown sauce flavoured with curry powder or paste. — Italienne (Italian).—Espagnole sauce blended with tomato puree, chopped mushrooms, white wine, and chopped shallots fried in oil; seasoned with pepper, lemon juice, and nutmeg. — Ivoire.—Rich white sauce with chicken essence and cream finish.