THE MENU BOOK. 312 Charlotte aux fraises (Cold).—Like Russian charlotte,” but filled with strawberry cream made from fresh fruit. — glac6e de poires a rimp6riale (Cold).—Charlotte shape, lined with ice wafers and filled with frozen pear- flavoured cream, mixed with maraschino jelly ; shape surrounded with small cooked pears, interior filled with cream ice or whipped cream, decorated with angelica, etc. — de groseilles vertes (Cold).—Gooseberry charlotte. — a rimp6riale (Hot).—Charlotte shape made of genoise cake, filled with apricot pulp flavoured with rum, the whole coated with meringue, and baked. — ^ la Javanaise (Cold).—Mould lined with biscuits, iced with chocolate and lemon icing, filled with vanilla cream custard. — aux macarons (Cold).—Macaroon charlotte. — aux marrons (Hot).—Chestnut charlotte. — de melons (Cold).—Melon charlotte. — a la Medicis (Iced charlotte).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with white chocolate ice-cream, and set to freeze ; garnished with glace chestnuts and fruits. — a la Montreuil (Cold).—Same as ” Charlotte Russe,” with slices of ripe peaches mixed with cream. — ^ la Moscovite (Cold).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with vanilla cream custard, mixed with chopped fruit. — a la Normande (Hot).—Mould lined with thin slices of bread, dipped in butter, filled with apple and apricot purees, and baked. — a I’Orientale.—Mould lined with finger biscuits and filled with pistachio cream, mixed with chopped pineapple. — ^ la Parisienne (Cold).—Light genoise cake hollowed out and filled with chocolate and vanilla cream, masked with chocolate icing, and decorated with whipped cream. — aux pistaches (Cold).—Like ” Russian charlotte,” but cream is mixed with chopped pistachios. — Plombiere (Cold).—Charlotte shape lined with finger biscuits, centre filled with vanilla ice, mixed with almonds, whipped cream, crystallised fruits, and kirsch flavour, and set to freeze ; served. — de poires (Hot).—Pear charlotte. — Polonaise (Hot).—An apple charlotte flavoured with apricot marmalade. — de pommes (Hot).—Apple charlotte. {See Note.)