193 MEAT ENTRJ^ES [LAMB). cStelettes d^Agneau—Lamb Cutlets, {See also Mutton Cutlets.) Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Constance.—Breaded and fried with financiere ragout as garnish. — aux Concombres.—Broiled or grilled with slightly fried cucumbers. — a la Gussy.—Breaded and fried ; served v/ith veloute sauce, mixed with chopped cooked ox-tongue and mushrooms. — ^ la Duchesse.—Braised, masked with duxelle puree, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dished up on a border of green peas puree ; served with sauce supreme. — aux epinards.—Grilled or fried; garnished with spinach. — a la Jardiniere.—Breaded and fried ; served with stewed spring vegetables. — a la Longuet.—Partially cooked, pressed, and coated with villeroi sauce mixed with mushroom and soubise puree, then egged and crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with mushroom heads ; sauce demi-glace. — ^ la Maltaise.—Breaded and fried ; served with well- reduced sauce, composed of veloute sauce, sherry, lemon and orange juice, and finely shredded orange peel. — ^ la Mar^chal.—Egged and cheese crumbed, fried, with bigarade sauce. — ^ la Minute.—Plain grilled or fried ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — en papillotes.—Par-broiled, wrapped in oiled paper with ends twisted, baked in the oven, and served with demi-glace sauce. — aux petits pois.—Broiled ; garnished with green peas. — a la Princesse.—Par-fried, pressed, coated with chicken farce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg ; when set, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dressed round a puree of green peas or asparagus. — a la Robert.—Breaded and fried ; served with brown onion sauce. — ^ la Royale.—Grilled, dressed en couronne, with foie-gras puree and tomato pulp (mousse) in centre ; garnished with pommes soufflees ; sauce madere. — a la Sainte-Men6hould.—Stuffed from the sides with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley ; braised in the oven and served with Italian sauce. — a la Singarat.—Grilled or broiled ; served with finely shredded ox-tongue and onion puree. N