213 THE ENTREE course {GOOSE). Dinde a la St. James.—Stuffed with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, and roasted ; served with brown sauce. Small shapes of cranberry jelly are served separately. — frite a la Tomate.—Cold boned turkey, cut into pieces* seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat! served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Toulouse.—Boiled, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushrooms, sliced sweetbreads, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs, and forcemeat quenelles heated in allemande or veloute sauce. — a la Yorkshire.—Boned turkey, stuffed with forcemeat and slices of cooked York ham, braised or boiled ; garnished with groups of vegetable macedoine and served with ham sauce. Dindonneau saut6 aux Champignons.—Young turkey, sauteed, stewed in brown sauce, with sliced mushrooms. — brais6 au Mad^re.—Braised, finished in Madeira sauce- Oie—Goose, {See also Dinde—Turkey.) Note.—In such cases where the bird is cooked whole, the dish may be served as Remove (Releve). Oie a TAllemande.—Braised goose, centre breast bone removed, and filled with gratin farce and apple puree, then barded with bacon; served with sauerkraut (choucroute). — a I’Alsacienne.—Filled with sausage meat stuffing, braised, and served with slices of cooked bacon and sauerkraut (choucroute). — a I’Anglaise.—Roast, stuffed with sage and onion filling, and roasted ; served with apple sauce (separ- ately) and gravy or brown sauce. — saut^e a la Bourgeoise.—Broiled and stewed with green peas, braised carrots, and button onions. — aux Chataignes.—Stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and braised ; served with apple sauce (separately). — Chipolata.—Roast or braised, dished up with chipolata garnishing {see Dinde X la Chipolata) ; served with apple sauce. — en Civet.—A brown goose stew, prepared like jugged hare. — Dauphinoise.—Stuffed with chestnut puree and chopped and braised shallot; served with brown sauce blended with orange juice and shredded orange rind.