THE MENU BOOK. 224 Poulet a la Paschaline.—Braised, sprinkled with chopped mushrooms, sauced over with a rich veloute sauce, and garnished with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffe_d with veal forcemeat, and fried. — poel§ aux Groseilles vertes.—Stewed in the oven in earthenware casserole; brown sauce with green gooseberries. — a la Polenta.—Braised white, finished in white wine and tomato sauce, garnished with small timbales of maize or polenta. — a la Pondich6ry.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce, mixed with apple puree, the juice and rind of a mandarin orange finely chopped ; served in a border of cooked savoury rice. — a la Proven^ale.—Stewed with braised onions, sliced tomatoes, mushrooms, and madere sauce. — a la Reine.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, garnished with chicken quenelles, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and fried-bread croutons. — a la Richemont.—Cooked in white or brown sauce with finely cut strips of carrots and truffles. — a la Romaine.—Braised, finished in tomato sauce reduced with marsala ; garnished with sliced truffles, braised lettuce, and macaroni timbales. — a la St. Cloud.—Braised white or boiled ; breast larded with truffles and ox-tongue, and barded ; served with supreme sauce mixed with finely chopped truffles. — a la St. Lambert.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. — a la Stanley.—A delicate fricassee of chicken with rich supreme sauce ; garnished with fine shreds of truffle and ham or tongue. Supreme de Volaille a TAmbassadrice.—Poached chicken fillets with supreme sauce, lamb’s-bread slices, larded, with truffles and groups of asparagus points. — ^ TAlbuf^ra.—Heart-shaped chicken fillets, coated with mousseline farce, and poached in butter ; garnished with paste crust tartlets filled with small quenelles, truffle, and champignons ; sauce Albufera. — a la Belle-Helene.—Heart-shaped fillets sauteed in butter, dressed on similar shaped croquettes of chicken, garnished with asparagus points and truffle slices ; rich gravy. — a la Chartres.—Heart-shaped fillets poached in cream, coated with tarragon puree, flavoured and sauteed in butter ; rich gravy, with tarragon flavour. Supreme de Volaille ^ la Jeanette.—Braised chicken fillets (white) ; when cold coated with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic; decorated with tarragon leaves.