288 THE MENU BOOK. (Eufs Victoria. — Fried eggs, with slices of lobster and truffles ; lobster sauce in centre. — Viennoise.—Scrambled eggs, with chopped ham, sour cream, and paprika pepper seasoning. — VoI-au-Vent d’ceufs.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in neat rounds, heated up in bechamel sauce, and filled into vol-au-vent crust (puff-pastry case). — ^ la Waldimir.—Eggs (new) placed in fireproof buttered dish, covered with chopped truffles and asparagus points, seasoned, strewn with grated parmesan cheese, slightly baked in oven, and sent to table with supreme sauce poured round edge of dish. — ^ la Waldorf.—Poached eggs, dressed on croutons with foie - gras layer ; truffle sauce round base of dish. — Walenska.—Similar to “ Viennoise,” but with tomato and lobster sauce added to eggs. — a la Victor Hugo.—Poached eggs on croutons ; sauced over with bearnaise, grated horseradish and truffles as garniture. — York.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with ham and truffle farce, egged and breaded and fried ; madeira or truffle sauce. — ^ rYvette.—Scrambled eggs, with crayfish tails, gar- nished with asparagus tips ; sauce nantua. — a la Zingara.—Poached eggs on toast or croutons, decorated wdth chopped ham ; tomato or madere sauce. — penguine ^ la Carola (Cold).—Hard-boiled penguin eggs, cut up and mixed with plain boiled rice, lobster, bechamel, curry sauce, and mayonnaise; dressed as mayonnaise, with sliced eggs on top ; garnished with pimiento, lobster, and lemon slices. Cotelettes aux ceufs (Egg Cutlets).—Minced hard-boiled eggs, prepared with grated cheese and herb seasoning, moistened with raw yolks and sauce, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried. Croquettes d’ceufs, durs.—Chopped hard-boiled eggs, made into salpicon with white sauce, raw egg-yolk, and anchovy essence to flavour, shaped into croquettes, egged and crumbed, and fried in fat. Pyramide d’oeufs h la Reforme.—Stuffed halves of hard- boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and truffles, sauced, and baked in a quick oven. Ragout d’oeufs d, la Franpaise. — Slices of hard-boiled eggs, with truffles and morels, stewed in red wine sauce.