THE MENU BOOK. 252 Musettes d’Agneau a la Fran^aise.—Boned shoulder of ► r<^lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, rolled and braised ^(usual mirepoix and white wine), dressed on a bed of ? mashed potatoes ; garnished with small potato balls, stuffed tomatoes, dice of ham, tossed in butter, and mushrooms ; sauce demi-glace, served separate. Poitrine d*Agneau farcie a la Soubise.—Stuffed breast of lamb, braised, with onion puree. Quartier d’Agneau a la Flamande.—Roast fore or hind quarter of lamb, garnished with braised turnips and small stuffed spring cabbages. Selle d*Agneau a la Bretonne.—Roast saddle of lamb with puree of haricot beans ; demi-glace. Selle de Mouton—Saddle of Mutton, Selle de Mouton h la Castillane.—Roast saddle of mutton ; garnished with stuffed tomatoes, aubergines, pimientos, fried bananas, and duchesse potatoes ; sauce Demi- glace. — a la St. Germain.—Roasted, sauced with bechamel, breaded, and browned in oven; garnished with grilled aubergines, tomatoes, and mushrooms ; gravy. — ^ la Jardiniere.—Garnished with spring vegetables ; gravy. — Milanaise.—With macaroni and tomato puree ; tomato or demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Selle de Pr§-Sal6 Belle Alliance.—Roast saddle of prime mutton ; garnished with potato puree, braised lettuce, and stuffed tomatoes ; served with gravy. — a la Tosca.—Roasted, sliced, and replaced with layers of savoury macaroni under slices, and soubise puree between, coated with bechamel and soubise, breaded, and browned in oven ; demi-glace. Cochon or I*ore—Pork, Carr6 de pore brais6.—Braised neck of pork. Cochon de Lait roti (Roast Sucking Pig).—Sucking pig roasted on spit or in the oven, basted with olive oil or beer (the latter is the custom in Germany and Switzerland); serve with ravigote or other suitable sauce. — brais6.—Braised sucking pig. — a la Broche.—Sucking pig roasted on the spit. — farci.—Stuffed and roasted sucking pig. Gigot de Pore ^ la Hongroise (Braised Leg of Pork, Hun- garian style).—Boned, rolled, and braised, with sauerkraut; garnished with the latter and with small potato croquettes.