SAVOURY EGG DISHES. 287 (Eufs a la pur6e de marrons.—Poached eggs with puree of chestnuts. — a la pur6e de Navets.—Poached eggs with mashed turnips. — ^ la pur6e d’Oseilles.—Poached eggs with sorrel puree. — a la Romaine.—Small egg souffles, seasoned with grated cheese and cayenne, baked in patty-pans. — a la Rossini.—Eggs baked “ au gratin,” dressed in a border of saute of chicken liver and truffles, sauced over with perigord sauce. — a la Salamandre.—Hard-boiled white of egg cut in dice, cooked in parsley and egg sauce, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes, and browned with a hot salamander. — au Soleil.—Poached or fried eggs, trimmed, placed between rounds of thinly cut ham, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. — a la Soubise.—Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, heated in bechamel, dressed with onion puree in centre. — souffles a la Reine.—Small tartlet moulds lined with chicken souffle mixture, with poached egg in centre of each, covered with chicken farce, and finished in oven ; garnished with truffles. — a la Souveraine.—Soft-boiled eggs, shelled, and placed in crov/n-shaped ham mousses ; served with light Italian sauce. — a la Toupinal.—Poached eggs placed in halves of potatoes, baked or roasted. — Tourangelle.—Moulded eggs in dariole shapes, lined with flageolet puree, coated with hollandaise sauce. — ^ la Tripe.—Hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut in strips, stewed in white sauce. — a la Touraine.—Poached eggs dressed in artichoke bottoms, sauced over with hollandaise. — Turbigo.—Fried eggs (sur plat), garnished with slices of broiled ham, smoked sausage and tomatoes. — Turque.—Same as “ Turbigo,” but garnished with sauteed chicken liver ; tomato sauce. — Vatel.—Cassolettes partly filled with salpicon of sweetbread, tomatoes, and truffles, with small poached egg on top of each ; coated with cream sauce, and glazed in oven. — Verdi.—Poached or moulded eggs, garnished with truffles (sliced or chopped), dressed on toast, and sauced over with truffle sauce. — Vert-pr6.—Scrambled eggs dressed in cases containing lettuce puree, top coated with veloutc sauce, with chopped herbs.