Ill THE FISH COURSE. Liang ouste—Crawfish^ (May also be prepared as Lobster, which see.) Escalopes de Langouste a la Cardinale.—Oval croquet shapes of crawfish or lobster, dished up in row, with a small poached egg coated with cardinal sauce in centre of each, decorated with a prawn at each end of croquet, and stars of truffle. Limande aux Eperlans.—Boiled dab or flounder garnished with fried smelts. — a la Janin.—Braised fillets of flounders rolled and stufled with fish forcemeat, garnished with truffles, oysters cut in halves, and crayfish or prawn tails in centre of dish, sauced over with espagnole, enriched with fish essence and white wine. — en souchet.—Boiled flounders with julienne vegetables cooked in fish stock, served with some of the liquor. Maquereau—Mackerel. Maquereau a I’Anglaise.—Mackerel boiled in salted water and served with fennel or parsley sauce. — a la Boulognoise.—Boned and stuffed mackerel, baked ; served with Genoise sauce. — a la Boulonnaise.—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. — bouilli, sauce capres.—Boiled mackerel and caper sauce. — a Teau de sel.—Mackerel cooked in salted water and garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — a la Flamande.—Broiled mackerel with Flemish sauce. — ^ la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled mackerel with parsley butter. — au persil.—Boiled mackerel and parsley sauce. Fillets de Maquereau a la Bonnefoy.—Dipped in flour and fried in butter, served with Bordelaise sauce, and garnished with small kidney potatoes. — a la Dieppoise.—Same as “ Bonnefoy,’' but served with Dieppoise sauce and garniture. — au gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. — grill6s.—Grilled mackerel fillets, served with parsley or anchovy butter. — it I’Indienne (Fillets of Mackerel, Indian style).— Braised fillets of mackerel, served with curry sauce, reduced with white wine. — a I’Orientale.—Fillets of mackerel, baked in butter and herbs, tomato and saffron-flavoured sauce. — a la Printani^re.—Herring fillets poached in salt water, and skinned, sauced with cream or butter sauce, and garnished with potatoes and green peas.