THE MENU BOOK. 194 Cdtelettes d’Agneau aux truffes.— Grilled or broiled; served with truffle sauce. — a la Villeroi.—Broiled or grilled and pressed, dipped in veloute sauce, rolled in crushed vermicelli, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Ris d’Agneau (Lamb’s breads).—These can be treated in the same way as calf’s sweetbreads {see Ris de Veau). Lamb’s breads are also largely used as garnish for all kinds of entrees. Cotelettes de Moiiton—Mutton Cutlets, {See also Lamb Cutlets). Cotelettes de Mouton k TAvignonnaise.—Boiled or grilled, dressed in a circle on a baking dish, masked with veloute sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven. — a la Baden-Baden.—Broiled in butter, garnished with small turned young turnips, glazed button onions and fondante potatoes ; sauce soubise, with chopped truffle. — ^ la Bardoux.—Breaded, and broiled in butter ; served with green peas mixed with chopped fried ham. — a la BouchSre.—Breaded and fried mutton cutlets ; served plain or with gravy. — a la Byron.—Par-broiled, pressed, immersed in brown sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dished up in a circle, with stewed kidneys in centre. — a la Chasseur.—Broiled, served with brown sauce containing finely chopped mushrooms. — a la Chatelaine.—Grilled mutton cutlets served round a bed of soubise puree, surrounded by artichoke bottoms filled with petits pois (green peas) au beurre, and a slice of truffle on top ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Choiseuil.—Spread over with veal forcemeat, mixed with chopped herbs and mushrooms, wrapped in pig’s or lamb’s caul, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh breadcrumbs, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la Clamart.—Breaded, fried, dished up in a circle with puree of green peas in centre; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Dreux.—Breaded and fried ; garnished v/ith minced fried bacon, tongue, and gherkins ; dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. — ^ la Finan?iere.—Larded, cooked in butter, sliced onion, carrot, and bay-leaf; dressed in crown shapes, with financiere ragout in centre. — a la Fran^aise.—Breaded and fried in butter ; gar- nished with macedoine of vegetables ; sauce madere.