MEAT ENTR^:ES {BEEF). 169 Chateaubriand h la Bdarnaise.—Double fillet, basted with sweet oil and broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. — a la Chlpolata.—Grilled double fillet; garnished with braised chestnuts, fried pieces of sausages, and mush- room heads ; tomato sauce. — a la Clerln.—Grilled double fillet k point, sliced truffles fried in butter, and cooked in madere sauce ; garnish : pommes allemande, and rondelles of foie-gras dipped in flour and fried in butter (grouped). — a la Cordon Rouge.—Double fillet, basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely-chopped ham and fresh breadcrumbs, and grilled or broiled ; garnished with sliced truffles, brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Grecque.—Grilled ; garnished with fried egg-plants (aubergines); madere sauce with chopped parsley. — ^ la Hotellere.—Grilled ; sauced over with supreme sauce and a few drops of dissolved meat glaze. — a la Lombardle.—Grilled double fillet; garnished with stuffed, baked tomatoes ; madere sauce. — a la Marquise.—Double fillet broiled or grilled in butter, garnished - with artichoke bottoms, filled with small stuffed lettuce. — a la Marseillaise.—Broiled or grilled ; surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and small pieces of fried calf’s feet; bordelaise sauce. — a la Rosny.—Grilled or broiled in butter ; served with fried slices of cucumber and poivrade sauce. — ^ la V6ron.—Stuffed from the side with chopped blanched beef-marrow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil, and grilled ; served with eschalot sauce. — Vert-Pr6.—Grilled double fillets, glazed, and round of green herb butter on top of each; garnished with straw potatoes and watercress ; sauce demi-glace. Beef Steak a la Bardoux.—Rump steaks cut rather thin, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in a mixture of fresh breadcrumbs, chopped beef-marrow and parsley, salt and pepper, fried briskly, and served with brown herb sauce. — a la Brisse.—Steak shghtly marinaded and broiled ; served with richly spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small turnip timbales. — a la Godard.—Grilled steak ; garnished with sliced sweetbreads, mushroom heads, quarters of artichoke bottom, and truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Soyer.—Thickly cut rump steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, finely chopped chives, parsley, and seasoning, and broiled ; sauce fines herbes.