THE FISH COURSE. log Homard d rindienne.—Curried lobster in border of rice. — ^ la Newbury.—Lobster, sliced, poached in Madeira, with sherry, chopped parsley, etc., and finished in cream and egg-yolk liaison. — a la Suedoise (Lobster, Swedish fashion).—Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould, and sauced over with anchovy sauce. — a la Tourville.—Shces of lobster meat tossed in butter, and cooked with “ risotto,” dressed in shells and sauced with fish veloute. — d la Turque (Turkish).—Sliced lobster meat, cooked in mirepoix, flavoured with brandy and saffron ; dish garnished with small curried rice timbales. — d, la Vanderbilt.—Minced lobster meat with chopped truffles and mushrooms, blended with Nantua sauce, filled into shells, and browned in oven. Bordure de Homard d ITndienne.—Border of savoury lobster mixture, centre filled with rice, decorated with hard-boiled egg and truffle. Buissons de Homard (Bush of Lobsters).—Lobster dressed in a pyramidal form. Coquilles de Homard d la Gauloise.—Poached coquille shapes of lobster forcemeat, with lobster scallop in centre of each, served with cardinal sauce. — de Homard (Scalloped Lobster).—Stewed lobster served in shells. Cotelettes de Homard (Lobster Cutlets).—Mixture of lobster, shallots, bechamel sauce, mushrooms, and egg made into cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, fried, and served with tomato or other sauce. — de Homard a 1*Aspic.—Shces of lobster meat set in aspic, cutlet shapes. — d la Tomate.—Lobster cutlets with tomato sauce. Mayonnaise de Homard.—Pieces of lobster and salad masked with mayonnaise sauce, decorated with pieces of claws, hard-boiled egg, strips of fillet of anchovy, capers, beetroot, coral, stoned olives, and gherkins. Mousse de Homard frappee.—Iced lobster souffle, top decorated with lobster coral and paprika. Petites Dormes de Homard d la Crdme.—Lobster and tomato aspic set in square fluted moulds, dressed on squares of pastry. SoufH6 de Homard, sauce Aurora.—Steamed souffle, consisting of lobster, eggs, and bechamel sauce; served with Aurora sauce.