THE MENU BOOK. 274 Pommes de terre farcies.—Large kidney potatoes peeled’ hollowed out, and filled with any kind of forcemeat; baked in buttered saute-pan ; when done glazed with meat glaze. — Faubonne.—Thickly sliced, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with onion. — Flamande.—Peeled, cut in large dice shapes, tossed in butter, with finely chopped onion and parsley. — Fondantes.—Peeled, cut in quarters, parboiled, and cooked in fire-proof casserole, with butter, in oven. — Frisdes.—Curl or ribbon shapes, fried in clarified butter or other fat. — Garfield.—Peeled, cut into small dice, parboiled, and fried in clarified butter. — au gratin.—Sliced, parboiled, mixed with cream, seasoned, and dressed on buttered gratin dish, covered with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a few pieces of fresh butter ; browned in the oven. — gratinees.—Mashed potatoes mixed with grated cheese and butter, browned in the oven or under the salamander. — Georgette.—Kidney or egg-shaped potatoes, baked, scooped out, and filled with savoury minced chicken ; browned in oven. — Hanovrienne.—Peeled and sliced, stewed in white stock with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Hollandaise.—Plain boiled kidney potatoes, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon juice, or dressed with hollandaise sauce. — Hongroise.—Peeled, minced finely, cooked in stock and butter, seasoned with paprika and meat glaze. — Imperatrice.—Walnut shapes, parboiled, drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and broiled in butter. — Italienne.—Sliced, placed in layers in buttered and breaded mould with, alternately, slices of salami sausage, and white sauce mixed with cream, chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, chopped ham, and anchovy fillets; baked in the mould. — julienne.—Peeled, cut into very thin strips like matches, and fried a light brown colour in deep fat. — au lard.—Cold potatoes cut into dice shapes, mixed with dice shapes of bacon, seasoned, and fried in butter. — Lorette.—Potato puree mixed with choux paste, and shaped into small crescents or half-moons, fried in clarified butter.