167 LIGHT ENTRJ^ES. Mousselines a la Florentine.—Dariole or timbale shapes of ham mousse, ranged on a border or bed of spinach ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Ham quenelles, seasoned with paprika, sauced over with hongroise sauce ; garniture of cauliflower cassolettes. SouiH§ de Jambon a la Gastronome.—Souffle of ham, mixed with cepes, morelles or sliced large mushrooms ; steamed, covered with chopped truffles, with a whole truffle on top ; sauce madere. — ^ la Milanaise.—Ham souffle, centre filled with salpicon of cooked macaroni, cubes of ham, tongue, truffles, and champignons ; garnished with cheese-flavoured macaroni cut short ; sauce tomate. Souffles de langue en coeotte.—Baked ox-tongue souffles, filled in cocotte pans, with salpicon of cooked sweet- bread, asparagus tips, and peas in centre. Tartelettes ^ la Romaine.—Small tartlet crusts filled with a dehcately seasoned ragout of cooked spaghetti, shredded ham, and mushrooms, finished with grated cheese and tomato sauce. — de Homard a la Roscofl.—Salpicon of lobster meat (cut into small squares) moistened with supreme sauce and tomato puree, and filled in small tartlet crusts. Timbales and Darioles,—The word “timbale” means a cup, bowl or beaker, but in cookery it is applied to certain kinds of light fish, meat or game souffles, cooked in cup or timbale-shaped moulds, either baked or poached. The moulds are frequently lined with a thin paste, nouille, or short crust, or with cooked macaroni. Timbale a la Badoise.—Paste-lined timbale shape filled with ragout of sweetbread, truffles, champignons, and nouille paste. — de Cailles.—Quail timbale. — a la Conde.—Similar to “ Badoise timbale,” but omitting the nouille paste ; served hot with maddre sauce. — a la Cussy.—Chicken farce-lined timbale, with layers of foie-gras, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, moist- ened with madere sauce ; may also be made with paste crust lining and filled as above. — a la Diane.—Timbale mould lined with game farce, and filled with small game quenelles, truffles, cham- pignons and game fillets ; garnished also with latter, and served with sauce Diane.