MEAT SAVOURIES. 347 Z6phyrs de Homard ^ la Russe (Cold).—Lobster puree, blended with tomato pulp and aspic ; set in bouche cups, dressed on rice shapes, and garnished with hard white of egg and truffle slices, or strips ; served with thin slices of buttered brown bread. Meat Savouries, Beignets de gibier h la Diable.—Devilled game fritters. — de jambon.—Ham fritters. — a la Pr6sidence.—Savoury pancakes, spread over with puree of beef-marrow, mushrooms, and truffles, rolled and cut in portions, then skewered and coated with batter, and fried. Brochettes de foie de volaille.—Chicken livers and bacon shces tossed in butter, and fastened on little skewers crumbed and broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. Canapes ^ TArlequin.—Buttered toast, decorated with strips of chopped tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, arranged in lattice-work fashion. — ^ la Cocqueri.—A puree of chicken and ham and butter, spread on toasted or fried bread slices, covered with plenty of grated cheese, browned under salamander, and garnished with gherkins, capers, and beetroot. — ^ la Diane.—Chicken Uvers rolled in bacon and grilled ; then served on toast, like “ Angels on Horseback." — ^ la Reforme.—Squares or oblongs of toasted bread, spread with herb butter ; garnished the same as for ‘‘ Arlequin," but arranged in different design. Croutons de langue a la Diable.—Devilled ox-tongue on toast. — de jambon d> la Diable.—Devilled ham on toast. Diables d, chevale (Devils on Horseback).—Prunes stoned and filled with devilled almond chips, rolled in bacon and grilled. Foie de volaille d, la Diable.—Devilled chicken liver. Jambon ^ la Casino.—Slices of cooked ham, spread with chutney and mustard, sandwiched together and thus grilled. — aux tomates.—Grilled slices of raw ham, dressed with alternate slices of tomatoes tossed in butter served with piquant sauce. Langue de veau fum6e a la Diable.—Devilled smoked calf’s tongue. Mobile de bceuf aux fines herbes.—Beef-marrow savoury, with fine herbs dressed on toast.