135 SA UCES. Sauce Ancliois (Anchovy).—A fish sauce made with flour, butter, fish stock, milk, and anchovy essence. — Andalouse (cold).—Mayonnaise, blended with tomato pulp and mixed with finely cut red sweet peppers. — Aromate (Aromatic).—White sauce, blended richly with aromatic herb puree. — Aurore (Aurora).—Bechamel sauce, cream, red pepper, tarragon, and shallot, flavoured with lobster butter to give it a reddish tint. — Avignonnaise.—Bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, and chopped parsley, flavoured with shallots and garlic. — Ayola.—A mayonnaise flavoured with crushed garlic and lemon juice. — Ayoli, Aloli (cold).—Mayonnaise made with hard- boiled egg-yolks, flavoured with garlic, lemon juice, and cayenne. — B^rtarde Anglaise.—English melted butter sauce flavoured with lemon juice. — Bdrtarde (cold).—Bearnaise, flavoured with fish essence (stock), enriched with tomato puree and anchovy butter. — Bavaroise.—Hollandaise (Dutch) sauce, enriched with whipped cream and crayfish butter. — B6arnaise.—Consists of fresh butter, yolks of eggs, chopped shallots or onion, tarragon, parsley, a pinch of cayenne, and lemon juice. — Bearnaise Brune.—Same as “ Bearnaise,” with the addition of meat glaze to give it a brown colour. — B6arnaise-Tomate.—Same as ” Bearnaise,” adding tomato puree in place of meat glaze. — Beauharnais.—Bearnaise sauce, enriched with tarragon puree. — Bechamel (Foundation Sauce).—Made with milk or milk and stock, flour, and butter (white roux), flavoured with pepper, nutmeg, and bay-leaf. — Beefsteak.—A light brown sauce made of chopped onion, parsley, meat glaze, and butter, flavoured with sherry and lemon juice. — B6rcy.—Thin demi-glace with chopped shallots reduced in white wine, enriched with fresh butter, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. — Beurre (au).—Melted butter sauce. — Beurre Cr^meuse.—Creamed butter sauce ; beaten egg- yolks and butter stirred into boiling stock. — Beurre Noir (Black Butter).—A thin brown sauce made with nut-brown butter, flavoured with tarragon vinegar and anchovy essence.