THE MENU BOOK. 220 Medallions de Volaille h I’Orly.—Chicken fillets marinaded in oil, lemon juice, and herbs, coated in batter and fried in hot fat ; tomato sauce. — ^ la Reine.—Fillets in medallion shapes, pre-fried, and covered with chicken farce, mixed with lobster spawn, poached, dressed on socle, and sauced over with supreme; decorated with strips of truffles forming the initials M. R. — d la Romini.—Chicken fillets, sauteed in butter, with slices of foie-gras and truffle ; madere sauce. — ^ la Villeroi.—Poached, pressed, coated with Villeroi sauce, breaded, and fried in hot fat ; sauce perigord. Rosettes de Volaille Lamberty.—Chicken fillets poached white, dressed in china souffle cases, filled with white mushroom puree and foie-gras mousse, masked with chicken aspic cream, and decorated with truffles. Roulettes de Volaille a la Duchesse.—Thin rounds of poached choux paste, spread over with chicken farce and spinach puree, rolled up and cooked in butter, dressed in border of chicken souffle ; sauced over with supreme, tinted green with spinach. Poiilet—Chicken, {See also Light Entries and Cold Entries, p. 240.) Poulet de Grain.—Young fatted chicken. — a l’Alg6rienne.—Sauteed in butter, and finished in Italienne sauce, with triangular shaped artichoke bottoms. — ^ I’Arlequin.—Breast and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and served with financiere ragout. — d la B6rcy.—Braised whole in shallot-flavoured wine sauce and chopped parsley ; garnished with small pieces of sausage and mushroom heads. — a la Chevriot.—A fricassee of fowl with slight curry flavour, supreme sauce; dressed in rice border, button onions, cocks’ combs, champignon heads, and fleurons as garnish. — d la Demidoff.—Fricassee of chicken, with rich white sauce, garnished with groups of spring vegetables and mushroom heads. — en Cocotte.—Par-fried with dice-cut bacon and finished cooking in cocotte pan ; demi-glace sauce or gravy, Blanquette de Poulet en Demi-Deuil.—Fricasseed, garnished with sliced truffles and mushrooms. Poulet bouilli ^ I’Estragon.—Boiled, served with white sauce, flavoured with tarragon leaves.