THE MENU BOOK. 350 Gaufres au Parmesan.—Rough puff paste, with grated parmesan rolled in and folded, then rolled out thinly and stamped into rounds, fried in clarified butter, besprinkled with cheese, and served hot. Macaroni a la Calabraise.—Boiled macaroni, dressed in gratin dish with alternate layers of tomato puree, grated parmesan cheese, and white sauce ; browned in oven or under salamander. — a la creme.—Boiled macaroni with cream sauce. — au gratin.—Prepared macaroni, baked gratin style. — a ritalienne.—Macaroni with tomato and cheese. Note.—For other Macaroni dishes, see end of Vegetable Chapter (page 280). Noisettes au parmesan.—These are small ball shapes of choux paste, mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in deep fat. Nouilles ^ la Palermo.—Stewed noodles (nouilles), with grated cheese. Pailles au parmesan.—Cheese straws. Paillettes au parmesan.—Small cheese straws made from puff paste and grated cheese, fried in deep fat. Perles a la Gruyere.—Cheese choux paste, farced out in pea shapes into hot fat, and fried ; sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese and served hot. Petits Delices aux Gniokis.—Small baked tartlet crusts filled with very small gniokis; sauced over with Mornay and browned under salamander. Sablettes au Gruyere.—Parmesan cheese short crust; rolled out and spread with creamed gruyere cheese ; then cut in slices and baked. Souffles au fromage.—Cheese souffles. Tartelettes de macaroni.—Cooked macaroni tossed in butter and moistened with bechamel sauce, filled in baked tartlet crusts, covered with grated cheese, and baked, — Suisses au fromage.—Swiss cheese tartlets. Timbale de macaroni.—Savoury macaroni timbales. DESSERT. After the “ Bonnes-Bouches,” or Savouries, comes the Dessert, which includes cheese, followed by fruit—fresh fruit and dried fruit, glace or crystalhsed or candied— various Bon-bons, Petits fours, fancy biscuits, and some- times small fancy dessert ices. Nuts and biscuits should always be included as an essential part of the dessert.