THE MENU BOOK. II2 Fillets de Maquereau a la St. Jean.—Same as “ k TOrien- tale,” but served with ravigotte sauce. — au vin blanc.—Broiled mackerel fillets with white wine sauce. Marian— Whiting, (This fish can also be prepared the same as Sole, which see.) Marian ^irAmbassadriee.—Rolled fillets of whiting poached in white wine and butter, with oyster on each, and served with rich white sauce. — bouilli ^ I’Anglaise.—Boiled whiting with parsley sauce. — a la Boulangere.—Split open, dipped in flour and oil, and grilled, breaded, and browned ; served with parsley butter, and Noisette potatoes. — a la bonne femme.—Stewed whiting with bordelaise sauce. — frit.—Fried whiting. — frits a la Fran§aise (Fried Whiting, French style).— The fish is wiped and scored along the sides, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured, and fried in fat until crisp ; served with anchovy or shrimp sauce. — grilles.—Grilled whiting (split open, and spread with parsley or anchovy butter). — au gratin.—Baked whiting, gratin style. — a la Hoteliere.—Same as “ k la Boulangere,” but not breaded, and spread over with duxelle puree and sauce. — a ritalienne (Whiting, Italian style).—Baked or steamed whiting with brown mushroom sauce. — a la Verdi.—Fillets of whiting, poached in white wine, dressed, and coated with bearnaise sauce sprinkled over with julienne of truffles ; tomato sauce round base of dish. Filets de M6rlan a I’Andalouse.—Fillets of whiting, spread with fish farce, and rolled; baked on halves of tomatoes, and served with rissole as basis, and sliced tossed aubergines as garnish. — a la Comtesse (Fillets of Whiting, Countess style).— Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases, garnished with crayfish tails and small liver force- meat balls. — d, la Maitre d’Hotel (Hotel-keeper’s style).—Broiled fillets of whiting with parsley butter. — a la Judic.—Whiting fillets, dipped in frying batter, and fried in oil; served with tartare sauce. — la Juive.—Fillets of whiting soaked in oil and vinegar, coated with batter, and fried in deep fat, served with Joinville sauce.