284 THE MENU BOOK. (Eufs ^ la Carmelite.—Halves of hard-boiled efjfgs, stuffed with fried chopped shallots, parsley, sorrel, and yolks of eggs, and baked. — aux champignons.—Eggs stuffed with mushroom puree, and baked. — la Chipolata.—Cassolettes of bread, shaped to take form of eggs, fried, and filled with poached eggs ; garnished with braised button mushrooms, button onions, dice of ham, chestnuts, small fried sausages, and fried Parisian potatoes ; sauce madere. — ^ la Christen.—Elalves of tomatoes scooped out, lined with spinach, with poached egg on top of each; white wine sauce round dish. — la Colbert.—Small china souffle cases, lined with light chicken farce, and raw egg in each, seasoned, and poached in oven ; coated with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.—Poached eggs dressed on croutons of toasted or fried bread, sauced over with hollandaise and chopped truffles on top. — coque h la Cr6me de Volaille.—Egg shells filled with a light chicken cream, and poached in stock ; cut off top of shells, and garnish with a slice of truffle on each. — a la coque en surprise (Cold).—Fresh eggs are care- fully emptied, and refilled with scrambled egg mixture, blended, when cold, with mayonnaise ; dressed on a bed of crisp cresses. — ^ la Cosmopolite.—Poached eggs, trimmed, drained, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat; dressed “ crown shape,” with sliced truffles in centre ; demi- glace sauce. — a la cr6me.—Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and finished in rich bechamel or cream sauce. — a la Cr6ole.—Rounds of toasted and buttered bread spread with chicken cream, shghtly poached eggs placed on each, finished in oven ; pour bechamel sauce round base of dish. — ^ la Diable.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy paste, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and baked. — 4 la Grand.—Poached eggs on croutons with fillets of anchovy round each ; sauced over with hollandaise ; grilled bacon as garnish. — durs au gratin.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and ranged on buttered gratin dish, with layer of white sauce and grated cheese ; oiled butter on top, and browned in oven. — durs Italienne.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with anchovy paste and grated cheese ; served with bechamel sauce.