PANCAKES. 331 Omelette au confiture.—Jam omelette. — a la Cr6ole (Surprise).—Oval flat cake shape, with pineapple ice, coated quickly with meringue mixture, and coloured in sharp oven. — au four.—French pancakes baked in oven. — aux framboises.—Raspberry omelette. — a la Georges Sand.—Sweet omelettes farced with fruit salpicon, surface besprinkled with chestnut powder, and glazed. — aux abricots k la Jamaique.—Same as “ en Surprise,” with rum-flavoured cream ice in centre, meringued over and coloured in sharp oven. — meringu6e (Cold).—Omelette shape made out of meringue mixture, and baked ; when cold, filled with sweet pear or apple puree ; red-currant jelly poured round dish. — a la Noel.—Sweet omelettes farced with chopped hot plum pudding ; surface glazed, rum powder round, and hghted. — au rhum.—Rum omelette. — a la Stephanie.—The same as ” en Surprise,” with peach ice mixed with salpicon of peaches in centre. — sucr6e.—Plain sweet omelette, glaced with sugar. — surprise ^ ITrlandaise.—The same as ” Omelette surprise,” with a cornet of nougat inserted in the centre ; into this a glass of good rum is poured, and lighted the moment the dish is served. — surprise.—A vanilla souffle mixture spread quickly over a brick or oval-shaped vanilla case, and baked quickly in a sharp oven. Pancakes (Crepes or Pannequets). Crepes d TAfricaine.—Thinly fried pancakes, spread over with red-currant jelly, rolled up and glazed. — au Cacao.—Thinly baked pancakes spread over with cocoa or chocolate flavoured custard, and then rolled and glazed. — aux confitures.—Jam pancakes. — aux fraises.—Strawberry pancakes. — aux framboises.—Raspberry pancakes. — 4 la Georgette.—Pancakes spread over with chopped pineapple flavoured with maraschino, and rolled. — k lTmp6riale.—Lightly fried, thin pancakes, spread over with apricot marmalade, flavoured with maraschino, and mixed with chopped pineapple. — ^ la Mancelle.—Thin, fried pancakes, spread over with sweetened chestnut puree flavoured with maraschino, rolled up, dredged with sugar, and glazed.