I2I THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Sole k la Ambassade.—Filleted sole, cooked in fish stock and white wine in oven, coated with Mornay sauce, with tomato puree added. — d la Andalouse.—Rolled fillets of sole, farced with lobster puree, poached, and finished with brown butter ; served with tomato sauce, with addition of cream or bechamel. — en Aspic (cold).—Folded fillets of sole poached; when cold dressed in aspic-border shape, centre filled with seasoned salad. — aux aubergines.—Baked fillets of soles dressed with nut brown butter ; garnished with fried olive shapes of aubergine (egg-plant). — Bagatelle.—Poached fillets rolled, dressed alternately on heaps of shredded tomatoes and fresh mushrooms, sauced over with Mornay, grated cheese, and browned under salamander. — a la Belle H61ene.—Rolled fillets of sole, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor, dressed on nouille paste foundation, coated with bechamel sauce, breaded, and browned in oven. — Belles de Nuit.—Fillets of soles forced with fish farce and prawns; poached in white wine; garnished with mushroom heads, potato cubes, and tomatoes ; sauce normande. — a la Blanchaille.—Sole fillets cut into fine strips, to resemble whitebait, dipped in milk and flour, and fried in deep fat. — a la Boitel.—Fillets of soles folded and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed on dish and sauced over with white mushroom sauce ; baked. — a la Bovin.—Poached fillets of soles with rich cream sauce flavoured with fish essence ; garnished with potato balls and chopped parsley. — a la Cam61ia.—Fillets spread with fish farce and rolled up and poached ; dressed in small green artichokes (cooked) and hollowed out in centre and filled with hot tomato chutney ; sauce Vin-blanc. — a la Cancale.—Fillets of soles poached in fish liquor and oyster liquor ; dressed and garnished with poached oysters and mushrooms ; sauced over with maitre d’hotel sauce. — a la Cardinal.—Curled up or folded fillets of soles, poached in fish stock, coated with red sauce com- posed of tomato, lobster sauces, and anchovy essence ; garnished with prawns or crayfish. — a la Careme.—Braised fillets of soles, coated with rich white fish sauce, and garnished with lobster slices, soft roes, and fried oysters.