RELE Vl^S—REMO VES. 251 Langue de BcBUf ^ la Gendarme.—Braised, with maddre sauce, garnished with small veal quenelles, mushroom heads, and gherkins. — a ritalienne.—Braised, garnished with artichokes and spaghetti a la Tomato. — a la Napolitaine.—Braised, garnished with macaroni, mixed with tomato and cheese ; Demi-glace sauce. — a la Palermo.—Boiled and cooked in blonde sauce flavoured with white wine ; orange-lemon rind. — a la Polonaise.—Boiled and braised, with brown sauce, garnished with groups of cooked cauliflower sprigs, coated with oiled butter and fried breadcrumbs. — a la Sarde.—Braised, with tomato sauce and garnished with small rice croquettes (saffron flavour), and halves of stuffed tomatoes. — a la Soutere.—Same as “ Sarde,” but finished in maddre sauce and garnished with white onion puree mixed with chopped truffle. — a la Suisse.—Braised with brown sauce, garnished with nouilles. Note.—For other styles of serving Tongue see ” Garnitures.” Agneau et JUouton Behague or Pre-Sale—Bamh or Mutton, Epaule d’Agneau brais^e.—Braised shoulder of lamb. — brais6e aux Truffes.—Boned, rolled, stuffed with truffles and forcemeat, braised ; demi-glace sauce. — roulee aux Petits Pois.—Rolled shoulder of lamb, braised with green peas. Gigot de Mouton—Leg of Mutton. Gigot de Mouton bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled ; garnished with boiled young carrots, turnips, sprigs of cauli- flower, French beans, and brussels sprouts ; caper sauce. — en Chevreuil.—Boned leg of mutton, marinaded for three days in wine vinegar and herbs, etc. (marinade), then roasted, and served with poivrade (pepper) sauce. — d. la Metternich.—Boned, braised, sliced, and dished up, then masked with bechamel sauce, parmesan, and paprika, and browned in oven; garnished with timbales of savoury rice; gravy. — a la Nesselrode.—Roast, served with stewed chestnuts (whole), sliced mushrooms, and truffles. — brais6 a la Soubise.—Braised leg of mutton with onion puree (soubise). — brais6 a la Turque.—Braised ; garnished with stuffed cucumbers.