SAVOURY EGG DISHES. 283 (Eufs en banquettes.—Little fancy moulds of paste crust, filled with chopped hard-boiled egg, mushrooms, parsley, grated cheese, and white sauce ; browned in sharp oven. — durs k la Belloy.—Hard-boiled eggs, cut in halves, yolks removed, and whites filled with salpicon of truffle and lobster and stiff mayonnaise ; dress eggs on crohtons, and garnish with anchovy butter (creamed). — au beurre nolr.—Poached or fried eggs, with nut- brown butter. — ^ la Bonnefoy.—Cold scrambled eggs blended with goose-liver puree, dressed on brown bread croutons and strewn with chopped truffles. — a la Bolognaise.—Fried eggs dressed on a bed of spinach, cooked in branches ; garnished with shces of Bologna sausages ; sauce madere. — a la bonne Femme.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, stuffed with minced chicken, ham, and beetroot; served cold. — brouille aux pointes d’asperges.—Scrambled eggs with asparagus points ; stir seasoned eggs with butter, cream, and asparagus points over fire till set, dress on toasted bread, and put a teaspoonful of veloute sauce on centre of each. — brouilles aux champignons.—Scrambled eggs, with minced preserved mushrooms. — brouill6s aux fines herbes.—Scrambled eggs, mixed with finely chopped parsley, chervil, and chives ; served with fried-bread crofftons. — brouilles d. rindlenne.—Scrambled eggs, seasoned with curry powder and cayenne pepper. — brouilles ^ ritalienne (Scrambled Eggs, Italian style).— Scrambled eggs placed in centre of risotto border, i.e.^ cooked savoury rice mixed with fried chicken livers ; tomato sauce round base of dish. — brouilles au jambon.—Scrambled eggs, with finely shredded or minced ham. — brouilles Lyonnaise.—Scrambled eggs, with fried onions. — brouilles aux trufies.—Scrambled eggs, with chopped or shredded truffles. — ^ la mode de Caen.—Slices of hard-boiled eggs, cooked in a rich white cream sauce, with slice of Spanish onion. — en caisses.—Eggs baked in paper cases. — a la Cardinal.—Poached eggs on rounds of pimiento placed on artichoke bottom; sauce Tomate.