THE MENU BOOK. 130 Trulte k la Helvetia.—Fillets of trout rolled round farce cubes or quenelles and poached, sauced with bechamel enriched with lobster butter. Star of truffle on top of each fillet. — ^ la Hoteli^re.—Baked trout in butter, with duxelle puree, and maitre d’hotel butter, and lemon garnish. — ^ la Juive.—Breaded whole or fillets of trout fried in oil and served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled trout with parsley butter. — d la Malvoisie (cold).—Boiled trout masked with aspic mayonnaise ; garnished with cucumber balls ; served with mayonnaise flavoured with cucumber puree. — ^ la Mantone.—Boned trout stuffed with truffle farce, braised on herb and mushroom mirepoix, and served with sauce Italienne. — Marin§e (cold).—Soused or pickled trout, masked with half-set savoury jelly (aspic). — a la Meuni^re.—Braised trout served with brown butter (beurre noisette), breadcrumbs, and chopped parsley. — ^ la Montgolfier.—River trout, boned and stuffed with whiting farce mixed with chopped truffles, poached in oven {fumet de poisson), dressed with garnish of lobster cut in dice, and mushroom heads ; sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce). — i la Nansen (cold).—Cold trout masked with finely- cut vegetable, brunoise, and aspic, dressed on a shape of aspic; garnished with small tomato-flavoured timbales and cucumber ; served* with frozen horse- radish sauce and semi-set aspic mixed with brunoise. — aux petits pels.—Broiled trout with green peas. — ^ la Royale.—Braised trout, with white wine sauce, garnished with small fish quenelles, champignons, truffles, and glazed croutons. — saumon^e bouillie.—Boiled salmon trout. — saumonde ^ la Norv6gienne (cold).—Boiled salmon- trout dressed on rice socle, masked with mayonnaise and aspic ; garnished with tarragon and chervil leaves, cucumber rind and slices, and chilli ; served with cold horseradish sauce. — saumon6e h la Rothschild (cold).—Baked stuffed salmon trout masked cold with mad^re sauce (chaud- froid), decorated with truffles, blocks of set aspic, cucumber, lemon, and parsley. — d la Vaucluse.—Same as " Meuniere,” using Provence oil in place of butter. — ^ la Vinaigrette (cold).—Cold boiled trout, served with vinegar and oil dressing, chopped gherkins, capers, and parsley.