123 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Sole a I’Elizabeth.—Rolled fillets of sole, farced with lobster puree, baked, and placed on small arti- choke bottoms, sauced with bechamel, coated with cheese, and browned before serving. — a la Elva.—Fillets of sole folded, poached in white wine, sauced over with shrimp sauce flavoured with vegetable julienne. — a la Fecampoise.—Poached fillets of sole, garnished with mussels, and served with shrimp sauce. — a la Florentine.—Fillets of soles dressed on and coated with a light spinach puree, enriched with cream, and flavoured with grated cheese ; baked in oven. — a la Grand Due.—Fillets of soles poached in mushroom liquor, etc. ; dressed with alternate slices of truffles and prawn tails, masked with mornay sauce, sprinkled with cheese, etc., and browned ; garnished with asparagus points. — a la St. Georges.—Cornet shapes of rolled fillets of sole, poached, and filled with salpicon of shrimps, lobster, and cream sauce ; placed in halves of baked potatoes, coated with bercy sauce, and browned in oven. — a la St. Germain.—Rolled and crumbed fillets of soles fried in butter, dressed on slices of lemon, with stiff bearnaise sauce forced on top of each ; garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Gourmet.—Rolled fillets with shredded truffles in centre of each, poached in fish stock, dressed on square fried-bread croutons filled with fresh mush- room ragout; sauce au Vin-blanc ; garnished with chopped tomatoes, parsley, and truffle. — a rindienne.—Fried fillets of soles stuffed with lobster puree ; garnished with shreds of piccalilli, gherkins, and mushrooms, curry or madeira sauce; served with boiled rice. — a la Jackson.—Fillets of sole, poached in white wine, sauced over with soubise, and garnished with fleurons. — ^ la Joinville.—Rolled fillets of soles, dressed with truffles, prawns, crawfish, smelts, and small fish quenelles. — la Leopold.—Baked fillets of sole, sauced over v/ith truffle sauce, blended with shrimp puree. — a la Lilloix.—Fillets of sole, folded and poached in white wine and white sauce, garnished with fried mussels. — a la Louis XV.—Lobster shells filled with fillets of sole, covered with lobster puree and white sauce, garnished with truffle slices.