THE MENU BOOK. 88 Consomme S6vign6.—A clear soup with small chicken quenelles. — Solferino.—Clear soup with carrots^ turnips, and potatoes, cut out with a small round vegetable scoop, termed in French d, la cuilUre. — Souveraine.—Chicken consomme, garnished with dice- shaped vegetables and small chicken quenelles. — St. Georges.—Clear soup made from hare stock, flavoured with claret, garnished with hare quenelles, champignons, and truffles. — St. Saens.—Chicken consomme, garnished with fine pearl barley and small dice of black-skinned potatoes, known as pommes de terra negresse. — Stschy (Russian).—Clear soup made from duck and beef, flavoured with beetroot juice, and garnished with small fried button onions. — Talma.—A rich clear soup, garnished with almond- flavoured custard cut into cubes or diamonds, and rice. — Tapioca (Tapioca Soup).—A clear soup with tapioca. — Tchy de Soldat (Russian).—A clear soup made with duck and veal stock, garnished with vegetables cut into small strips, and dice shapes of duck fillets. — Tivoli.—Clear soup with coarse-grained semolina and small ravioles. — Tortue.—Clear real turtle soup. — Tortue Fausse.—Clear mock turtle soup. — Tosca.—Clear soup, garnished with fried profiterolles, pea-shaped carrots, and truffle. — Toscane.—Clear soup, garnished with sliced tomato, fried aubergine, and macaroni. — Trianon.—Clear soup with dice shape of cucumber and chicken fillets, and strips of tomato and chervil. — Vatel.—Clear soup with small chicken quenelles (red), truffle filling, also finely cut tarragon and chervil. — Veneur.—A rich, clear soup, garnished with finely- shredded lettuce hearts, celery, and truffles. — Vermicelles.—Clear soup with vermicelli. — Vert-Pr6.—Clear soup, thickened with tapioca, and garnished with asparagus points and green peas. — Victor Emanuel.—Clear soup with short pieces of spaghetti (macaroni), strips of tomatoes, and royal custard ; served with grated cheese. — Victoria.—Chicken consomme, garnished with julienne, strips of truffle, chicken fillets, and royal custard. — Viennoise.—Clear soup with profiterolles stuffed with cheese, cream, and paprika.