297 SALADES—SALADS. Salade a rAllemande (German).—Sliced new cold potatoes, mixed with sliced beetroot, smoked herring fillets, and gherkins. — Americaine (American).—SUced tomatoes, cold new potatoes, celery heart, and capsicum or chilli pods seasoned with mayonnaise. — de betterave k rAmericaine.—Finely shredded white leaves of cow cabbage, mixed with pickled chilli pods ; seasoned with mayonnaise sauce. — Angelo.—Cooked cold salsify, with sliced cucumber, blended with mayonnaise, with border of sliced tomatoes round it. — de Bananes.—Banana salad, sliced bananas, dressed with salt, pepper, sugar, and white wine. — Barcelona.—Aspic-coated timbale, filled with julienne cut truffles ; bananas, apple, tomatoes, and celery, mixed with mayonnaise and aspic ; garnished with small sections of orange “ a la Vinaigrette.” — Bagration.—Composed of julienne cut celery and arti- choke bottoms, marinaded in vinegar, white wine and olive oil; then mixed with finely cut cooked chicken and cooked macaroni (warm), mixed with mayonnaise ; top garnished with star shape of truffle, egg-yolk, and tongue. — Beaucaire.—Celery or celeriac shredded finely, with strips of ham and mushrooms and cold potatoes, mixed with mayonnaise and fine herbs, with border of sliced beetroot round it — Beige (Belgian).—Consists of Belgian endive mixed with French salad dressing ; garnished with Spanish pimientos. — Brissane.—Cooked French beans, raw tomatoes, and cooked artichoke bottoms, all cut in julienne strips dressed with oil and vinegar. — Carolina.—Composed of sliced bananas, apples, lettuce hearts, celery, and beetroot, dressed with lemon juice, olive oil, tarragon, and hard-boiled yolk of egg. — Cazanova (Cazanova Salad).—Consists of white celery, truffles, and hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into fine strips; seasoned with mayonnaise, finely chopped salad herbs, and shallots. — Chasseur.—Cooked chicken fillets, cold potatoes, tomatoes, celery, beetroot, and sour apples, all cut in thick julienne ; dressed with tartare sauce. — de chou-rouge.—Salad made with pickled red cabbage ; garnished with hard-boiled white of egg, etc. — Clauzel.—Chicory and celery cut in strips, dressed with mayonnaise containing chopped tarragon and chervil.