DINNER. 31 DINNER—LE DINER. The word “ dinner ” {diner, /.) is supposed to be a corruption of dix heures, indicating the hour at which in the days of Norman rule this meal was taken. In a book published in 1512, entitled the Household Book, it is stated that the family rose at six, breakfasted at seven, dined at ten, supped at four, and closed the gates at nine p.m. • Dinner with all classes forms the principal meal of the day. The middle and working classes take it at mid-day, whilst the better classes and fashionable society partake of it between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. The aristocracy have always dined later in the day than the other classes. The number of courses of a dinner depends on the circumstances of the host and hostess, but the courses have increased with time and fashion, whilst the number of dishes served have decreased ; that is to say, instead of serving two soups, two or three fish, and as many entrees, not more than one, or at the most two, are now placed on modern menus. One must not overlook the fact that the greater the variety of dishes introduced in a menu, the greater must be the waste. The present tendency is for shorter meals—that is, fewer dishes than formerly ; but the maxim is, " Let there be choice of excellent quality, well-cooked, and daintily served.” The gastronomic world of this country owes a debt of gratitude to H.M. the late King Edward as regards dinners, for he has expressed a wish that at the houses where he dines dinners should be quickly served, and never last more than an hour. Hence short dinners have now become the rule as v/ell as the fashion. This has a great significance, for the all-important fact that the dishes selected for a recherchS dinner shall gain in quality what they lose in quantity. A short resum& of the various courses that constitute a ” full-course dinner ” is given, under the respective headings, in order to explain the correct service, suit- ability, and character of the various di.shes belonging to each course.