73 HORS D’CEUVRE—APPETISERS. Escargots aux fines herbes.—Snails, with fine herb butter. Frivolit6s Boh6mienne.—This name is applied to any five or more varieties of cold hors-d’oeuvre dishes, without any specific rule. Homard a la Careme.—Lobster dressed Careme style. Hors-d*CEuvre Su6doise.—Cold roast veal or chicken, herring fillets (smoked), cold potatoes, and beetroot, ' all cut up into small fillets or dice, seasoned with French dressing and decorated with chopped hard- boiled egg, etc. Jambon sur Canapes.—Ham on fried-bread croutons. Laitance de Cabillaud fum6 sur Canapes.—Smoked or pickled tunny fish on toast. Langue de Bceuf sur Canapes.—Ox-tongue, finely shredded or in puree form, on toasted or fried-bread slices. Lax fum6 aux Concombres.—Salad made of thin slices of smoked salmon and thin slices of cucumber, neatly dressed on small glass dishes. Nids a la Chartres.—Little nest shaped bread croutes filled with foie-gras puree, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. CEufs farcis a la Russe.—Stuffed eggs, Russian style. — a la Suedoise.—Small hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, filled with green herb butter and egg-yolk ; prettily decorated and served on glass dishes. Olives.—Both French and Spanish olives are used as hors-d’oeuvre, but for dressed hors-d’oeuvre the latter are best suited on account of their size. — a I’Alsacienne.—Large Spanish olives stuffed with foie-gras and ham puree ; dressed on croutons. — d, FAnchois.—Spanish olives stuffed with anchovy cream, and curled round with anchovy fillets, dished on bed of small salad. — a la Madras.—Spanish olives stuffed with anchovy and chutney puree, dressed on croutons. — a la Reine.—Large Spanish olives, farced with a puree of anchovy, gherkins, and hard-boiled egg ; dressed on croutons. — ^ la Tartare.—Stoned Spanish olives filled with tartare sauce, stiffened with aspic, and glazed with savoury jelly. Palmiers d’Ecrevisses.—Small oval-shaped paste crusts filled with picked shrimps and mayonnaise dressing (cream), finished with chopped parsley and lobster coral. pate d’Ecrevisses sur Canapes.—Potted crayfish spread on small fingers of toasted bread.