SA UCES. 145 Sauce CEuis (Egg).—A white sauce or hollandaise sauce with hard-boiled eggs finely chopped. — Oignon (Onion).—A white sauce, with minced and blanched onions, seasoned -with nutmeg, salt, and pepper; served with rabbit or mutton. Brown onion sauce is made by frying the onions first, mixed with espagnole. — Olives.—A brown sauce, with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with lemon juice; served with ducks, fowls, and beef. — Orange.—Reduced gravy sauce, mixed with orange juice and finely-shredded orange rind ; served with roast duck or game. — Orleans.—Fish veloute sauce, reduced with white wine, finished with crayfish butter. — Orly.—Espagnole sauce, reduced with mushroom liquor and tomato puree. — Oseille (Sorrel).—Gravy or demi-glace sauce, with finely-chopped blanched sorrel leaves ; served with fish, veal, or fowls, etc. — Ours (Bear).—Poivrade sauce reduced with braise liquor, finished with butter. — Oxford.—A cold game sauce, same as Cumberland, with addition of finely-grated orange-rind. — Oyster.—White sauce with quartered oysters. — Pain (Bread).—Milk thickened with fresh bread- crumbs, cooked with a small onion stuck with a clove ; finished with a little butter, and seasoned with salt and pepper ; served with roast poultry and some game. — Paloise.—Bearnaise or Hollandaise sauce with an infusion of green mint. — Paprika.—Veloute or allemande sauce highly seasoned with paprika and red Hungarian pepper. — Parisienne.—A rich brown sauce, with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon juice, and meat glaze, worked up a little with fresh butter; served with entrecotes, steaks or fillets of beef. — Paul Bort.—White wine sauce, blended with tomato puree and Bearnaise sauce. — Pauvre Homme (Poor Man).—A brown sauce, blended with tomato ketchup, vinegar, and anchovy sauce ; suitable as a fish sauce. — Perigueux (Perigord).—Madere sauce with finely chopped truffles, enriched with meat glaze. — Persil (Parsley).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, with finely-chopped parsley. — Persillade.—A kind of vinaigrette sauce, prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped savoury herbs ; served cold with fish, vegetables, or salad. K