276 THE MENU BOOK. Pommes de terre au parmesan.—Sliced, stewed in stock or white sauce, with grated parmesan cheese. — Parmentier.—Cut in large dice shapes, blanched and cooked in casserole, with butter and chopped parsley. — Paysanne.—Thickly sliced, stewed in beef broth flavoured with lettuce, bacon, and fried onions; demi-glace sauce. — persill^es.—Peeled, cut into marble shapes, parboiled, and broiled in butter; sprinkled with chopped parsley. — de poisson.—Peeled and neatly shaped, boiled in salt water, drained, melted butter poured over ; served with, or as a garnish for, fish. — Pont neuf.—Long cube or finger shapes, fried crisp in deep fat. Pur6e de pommes de terre.—Mashed potatoes. — a la Jackson.—Mashed, mixed and garnished with anchovy fillets. — h, la creme.—Mashed with cream. Quenelles de pommes de terre.—Small potato dumplings poached in salt water, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs. Pommes de terre d la Reitz.—Peeled, cut into small thin strips, and fried crisp in butter. — rissolees.—Small ball or other shapes, parboiled, drained, and broiled in butter. — en robe de chambre.—Boiled or baked in their jackets. — a la Robert.—Peeled, sliced, and stewed in a sharp brown sauce, with chives and parsley. — Rosette.—Rich potato puree, piped like roses, egged, and baked. — roties au four.—Baked potatoes (done in the oven). — Rouennaise.—Mashed as for croquettes, shaped like olives, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat. — Roxelane.—Tartlet or cassolette crusts filled with rich potato puree, chopped truffle on top, and baked. — San Remo.—Small potato dumplings seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, dipped in melted butter and chopped parsley, then in grated parmesan cheese ; when set, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — saut^es.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into slices, seasoned, and tossed in butter. — saut6es a la Lyonnaise.—Same as saute potatoes, mixed with finely chopped fried onions. — Savoyarde.—Peeled, sliced thinly, mixed in layers, with butter and grated cheese, baked in the oven.