175 MEAT ENTREES {BEEF). Tournedos de Boeuf h la Colbert.—Fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter, dished up in circle, centre of dish filled with small rounds of fried potatoes ; eschalot sauce, reduced with sherry wine. — a la Drexel.—Grilled fillets dressed on fried-bread croutons coated with bearnaise sauce, border of each fillet garnished with tomato puree, slice of truffle in centre, and dish surrounded with straw potatoes (pommes pailles). — a la Dumas.—Grilled, coated with soubise sauce, and glazed with cheese; garnished with heart-shaped shces of tongue, and potato croquettes. — h I’Elys^e.—Shce of braised sweetbread and mushroom head on each grilled tournedo, with a border of bearnaise sauce. — a I’Empereur.—Broiled in butter, dressed on fried- bread croutons, with half a grilled tomato and a small piece of grilled marrow on each ; garnished with asparagus points and noisette potatoes ; sauce perigueux. — ^ la Favorite.—Grilled, dressed on croutons, with slice of foie-gras ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points ; sauce madere. — a la Gabrielle.—Sauteed, dressed on rounds of puff- pastry of similar size, covered with light chicken puree ; garnished with truffles, green peas, and straw potatoes ; sauces bearnaise and demi-glace. — a la Grand Hotel.—Grilled, dressed on croutons of rice of same size, slices of foie-gras and asparagus points; sauce madere — a la Helder.—Broiled or sauteed in butter, dressed on fried-bread croutons ; with bearnaise sauce as border of each tournedo, and tomato puree in centre; surrounded with noisette potatoes. — ^ la Khedive.—Sauteed tournedos, dressed on slices of foie-gras of same shape ; garniture, tossed tomatoes in butter, asparagus points, champignon heads; sauces, madere and horseradish cream. — a la MacMahon.—Grilled tournedos, garnished with slices of truffles, flageolets, and chateau potatoes ; sauce madere. — ^ la Magenta.—Sauteed in butter, with slices of truffle on top, garnished with small potato croquettes, tomato flavoured ; bearnaise sauce. — ^ la Majestic.—Grilled fillets, dressed on a puree of fresh mushrooms," in a baked potato border ; sauce bearnaise. — a la Menagere.—Tournedos,fgrilled and dressed on a border of duchesse potato (puree), centre filled with braised carrots and turnips (olive shape), button onions and noisette potatoes ; sauce demi-glace.