THE MENU BOOK. 272 Pommes de terre d I’Ardennaise.—Peeled kidney potatoes baked, scooped out, and stuffed with chicken and ham puree, and browned in oven. — d la bdchamel.—Parboiled, and stewed in white sauce. — Berny.—Croquette mixture, with chopped truffles, egg shaped, crumbed with bread and ground almonds, then fried in deep fat. — Berrichonne.—Marble-shaped potatoes blanched and fried in butter, with chopped fried onions and chopped parsley. — i la Bignon.—Peeled and parboiled, centre scooped out and filled with forcemeat, and baked with butter. — Bonne Femme.—Same as " Paysanne,” with squares of fried bacon added. — Bordelaise.—Peeled, sliced thinly, fried soft in a saute- pan, with oiled butter and finely chopped onions. Bordure de pur6e de pommes de terre.—Border of mashed potatoes. Pommes de terre Boulang^re.—Sliced and mixed with sliced onions, then baked with butter in oven. — a la bourgeoise.—Mashed, dressed on a dish (dome shape), basted with melted butter, sprinkled over with fresh breadcrumbs and cheese, and baked. — a la Brabanponne.—Mashed potatoes, mixed with finely chopped blanched shallots, parsley, cheese, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, dressed and grated on a shallow dish, top sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and bits of butter ; browned in the oven. — Bretonne.—Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares, broiled in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley, and a little brown sauce. — Byron.—Baked potatoes filled with sausage meat and fine herbs stuffing, coated with cream and grated cheese, and browned in oven. — Gareme.—Timbale shapes of rich potato puree, coated with cream and grated cheese, and browned under salamander. — Champery.—Same as Anna potatoes, with addition of grated gruy^re cheese. — Chantilly.—Cut out into round shapes, parboiled in salt water, drained, and finished in bechamel sauce ; sprinkled with liquified meat glaze. — Chateau.—Oval or olive shapes of potatoes, blanched, drained, fried a light colour in clarified butter, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — Chateaubriand.—Peeled, cut into quarters and pared into neat half-moon shapes, parboiled, drained, and fried in butter.