212 THE MENU BOOK. Dinde en Blanquette.—Stewed in white sauce, with sliced preserved mushrooms, — bouillie au C616ri.—Boiled with a white sauce flavoured with celery, and garnished with braised celery. — en daube.—Boned, and stuffed with sausage farce mixed with chopped truffles and cubes of ham, then rolled, and braised brown in oven “ en casserole,” hermetically sealed. — bouillie aux Huitres.—Boiled with oyster sauce. — bouillie, sauce Persil.—Boiled with parsley sauce. — brais6e aux 6pinards.—Braised breasts with spinach. — brals^e a I’lndlenne.—Stuffed legs, braised, finished in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice. — a la Chipolata.—Larded and stuffed with sausage meat or veal forcemeat, and roasted, dished up with a ragout of small sausages, squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, quenelles, and sliced truffles, heated in madere sauce. — grillee a la Diable.—Cold roast turkey, cut into pieces, spread with devilled butter, and grilled ; served with a sharp sauce flavoured with curry. — euisses de, farcies a la Garibaldi.—Legs boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, chopped ham and tongue, and braised, served with small macaroni and rice timbales ; sauce tomate. Filets de, a la Chicoree.—Braised fillets, with endive or chicory puree. — a la Cardinal.—Breasts, stewed in white sauce, coloured with tomato puree, garnished with stewed crawfish tails and lobster coral. Dinde k I’Etouffade aux concombres.—Stewed in the oven in brown sauce, garnished with braised cucumbers. — ^ la Godard.—Breast larded, stuffed with veal force- meat, sliced sweetbread, mushrooms, and braised ; garnished with sliced truffles, mushroom heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives, and chicken quenelles ; madere sauce. — aux Marrons.—Boned turkey, stuffed with chestnut stuffing, barded and braised brown. — aux Morilles.—Turkey stewed in white sauce with morilles (a species of mushrooms). — ^ la Provengale.—Stuffed with finely chopped boiled onions, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sliced truffles, and seasoning, and roasted ; served with tomato sauce. — ^ la Reyni^re.—Roasted, dished up, garnished with small fried sausages and chestnuts, cooked in chicken stock ; served with brown sauce containing finely chopped and braised liver.