THE FISH COURSE. 117 Saumon k la Richemont.—Grilled pickled salmon with tomato sauce. — a la Rothschild.—Centre piece of salmon, farced with truffle stufflng, and baked ; garnished with champignons, oysters, and truffles; served with Nantua sauce. — a la Valoise.—Grilled salmon steak, with lobster butter, served with valois sauce, and garnished with small rounds of baked potatoes and fried oysters. — a la Victoria.—Broiled salmon with stewed oysters, crayfish quenelles, Madeira sauce. — bouilli, sauce Hollandaise.—Boiled salmon with Hol- landaise or Dutch sauce. — grind au beurre d’anchois.—Grilled salmon with anchovy butter. — grille au persil.—Grilled salmon with parsley butter. — grille aux fines herbes.—Grilled salmon with fine herb butter. Cotelettes de Saumon k la Danoise.—Salmon cutlets spread on each side with anchovy paste and fried ; served with Danish sauce. — a la Richelieu.—Salmon cutlets, poached in marinade, masked with cold fish farce (flavoured with tomatoes and anchovy), and with tomato aspic, dressed crown shape with cucumber and pimiento salad in centre. Darioles de Saumon k la Moscovienne (cold).—Darioles, shapes of salmon, ornamented with truffles, oysters, chopped aspic, and cucumber. Darne de Saumon a la Chambord.—Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, garnished with fish quenelles, heads of mushrooms, cooked oysters, slices of truffles and crayfish tails, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce. — a TArchidUC.—Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, sauced over with a rich brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters and small puff- pastry lobster patties. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled salmon steak with parsley butter. — a la National.—Broiled piece of salmon and white sauce ; garnished with groups of stewed potato and cucumber balls. — a la Ravigote (cold).—Boiled centre piece of salmon, masked and decorated with cold ravigote sauce and fresh butter, centre of salmon filled with salad or vegetable macedoine, and sides garnished with hard- boiled eggs, green peas, and chopped aspic; served with tartare sauce.