79 POT AGES—SOUPS. Consommd Cardinal.—Consomme, flavoured with tomato garnished with small lobster quenelles. — Careme.—Chicken and veal stock, clarified, and garnished with slices of cooked carrot, lettuce, turnip, leek, asparagus points, and thin rounds of bread crusts. — d la Carmen.—Clear soup, flavoured and coloured with tomatoes, garnished with fine strips of pimiento, chervil, and plain rice. — Caroline.—Straw-coloured rich consomme, garnished with Carolina rice, royal custard, and chicken fillets, both cut very small. — Castille.—Chicken consomme, garnished with royal custard mixed with tapioca. — C616stine (Celestine Soup).—A clear gravy soup with thin pancakes cut into julienne strips. — Chancelliere.—Chicken consomme, garnished with rings of royal custard, flageolets, and fine strips of truffles, champignons, and beetroot. — Chantilly .—Rich consomme, garnished with strips of hard white of egg, chicken fillets, and rice. — Chartreuse—Clear soup, garnished with small raviolis, filled with foie-gras, tomato, and spinach. — Chasseur—A clear, game-flavoured soup, garnished with small game quenelles. — Chateleine.—Clear soup with slight tarragon flavour, garnished with royal custard, mixed with artichoke puree, green peas, and French beans, — Chiflonnade (Chiffonade Gravy Soup).—A clear soup, garnished with finely shredded spring onion heads, green peas, and lettuce leaves stamped out round, seasoned with green mint and tarragon leaves. — Choron ^ la Richelieu.—Clarified game stock, garnished with juhenne strips of cooked game, pea shapes of young carrots, and Brazil tapioca. — Choux farcis, aux.—Clear soup garnished with stuffed Brussels sprouts. — Christiania.—Chicken consomme, garnished with pro- fiterolles, filled with chestnut puree. — Christophe Colombe.—Clear chicken broth with two coloured diamond or ring shapes of poached royal custard. — Clair.—Clear soup (plain, without any kind of garniture). — - Claremont.—Clear soup with royal custard and fried onion rings as garnish. — Clementine.—Clear soup, garnished with carrot, turnip, celery, and cabbage, all cut in lozenge shape. — Clotilde.—Clear soup with very small button onions fried in butter and cooked in stock