306 THE MENU BOOK. Baba au Rhum.—Light yeast cakes, containing currants, soaked in rum syrup ; served hot or cold. — au Kirsch.—Same as above, using kirsch flavoured syrup instead of rum. — a la Storer (a Polish Cold Sweet).—Baba (yeast paste) mixed with raisins and glace fruit, baked in suitable mould ; when cold coated with apricot marmalade flavoured with rum and orange juice ; centre of baba filled with orange ice ; garnished with angelica and glace cherries. Bananes—Bananas, Bananes a la Bangalaise.—Halves of peeled ripe bananas poached in vanilla syrup, then placed between cut genoise rolls, coated with almond puree, masked with apricot marmalade and strewn with chopped pistachios. — ^ la Bourdalouse (Hot or Cold).—SHces of bananas poached in vanilla syrup, and filled in flat cake crust, with layer of almond custard, masked with meringue, and browned. — frite sur canapes (Hot).—Slices of bananas, egged, and fried in butter, dressed on small rice shapes of canapes ; served hot as side dish. — a la Cond6.—Rice cooked in sweetened vanilla-flavoured milk, mixed with glace cherries, dressed as border or flat with halves of peeled bananas poached in vanilla syrup, ranged on top ; decorated with glace cherries and angelica; served hot or cold. — dr la Condoli^re.—Boat-shaped banana skins filled with whipped sweetened cream and slices of bananas previously steeped in Kirsch hqueur. — farcies aux fraises (Cold).—Bananas filled with mashed scarlet strawberries and puree of bananas, sweetened with cura^oa and sugar ; tied up with ribbon. — a la Othello.—Peeled and halved bananas poached in vanilla syrup, dressed in glass bowl in layers with macaroon cream (puree form); served with hot chocolate sauce. — souffles d la Russe.—Banana skins filled with souffle mixture (puree of bananas and Kummel) and baked ; served hot. — d la Ni^oise.—Similar to “ d la Russe,” but flavoured with crushed crystallised violets in place of Kummel, and maraschino liqueur. — Norv6gienne.—Large bananas with upper part of skin removed, then scooped out, filled with banana cream ice, masked with Italian meringue, and baked quickly.