82 THE MENU BOOK. Consomm6 Garibaldi.—Clear soup with small rounds of royal custard, green and red (spinach and tomato). — Gaulois.—Chicken consomme with cock’s combs and cock’s kernels cut into fine strips. — Gibier.—Clear game soup, garnished with dice of cooked game. — Gibier a la St, Hubert.—Clarified game stock, garnished with green peas and pea shapes of carrot, turnip, and celery. — d’Abatis de Gibier.—Clear game giblet soup. — Grammont.—Clear soup with small game quenelles and royal custard, flavoured with almond milk, cut into small dice. — Grimaldi.—Clear soup with pronounced tomato flavour and celeriac julienne strips. — Grisonne.—Clear soup, garnished with batter passed through a coarse colander into the soup when boiling. — Henry IV. —Chicken consomme or broth with suitably cut soup vegetable and small chicken fillets, rice, and chervil leaves. — Hombourg.—Clear soup with small calf’s liver quenelles, round slices of beef marrow with pronounced paprika flavour. — Hongroise.—Clear chicken soup with tomato flavour, strips of tomatoes tossed in butter, and paprika seasoning. — Hoteli^re.—Clear soup flavoured with celery and gar- nished with hard-boiled white of egg cut into fine strips, and small chicken quenelles. — Imp6ratrice.—Clear soup garnished with small chicken quenelles, pea-shaped carrots, green peas, and rice. — Imperiale.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with whole poached yolks of eggs and shreds of ham and truffles. — Indienne.—Clear mulligatawny soup, served with cooked rice. — Infante.—Chicken consomme, garnished with small bread croutons coated with liver puree or farce. — Irma.—Rich clear soup with small chicken quenelles, each filled with green peas prior to poaching. — Italienne (Italian).—Clear soup with small pieces of macaroni, cubes of spinach, and tomato custard. — Jardiniere.—Clear soup, garnished with carrots, turnips, and celery scooped out in olive shapes. — Joinville.—Chicken consomme with pea shapes of carrot, royal custard, two kinds, one mixed with chicken puree, and one with green pea puree. — Jubiie.—Chicken consomme with julienne strips of celery, truffle, and tomato.