THE MENU BOOK. 256 lence as well as economy dressed vegetables deserve to be more largely, if not generally, introduced in dinner menus. Of these vegetables. Asparagus, Green or Globe Arti- chokes, Jerusalem Artichokes, Cardoons, Celery, Sodsify, Celeriac, Cauliflower, Seakale, Spinach, Tomatoes, Green Peas, Sprouts, Potatoes, French Beans, Mushrooms, Cucumbers, and Aubergines, are particularly adapted for dressing as an Entremet Course. The dressing varies considerably. Asparagus, artichokes, and cauliflowers are often served plainly boiled, dished on toasted bread, with a good white sauce or oiled butter. Oiled butter must be perfect; fresh and sweet butter only should be used, and a dash of lemon juice incorporated. Many of these vegetables are well suited to be cooked au gratin ; others are tossed in butter, after being boiled and well drained; whilst others, such as tomatoes, potatoes cucumbers, aubergines, mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms, etc., are stuffed. There are about 300 ways of cooking and dressing potatoes, and of these quite 100 render them fit for use as savoury vegetables. Asparagus and artichokes are also served au vinaigrette —i.e., with a plain salad dressing, consisting of oil, vinegar, chopped chives or parsley, chopped gherkins, and seasoning. Bechamel, tomato, hollandaise, piquante, and poivrade sauces are frequently used for dressing vegetables. Many dainty souffles of vegetable puree rank prominently as savouries ; for these, spinach, cucumber, let tuces, toma- toes, artichokes, carrots, etc., are generally used. Lastly, vegetable fritters should be accorded a prominent place under this heading. These are made of salsify, celery or celeriac, beetroot, cardoons, cepes, etc. These are generally first cooked, and when cold cut into slices or small pieces, then dipped in batter, and fried. Artichauts—Avticliohes, Artichauts frais.—Fresh globe artichokes. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled • served with white (bechamel) sauce. — ^ la Bruxelloise.—Globe artichoke, boiled, inside stuffed with a rich mushroom puree, and braised ; served with allemande sauce flavoured with white wine.