SOUFFLJSES and sweet omelets. 329 Japonais a TOrientale (Cold).—Small almond meringues and sHces of set bavarois, or set vanilla cream, arranged in layers to form a border, centre filled with whipped sweetened cream. Mont Blanc or Vacharin Suisse (Cold).—Small dariole shapes of chestnut puree, flavoured with vanilla sugar and cream; coated over thickly with whipped cream (creme Chantilly). Montecados.—A Spanish sweet, composed of Ught dough dumpUngs sweetened and flavoured with cinnamon, fried in deep fat and served with fruit sauce. Moscovite aux Mandarines (Cold).—Orange jelly, flavoured with cura9oa, timbale shape lined with sections of mandarines or tangerines, interior filled with whipped cream and jelly mixed, shape dressed on genoise cake basis, masked with marmalade and chopped pistachios. Mousseline au Chocolat (Cold).—A very light chocolate souffle mixture, creamed, iced, and served in glasses with whisked white of egg on top. Pain de Semoule a la Eugenie (Cold).—Semolina cream, flavoured with vanilla, filled in mould lined with sweet jelly, and decorated with star shapes of angelica and small ( rounds^ [,of ^ glace [cherries ; [raspberry sauce. Souffle a la Milanaise.—Cold lemon-flavoured souffle with addition of maraschino and crushed macaroons, set in ice cave, hke souffle glace. Suedoise, Bon Chretien (Cold).—Border mould fined with maraschino jelly, and filled with pink pear puree, centre of dish filled with marble shapes of white pears, poached in vanilla liqueur, and decorated with whipped cream. Timbale Egyptienne (Hot).—Mould lined with caramel and a layer of cooked rice, centre filled with rich custard mixed with fruit macedoine, and steamed or baked ; caramel sauce. SOUFFLEES AND SWEET OMELETTES. Note.—The name “ souffle ” in cooking is given to any light preparation, hot or cold ; as a rule, sweet souffles are either steamed or baked. Sweet omelettes are made souffiee by beating the egg whites to a stiff froth, and mixing it with the other ingredients ; these are baked in the oven, whilst ordinary sweet omelettes are fried in the omelette pan over a quick fire. {See also notes on Omelettes).