2og THE ENTREE COURSE {CAPON). Salmi de Canard a la Castillane.—Roasted, and stewed in brown sauce with orange-juice, and rind finely shredded. — a rirlandaise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with slices of fried onions, dice of fried ham, and port-wine sauce. — aux Olives farcies.—Par-roasted, cut up, and stewed in brown sauce with stuffed olives. — a la Verjus.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce containing blanched green grapes and red- currant jelly. Souffld de Canard or Caneton.—Duck or duckling souffle ; usually served with bigarade or rouennaise sauce. Supreme de Canard a la Marquise.—Braised fillets of duck, dressed in farce border, port-wine sauce enriched with cream, slices of truffle, mushroom heads, and asparagus tips as garnish. Zdphires de Canard a la Metropole.—Zephyr moulds filled with duck quenelle, meat, and salpicon ; poached, decorated with thin borders of puff paste, spinach, and cherries ; sauce reforme. Chapon—Capon or Capon Pullet* Note.—Most of these dishes may, if left whole, be served as Remove (Releve) ; but when cut up, sauced over,- and garnished, they become Entrees. Turkeys (Dindes) can be treated in the same way. Chapon (or Poularde) a la d’Aumale.—Fillets, braised white with quenelles, decorated with truffles, gar- nished with tartlet filled with gherkins, and tongue salpicon. — a TArgenteuil (Capon or Capon Pullet).—Braised white, sauced over with supreme, and garnished with asparagus points. — a I’Aurore.—Boned, and farced with veal and meat (godiveau) farce, and braised white ; sauce aurore. Chapon ^ la Banquiere.—Boned, and stuffed with mous- seline farce and dice-shaped slices of foie-gras and truffles; braised “ en casserole,” garnished with tartelettes filled with salpicon of truffle and foie- gras, small chicken quenelles, and larks poached in madere. — blanquette de, aux Champignons.—Boiled and stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — bouilli it la G6noise.—Boiled, garnished with finely cut nouilles, finished in veloute or allemande sauce, flavoured with parmesan cheese and curry. O