Popular Books on Cookery, etc. By C. HERMAN SENN, G.C.A. The 2oth Century Cookery Book.—5th enlarged Edition. Containing over 5,000 recipes of Dishes and Methods of Cooking, with over 400 illustrations. It forms one of the largest and most complete collections of cooking recipes for recherchi dishes ever produced in this covmtry Price 21 /-; post free, 21 /g. Savoury Breakfast, Dinner, and Supper Dishes.—A collection of over 400 useful and novel Recipes of Dishes suitable for breakfast luncheon, supper dishes, and after-dinner savouries, etc. Price 3 /6 post free, 3/9. A Book of Salads; or, the Art of Salad Dressing;.—By Alfred Suzanne. This little book is unquestionably the best in existence. It contains Recipes for Green Salads, Vegetable Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads, Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully treated. Price i /6 ; post free, i /8. Ices and How to Make Them.—A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffl6s, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc. Price 2/-; post free, 2/2. Dictionary of Foods and Culinary Encyclopaedia.—A handy reference Book of technical terms, the names of foods, cooking auxiliaries, con- diments, and beverages. Specially adapted for Chefs, Hotel and Restaurant Managers, Cookery Teachers, etc. Price 2/-; post free, 2/2. Cookery for Invalids and the Convalescent.—A collection of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for invalids and convalescents. Price 1/6 ; post free, 1/8. Chafing=Dish and Casserole Cookery.—A neatly got-up little book dealing with the above subjects, which are coming rapidly back to popularity. This manual is full of excellent recipes and practical advice, to suit everyone’s taste and pocket. Price 1/6; post free, 1/8. Recherche Side Dishes.—Fifth enlarged and Re\ised Edition, now ready. A handy book of recipes for dainty Hors-d’CEuvres, Savouries, Salads, and Sandwiches, containing about 600 reUable recipes. Price 3/6 post free, 3/9. Rechercii6 Luncheon and Dinner Sweets.—The book contains 239 especially selected recipes of hot and cold Puddings, Creams and Jellies, Parfaits and Mousses, hot and cold ; Souffles, Continental Patisserie and Gateaux, all of a recherche character. There are numerous half- tone illustrations. Price 2/6 ; post free, 2/9. [Continued next pag