GLACES—ICES. 337 Mousse F6dora.—Souffle of cream and cura^oa flavour, served in cases, decorated with glace cherries and angelica. — Madrid.—Vanilla cream mixed with burnt sugar filberts (noisettes pralines), centre filled with whipped cream, flavoured with maraschino or other white liqueur. — Nansen.—Vanilla cream ice, flavoured with noyeau> decorated with spun sugar. — N61uski.—Pistachio cream ice, flavoured with chocolate, centre filled with caramel cream, decorated with small chocolate macaroons. — printani^re.—Bomb of vanilla or chocolate cream ice, interior filled with whipped cream, mixed with fresh strawberries, etc. Bombe Baronne.—A light cream souffle, flavoured with vanilla and maraschino, and mixed with strawberries and bananas; iced in cabinet; garnished with crushed candied violets. — Lotti.—Pairfait of raspberries in centre of vanilla cream ice, decorated with creamed vanilla butter, and crystallised violets; garnished with small almond tartlets. — Sarah Bernhardt.—Rose-flavoured cream ice (souffle character), centre filled with violet-flavoured mousse containing crystallised violets. — Sultane.—Vanilla cream, mixed with powdered French almond rock, chocolate caramel in centre, decorated with whipped cream. — Tosca.—Coffee cream ice souffles, flavoured v/ith kirsch, and served in cases. — Venitienne or Venetia.—Bomb of pistachio cream ice, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with orange-flower water, and thus frozen. Punches and Sorbets* Sorbets, Granites, Roman Punch, and similar prepara- tions, are ices in a semi-liquid state ; they are never moulded, but are served in goblet, stem or punch glasses, immediately before the roast, the object being to refresh the palate and to prepare the guest for the more perfect enjoyment of the succeeding dishes, viz., the roast and the entremets. Although served separately, the punch or sorbet should not be given an extra heading on the menu, but be simply placed on a line distinct from the other courses. Y