THE MENU BOOK. io8 H areng—H erring, Hareng frais grille.—Grilled fresh herring. — ail beurre.—Broiled herring in butter. — ^ la Diable.—Grilled herrings, coated with mustard and fried breadcrumbs, and served with ravigote sauce. ■— Farcis.—Boned herrings, stuffed with herb farce, wrapped in oiled paper and baked in oven; served with white wine sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled herring with parsley butter. — a la Moutarde.—Grilled herring with mustard sauce. — a la Nantaise.—Herrings with soft roes, rolled in flour and crumbed, then fried in butter, served with mayonnaise flavoured with cooked roes and mustard. — a la Portiere.—Herrings with incisions filled with mustard and parsley, then fried in butter; served with brown butter, flavoured with vinegar. — a la Russe.—Boned and grilled ; served with white wine sauce mixed with chopped fennel and mustard. — Sour.—Smoked herring fillets. Homard—Lobster, (See also Chapter on Fish Savouries and Cold Entrees.) Homard a TAm^ricaine (Lobster, American style).— Lobster stewed in the shell with tomato sauce, red wine, and savoury herb seasoning. — en Aspic.—Lobster and hard-boiled egg set in moulds with savoury or aspic jelly. — dr la Bechamel (Baked Lobster, Bechamel style).— Shells of lobster filled with minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce, and seasoning, and baked. — d la Bordelaise.—Lobster stewed in tomato sauce, blended with white wine and chopped herbs ; served in timbales. — d la Cardinal.—Minced lobster, mixed with Nantua sauce, and filled in shells, breaded, and browned in oven. — saute d la Dumas.—Lobster meat tossed in butter and finished in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, paprika, and lemon juice. — farci.—Stuffed lobster baked. — d la Gloucester (Lobster, Gloucester style).—Stewed lobster, with a sauce composed of pulverised lobster shell, butter, egg-yolks, and meat extract. — au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style. — d la Hongroise (Hungarian).—Scalloped lobster in shells, moistened with white sauce, paprika seasoning, and cream, browned in oven