172 THE MENU BOOK. Filets de Bceuf ^ la Goufl6.—Larded and fried ; garnished with small beef-marrow toasts ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Grand Veneur.—Marinaded fillets, braised, gar- nished with French beans ; sauce Moscovite. — ^ la Helder.—Broiled or sauteed fillets with sliced tomatoes tossed in butter, Parisienne potato balls, and bearnaise sauce. — a la Jardiniere.—Grilled ; garnished with groups of spring vegetables. — a la Judie.—Sauteed or grilled fillets with braised lettuce and gravy. — a la Livingstone.—Grilled, dressed on fried or toasted bread croutons, with bearnaise sauce and slice of truffle ; garnished with julienne or straw potatoes. — d. la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled ; with parsley butter. — au Malaga.—Larded and braised ; dressed with madere or marsala wine sauce; garnished with potato croquets done up in the shape of grapes, with nouille paste stalks inserted, and fried. — a la Marinade.—Larded and marinaded in vinegar wine and herbs ; grilled or braised ; poivrade sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Broiled ; garnished with fried eggs, tarragon leaves, and anchovy fillets on fillets of beef ; group of truffles and champignons around dish; madere sauce. — a la Moscovite.—Larded ; placed in Rhine wine mari- nade, and braised or sauteed ; served with madere sauce, and garnished with chopped and rolled almonds. — a la Nikolas.—Sauteed or grilled fillets, with a shce of foie-gras and truffles on top ; sauce madere. — aux Olives farcies.—Grilled ; with stuffed olives. — ^ la Palmeritaine.—Larded and broiled, and garnished with stuffed aubergines and mashed potatoes. — ^ la Parisienne.—Grilled fillets, garnished with aspara- gus tips and potato balls; bearnaise sauce and gravy (jus lie). — ^ la Polonaise.—Finely chopped lean beef and chopped suet, seasoned, and shaped hke fillets ; egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Sauteed or broiled fillets with slices of tomatoes tossed in butter ; noisette potatoes and choron sauce. — a la Provenpale.—Grilled ; garnished with stuffed mushrooms and tomatoes; demi-glace or madere sauce. — d la Rossini.—Sauteed or grilled fillets, with slice of foie-gras and truffle on top of each ; sauce perigueux.