SA UCES. 139 Sauce Diable (Devilled). — Chopped shallots blended in butter and reduced in vinegar, diluted with demi-glace and red wine, reduced and highly seasoned with Worcester sauce, cayenne, etc. — Diane.—Poivrade sauce, enriched with cream. — Digestive.—Soubise sauce, blended with apple and tomato puree, and flavoured with curry paste and French mustard. — Diplomate.—Bechamel sauce blended with lobster butter and anchovy essence. — Duchesse.—Bechamel, enriched with fresh butter, with finely chopped ox-tongue and mushrooms. — Duclere or Dugl6r§.—Tomato sauce blended with bechamel and fish essence, finished with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Duxelle.—Brown sauce enriched with tomato puree and meat glaze, chopped mushrooms, truffles, ham, blended shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice. — Echalote (Shallot).—Thin brown gravy sauce, with finley chopped shallots and parsley blended in butter, flavoured with shallot vinegar or finely chopped shallots mixed with vinegar, and lemon juice and seasoning ; served with oysters. — Ecossaise (Scotch).—Bechamel sauce mixed with finely chopped hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. — Ecrevisses (Crayfish).—White cream sauce mixed with crayfish butter. — Epicurienne (cold).—Mayonnaise cream mixed with cucumber puree, aspic, chopped gherkins and chutney, served cold. — Epicurienne (hot).—White sauce acidulated with vinegar, reduced with cayenne pods and catchup. — Espagnole (Foundation Sauce).—A brown sauce made with brown roux, mirepoix of vegetables, and ham or bacon, tomatoes, mushrooms, meat stock, wine, and seasoning. — Estragon (Tarragon).—Demi-glace reduced with white wine and tarragon vinegar, with finely chopped blanched tarragon leaves. — Etretat.—Allemande sauce or veloute flavoured with white fish essence and very little tomato puree. — F61ix.—Brown sauce, flavoured with lemon juice and crayfish essence, finished with butter. — Fenouil (Fennel).—A white sauce, with finely chopped fennel, flavoured with lemon juice ; served with boiled fish. — Fermi^re (Farmhouse).—Brown sauce, with finely chopped ham, and onion puree, served with game.