Popular Books on Cookery—continued. Recherche Entrees.—This lately published book of over 250 pages con- tains a collection of the newest Entries, presenting the latest ideas of the Entr6e course dishes, being of the highest type of Continental and English cookery. Price 5-/-, illustrated. Cheap edition, 3/6. By post, 4d. extra. Potato Cookery.—By A. Suzanne and C. Kerman Senn. 300 ways of cooking and serving potatoes for table. Price i /6 ; post free, i /8. Hors d’CEuvres and Sandwiches.—(Part I. of Side Dishes) giving recipes for all the latest dishes. Price i /6 ; post free, i /8. How to Cook Eggs and Omelets in 250 Different Ways.—The recipes in this book cover every possible method of cooking and serving eggs for table, representing many new ideas. Egg dishes, if rightly prepared, are at all times acceptable, and make a delightful change for the every-day menu. Price i /6, by post, i /8. The Art of the Table.—How to wait at table, how to carve, and how to fold table serviettes. An entirely new work, giving explicit directions on the above important subjects. With numerous illustrations. Price 2/-; post free, 2/2. How to Cook Vegetables.—The latest work on the culinary treatment of the products of the Vegetable Kingdom. Over 500 reliable recipes. Price 2 /-; post free, 2 /3. The Practical Cookery Manual—Essentially a family cook-book, com- piled on popular lines with due regard to economy and simplicity Popular edition. Price is.; post free, i /3. Special edition, illustrated 2 /6 ; post free, 2/g. Meatless Fare and Lenten Cookery.—Recipes for some hundreds of fish and egg dishes. Vegetable, Vegetarian and Farinaceous dishes. Price 1/6 ; post free, 1/9. Ideal Breakfast Dishes.—Savouries and Curries. The chief feature of this book is the variety of up-to-date and easily made Breakfast Dishes, while the fish and vegetable curries reveal the art of curry making. Price IS.; post free, i /2. Cooking in Stoneware.—W’ith chapter on Paper Bags. Paper cover Price 6d.; post free, 8d. Cloth, i /-; post free, i /2. Popular Breakfast Dishes and Savouries.—A handy little manual, containing recipes and full directions for the preparation of about 200 Breakfast Dishes and After-Dinner Savouries. Price fid.; post free, 7 Jd. Simple Cookery for the People.—Price id.; post free, ijd. The Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, Victoria Station, London, S.W. Remittances must in every case accompany orders. z