go THE MENU BOOK. Creme Bontoux.—A chicken cream soup garnished with strips of truffle and ox-tongue, — Cambacdres (Spanish).—A blend of lobster bisque, chicken puree, and pigeon puree—one third of each— finished with cream and garnished with crayfish tails. — C616ri (de).—C61ery puree or cream soup. — Chambertln.—A cream soup composed of equal parts of onion puree (soubise) and potato puree (parmentier), served with fried-bread croutons, — Champ6noise.—Cream of potato soup, blended with puree of celery and leek, chopped chervil, and croutons. — Chi.telaine.—Green pea and onion puree, blended together with cream and herbs, — Chicago.—Lobster bisque, blended with tomato puree, garnished with dice shapes of lobster. — Chicor^e (de) au Veloute.—Puree of chicoree or endive, enriched with cream and egg-yolks. •— Clementine.—Light chicken cream, with three-coloured royal custard stamped out in small cubes, •— Concombre (de) a la Reine.—Cucumber cream with dice of royal custard; — Corneille.—Cream of lettuce soup with tapioca liaison. — Dame-Blanche.—White chicken puree with cream, flavoured with sweet almonds, garnished with barley and royal custard.. — Orge (d*).—Pearl barley soup with cream (white). — Dame d'honneur.—Cream of shrimps (like lobster bisque), with small pink-coloured fish quenelles. — Durhem.—A lobster bisque, garnished with small bearded oysters. — Galiciennes.—Chicken cream soup, garnished with julienne of tomato and celery. — Lucullus.—Chicken cream soup enriched with foie-gras puree, garnished with finely-cut truffle strips. — Macdonald.—Soubise or onion puree, enriched with cream, garnished with pea-shaped cucumber. — Mariano.—Pumpkin cream soup, garnished with sorrel. — Riz (de) —Filtered rice cream (white). — Sigur.—Potato cream soup, blended with tomato puree, garnished with finely-cut pimiento strips. — Soissonnaire.—Puree of white haricot beans, enriched with cream, served with small fried-bread croutons. — Tomato (de)—A veloute cream enriched with tomato puree, garnished with peeled tomatoes cut in strips and tossed in butter. — Valencienne.—White cream of rice soup, with a liaison of sago cooked in consomme.