75 HORS-D’(E U VRE—A PPETISERS. Tartelettes de Saumon, Ecossaise.—Little tartlet crusts of pastry filled with shreds of cooked salmon and mayonnaise aspic ; garnished with slices of hard- boiled egg and truffle. Tartines k la Baroda.—Very small sandwiches, lined with chicken and rice pur6e, flavoured with curry ; masked with white chaudfroid sauce, and decorated with set aspic. — a la Cardinal.—Fancifully cut sandwiches made of brown bread and savoury lobster puree ; decorated with truffle, hard-boiled egg, gherkin, and parsley. — de Caviar en chaudfroid.—Round fried bread croutons, slit open and filled with caviare, coated alternately with brown and white chaudfroid sauces, dressed round a small salad. — Lucullus.—Finger-shaped puff pastry, seasoned with cheese, and layer of anchovy paste in centre ; gar- nished with olives and anchovy butter. Thon marine sur Canapes.—Pickled tunny fish on toast. Tomates Monegasque.—Small ripe tomatoes marinaded and filled with chopped tunny fish, hard-boiled egg, and fine herbs, seasoned with mayonnaise or French dressing. — en quartiers.—Peeled tomatoes, hollowed out in centre and filled with fish farce or vegetable macedoine, seasoned with mayonnaise, aspic, iced and cut in quarters before dishing up. — en Salade.—Small peeled ripe tomatoes cut into fine shreds and dressed with vinaigrette or mayonnaise, served in small hors-d’oeuvre dishes. Tranches de Caviar, Remoulade.—Layers of bread covered with caviare, decorated with savoury butter, and cut into neat slices. Zakousky.—This is the name given for hors-d’oeuvre dishes in Russia. They consist of various kinds of daintily dressed caviare, pickled or smoked fish, etc. Certain Russian liqueurs are usually served with Zakousky, which form a great feature in the Russian cuisine. Note.—A large number of these dishes are suited alike as after-dinner savouries as well for hors-d’oeuvre, especi- ally those made from shell fish, smoked fish, eggs, meat, and certain savoury vegetable mixtures. For typical after-dinner savouries please refer to Part XIV. at end of book.