12 THE MENU BOOK. culinary artist, Brillat-Savarin, truly said : “ Menu mol fait, diner perdu.” To be able to plan or compile a recherche luncheon, dinner or supper, is regarded as a high accomplishment, for, as already stated, much of the success of a repast depends upon its menu. The arrangement of an elaborate dinner is an art in itself, and consists in selecting the various courses, so that the dishes harmonise with each other ; the chief requirements being that:— 1. Each dish shall be different in composition and mode of cooking. 2. The composition of the individual dishes must be excellent; while they should be well cooked, tastefully dressed, and yet distinct in character. 3. The harmonising effect is obtained by so arranging the dishes that each one is distinct from the other, bearing no relation in appearance to the preceding or following dishes. 4. A judicious selection of the raw materials, having regard to the season of the year, must be made in all cases, else the menu of a meal may easily be marred. 5. The various meats and other more important materials forming one course must not be repeated in the' same menu from one course to another. 6. The various kinds of sauces employed in the pre- parations, and serving as accompaniments to the dishes, must each be distinctly different in colour, taste, and flavour. It is well to remember that the true estimate of the value of a menu as a literary composition is not always obtained by observing the attention given to it by the guest at a dinner table, for at such a time the average diner is engaged in concentrating his whole mind on a rapid analysis of the good things present and to come. It is often later, in some leisured moment, that the menu is read with a critical eye, and if found the least worthy from a literary point of view, is treasured as an interesting souvenir of a memorable occasion. Menus are planned for every meal—breakfast, luneheon, dinner, and supper—but of all these the dinner menu is of the greatest importance, and the most difficult. For special occasions, such as ball suppers, dinner or luncheon parties, etc., the menu is usually prepared a