215 THE ENTRJ^E COURSE {PIGEON). sauce. Pigeon en Comp6te, ^ la Bourgeoise.—Broiled, stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with claret and savoury herbs ; served with young carrots, green peas, and glazed button onions. — en Compote aux Champignons.—Stewed pigeons with mushrooms. — en Compote aux Petits Pois.—Stewed pigeons with green peas. — en Compote ^ la Rentifire.—Braised, stewed in brown sauce, enriched with a liaison of egg-yolks, and fresh butter. Cotelettes de Pigeon, aux pointes d’Asperges.—Boned, cut in halves, seasoned and shaped into cutlets, par- broiled, pressed, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with a brown sauce flavoured with sherry or port wine, and garnished with stewed asparagus points. Cotelettes de Pigeon, aux Champignons.—As above, served with stewed sliced mushrooms. Cotelettes de Pigeon, aux Petits Pois.—As above, but garnished with green peas. Cotelettes de Pigeon, en Papilottes.—Pigeon cutlets, spread over with mushroom puree or duxelle farce, wrapped in slices of ham and paper papilottes; demi-glace sauce. Cotelettes de Pigeon, a la Provengale.—Boned, excepting legs, cut in halves, and seasoned, broiled in oil, pressed, immersed in oiled butter, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with proven9ale sauce. Cotelettes de Pigeon, au Supreme.—Boned, cut in halves, seasoned, fried, pressed, covered with chicken salpicon and truffles, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with veloute sauce. Pigeon a la Crapaudine.—Split open, put on skewers, egged, crumbed, and broiled ; served with brown sauce, stoned olives, and sliced truffles. — a la Diplomate.—Fillets of pigeon, sauteed in butter and pressed, then coated with villeroi sauce and chopped champignons, crumbed and baked in butter ; garnished with pigeon quenelles and truffles ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a Pltallenne.—Braised pigeons with Italian sauce and chopped ham. — a la Minute.—Jointed, flattened, and tossed in butter, besprinkled with chopped onion, parsley, and sauteed champignons, finished in gravy or sauce. — aux Olives.—Braised or roasted, finished in brown sauce with stoned olives ; usually served in casserole. — aux Petits Pois.—Braised with green peas ; demi-glace