POTAGES—SOUPS. 8i Consomm6 Dietrich.—Clarified veal stock with garniture of nouilles, carrots, turnips, and French beans, cut in fine shreds. — Diplomate.—A rich clear soup with poached egg-yolks and small olive shapes of cucumber and turnip, also very small button onions. — Doria.—Clear soup, garnished with pea-shaped cucum- ber and profiterolles. — Douglas.—Clear soup garnished with small dice of cooked sweetbread and artichokes. — du Barry.—Clear chicken and veal stock, with cubes of royal custard and finely shredded Jordan almonds. — Dubelloy.—Clear chicken broth with royal custard, green peas, and rice as garnish. — Dubourg.—Clear soup, garnished with royal custard, cooked rice, and green peas, used in equal proportions. — Duchesse.—Clear chicken soup with a light sage liaison and shredded chicken breast as garnish. — Duclair.—Clear soup with pancakes spread with savoury forcemeat and cut in lozenge shapes. — Dumont.—Clear soup with cabbage or lettuce julienne, also finely cut strips of tongue and champignons. — Ecossaise (Scotch Broth).—Mutton broth with pearl barley, and the usual soup vegetables cut into dice. — Elisabeth.—Clear soup with julienne strips of artichoke bottoms and leek, also vermicelli. — Epicurien.—Clear soup with shredded sweet almonds and chervil leaves. — Estragon.—Clear soup, flavoured and garnished with tarragon leaves. — Fermiere.—Clear soup, with carrots, cabbage, leeks, potatoes, and turnips, cut into thin triangular shaped slices. — Flamande.—Clear soup with a garnish of vegetables cut in dice shapes—i.e., carrot, turnip, and cabbage, and shreds of sorrel and chervil leaves, also crusts of bread. — Fleury.—Clear soup, garnished with rice and a few vegetables cut into fancy dice (macedoine). — Florador.—Clear soup, garnished with small quenelles made with Florador or Indian maize and milk, and poached in stock. — Florentine.—Clear soup with three kinds of royal custard cut in cubes—red, green, and yellow. — Florida.—Clear soup with parmesan cheese quenelles. — Fran$illon.—Clear soup with small chicken quenelles, small poached egg-yolks, and chervil. — frapp6.—Clear soup, iced. F