232 THE MENU BOOK. Faisan Bruxelloise. — Braised in casserole, with mirepoix and brussels sprouts ; garnished with the latter ; brown sauce. — au Choux.—Braised in casserole with spring cabbagesj fried slices of bacon, small carrots, and sausages. — a la Cavour.—Roast or braised, dressed in casserole^ with nouilles, previously tossed in butter ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Derby.—Stuffed with cooked rice and foie-gras dice and truffles, braised, and served with demi-glace sauce. — en Compete au Madere.—Stewed in brown madere sauce. Cdtelettes de Faisan a la Richelieu.—Pheasant forcemeat shaped into cutlets, and poached ; when cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with brown truffle sauce. — a la Flamande.—Braised ; garnished with small stuhed braised cabbages, and fried sausages. — ^ la Jardiniicre.—Braised, dressed in border of pheasant farce; garnished with mixture of spring vegetables. — a la Livournaise.—Braised in casserole with cepes, mushrooms, and slice of lean bacon ; salmi sauce. — ^ la Richemont.—Fillets larded with truffles and bacon, and braised ; supreme sauce. — a la Rossini.—Braised white, sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with foie-gras and truffles. — en Robe de Chambre.—Boned, cut flat, spread with veal farce, tongue, and truffles, rolled up and braised ; when cold, wrapped in pufl paste and baked ; served with demi-glace sauce ; also served cold with aspic garnish. — d, la St. Alliance.—Stuffed with game farce and truffles, roasted, and garnished with woodcock farce croutes and orange sections ; thick game gravy. — la St. Georges.—Cold cooked pheasant, boned, and cut into slices, coated with cold sauce, dipped in batter and fried, garnished with stuffed tomatoes ; truffle sauce. Salmi de, aux trufles.—Par-roasted and stewed in salmi sauce, with sliced truffles. — ^ la Boh6mienne.—Broiled, and stewed in madere sauce, chopped ham, and mushrooms ; garnished with fried- bread croutons and whole mushrooms. Faisan Souvarofl.—Braised white, breasts removed and stuffed with chicken farce ; supreme sauce. — d. la Talleyrand.—Larded fillets, braised, dressed in centre of a border made of pheasant forcemeat; garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed, and fried.