;8 THE MENU BOOK. Consomm6 Ambassadrice.—Chicken consomme, garnished with three different kinds of royal custard cut into round cubes—i.e., tomato, truffle, and green pea purges, also shreds of mushrooms and chicken fillets. — ^ rAnclenne.—Chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles and fried-bread croutons coated with cheese. — Andalouse.—Clarified chicken stock with tapioca (i quart to J oz. tapioca). Garnitures; small rounds of tomato, cucumber cubes, and small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — Aurore.—Clear soup, flavoured and coloured with tomato, thickened with tapioca, and garnished with finely cut chicken fillets. — Baigneuse.—Clear soup with small forced lettuce balls. — Bagration (Maigre).—A richly flavoured clear soup, gar- nished with small fish quenelles, vegetable, and prawns. — Batavia.—Clear soup garnished with finely shredded Belgian endive and lettuce, also plain boiled rice. — Bavi^re (Bavarian).—A clear soup with very small semolina dumplings. — Belle-Fermi^re.—Rich clarified chicken stock, garnished with lozenge shapes of cabbage, French beans, and nouille paste (poached). — Benjamin Le^ois.—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with green peas, small cubes of truffle, and royal custard containing chicken puree. — Boh^mienne.—Clear soup with cubes of royal custard and foie-gras, also small profiteroUes. — Bouquetiere.—Clear soup, garnished with spring vege- tables daintily cut. — Bourbon.—Chicken consomm6, garnished with chicken farce quenelles, fleur-de-lys shaped slices of truffle, and pearl barley — Bourdalouse.—Clear soup garnished with small cube shapes of royal custard, cock’s combs and kernels. — Bretonne.—Clear soup with finely shredded leek, celery, and mushrooms, also chopped chervil. — Brisse.—Clear soup, with a garnish of three varieties of vegetable puree, custard, or plain boiled rice. — Brunoise (Brunoise Soup).—A clear gravy soup with finely minced carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions. — Brunoise au Riz.—The same as above, with the addition of some plainly boiled rice. — Cabure.—Clear soup with small round slices of cabbage and lettuce, also rounds of toasted bread coated with cheese. — Capucine.—Clear soup with finely shredded spinach and small profiteroUes filled with chicken puree.