SA UCES. 137 Sauce C&pres (Caper).—A white sauce with capers. — CEpres Brune (Brown Caper Sauce).—A brown sauce with capers, seasoned with black pepper and nutmeg. — Cap6tienne.—White wine sauce with tomato puree, made Bearnaise style. — Cardinal.—White fish sauce mixed with lobster coral or spawn, flavoured with essence of anchovies and tarragon vinegar. — Carlet.—A white cream-like sauce made with fish stock, white wine, butter, flour, and egg-yolks, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sugar. — Castelaine (Castillane).—Demi-glace, with pimiento (Spanish pepper) and finely chopped ham, flavoured with lemon juice. — Cavalier.—Thin brown sauce, blended with tomato puree, flavoured with tarragon vinegar and French mustard, mixed with finel}^ chopped chutney, gherkins, and capers. — Cazanova.—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise, finely shredded truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. — C^l^rie (Celery).—A white sauce, with cooked chopped celery ; served with boiled poultry. — Champagne.—Thin brown sauce, reduced with cham- pagne and ham essence. — Champignons (Mushrooms)—Veloute and mushroom liquor, or demi-glace and sliced mushrooms. — Chantilly. — Well reduced bechamel blended with whipped cream. — Chantilly (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce with whipped cream, flavoured with grated horseradish. — Chasseur (Huntsman).—Espagnole sauce, with chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley, flavoured with pepper, lemon juice, and game essence. — Chateaubriand.—Rich brown sauce made with meat glaze, espagnole sauce, fresh butter, white wine, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, flavoured with cayenne pepper and red currant jelly. — Chaudfroid.—Masking or coating sauce, made of well- reduced white, fawn, cream, green, red, or brown sauce, blended with sufficient dissolved gelatine or aspic to set when cold. — Chevreuil (Venison).—A brown sauce, reduced with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced ghei'kins, seasoned with red pepper. — Chicory.—Veloute sauce, blended with green herb butter (fines herbes).