239 THE ENTRJ^E COURSE {GAME). Escalopes de, marin^es.—Marinaded or pickled fillets or cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed and fried ; sauce Marinade. Li^vre k la Flamande.—Jugged hare, with onion, fried in butter, garnished with fried-bread croutons coated with red-currant jelly. — fare! a la Fermi^re.—Stuffed with veal and pork farce, and braised; served with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely chopped ham and parsley, and reduced with white wine. Filets de, a la Sicilienne.—Larded fillets, braised, and finished in reduced gravy ; flavoured with cinnamon and chopped parsley ; dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed. Florendines de.—Boned legs stuffed with game farce, rolled, and braised in casserole in the oven. Grenadins de.—Small fillets, larded and braised; tomato or Demi-glace sauce. Li^vre en gite.—Alternate layers of potted hare, sausage meat, and hare fillets, dressed in a tureen, moistened with sherry, covered with slices of bacon, and baked in the oven ; served in the tureen (hot or cold). Haricot de.—Cut into joints, seasoned, fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce, mushrooms, and button onions. Longe de, a la Soubise.—Braised loin with onion puree; brown or Demi-glace sauce. — ^ la Lyonnaise.—Jugged hare with small glazed chestnuts cooked in rich stock. — a la Romaine.—Fillets or cutlets of hare, sauteed in butter, dressed in crown-shape ; sauce Romaine, with pignolis kernels. Pat6 de, ^ TAnglaise (Hare Pie).—Cut into small joints, filled in a pie-dish, with forcemeat, slices of bacon, liver, and stock, covered with puff-paste crust, and baked in the oven. Pat6 de Li§vre, a la Frangaise.—Raised pie crust, filled with pieces of fried hare, pork farce, bacon, mush- rooms, and stock, baked in the oven. Rable de, ^ la St. Denis.—Loin or neck cut into cutlets, braised, and served with truffle sauce. — a la Mode.—Small joints (larded fillets), fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce, with small pieces of salt or pickled pork ; flavoured with chilli vinegar ; served in casserole. Ours—Bear, Benne—Reindeer. Cuissot d*Ours ^ la Cussy.—Boned leg, marinaded or pickled, braised, and served with salmi sauce, sliced truffles, etc.