3o8 the menu book. Cr6me a la Cr6oIe.—Vanilla cream, with cooked ground rice ; decorated with slices of pineapple, and masked over with whipped cream (Chantilly). — la Dalmatienne.—Timbale shape of vanilla cream, interlined with layers of finger biscuits soaked in maraschino, and minced fruit compote. — Diplomate.—Rich custard mixed with macaroons and Savoy biscuits, set in a mould lined with jelly, and '' decorated. — a I’EspagnoIe.—Orange-flavoured bavarois cream, timbale shape, interlined with sections of orange, and garnished similarly. — Eug6nie.—Vanilla cream, mixed with small macaroons, steeped in maraschino, masked with noyeau-flavoured custard sauce. — Florentine.—Border shape of caramel cream, with addition of crushed almond-rock, centre filled with Chantilly cream, and chopped pistachios on top. — frapp§e aux milles fruits.—Vanilla cream mixed with stiffly whisked whites of eggs, mixed glace fruit, and liqueur as flavour, set in moulds, and iced. — a la G6noise.—Rich custard mixed with crushed macaroons, orange juice, and glace cherries, flavoured with brandy, set in moulds. — a la Imperatrice.—Vanilla cream mixed with chopped pistachios and glace cherries, set in a border mould previously masked with wine jelly, and suitably decorated. — Jubil6.—A rich fruit cream, set in the centre of a mould of port wine or claret jelly. — marbree.—The same as “ Rubane.” — Monaco.—Vanilla cream and apricot cream, scooped out into spoon shapes, and set in plain mould lined with maraschino jelly, glace cherries, and jelly placed between layers of cream ; garnished with glace finger biscuits. — 0p6ra.—The same as “ Beau-Rivage,” omitting jam, and garnishing the top with crystallised violets. — Plombi^re.—Vanilla cream, with ground almonds. — renvers6e.—Like caramel cream, flavoured with lemon. — Romaine.—Rich cream, flavoured with burnt almonds and orange-flower water. — Ruban^.—Vanilla cream or blancmange, interlined with layers of chocolate, coffee or raspberry cream, to represent ribbons when cut. — cuite a la Suisse.—A kind of bavaroise mixed with glace fruit and cream, set in fancy mould lined with wine jelly, and decorated.