2I8 THE MENU BOOK. Poularde d la Leo X.—Large fowl, cooked white, breast portion filled with sweetbread ragout, truffles, and cocks’ combs, breast fillets placed on top ; sauced over with supreme ; garnished with small rice timbales. — d la Mascotte.—Large Surrey fowl^ boiled in white stock, breast portion filled with chicken mousse ; fillets, and other part of bird coated with white chaudfroid sauce, and decorated with slices of truffle ; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with foie- gras mousse, covered with chaudfroid sauce and suitably decorated. Medallions de poularde Gauloise.—Capon or poularde braised white, fillets shaped into medaillons, coated with farce and supreme chaudfroid, and replaced to form breast part of the bird ; decorated with truffle and small salad, surrounded with gauloise timbales made of green pea puree and mayonnaise aspic. Poularde d la Metropole.—Braised Surrey fowl, jointed and dressed on savoury rice with slices of foie-gras and truffle ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with creamed fresh mushrooms, and croutons of calf’s brains and fleurons. — a la Milton.—Galantine of capon or poularde, braised in white stock, served with supreme sauce, and garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — farcie a la P6rigueux.—Stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. Timbales de, a la Prineesse.—Timbales of capon force- meat mixed with chopped truffles; poached, and served with supreme sauce. Poularde en Supreme.—Blanched and boiled in rich stock, skin removed when jointed ; finished in supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — bouillie d la Turque.—Boiled, cut up, dressed in a rice border with tomato sauce. — a la Troulson.—Same as " Mascotte ” but filling is composed of foie-gras and chicken mousse ; garnished with groups of slices of jellied lobster, caviare, and gherkins. — saut§e a la St. Valentin.—Stewed with finely chopped truffles and mushrooms, garnished with mushroom heads (champignons), hard-boiled yolks of eggs, fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste, baked), and chopped parsley; served with orange sauce, reduced with sherry. — a la Vierge.—Poached in chicken stock and braised white with bechamel enriched with cream; garnished with slices of sweetbread and pieces of calf’s brain ; sauce veloute.