171 MEAT ENTRIES {BEEF). under the above heading, the mode of cooking being exactly the same as for ordinary fillets. When no special sauce is quoted, demi-glace or plain gravy should be poured round the base of the dish. Filets de Bceuf h rAmbassadrice.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef with chicken liver farce, and garnished with financiere ; sauce madere. — a rAmericain6.—Grilled fillets of beef with fried egg- yolk on top of each, garnished with fried egg-plant; sauce tomate. — a I’Andalouse.—Larded and braised fillets of beef; garnished with glazed chestnuts, braised cabbage- lettuces, and tomatoes. — h TAthenienne.—Larded and braised fillets ; served with fried, sliced egg-plants ; madere sauce. — au beurre d’Anchois.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, with anchovy butter. — a la Bearnaise.—Broiled or grilled fillets ; with bear- naise sauce on fillets, and demi-glace round them. — a la Bon Marche.—Braised fillet steak, dressed on cheese- flavoured macaroni, and garnished with grilled ham and fleurons ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Bordelaise.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef, with beef-marrow and bordelaise sauce. — aux Champignons.—Broiled fillets of beef, with sliced mushrooms (champignons) and brown sauce. — a la Choron.—Broiled or sauteed fillets, with slices of beef-marrow, small artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus points as garnish ; sauce choron. — a la Clamart.—Sauteed or grilled fillets of beef, garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with green pea puree ; sauce demi-glace. — ^ la Claremont.—Larded and braised ; served with braised cucumber and tomatoes, and small stuffed onions glazed ; bearnaise and demi-glace sauces. — a la Condroise.—Larded and braised fillet steak, garnished with braised cabbage, young carrots and turnips, and chipolata sausages. — a la Dauphine.—Larded and grilled ; garnished with fried cocks’ combs, sliced truffles ; perigueux sauce. — a la Duchesse.—Grilled or broiled fillets, dressed in duchesse potato border, with Chateaubriand sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef ; with brown savoury herb sauce. — a la Garfield.—Larded and grilled ; served with finely- cut julienne strips of ham, tongue, truffles, and mush- rooms ; poivrade sauce.