275 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Pommes de terre Macaire.—Baked in their skins, cut open, interior mixed with butter and fine herbs, re-filled and re-baked. — machees.—Peeled, boiled in beef stock, and mashed, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and sprinkled over with chopped parsley. — a la Madeleine.—Small, even-sized kidney potatoes, scraped or peeled, tossed in butter, seasoned and baked in the oven. — Maire.—Peeled, chopped coarsely, and stewed in milk and butter ; seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. — Maitre d’hdtel.—Sliced and stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley. — Marie.—Same as Duchesse ” potato shapes ; coated with grated cheese, and baked. — Marquise.—Rich potato pur6e, blended with tomato pulp, shaped like meringues, and baked. — melang^es.—Coarsely sliced potatoes parboiled, rnixcd with an equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed with a little fresh butter, and seasoned with salt. — Mignonette.—Like straw potatoes, only cut a little coarser ; sprinkled with chopped parsley v/hen done. — Milanaise.—Cut into dice shapes, parboiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares of cooked ham and grated parmesan cheese, and mixed with yolks of eggs ; shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat. — Mont-Dore.—Mashed, mixed with cream, grated cheese, and seasoning ; filled in shells, and baked in ovenr — Mousseline.—Fried potato balls (croquettes), interior filled with whipped seasoned cream ; re-heated before serving. — Nantaise.—Mashed, dished up in dome shape, masked with supreme sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and browned in the oven. — Navarraise.—Peeled, cut in half-inch squares, and fried in oil, drained, and sprinkled with salt. — Ninette.—Finely cut strips, julienne fashion, with grated cheese, treated the same as Anna potatoes. — Noisette.—Peeled, cut into large dice shapes, parboiled, and fried nut brown in butter. — Normande.—Timbales of potatoes, cooked in milk and stock, with minced onion and leek ; browned in oven or under salamander. — Parisienne.—Small ball or marble shapes, scooped out v/hen peeled, blanched and sauteed or fried in clarified butter.