THE MENU BOOK. 222 Poulet en Compote. — Stewed in rich brown sauce, with mushrooms, slices of fried bacon, and braised button onions. — a la Delcass6.—Sauteed in butter, and finished in Bordelaise sauce; garnished with cepes, tomato quarters and fleurons. — ^ la Diable.—Spring chickens split open at the back, highly seasoned with cayenne, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled ; spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Cold fowl treated in same manner. — a la Diane.—Sauteed in butter, but kept white, finished in cream sauce ; garnished with mushrooms and chopped truffles. — a TEcarlate.—Braised ; garnished with heart-shaped slices of cooked ox-tongue ; served with demi-glace or veloute sauce. Epigrammes de, ^ la Villeroi.—Fillets, seasoned and slightly broiled, immersed in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — aux truffes.—Boned and skinned, cut into heart shapes or fillets, larded, with truffles, and broiled in butter ; served with truffle sauce. Escalopes de, a I’Anglaise.—Minced (cold roast or boiled), stewed in bechamel sauce, filled into scallop shells, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Filets de, h I’lmperiale.—Larded breasts and wings, braised, and served with game quenelles and truffles. — a la Jardiniere.—Breasts broiled ; garnished with groups of young spring vegetables ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Marcelle.—Chicken fillets, crumbed, and broiled in butter, dressed round a shape of Anna potatoes ; sauce Godard, flavoured with paprika. Fricassee de, h I’Ancienne.—Cooked in white sauce, with small button onions and mushroom heads ; garnished with puff-paste fleurons. — aux Champignons.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — a la Havelock.—Blanched and stewed in allemande sauce, enriched with egg-yolks and fresh butter ; garnished with rings of ox-tongue, truffles, mush- rooms, and cocks’ combs. — ^ la Printanifire.—Fricasseed chicken, garnished with young green peas and beans and other spring vegetables. Poulet farci, Reine Olga.—Stuffed with breadcrumbs, butter, and chopped ham, breast studded with ham ; braised in casserole, with bacon and lemon rind ; madere sauce.