250 THE MENU BOOK. Filet de Bceuf a la Gouf!6.—Braised and barded fillet, dressed on bed of savoury rice, with quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms as garnish ; gravy. — a la Hussard.—Larded and braised fillet, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, grilled mushrooms, and duchess potatoes ; sauce Hussard. — a la Louis XV.—Braised (larded) whole ; garnished with stuffed potatoes fried or baked. — d la Palestine.—Roast (larded) whole ; garnished with braised Jerusalem artichokes, parsnips, and button onions. — a la Parisienne.—Roast (larded); garnished with small marble-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Paysanne.—Braised; garnished with celery, turnips, carrots, and new kidney potatoes ; browned in the oven. — a la Prince Orloff.—Studded with bacon and tongue, and braised, cut up and masked with tomato sauce and soubise, then browned ; garnished with braised lettuce and celery. — a la Renaissance.—Larded and braised ; garnished with braised lettuce, small tomatoes, chateau potatoes, and mushrooms ; gravy. — a la Richelieu.—Larded and braised ; garnished with stuffed tomatoes, truffles, and mushrooms; Demi- glace. — la Strasbourgeoise—Roast; garnished with sauer- kraut (pickled white cabbages), slices of rolled braised ham, smoked sausage, and mashed potatoes ; gravy. — a la Talleyrand.—Studded with truffles and tongue, and braised ; garnished with small macaroni crous- tades or croquettes, truffles, foie-gras filling ; sauce Perigord. — a la Tivoli.—Larded and braised fillet; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with vegetable macedoine ; gravy. — a la Toscane.—Roast (larded); garnished with artichoke bottoms, stuffed tomatoes, and small braised brussels sprouts, tossed in butter ; Demi-glace. Langue de Bceuf—Ox-tongiie, Langue de Boeuf a la Flamande.—Braised ox-tongue, garnished with potatoes (cubes), turnips, carrots, braised cabbage, and bacon slices; also slices of smoked sausage ; gravy. — a la Foug^re.—Braised, served with sauteed broad beans as garnish ; sauce Demi-glace.