THE MENU BOOK. 290 Omelette ^ TAnglaise.—Plain omelet, garnished with thin rashers of fried bacon. — Allemande.—Rich pancake batter, fried in butter rather thickly, and folded ; usually served with salad. — Am6ricaine.—Savoury omelet, filled with sliced tomatoes, tossed in butter, chopped bacon, and fried shallots. — Argenteuil.—Plain omelet, filled with asparagus tips, previously cooked and tossed in butter. — Arl^quin.—Several small savoury omelets placed on one dish, each of which is filled with either of the following purees: tomato, spinach, onion, and truffles ; sauce tomate. — aux Bananes.—Plain omelet filled with savoury bananas. — Bearnaise.—Plain omelet, mixed with asparagus puree, and filled with mushroom and artichoke bottom ragout; sauced with bearnaise round base. — Bohemienne.—Savoury omelet, mixed with strips of truffles and ham. — Bonne Femme.—Savoury omelet, filled with sorrel puree. — Bouch^re.—Omelet, with blanched beef-marrow ; demi- glace sauce. — Boulognaise.—Omelet filled with small pieces of mackerel fillets, tossed in butter. — Bretonne.—Omelet filled with brown onion puree, sliced mushrooms and leek, tossed in butter. — Brlllat-Savarin.—Omelet filled with fillets of snipe and sliced truffles ; madere or game sauce. — Bruxelloise.—Omelet filled with braised endive, and cream sauce. — Ghamb6ry.—Omelet filled with dice of fried bacon, potatoes tossed in butter, and leek, coated with parmesan, and glazed. — a la Chasseur.—Savoury omelet, filled with minced game ; sauce madere. — Czarina.—Plain omelet, filled with a delicate cucumber stew. — Duchesse.—Very small savoury omelets, mixed with chopped tongue, and dressed on shces of tongue; sauce tomate. — Durand.—Omelet filled with thinly-cut slices of arti- choke bottoms, mushrooms tossed in butter, also sliced truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — Espagnole.—Savoury omelet, containing dice shapes of fried ham, filled with sauteed tomatoes. — fourr6e.—Stuffed or compound omelet (filled with a savoury mixture.)