34<5 THE MENU BOOK. Huitres a I’Horly or Orley.—Marinaded oysters dipped in frying batter and fried in deep fat ; garnished with slices of lemon and parsley ; sauce tomate. — a ritalienne.—Soused or marinaded oysters, drained and dipped in flour, and then in beaten seasoned eggs, fried in an omlette pan with clarified butter ; served with nut-brown butter. — a la Villeroi.—Poached oysters in fish stock ; drained and coated with reduced bechamel sauce, then egged and crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; garnished with lemon quarters and parsley. — en brochettes.—Large oysters, bearded, dipped in oiled and seasoned butter and covered with fresh breadcrumbs, fastened on skewers, and grilled over the fire; dressed with skewers stuck in bread croutons, and garnished with lemon slices and parsley. — en cassolettes.—Bearded oysters ranged in threes or fours in small buttered china cassolette or ramakin cases, seasoned, two or three prawn tails, with piquante demi-glace sauce added to each, and thus cooked in oven ; served in the Cassolette cases. — frites a la Diable.—Fried oysters devilled. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled oysters with savoury herb butter. — ^ la Normande.—Ragout of oysters, crayfish tails, and truffles, mixed with sauce normande, dressed in very small china casseroles, allowing one for each person. — sur pain grille.—Oysters on toast. Les huitres a eheval.—Oysters on horseback (rolled in bacon and grilled.) Petits Nids en surprise (Cold).—Little birds’ nests made of short crust pastry and cheese choux paste ; when baked, brushed with dissolved glaze and besprinkled with chopped pistachios ; small egg shapes of lobster paste or horseradish butter placed in centre of nests. Petits soufflds h la Hongroise.—Baked halves of potatoes, scooped out, and filled with lobster salpicon, and savoury choux paste well seasoned with paprika; baked in sharp oven. Sardines a la Diable.—Devilled sardines. — aux oeufs poch^s.—Sardines with poached eggs. — Provenpale.—Sardines on toast, with egg sauce. Saumon fumd d la Diable.—Smoked salmon devilled — au gratin.—Baked salmon, gratin style. Trongons de Then d, la Tosca.—Shoes of cheese-flavoured puff pastry, spread over with tunny fish paste mixed with chutney, curry, and egg-yolks, with crayfish or prawns, pimiento ring in centre ; served hot.