103 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Barbue a la Donier.—Fillets of brill, poached in oven, drained on rice foundation, and sauced over with shrimp sauce ; breaded and browned in oven, — a la Duglerd.—Fillets of brill dipped in flour, cooked in butter, and served with crushed tomatoes tossed in butter, and noisette sauce. — a la Grand Due.—Fillets of brill, in veloute sauce, eggs and breadcrumbs, served with veloute sauce, to which is added horseradish, tomato pulp, and cream ; garnished with mussels and oysters. — a la Madeleine.—Fillets of brill covered on one side with whiting forcemeat mixed with herbs, placed in paupiette rings and sauteed, with white stock and mirepoix ; then dipped in egg and breadcrumbs and fried ; served with marseillaise sauce. — d la Russe.—Fillets of brill poached in richly flavoured fish essence (reduced fish stock), sauced over with a mushroom sauce, and glazed under the salamander. — St. Germain.—Fillets of brill egged and crumbed and fried or sauteed in butter, served with Bearnaise sauce. — Tyrolienne.*—Fillets of brill, marinaded, breaded, and fried in butter, served with tomato sauce mixed with fine herbs. Blanchailles— Whitebait, Blanchailles a la Diable.—Whitebait devilled, .seasoned with salt and cayenne. — a rindienne.—Fried whitebait, seasoned with salt and curry powder. — a la Madras.—Same as “ Indienne.” — au naturel.—Whitebait fried crisp in deep fat. Bouille-a-Baisse (French Fish Stew).—Fish stew, made from various kinds of fish and lobster, flavoured with garlic, savoury herbs, and white wine. Court-Bouillon (au).—A French savoury fish stew, pre- pared from various kinds of fish, tomatoes, etc. Brochet—Pike, Brochet a I’Ancienne.—Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mushrooms, and capers. — ^ la Gastelaine (Pike, Castelaine style).—Braised pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue, and bacon; served with white sauce, and garnished with lobster croquettes, truffles, and oysters. — ^ la Cavour (Pike, Cavour style).—Broiled pike, garnished with nouilles, grated horseradish, and carrots ; served with rich veloute sauce.