304 THE MENU BOOK. Abricot a la Cond6.—Timbale or border of cooked rice, flavoured with cream and vanilla, dressed with compote of apricots, and decorated with cherries and angelica ; served hot or cold, with fruit syrup. — dr la Creole (Hot or Cold).—Dome shape of cooked sweet rice enriched with cream, with halves of apricots, decorated with glace cherries and angelica, coated with apricot sauce, kirsch flavour. — a la Dreux.—Brioche paste tartlet crusts, filled with almond custard and halves of apricots, glazed with syrup. — d la Portugaise (Hot).—Rice shape, interior with sal- picon of apricots, steamed or baked, masked with pineapple sauce, decorated with halves of almonds and angelica. — d la Reine (Cold).—Border of genoise cake dressed with apricot compote, garnished with glace fruit, sauced over with apricot marmalade. — au riz.—Stewed apricots, dressed on a border of cooked sweetened rice ; garnished with glace fruit; served hot or cold. — au riz meringu6 (Hot or Cold).—As above, omitting the garnish, and coating the whole with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in oven. — d la Royale (Cold).—Border or basis of genoise, masked with apricot icing, decorated with pistachios, etc. ; centre filled up with halves of apricots, glazed with kirsch jelly. — d la Sultane (Hot or Cold).—Genoise cake basis, with layer of cooked sweet rice, on top halves of apricots ranged in dome shape, coated with meringue, set in oven ; served with apricot sauce. Pains d’abricots au marasquin (Cold).—Stewed apricots flavoured with maraschino and lemon juice, set in small moulds with wine jelly. Ananas—Pineapple. Ananas d la Caroline (Cold).—Genoise cake border, masked with rum-flavoured icing, centre filled with iced bombs of pineapple puree and vanilla custard ; kirsch flavour, chopped pistachios on top. — d la Chinoise.—Whole pineapple, centre scooped out and filled with dice shaped pineapple, mixed with cooked sweetened rice (a la creme), garnished with small cornets of pineapple, each filled with a few stoned or glace cherries. — d la Condo (Cold).—Sliced pineapple, cooked in kirsch marinade, dressed on cold rice basis, coated with apricot sauce, kirsch flavour ; decorated with angelica and glace cherries.