THE MENU BOOK. 244 Filets d6 Caneton a la Madrid.—Braised whole, cut into fillets, masked with mayonnaise aspic, mixed with grated horseradish and mustard ; garnished with slices of tomatoes, chopped aspic, and cress. — d la Javanaise.—Larded and braised whole, glazed with demi-glace and aspic ; garnished with vegetable macedoine dressed with aspic, etc., grated horseradish, and tomatoes ; suitable as remove or supper dish. — de Volaille la Trianon.—Bomb-shaped mould, lined with aspic and chicken fillets, centre filled with chicken, hard-boiled egg, tongue and Batavia salad, seasoned with lemon mayonnaise; garnished with lettuce hearts, and served with sauce Trianon. Fleurettes de Foie-Gras.—Small square, oblong or oval (flat) moulds, lined with aspic and decorated with chervil leaves, truffle, and chilli skin, masked with aspic cream and filled with foie-gras mixture (pounded); chicken, salmon, and turbot may be prepared in this style. Foie de Veau a la Flamande.—Larded and braised calf's liver, set in terrine with aspic jelly. Galantine de Dinde aux Truffes.—Galantine of turkey with trufiies. — d*Ortolans en Chaudfroid.—Braised, stuffed ortolan, shaped into galantines, masked with chaudfroid sauce; garnished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables and chopped aspic. — de Poulet or de Volaille.—Chicken galantine, garnished with aspic. — de Veau en Aspic.—Veal galantine, garnished with savoury jelly. Jambon en Gelde.—Braised ham, when cold cut in slices or left whole, coated with aspic jelly. — a TAlsacienne.—Mousse or souffle of ham and foie-gras and truffles, set in mould, and cut out in quenelle shapes, then masked with aspic. Langue de Boeuf roul6e k la Gel6e.—Rolled ox-tongue, masked and garnished with savoury jelly. Mauviettes h la Lucullus.—Boned and stuffed larks, braised, cooled, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with truffles, border of green peas, etc. Mayonnaise de Poissons.—Fish mayonnaise. — de Volaille.—Chicken mayonnaise. Medallions de Volaille h ITmperiale.—Round shces of cooked chicken (fillets), masked with white chaud- froid sauce, decorated with truffle slices, and dressed on rounds of tongue; garnished with asparagus salad in centre of dish.