MEAT ENTRJ^ES {PORK). 203 Rognons de Mouton sautees a la Franpaise.—Sliced and seasoned, tossed with butter over a quick fire ; when partly done dredged with flour, and finished with demi- glace sauce ; garnished with fried-bread croutons, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — sautes au Mad^re.—Sliced, tossed in butter, and served with madere sauce. — a la Majestic.—Grilled sheep’s kidneys, served in a baked potato border on a puree of fresh mushrooms ; sauced over with bearnaise. — panes.—Par-broiled split sheep’s kidneys put on skewers, buttered, breadcrumbed, and baked in the oven or fried in deep fat. — a la Turbigo.—Sliced and stewed, with finely chopped shallots and white wine, mixed with thin slices of sausages and dice of fried lean bacon. Pore—Pork. {See also Light Entree and Cold Entree Sections.) Carbonade de Pore a la Frangaise (Breast or Belly part).— Slices of fresh pork with vegetable garnish stewed in brown sauce. Carre de Pore a la Nivernaise.—Braised neck of pork with glazed button onions and cubes of turnips. — braisee, sauce Piquante.—Braised neck of pork with piquant sauce. — a PIndienne.—Curried neck of pork, with boiled rice. Cervelles de Pore d, la Demi-Glace.—Blanched pigs’ brains stewed in demi-glace sauce. — a I’ltalienne.—Stewed in Italian sauce, with macaroni garnish. Cotes de Pore a la Diplomate.—Braised spare ribs of pork, garnished with stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. Cotelettes de Pore Berlinoise.—Small pork cutlets partially fried ; pressed and spread with liver-sausage farce ; wrapped in pig’s caul and finished cooking ; served with celery and potato puree (gratine); truffle sauce. — grillees.—Broiled pork cutlets. — aux fines herbes.—Broiled, and stewed in brown sauce containing chopped parsley and white wine. — aux Haricots blancs.—Fried, served with puree of white haricot beans. — de Pore d, I’lndienne.—Par-fried, stewed in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice with saffron flavour. — aux Lentilles.—Braised or stewed, with a puree of lentils.