324 THE MENU BOOK, Pouding Albemarle.—A souffle pudding made with ground almonds, flour, eggs, sugar, and vanilla flavouring; baked in moulds ; vanilla sauce. — a l*Albuf6ra.—Semolina or Florador souffle mixture, with addition of currants and chopped chestnuts, filled in mould, coated with crushed macaroons, and baked ; raspberry sauce. — a I’AHemande.—Made from small pieces of cake chopped almonds, grated lemon rind, eggs, sugar and Madeira wine ; steamed. — a I’Ancienne,—A rich semolina souffle pudding, served with red-currant syrup, flavoured with claret or port. — de c§rises a I’Anglaise.—Cherry pudding with suet- crust lining. — a I’Arlequin.—A rich semolina and almond pudding mixture, made in four varieties—vanilla, raspberry, chocolate, and pistachio ; the mould is filled in three layers, steamed and served with maraschino-flavoured sauce. — a la bachelier (Bachelor’s Pudding).—Made from eggs, finely minced apples, currants, breadcrumbs, lemon rind, grated nutmeg, and sugar ; steamed in mould. — a la Brdsilienne.—Tapioca souffle pudding with carame sauce. — de Cabinet.—Dice shaped biscuits, sponge cake or genoise, mixed with glace fruit cut up small, and filled in mould with custard, and steamed ; served with vanilla or German sauce. — Cambaceres.—Ground almond souffle mixture with chopped beef-marrow, sultanas, and preserved ginger, steamed or baked ; apricot sauce. — Cardinal.—Raspberry souffle, steamed or baked, with jam sauce. — Celestine.—Rolled pancakes, filled with almond custard cut small, and steamed with custard in mould; vanilla sauce. — aux c6rises.—Cherry pudding made with the basis of a souffle mixture. — Chancelier (Chancellor’s pudding).—Steamed custard pudding, with sponge cakes, ratafias, and dried fruit; mould garnished with fruit; served hot with wine sauce. — Chinoise.—Vanilla souffle mixture, mixed with dice of preserved ginger, steamed, and served with apricot sauce, flavoured with ginger. — Clermont (Cold).—Bavarois or vanilla cream, mixed with chestnut puree, and decorated with glace chestnuts ; vanilla syrup.