FISH SAVOURIES. 345 Beignets d8 poisson.—Fish fritters. — fum6s.—Smoked fish fritters. BIsquits au beurre d’anchois.—Anchovy butter biscuits. Bonnes-bouches aux huitres.—Oyster tit-bits. — h la Riviera.—Small savoury choux paste shapes, baked, and.filled with oyster ragout; breaded with grated cheese, and glazed in oven. Canapes a la cr§me de laitances.—Blanch some cod’s roe (fresh), pound in mortar, and add whipped cream and seasoning ; dress on little canapes of fried bread, finger, oval, or oblong shapes ; sprinkle over with lobster coral and krona pepper, heat in sharp oven, and dish up, — a la Nantua.—Rounds of toasted bread spread with green herb butter, stoned olives stuffed with anchovy placed in centre of each, with a prawn or crayfish tail. — a la Romanoff (Cold).—Cold tunny fish cream, set with aspic, stamped out in rounds or ovals, and dressed on croutes or canapes of fried bread ; decorated with strips of pistachio nuts (lattice pattern). — de sardines.—Sardines on toast. Coquille de homard.—Scalloped lobster, Crabe aux oeufs h la Diable.—Curried crab and egg. — sur canapes ii I’lndlenne.—Curried crab on toast. — a la to mate.—Crab with tomato puree. Croustade de sardines au fromage.—Sardines in pastry crusts with grated cheese. Crofites de merluche fum6.—Smoked haddock, mixed with bechamel sauce, cheese, and egg-yolk, and heated ; spread on buttered toast and baked. Crofitons d’anchois aux fines herbes.—Savoury anchovy paste on toast. — au fromage.—Anchovy fingers, with cheese covering. — ^ PIndienne.—Curried anchovies on toast. Eclairs d’anchois.—Small anchovy pasties. Filets de Hareng a la Nignon (Cold).—Smoked herring fillets, rolled up, and set in tomato aspic border ; garnished with shced hard-boiled egg, pimiento and vegetable macedoine. Homard au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style, Huitres d. I’Am^ricaine.—Grilled oysters, with tomatoes. — au beurre.—Broiled oysters in butter. — a la Colbert.—Marinaded oysters, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; served with sauce Colbert,