300 THE MENU BOOK. Salade Imp6riale.—Asparagus tips (cooked), endive, and sliced truffles, seasoned with mayonnaise, flavoured with anchovy essence. — Japonnaise (Japanese).—Vegetable macedoine, with anchovy fillets, sliced salami sausage and hard-boiled eggs ; seasoned with vinaigrette. — Jockey Club.—Finely cut strips of celery, cold potatoes, cooked French beans, preserved mushrooms, gherkins, and lettuce hearts, dressed with mayonnaise; gar- nished with anchovy fillets and hard-boiled eggs. — a la Judic.—Slices of cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, ranged in pyramidal form in salad bowl; garnished with cooked brussels sprouts, French beans, and cauliflower sprigs' dressed with ravigote sauce. — au petit lard.—Green salad dressed in usual way, with streaky bacon cut in dice, fried, and finished in vinegar, poured over the salad. — de legumes a la Lyonnaise.—Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mixed with thin slices of Lyons sausage cut in strips, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots ; dressed with cold ravigote sauce. — Lorette.—Composed of celery heart, lettuce hearts, cooked new potatoes, cooked new carrots and beet- root, and raw lean ham, all cut in fine shreds ; mixed with mayonnaise and aspic ; garnished with rings of hard white of egg, beetroot, and stoned olives. — Mariette.—Piccalilli or mixed pickles, raw cucumber, and not over-ripe pears, cut in fine strips, and dressed with mayonnaise. — a la Marquise.—Finely-shredded lettuce, olive-shaped cucumber, dice-shaped artichoke bottoms, blended with mayonnaise dressing, made with hard-boiled egg-yolks, oil, vinegar, etc., dome shaped, covered with lettuce leaves, and masked with mayonnaise, and decorated to taste. — Medici.—Celery root, tomatoes, and cooked ox-tongue, cut in julienne strips; also cooked asparagus tips grouped in salad bowl with vinaigrette dressing; Tartare Sauce mixed with chopped pimiento. — Merc^dds.—Belgian endive and truffles cut into fine strips, dressed with lemon mayonnaise, thin shapes, and covered with thin sliced tomatoes ; garnished with truffles, etc. — Mikado.—Sprigs of chrysanthemum, sliced cold pota- toes, artichoke bottoms, and shelled prawns, capers and beetroot; seasoned with oil and vinegar dressing. — Miliken.—Salad composed of Spanish pimientos and truffles, cut in dice shapes, and cold boiled rice ; seasoned with mayonnaise ; dressed on lettuce leaves.