125 THE FISH COURSE. Filets de Soles a la Nantua.—Fillets of soles poached in white wine, dressed on rice or semolina border, and sauced over with allemande sauce flavoured with crayfish butter, centre filled with prawn or crayfish tails, heated up in allemande sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Poached fillets dressed on bed of cooked spaghetti, sauced over with cheese-flavoured tomato and Mornay sauce (blended), then glazed. — a la Ni^oise.—Dipped in oil and grilled ; garnished with sliced tomatoes, olives, and capers. — ^ la Normande.—Sole fillets poached, with normande sauce, garnished with mussels and oysters, truffles, and small fried smelts. — a la Norvegienne (cold).—Rolls or rings of fillets of sole, poached ; when cold, jellied, and filled with lobster puree, placed in halves of tomatoes and suitably garnished ; served with salade norge. — a I’Orientale.—Dome-shape mould, lined with fillets of sole, decorated with truffle slices, etc. ; interior filled with white fish farce, steamed, garnished with fleurons, prawns, and truffles ; white wine sauce. — ^ I’Orl^ans.—Poached sole fillets or whole sole, sauced over with three sauces—bechamel, green herb, and pink shrimp or lobster. — a I’Orly .—Fried fillets of soles with tomato sauce and fried parsley. — Otero.—Fillets rolled and poached, dressed with Mornay sauce, and garnished with poached oysters on croutons, mussels, fish quenelles, and crayfish tails. — a la Paiva.—Fillets poached in fish stock (wine flavour)» dressed on mushroom puree, then sauced over with Mornay sauce, grated cheese, and glazed under salamander. — a la Pagani.—A dish similar to " Sole au vin blanc,” finished with a rich veloute ; garnished with mussels, champignons, and grated cheese, browned. — a la Piemontaise. — Fillets of soles with tomato sauce; garnished with polenta croutons and slices of truffles. — a la Polignac.—Sole fillets, with white wine sauce^ finely shredded champignons, and tarragon leaves. — Pomeranienne.—Poached fillets, dressed with white wine sauce (Vin-blanc), garnished with little casserole- shaped croustades filled with apple puree, mixed with currants and flavoured with curry. — ^ la Pompadour.—Sole fillets with white wine sauce, dice shapes of tomatoes and truffles. — ^ la Rachel.—Sole fillets with shrimp or prawn sauce, garnished with truffle slices.