POTAGES—SOUPS. 87 Consomm6 Ramboule.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with stamped-out rounds of poached chicken quenelle meat and young green peas. — Raphael.—Chicken consomme with very small dice shapes of celeriac (tossed in butter), — Ravioli.—A clear soup made with chicken and veal stock, with little round nouille paste shapes stuffed with forcemeat (poached). — R^jane.—Chicken consomme, flavoured with chervil, garnished with dice of carrot and egg strips (oeufs fil6s). — Renaissance.—Clear soup with white sliced mushrooms, green peas, rice, and small cheese croutons (separate). — Riche.—Chicken consomme with small chicken quen- elles forced with truffle. — Richelieu (Careme maigre).—Fish consomme (tomato- flavoured), garnished with small lobster quenelles. — Riz.—Clear soup, garnished with plain boiled rice. — des Rois.—A rich chicken stock, clarified, garnished with julienne strips of quail fillets, truffles, and asparagus points. Parmesan croutons handed separatel3^ — Rossini.—Consomme double, garnished with very large macaroni, boiled, drained, and forced with foie-gras cream, poached and cut into small, short pieces. — Rothschild.—Game consomme, garnished with finely- cut pheasant fillets, chestnuts, and strips of truffles. — a la Roy ale.—Clear soup with poached egg custard, called royal, cut into cube, dice, round, diamond, or other fancy shapes. — Russe (Russian).—Clear soup with finely-cut slices of carrots, beetroot, celery, and leeks, flavoured with beetroot juice. — Sagou (Sago Soup).—Clear soup with sago. — Salvator.—Clear soup with dice-shaped ripe tomatoes, and chervil leaves. — Santos-Dumont.—Consomme of chicken lie with Brazilian tapioca, garnished with carrots cut in small olive shapes, French beans cut in julienne shapes, and turnips scooped out in pea shapes. — Sarah Bernhardt.—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles, crayfish tails, fine tapioca, and tiny bits of blanched beef-marrow. — Saxonne.—Clear soup with tapioca, small pink chicken quenelles, dice of beef-marrow, and green peas. — Semoule.—Clear soup with finely-grained semolina, cooked in the consomme.