128 THE MENU BOOK. Paupiettes de Soles Heine Alexandra.—Fillets of soles spread with lobster farce and rolled into paupiettes ; poached in sauterne and fish stock ; garnished with truffles^ anchovy butter, and new potatoes tossed in butter ; sauce cardinal. — a la Bismarck.—Fillets of soles soaked in marinade, spread with fish farce and chopped truffles, and rolled up ; poached in white wine ; dressed on a border of potato puree, sauced over with sauce marguery, sprinkled with grated parmesan, and browned in sharp oven. — a la Caruso.—Rolled fillets of sole, poached and dressed on halves of grilled tomatoes ; surmount each with a mushroom head and a slice of truffle ; gar- nished with artichoke croquettes ; sauce au vin blanc. — a I’Empereur.—Braised fillets of soles, rolled and stuffed with turbot farce, dressed in cassolettes, sauced over with b6chamel cream sauce, flavoured with paprika, anchovy essence; tops sprinkled with finely chopped truffle and horseradish. — a la St. Michel*.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with foie-gras farce and poached, dressed on a border of green peas, with ragout of prawns in centre ; sauce supreme. — a la Ni^oise.—Baked rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with fish farce, herbs, and anchovy paste ; sauced over with a rich tomato puree containing parmesan cheese; garnished with small gherkins, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in oven. — de Filets de Soles a la Richelieu.—Baked rolled fillets of soles stuffed with whiting forcemeat, dressed on croutes spread with fish farce, with mushroom head on each ; sauced over with cardinal sauce, enriched with egg-yolk ; a star of truffle placed on centre of each fillet. — a la Villeroise.—Soles cooked in cyder and mushroom liquor, garnished with cubes of plain boiled potatoes. Stoudin de Poissons a la Russe (cold).—Fillets of soles and small fillets of salmon poached and dressed alternately in crown shape, masked with aspic, and served with iced horseradish sauce. Turban de Filets de Soles ^ la Montpelier (cold).—Cold fillets of soles set in turban or border mould, with green herb chaudfroid sauce, aspic, etc. ; garnished with white of egg and truffle ; centre filled with dressed salad, etc. Timbale de Filets de Soles ^ la Savoy.—Poached fillets of soles, finished in rich white wine sauce, mixed with truffle, macaroni, and crayfish, served in pastry crust made of pate d joncer.