136 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Beurre Noisette (au).—Same as “ Beurre Noir,” with butter only slightly browned nut-brown, and not black. — Bigarade.—Demi-glace sauce with fine shreds of orange rindj fiavoured with orange juice and red-currant jelly. — Blanche.—White sauce made with white roux, half stock and milk, finished with butter and lemon juice. — Blanquette.—Allemande (white) sauce, enriched with an extra quantity of cream. — Boh6mienne (Bohemian).—A white sauce made with fresh breadcrumbs, white stock, butter, and grated horseradish, seasoned with pepper and salt. — Bonne Femme.—A white sauce made with finely chopped onion and shallots, blended in butter and cooked in fish stock, thickened with egg-yolks and whipped cream, seasoned and flavoured with lemon juice. — Bonnefoy.—A light bordelaise sauce, into which fresh butter, chopped parsley, and beef marrow are incorporated. — Bordelaise.—A brown sauce, with reductions of red wine, chopped parsley, tarragon, and shallots. — Bouillabaisse.—Tomato sauce, enriched with fish essence, flavoured with garlic, and finished with fresh butter. — Bourgulgnonne (Burgundy).—Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions reduced in Burgundy wine, flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace. Bread Sauce.—Milk, flavoured with onion and clove, and thickened with fresh breadcrumbs. Sauce Bressoise.—Reduced espagnole, flavoured with shallots and orange juice, enriched with puree of chicken liver. — Bretonne (Brittany).—Veloute sauce with finely-cut wisps of celery, leek, and truffles. — Broglie.—Espagnole, blended with ham, reduced with sherry and mushroom liquor, enriched with fresh butter. — Bulgare.—Cold tomato sauce, blended with finely shredded cooked celery. — Byron.—Demi-glace sauce, with a reduction of claret and chopped truffles. — Cambridge (cold).—Mayonnaise, mixed with parsley pur6e, capers, and anchovy paste, flavoured with mustard. — Canop^re.—A hot fish sauce made with fish, court- bouillon, and blond roux, enriched with crayfish butter. — Canotiere.—White fish sauce with white wine flavour, enriched with fresh butter, seasoned with cayenne.