259 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Asperges en Branches au deux Sauces (with two sauces). —Boiled, served usually with melted butter and Hollandaise sauce. — froides.—Boiled asparagus, served cold. — glac6es.—Boiled asparagus, iced. — a la Hollandaise.—Boiled, served with Hollandaise sauce. — a ritalienne.—Boiled; head portion coated au gvatin, same as "a la Mornay,” with white sauce or oiled butter, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in sharp oven or under salamander. — ^ la Melba.—Giant asparagus, tied in bundles and cooked in salted water ; served with sauce Melba. — a la Milanaise.—Cooked in salt water, dished up, strewed with grated parmesan cheese, oiled butter, and browned under salmander. — a la Mornay.—Boiled, and dished, sauced with Mornay sauce, and grated cheese ; browned. — a la Nipoise.—Boiled, and served cold, with a sauce made of sweet oil, hard-boiled egg-yolks, passed through a sieve ; vinegar, and seasoning. — en Petits Pois.—Green asparagus points (sprue), cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. — a la Plemontaise.—Boiled ; dressed with grated par- mesan cheese and nut-brown butter (beurre noisette). — a la Polonaise.—Boiled soft portion; dressed with nut-brown butter and fried breadcrumbs. — a la Princ6sse.—Boiled, and iced when cold ; served with cold mousseline sauce. — ^ la Royale.—Boiled, and served with light hot mousseline sauce. — saut^es au Beurre.—Boiled, and finished in butter. — a la Siberienne.—Cooked in salt water, served cold with sauce Gribiche or iced Remoulade. — au Velout6.—Boiled, and finished in veloute sauce. — a la Vinaigrette.—Boiled ; served with vinaigrette sauce. Pointes d*Asperges.—Asparagus points or tips. — ^ PArgenteuil.—Puree of green asparagus points or sprue, mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked), set in asparagus-shaped mould, so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus (white part, chicken forcemeat); served hot, with supreme sauce ; or cold, with aspic and salad. — a la S6yillienne.—Asparagus puree served inside a shape mounted with cooked cold asparagus, masked with aspic ; served cold and garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre. — a la Sylvane.—Boiled ; served cold with herb sauce (Gribiche—see Sauces).