148 THE MENU BOOK. Sauce Rubens.—Fish velout6 sauce, blended with mush- room liquor, enriched with anchovy butter and hard egg-yolks. — Russe (Russian).—Allemande or bechamel with grated horseradish, finely chopped ham, shallots, reduced with vinegar and white wine, seasoned with sour cream, sugar, pepper, and salt; served hot. — Russe (froide).—Cold remoulade sauce blended with grated horseradish and caviare. — Salmis.—A brown game sauce, reduced with white wine, meat glaze, and tomato pulp, flavoured with savoury herbs. — Saxonne.—Melted butter sauce with fish essence, shallot flavour, blended with grated lemon rind and mustard. — Sicilienne (Sicilian).—Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine; sliced onions fried in butter are mixed with the sauce just before serving ; served with beefsteaks, roast fillets of beef, etc. — Smitane.—Onion puree, reduced with white wine and bechamel, enriched with sour cream. — Solf^rino.—Demi-glace sauce with shallot reduced in Madeira wine, blended with tomato puree. — Soubise.—A white sauce with onion puree, seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, sugar, and salt, enriched with cream and butter. — Souchet.—Fish liquor, reduced with finely-shredded carrots, onion, and celery, also chopped parsley. — Soyer.—A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream. — St. Malo.—White wine sauce with shallot flavour, enriched with anchovy butter and mustard. — St. Menehould.—Bechamel sauce, enriched with veal essence, mixed with chopped parsley and cham- pignons. — St. Vincent (cold).—Remoulade sauce, flavoured with well-reduced white wine (chablis). — Stragotte.—A rich game sauce, reduced with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured with vegetable mirepoix, shallots, cloves, and mace, and strained ; generally served with Italian dishes. — Su6doise (Swedish).—A white sauce, highly flavoured, with grated horseradish and chili vinegar ; served hot. — Su^doise (cold).—Mayonnaise sauce, blended with French mustard and grated horseradish. — Sultan6.—Demi-glace sauce, enriched with game essence •f(fumet) and port wine, mixed with small sultanas.