155 GARNITURES. Garniture a la Marigny (for Meat or Poultry).—Croutons or croustades filled with flageolets beans, also fondante potatoes ; gravy. — ^ la Mariniere (for Fish).—Mussels, bearded oysters, and crayfish ; white fish sauce. — a la Marseillaise (for Fish).—Halves of tomatoes tossed in butter, flavoured with garlic, and ribbon potatoes ; brown fish sauce. — a la Mascotte (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms, braised button onions, and noisette potatoes ; rich gravy. — a la M6dicis (for Meat).—Paste or bread croustades, with olive-shaped braised turnips ; tomato sauce. — a la Mentonnaise (for Meat).—Small vegetable marrows, stuffed with savoury farce meat, and braised ; also new kidney potatoes and artichoke bottoms ; gravy. — a la Mignon (for Poultry or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with small green peas, chicken quenelles, and sliced truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise (for Meat).—Macaroni, julienne strips of tongue, and mushrooms ; tomato sauce. — a la Mirelle (for Meat).—Plain tartlet crusts filled with saffron-flavoured rice, potato croquettes, and tomatoes; tomato sauce. — a la Mirabeau (for Meat).—Stoned olives, anchovy fillets, and artichoke bottoms; demi-glace sauce, with tarragon or chervil flavour. — a la Moderne (for Meat).—Braised cabbage lettuces, potato croquettes, and chicken quenelles mixed with chopped tongue ; demi-glace sauce or gravy. — a la Montebello (for Poultry or Meat).—Tartlet crusts filled with shredded truffles and tongue ; bearnaise sauce, blended with tomato pulp. — a la Montpensier (for Meat).—Asparagus tips, sliced truffles, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace. — a la Nantua (for Fish).—Small puff-paste bouchees filled with salpicon of truffle and crayfish ; Nantua sauce. — a la Napolitaine (for Meat).—Spaghetti mixed with tomato sauce and Parmesan cheese. — a la Nemours (for Meat).—Grilled cup mushrooms and Duchesse potatoes ; gravy. — a la Nigoise (for Meat).—Grilled or sauteed tomatoes, French beans, stoned olives, and Parisienne potatoes ; gravy. — a la Nivernaise (for Poultry or Meat).—Small braised carrots and button onions ; demi-glace. — a la Normande (for Fish).—Oysters, shrimps, mussels mushrooms, fried smelts, and fried and glazed croutons ; Normande sauce.