SWEET ENTREMETS. 325 Pouding Coburg.—A kind of thick custard, with brandy flavouring, baked in cups. — Delaware.—Suet pudding, filled with peeled and cored apples, currants, orange peel, etc. ; steamed in cloth. — Diplomate.—A rich cabinet pudding, flavoured with rum or other liqueur. — Figaro (Cold).—Three coloured cream, vanilla, rasp- berry, and chocolate, set in alternate layer in mould; served with red wine sauce. — Frankfort.—Brown bread soufil6 mixture, in addition to ground almonds and sultanas, steamed ; lemon sauce. — Gastronome.—A rich semolina pudding, masked with apricot puree and thin pancakes ; sauce a I’abricot. — G6nevolse.—Ground rice, cooked in milk, with apples filled in mould ; baked in the oven. — George V.—Thinly baked pancakes, spread with vanilla rice custard, cut up in squares and filled in caramel- coated timbale mould with mixed fruit, and custard ; steamed and served hot with maraschino sauce. — Georgette.—Rich rice pudding mixture (souffle type), filled in mould lined with pancakes, with chopped glac6 fruit; baked and served with apricot sauce. — Hanovrienne.—A kind of plum pudding, with addition of crushed macaroons ; served with liqueur-flavoured apricot sauce. — a l’Imp6ratrice.—A rich custard pudding, served hot with spiced sweet sauce. — Indienne.—Ground rice souffle mixture, with chopped preserved ginger ; steamed, and served with ginger syrup or sauce. — Israelite.—Ground almond souffle mixture, flavoured with orange-flower water ; steamed and served with orange sauce. — d ritalienne.—A rich bread pudding, with cream, apples, and dried fruit ; baked in a mould lined with puff paste. — Japonaise.—Vanilla souffle mixture, flavoured with strong China tea infusion and chopped pistachios^ steamed ; vanilla sauce. — Louis Napoleon.—Light cake, savarin or genoise, scooped out and filled with fruit compote, masked over with meringue, and baked ; served with fruit syrup. — lyiarquise.—Vanilla souffle mixture, blended with strawberry pulp, and steamed ; served with straw- berry sauce.