THE MENU BOOK. 278 Salsifls—Salsify, Salsifls ^ la bechamel.—Stewed in white sauce, — au beurre fondu.—Boiled, and served with oiled butter . — frits.—Fried salsify. — Hollandaise.—Stewed in stock and served with hollandaise sauce, Beignets de salsifis.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. Tomates—Tomatoes, Beignets de tomates PvLV&e de tomates Tomates cvues Tomates au naturel Tomates sautees Tomates frites Tomates farcies Tomates grillees Tomato fritters Mashed tomatoes Raw tomatoes Plain boiled tomatoes Tomatoes tossed in butter Fried tomatoes Stuffed tomatoes Grilled tomatoes. Tomates a TAm6ricaine.—Farced with cooked maize or hominy, cream and egg-yolks, and baked. — d la Carmelite.—Filled with fish farce, cooked in butter or steamed ; served with shrimp sauce. —a la Caroline.—Stuffed with cooked rice, seasoned with meat glaze and grated parmesan cheese ; baked. — a la Cracovienne.—Cooked, cut in round slices, and tossed in butter ; dished up and besprinkled with fried breadcrumbs. — a la Cr6ole (Cold).—Ripe, firm tomatoes, scooped out and filled with shredded celery, beetroot, and hard- boiled egg ; finished with tartare sauce and dressed on lettuce leaves. — TEspagnole.—Stuffed with breadcrumbs, chopped ham, moistened with egg-yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned ; baked in the oven ; served with demi- glace sauce. — ^ la Florentine.—Cut in halves, stuffed with a mixture of fried chopped chicken livers, grated parmesan cheese, egg-yolks, fried chopped shallots, and bread- crumbs, moistened with sherry and seasoned, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and butter ; baked. — frap^es en mayonnaise (Cold).—Peeled raw tomatoes, scooped out in centre and frozen, filled with half- frozen mayonnaise, and served on lettuce leaves. — ^ la Genevoise.—Filled with chicken and fine herb farce, breaded, and baked. — au gratin.—Skinned and sliced, ranged on buttered dish, with shallots and brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs, etc., and baked in the oven.