THE MENU BOOK. 8o Consomme Cock-a-Leekie (Cock-a-Leekie Soup).—Clear chicken broth, with leeks cut into julienne strips, pearl barley, and small dice of cooked chicken. Prunes are sometimes added as a garnish. — Colbert.—A clear soup, garnished with small poached eggs and green peas. — Colombine.—Chicken consomme, garnished with jar- diniere of carrots, turnips, and green peas, also fine strips of pigeon fillets, and poached pigeon eggs. — Comtesse.—Clear soup with finely shredded lettuce, chicken quenelles, chervil leaves, and royal custard shapes. — Conde.—A clear game soup, garnished with quenelles of haricot bean puree and julienne strips of partridge fillets. — Cr6cy.—Clear soup with very fine strips of red carrot and pink royal custard. — Croute au Pot.—A clear beef soup, garnished with stock-pot vegetables and very thinly cut pieces of toasted bread. — Cussy.—Clarified game, thickened with small game farce quenelles, chestnut, and strips of truffles. — Cyrano.—Clear soup, flavoured with duck (fumet), garnished with small duck farce quenelles. — Dame-blanche.—Rich consomme, garnished with fine shreds of chicken fillets, white of egg, and chervil leaves, — Dante.—Clarified beef stock in which two or three roast pigeons have been cooked. Garniture : small darioles of chicken farce in two colours, i.e., white and yellow, the latter coloured with saffron, also truffles and ox-tongue. — Daumont.—Clarified beef stock with fine tapioca, and a garnish of champignons and cooked ox-palate cut into julienne strips. — Dauphine.—Clear soup with vegetable macedoine, small cubes of royal custard, and profiterolles. — Demidoff.—Clear soup, thickened with tapioca, gar- nished with small chicken quenelles, strips of truffles and carrots. — D6slignac.—A clear soup with dice of royal custard. The eggs for this are mixed with milk and stock, finely chopped parsley, celery, and truffles, before poaching. — Diablotin.—Clarified beef stock with tiny baked bread crusts, seasoned with cheese and cayenne. — Diane.—Game-flavoured consomme, enriched with Xerds wine or sherry, with small game quenelles.