192 THE MENU BOOK. Agneau et Mouton—Lamb and Mutton, Note.—Pr6-sale or Behague denotes Southdown mutton, and is frequently quoted on menus for mutton. Blanquette d’Agneau d la Romaine.—A white stew of lamb (shoulder and breast pieces), enriched with egg- yolks, lemon-juice and meat glaze ; garnished with small baked timbales of puree of artichoke bottoms. Cervelles d’Agneau (Lamb’s Brains) au beurre noir.— Blanched lamb’s brains, boiled and drained, with nut-brown butter poured over. — en coquilles.—Stewed sheep’s brains, baked and served in shells. — frites.—Parboiled sheep’s brains, egged, crumbed, and fried. — d la Maitre d’Hotel.—Blanched sheep’s brains cooked in white sauce with chopped parsley. — en Matelote.—Braised sheep’s or lamb’s brains with a red wine sauce ; served with small dice of broiled bacon and glazed button onions. — d la Rosita.—Croustades of fried bread with half a poached lamb’s brain, sauced over with mornay sauce, sprinkled with parmesan, and baked ; dished in circle with fine macaroni, and shredded truffles in centre of dish. Beignets de Cervelles h la Turque.—Parboiled, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried, and served with tomato sauce. Blanquette d’Agneau.—A delicate white stew of lamb. Chartreuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, stewed in white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a chartreuse mould, alternately with braised lettuce steamed “ au bain-marie,” and served with demi-glace sauce. Carbonades d’Agneau a la Bechamel.—Larded fillets of lamb or mutton braised, and served with bechamel sauce. — a la Bretonne.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of white haricot beans. — a la Chartreuse.—Cooked as above, cut in slices, and dressed in a plain mould, with green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans ; demi-glace sauce. — I’Oseille.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of sorrel. — sauce Poivrade.—Braised boned loin of lamb or mutton larded, served with poivrade sauce. Casserole a PAnglaise.—Slices of lean lamb or mutton with suet crust, stock, and seasoning, stewed in earthenware pot.