98 THE MENU BOOK. Potage Queues de Boeuf (Ox-tail).—Thick ox-tail soup with jardiniere or macedoine vegetable garnish (brown). — Queues de Veau a ITndienne (Indian Calf’s Tail Soup). —A thick calf’s tail soup, flavoured with curry and garnished with rice. — Rachel.—White veal puree, enriched with cream, garnished with strips of fried bacon, calf’s head, and slices of truffle. — Raphael.—Chicken puree, garnished with dice shapes of celeriac and rice. — Regence (Regent).—A light puree of fowls, garnished with macedoine of vegetables. — Reine (Queen).—A cream-like chicken soup, garnished with small chicken quenelles and rice. — Reine Margot.—Chicken cream soup with rice. — Reine Wilhelmine.—Chicken puree, thickened with rice, cream and egg-yolk liaison, v/ith asparagus points and julienne strips of cooked carrots and truffles as garnish. — Ris de Veau a la Reine.—A soup composed of sweetbread and chicken. — Risotto.—Rice puree, mixed with tomato pulp diluted with rich consomme. — Riz aux Choux.—Light cream of rice soup with julienne cut white cabbage, blanched and cooked in stock. — Romaine (Roman).—A v/hite thick soup with small rice quenelles. — Romeo.—A rich Parmentier puree (potato) mixed with half its volume of onion puree (Soubise), finished with a liaison of cream and egg-yolks ; garniture : chervil leaves, poached white of egg, and dice of ham. — Rouennaise.—Puree of duck with lentil puree and cream (croutons). — Russe (Russian).—Lobster bisque, blended with tomato puree, with small lobster quenelles as garnish. — Sagou au Lait.—Sago soup with milk (white). — Sante (Health).—Sorrel soup, with cabbage, lettuce, and herbs. — Savoyarde.—Celery and potato purees, blended with cream, and cheese-coated croutons as garnish. — Semoule.—Semolina soup with cream (white). — S6vign6.—Light chicken puree with cream, and royal made with egg and chicken cream as garnish. — S6vign6 (Royale).—A light chicken cream, with aspar- agus points, royal custard, dice of chicken fillets, and truffles as garnish. — Sigur.—A potato puree blended with tomato pulp, and garnished with strips of pimiento.