THE ENTRl^E COURSE [POULET). 219 Poularde h la Washington.—Stuffed with green corn or maize previously cooked and tossed in butter, and braised white, served with cream sauce, JPoulet, Volaille—Chicken or Fowl, Bouchees de Volaille a la Vatel.—Small bouche-shaped chicken creams, with foie-gras in centre, poached, and set in paste crusts ; sauce supreme. Cocotte de Volaille.—Jointed chicken, and sauteed, placed in earthenware casserole, with truffles, cepes, arti- choke bottoms, and lamb’s bread and its sauce; covered with a light chicken farce, and steamed in the oven. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Chinoise.—Pounded chicken, free from skin and sinews, flavoured with salt, pepper, curry powder, and nutmeg, rubbed through a sieve, and mixed with breadcrumbs and egg white, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter ; served with tartare sauce. — a I’Ecarlate.—Small cutlets made of chicken farce, and poached, placed on cutlet-shaped slices of ox-tongues, and served on similarly shaped fried-bread croutons ; garnished with mushroom heads ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Montpensier.—Chicken cutlets ; boned chicken, cut up, or shaped into cutlets, fried, pressed, coated with farce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la Pojarski.—Finely chopped raw chicken meat mixed with cream, soaked bread, egg, etc., and shaped into cutlets, egged and crumbed and fried in butter, then cut open and filled with caviare ; served with tomato or piquante sauce. Cuisses de Volaille a la Florentine.—Chicken legs, fried in butter, immersed in supreme sauce, egged, crumbed in breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, fried in deep fat; tomato sauce. — d la Wellington.—Chicken legs, fried in oil, drained, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with chutney. Filets de Volaille aux pointes d’Asperges.—Braised chicken fillets with asparagus points. — aux Concombres.—Braised fillets with small cucumber cassolettes, stufied. — ^ la Supreme.—Broiled fillets, larded ; garnished with truffles, and served with supreme sauce. M6daillons de Volaille ^ la Marie-Louise.—Chicken fillets shaped round, egged, and crumbed, and fried in butter, dressed on artichoke bottoms, filled with mushroom and onion puree ; brown gravy.