257 THE VEGETABLE COURSE. Artichauts frais a la Barigoule.—Centre stuffed with duxelle puree, braised, and served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Boulang^re.—Centre stuffed with sausage meat, wrapped in paste, and baked. — a la Cavour.—Boiled, quartered, and ranged in gratin dish with butter, cheese, sliced eggs, and crumbs, then baked ; salad dressing, hot or cold. — farcis.—Stuffed green globe artichokes. — frits.—Fried artichokes (Jerusalem artichokes). — au gratin.—Baked, gratin style. — ^ la Hollandaise.—Boiled, served with Dutch (Hol- landaise) sauce, — ^ I’ltalienne.—Boiled and broiled in butter, with chopped mushrooms and brown sauce. — de Jerusalem.—Jerusalem artichokes, {See Topin- AMBOURS.) — de Jerusalem a la Crdme.—Boiled Jerusalem arti- chokes with bechamel and cream sauce. — d la Lyonnaise.—Cut in quarters, stewed in demi-glace, with fried slices of onions. — a la Reine.—Green artichoke puree and chicken cream mixed with aspic and set in fancy moulds ; served cold. — sautds.—Green artichokes quartered, boiled, dressed, and tossed in butter ; served with or without sauce. — d la Vinaigrette.—Boiled, served with vinaigrette sauce. Beignets d*Artichauts.—Artichoke fritters. Goeurs d’Artichauts.—Small, selected, young artichoke bottoms. Quartier d*Artichauts.—Quarters of artichoke bottoms. Fonds d’Artichauts.*—Artichoke bottoms. — a TAmdricaine.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with chicken forcemeat, with a garnish of cooked chicken slices, truffle, tongue, etc., in centre; served hot with sauce or cold with aspic. — d 1’Alice.—Boiled, drained, and tossed in butter, dressed on croutons with a small round of cooked beef-marrow in each, and sauced over with demi- glace. — a la Bordelaise.—Tossed in butter, and fried shallots cooked in red wine sauce, and beef marrow-fat as garnish. — d la Clamart.—Boiled and sauteed in butter with bouquet of herbs, and young turned carrots, and green peas ; cream sauce. ♦ Unless otherwise stated, the fonds are turned and boiled in salted water, and then prepared as directed. R