Ii8 THE MENU BOOK. Dame de Saiimon h la Vert-Pr6 (cold).—Cold salmon, coated with green chaudfroid sauce, garnished with dressed salad, sliced cucumber, and diamond shapes of aspic. Escalopes de Saumon a I’lndienne.—Fried salmon cutlets, served with curry sauce, mixed with chopped piccalilli,' also plain rice as accompaniment. — a la Nantaise.—Collopsof salmon, seasoned and broiled in butter; dished up alternately with slices of lobster ; dressed with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. Filets de Saumon a la Duchesse.—Braised fillets of salmon arranged in the centre of a mashed potato border, masked with rich brown sauce, and garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes. — aux huitres.—Rolled fillets of salmon with stewed oysters braised and served with a rich brown sauce. — sautes a la Perigueux.—Braised fillets of salmon, with truffle sauce. — a la Regence.—Rolled fillet of salmon, stuffed, and served with regent sauce. Grenadins de Saumon d, la Venitienne.—Fillets of salmon, larded, seasoned, and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped bread croutons, sauced with a well-buttered parsley sauce blended with tomato. Hure de Saumon aux truffes.—Braised headpiece of salmon, with truffle sauce. — a la Cambac^res.—Braised head-piece of salmon, garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce seasoned with cayenne and lemon juice. — d. la Moderne.—Boiled and baked head-piece of salmon, sauced over with brown fish sauce ; garnished with small groups of cork-shaped pieces of fish sausage, sliced truffles, mushroom heads, and stoned and blanched olives ; top of fish garnished with slices of lemon, truffles, and parsley. Mousseline de Saumon a la Cardinal.—Timbale or dariole of light salmon forcemeat (souffle), served with cardinal sauce. Patd de Saumon h I’Homard.—Raised salmon pic with layers of lobster meat. Paupiettes de Saumon la Reine.—Quenelles of fish, rolled in salmon fillets, and poached in chablis and fish stock ; dressed in fish farce border, and garnished with braised olive shapes of cucumber ; hot ravigote sauce. SoufQ6s de Saumon a I’lndienne.—Cold souffle of curried salmon, decorated with anchovy butter or anchovy cream.