THE ENTREE COURSE {GAME). 231 Canard Sauvage—Wild Duck, Canard Sauvage a rAm6ricaine.—Wild duck, stuffed with suet and bread stuffing, and braised ; served with salmi sauce containing chopped shallots, duck liver, and port wine. — a la Bigarade.—Same as salmi of duck, with orange sections and bigarade sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Stuffed with game forcemeat and chopped mushrooms, and braised ; served with a game sauce flavoured with black-currant jelly. — Filets de, aux truffes.—Fried fillets served with salmi sauce, with sliced or chopped truffles. — a la Gourmet.—Spht, flattened, and skewered and grilled, garnished with croutons, orange and lemon sections, and watercress; ham-flavoured brown sauce. — aux Navets.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with braised young turnips. — aux Olives.—Par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce with turned French olives — a la Presse.—Roasted rare—i.e., underdone, with breast portion sliced, dipped in port wine and lemon juice, and replaced ; rich gravy. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted, and stewed or jugged in salmi sauce. — a la Syrienne.—Prepared like salmi, garnished with crescent-shaped croutons coated with liver farce, also stuffed olives ; sauce gibier (game). Coq de Driiy'Cre—Black Grouse. (For styles of cooking Grouse, see and adopt Perdreau—Partridge) . Coq de Bruyere aux quenelles de truffes.—Black grouse or heath-cock, larded and braised ; served with small quenelles of chicken and chopped truffles. — d. la Polonaise.—Grouse, jointed, par-boiled, steeped in game marinade, and braised in the oven ; served with brown game sauce mixed with sour cream. Faisan—Pheasant. Faisan a la Bateliere.—Braised pheasant, cut up (jointed), cooked in brown sauce, with mushrooms, crayfish tails, and onion rings as garnish ; also fried egg-yolks. — a la Bohemienne.—Braised, with sauerkraut (chou- croute) ; brown game sauce. — d la Bonne Femme.—Pheasant, braised whole, with small pieces of ham and slices of Spanish onion ; served with a brown sauce mixed with Indian chutney.