THE MENU BOOK. 132 Turbot, sauce aux Anchois.—Boiled turbot and anchovy sauce. — ^ la Reyniere.—Stewed turbot, flaked, and served in shells, coated with shrimp sauce. — bouilll ^ la Victoria.—Boiled turbot, garnished with ball-shaped lobster croquettes, prawns, and parsley ; served with Victoria sauce. — ^ la Vatel.—Boned turbot, stuffed with lobster farce, grilled or braised, and served with white wine sauce and crayfish garnish. Escalopes de Turbot d la Dauphlne.—Fillets or escallops of turbot, poached, and covered with fish farce, baked, and dressed in centre of decorated border of potato puree, sauced over with prawn or crayfish sauce, and garnished with small fish quenelles. Filets de Turbot frits.—Fried fillets of turbot. — a la Boitel.—Turbot fillet with white wine sauce, and champignons, browned in oven. — a la Careme.—Slices of turbot, garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, halves of oysters, dressed on border of whiting forcemeat, with garniture and picked prawns in centre; sauced over with rich cardinal sauce. — a la Cussy.—Fillets of turbot, poached in white wine, mushroom hquor, etc. ; garnished with mushrooms, cocks’ kernels, and quenelles, covered with allemande and tomato sauces (blended) ; decorated with slices of lemon and fleurons. — ^ la Duchesse.—Fillets of turbot, poached, and ranged on potato border (Duchesse), sauced over with cream sauce, and garnished with truffles. — la Florentine.—Saut6ed fillets of turbot, covered with layer of spinach puree and bechamel sauce, mixed with grated cheese, and sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and oiled butter, and baked. — la Maltre d’Hotel.—Broiled fillets of turbot with parsley butter. — ^ la Salamandre.—Poached fillets of turbot, dished up in row on buttered dish, covered with veloute or rich bechamel sauce, sprinkled with grated cheese, etc., and browned under salamander. — au vin blanc.—Poached or broiled fillets of turbot, with white wine sauce. Fleiirettes de Turbot ^ la Hollandaise (cold).—Small flat dariole shapes of cooked turbot set with mayonnaise cream, dressed on bed of salad or little blocks of aspic.