96 THE MENU BOOK. Potage Mathilde.—Cucumber puree, enriched with cream, and peas or olive shapes of cucumber as garnish. — Mauviettes St. Hubert.—This is a pale brown cream soup, made with veal stock, roux, and braised larks, garnished with fillets of larks cut into strips. — M^dicis.—Sorrel puree, blended with green pea and carrot purees. — Merc6d6s.—Jerusalem artichoke puree, enriched wdth cream and egg-yolks, garnished with dice of artichoke bottoms and chicken fillets. — Monaco.—Bechamel cream soup with egg-yolk liaison, and sippets of toasted bread. — Montglas.—A thick soup made of capon, with minced truffles and mushrooms. — Montmorency.—Chicken cream soup with grated parmesan, braised lettuce, and vermicelli as garnish. — Montpensier.—Cream of rice soup, blended with cauli- flower puree (fried croutons). — Morilles.—Puree of morilles (a species of mushroom), with cream and morilles cut in fine strips. — Mozart.—Puree of French beans blended with game puree and cream (croutons). — Miifle de Boeuf.—Ox-cheek puree soup (brown). — Mulligatawny.—Thick mulligatawny soup, curry flavour and rice. — Murillo (Maigre).—Tomato puree, enriched with fish essence and cream, garnished with small fish quenelles. — Nelousko.—A white chicken cream soup with small veal or chicken quenelles. — Nemours.—Potato puree, blended with rich consomme and liaison of cream and egg-yolks (croutons). — Nemrod.—Puree of game with profiterolles forced with game puree. — Nimoise (Maigre).—White fish cream soup, blended with tomato puree. — Nissarde (Maigre).—Vegetable marrow or pumpkin soup, thickened with tapioca and cream liaison. — Nivernaise.—A puree of vegetables, potatoes, turnips, leeks, and sprouts, enriched with cream and garnished with jardiniere. — Normande (Maigre).—Puree of leeks, celery, and potatoes, garnished with celery shreds and chervil. — Oignons (aux).—Onion soup, white or brown. — Okra.—Puree of tomato and gumbos, cream liaison. — Orleans.—A chicken puree with tapioca as liaison. — Orleans (Maigre).—A soup made with white bread and milk, finished with cream.