THE MENU BOOK. i68 Timbale de Gibier.—Game timbale. — ^ Plmp^ratrice (Cold).—Aspic-lined mould, decorated with truffle, etc., filled with foie-gras and chicken mousse, fortified with aspic jelly ; served with cold cucumber sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Dome-shaped timbale mould, lined with halves of stuffed olives, coated with a layer of duck farce, filled with fillets of duck, champignons, and truffles ; served with mirabeau sauce. — ^ la d’Orsay.—Timbale mould fined with nouille paste, and filled with white chicken ragout, sliced artichoke bottoms, truffles, and champignons; served with supreme sauce richly seasoned with paprika. — de Perdreau.—Partridge timbale. — a la Reine (Cold).—Chicken mousse timbale, hot or cold ; in latter case mould is fined with aspic, and decorated with truffles and pimiento, etc., then masked with white chaudfroid sauce and filled with fight chicken mousse. — a la St. Estephe.—Chicken forcemeat and ox-tongue timbales with claret sauce. — a la Talleyrand.—Dome-shaped timbale mould closely fined with cooked macaroni, and filled with tomato and macaroni stew ; served with supreme sauce. — a la Toulouse (Cold).—Timbale mould fined with aspic and decorated, filled with evenly-cut salpicon of chicken and sweetbread, mixed with aspic cream, etc. Timbales or Darioles a la Gauloise (Cold).—Small aspic- lined timbales or other shapes of green pea puree, mixed with chopped ham, mayonnaise, cream, and aspic. — de tomates aux noix (Cold).—Tomato-flavoured and coloured aspic coated timbales, filled alternately with walnut puree and sliced tomatoes ; garnished with julienne of salad plant. MEAT ENTREES. Bceuf—Beef, Cervelle de Bceuf (Ox-brains) en Matelote.—Stewed ox- brain in red wine sauce with braised button onions. — frite (fried).—Blanched, cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, or dipped in frying batter and fried. — au gratin (baked).—Blanched, placed in a buttered dish, sauced over, breaded, and baked in the oven. Chateaubriand.—Double fillet of beef, cut very thick, and generally broiled or grilled ; usually served with chateau potatoes.