COLD ENTRIES. 241 Aspic de Volaille.—Chicken, skinned and boned, set in savoury aspic jelly. Ballotine de Perdreau, d la Souvaroff.—Boned partridge, stuffed with goose-hver farce and truffles, done up like galantine, and braised, pressed, and glazed; served as cold entree or supper dish. Boauf en Daube froid.—Braised beef, cooked in turine and allowed to cool, with aspic, and served in sauce, — ^ la Chevet.—Braised cold fillet of beef, coated with aspic, and garnished with vegetable macedoine; sauce mayonnaise. — a la Mode, froid.—Braised rump of beef, sliced and set in turine, with demi-glace and aspic. — ^ la Russe.—Braised whole fillet of beef, cut up when cold, and masked with aspic jelly, with slice of truffle on each. Caneton h la Lombardie.—Boned duckUng, stuffed with foie-grass and truffle farce, and braised, coated with brown chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffles, white of hard-boiled egg, and masked with aspic. Canard a la Vendome.—Roast or braised duck ; fillets removed and sliced, coated with chaudfroid sauce and port-wine jelly ; cavity of breast filled with foie-gras mousse. Carre de Veau en Gelee.—Braised neck of veal, cut in cutlets or left whole (as remove), masked with aspic, and garnished with vegetable macedoine. Chartreuse de Callles a TEug^nle (Cold).—Quails, stuffed with chicken farce, truffle, and pistachios, and braised ; when cold cut in slices, and ranged in charlotte mould with layers of vegetables and aspic, as for “ Chartreuse.” — de Falsan.—Charlotte-shaped mould lined with aspic, and decorated with green peas, truffles, etc., coated with fawn chaudfroid sauce, and filled with a mixture of cooked pheasant cut in dice, mushrooms, small chicken quenelles, truffles, cocks’ combs, and hard- boiled egg, moistened with aspic and madere sauce ; turned out when set, and garnished suitably. — de Jambon a la Clamart.—Small timbale moulds lined with heart-shaped slices of cooked ham and a layer of chicken souffle mixture, centre filled with green pea puree, and covered with chicken farce ; steamed and served with tomato sauce. — de L6gumes k la Quirinal (Cold).—Cold vegetable chartreuse, octagon shape, outside decorated with chopped hard-boiled white of egg, egg-yolk, truffles, and parsley, four distinct sections; interior filled with cooked asparagus tips, French beans, artichoke bottoms, kidney potatoes, chopped truffles, etc., all blended with mayonnaise and aspic to set. Q