THE MENU BOOK. i62 Coquilles de Poulet a la Cardinal.—Minced chicken and crayfish tails baked in shells. ■— de ris de Veau.—Sweetbread salpicon, breaded, and baked in shells. — de Truffes.—Sliced truffles, with brown sauce, baked in shells. Croustades are oval or spherical shapes of baked or fried paste, bread, rice or potato crusts, which are filled with minced or delicate ragouts of meat or game. Croustades aux huitres.—Oyster croustade made of rice, bread or paste, filled with poached oysters, mush- room heads, sliced truffles, and veloute sauce. — de gibier k la Vatel (Game Croustade, Vatel style).— Stewed fillets of game, richly flavoured with chopped truffles and mushrooms, served in fried-bread croustades. — a la Imp^riale.—Baked rice croustade filled with a ragout of chicken fillets, foie-gras, mushrooms, and truffles (supreme sauce). — de Macaroni.—Macaroni croustade filled with cooked macaroni, ham cut in dice, cheese, and tomato sauce. — de volailles a la P6rigueux (Chicken Croustade, Perigord style).—Stewed fillets of chicken with truffles and brown sauce, baked in paste crust cases. — a la P6rigourdine.—Fried rice croustade filled with small game quenelles, slices of sweetbread, cocks’ combs, kernels, and truffles ; sauce madere. — ^ la Richelieu.—Baked paste croustade filled with small chicken quenelles, poached and fried, mush- rooms, and truffle sauce. — de Venaison (Venison Croustade).—Finely cut or minced fillet of venison, moistened with brown sauce and baked in paste crust cases. Crepinettes and Andoxiillettes are small, square- shaped meat mixtures, wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. Andouillettes are made similarly to crepinettes, but, in place of being crumbed and fried, are braised in butter and served in paper cases. Crepinettes de foie-gras k la Princesse.—Salpicon of braised foie-gras, truffle, ham, etc., made up in oblong shapes, wrapped in pig’s caul, and fried in butter ; garnished with small green asparagus (sprue) ; demi- glace sauce. — de Volaille truiI6s.—Chicken and truffle crepinettes.