THE MENU BOOK. 328 SPECIAL SWEET ENTREMETS. Buche de Noel en surprise (Cold).—Genoise cake shaped to resemble the trunk of a tree with the help of very small Swiss roll, glazed with chocolate icing, chopped pistachios as moss, etc., centre part hollowed out to receive a light, half-frozen, sweet souffle, flavoured and decorated with crystallised violets; garnished with pulled or spun sugar and angelica leaves. Chdlet Suisse a la Chantilly (Cold).—Sections, sides, and roof of a Swiss chalet made of meringue and baked, then placed together, and built upon a bed composed of genoise cake, glazed, and besprinkled with chopped pistachios ; interior of chalet being filled with a rich vanilla cream ice. Cdtelettes en surprise.—Pufi paste, shaped like cutlets, centre filled with apricot or apple marmalade, egged, crumbed, and fried, or baked in oven, with red-currant jelly in dish to represent gravy. Denises a la jalousie.—Little puff-paste sandwiches, filled with custard, decorated on surface, and made to appear like lattice work. Gateau de pommes a la Bavaroise.—Round vol-au-vent shape of puff pastry with cover, filled with apple puree mixed with cream and jelly, glazed, and decorated with glace cherries and triangular slices of wine jelly. — d, la St. Georges.—Genoise cake hollowed out and filled with chestnut cream, surmounted with glace chestnuts (marrons glaces), and decorated with whipped cream. — Rustique aux fraises (Cold).—Trunk of a tree made out of almond genoise cake, hollowed out in centre, outside covered with chocolate icing and fashioned like the rind or bark, sprinkled here and there with chopped pistachios to resemble moss ; interior filled with vanilla ice and ripe strawberries dipped in maraschino. Gaufres a la Carnivale.—Thinly rolled-out rounds of rich nouille paste, fried in clarified butter, dredged with vanilla sugar, and served with whipped cream, hot or cold. lies flottantes (Floating Islands).—Small quenelle shapes of meringue, poached in moulds, and placed in vanilla custard. Jambon de Careme (Cold).—Imitation ham made from genoise cake, almond paste, and chocolate icing ; garnished with wine jelly.