THE VEGETABLE COURSE. 273 Pommes de terre Chatonillard.—Oblong shaped souffle or puff potatoes, made from large kidney potatoes. — en chemise.—Potatoes cooked in their skin, and so served. — Chinoise.—Egg-shaped potatoes, centre scooped out and filled with minced beef and herbs ; baked in butter. — d la Colbert.—Cooked potatoes cut into squares, seasoned, stewed in gravy, finished with a little fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Colorette.—Thinly sliced, cut with crinkled potato- slicer, and fried crisp in deep fat. — Comtesse.—Sliced, ranged neatly in buttered timbale mould, with veloute sauce, and baked in a hot oven. — en copeau (Potato Ribbons).—Peeled, cut similarly to sugar loaves; peeled carefully so that the peel (ribbon) remains whole ; fried in very hot fat. Cotelettes de pommes de terre.—Puree as for croquettes, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Pommes de terre k la crdme.—SHced, and stewed in white sauce enriched with cream. Croquettes de pommes de terre.—Mashed or puree, seasoned, mixed with yolks of eggs, shaped into ball or any other shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Pommes de terre cuites au bouillon.—Boiled in beef broth* — cuites sous la cendre.—Baked in hot ashes (in their jackets). — Dauphine.—Same as “ Duchesse ” ; mixed with choux paste, shaped into balls, and fried in deep fat. — Delmonico.—Finely minced raw potatoes, cooked in butter and cream, seasoned and dished ; sprinkled with brown crumbs and baked in oven. — Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with cold sausages, broiled in butter, seasoned, and served with demi-glace sauce. — Dietrich.—Small kidney potatoes, peeled, egg-shaped, centre scooped out and filled with cooked semolina and chopped truffles ; coated with bechamel sauce and grated cheese, and baked in oven. — Duchesse.—Mashed, seasoned, shaped into fingers or other shapes, brushed over with yolk of eggs, and baked in oven. — Espagnole.—Thickly sliced, boiled, drained, and served with espagnole sauce. — 6tuv6es.—Same as “ Chateau ” potatoes, with oiled butter and chopped parsley.