EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. had become aneurismal, and where the sac, filled up with la- minated coagulum, has a canal left in the centre of the coagu- lum through which the blood circulated. The canal which remained through the centre of the coagulum was irregular in its form, and in some places larger than the calibre of the artery. This outline is also taken from Mr. Hodgson’s valuable work on the Diseases of the Arteries. Fig. 5. The upper portion of a Femoral Artery, in which vessel an Aneurismal Tumor had undergone a spontaneous cure by a process of suppuration and sloughing, both extremities of the artery being contracted and plugged up by a clot, in like manner as takes place in the artery of a mortified limb. Notes of the Case.—Capt. W. set. 46. About six or seven inches of the Femoral Artery had sloughed fairly away, viz. from about an inch and a half below the origin of the profunda to the place where the vessel passes through the sac. In this patient there was a large Aneurismal Tumor of the Femoral Artery, just where that vessel penetrates the triceps muscle. The integuments ultimately gave way from the enormous growth of the tumor; large masses of coagulated blood were afterwards discharged through the ulcerated open- ings of the skin, and an immense suppurating cavity was thus formed, the profuse discharge from which destroyed life. On dissection, it appeared that upwards of six inches of the Femoral Artery had sloughed off, and nature had closed the two extre- mities of the vessel by producing a contraction and thicken- ing of the coats, and the formation of an internal clot, a, is the upper portion of the femoral artery, which at b b is con- siderably contracted, and from thence the canal becomes gradually narrower until at c c, where it is greatly contracted, and terminates in sloughy cellular membrane. The internal clot d is observed immediately above this ulcerated orifice, and floats loose in the tube of the artery. PLATE II. Aneurism of the Innominata described at page 103, in which the right Carotid Artery was completely shut up, a thin and