456 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS determinate size, termed the cellules of Malpighi, 2 Lond. Med. Gaz. 1846, 3d ser. iii. 1053. ounces. Its color is externally a dull red, and inter- nally a deep reddish-brown. As seen after death, the organ has a macerated look, its surface being marked by numerous wrinkles. The spleen presents for examination three surfaces and four borders. The dorsal surface is convex, and lies directly be- neath the left half of the arch of the Diaphragm, to which it is united by a fold of peritoneum. The ventral or gastric surface is concave, and adapted to the posterior aspect of the convexity of the cardiac end of the stomach. The inferior or renal surface^ especiall}' that part posterior to the hilum, is in contact with the upper portion of the left kidney, the suprarenal capsule, and the left crus of the Dia- phragm. The anterior larder is thin and notched; the notches are often pronounced, and, as a rule, multi- ple. The posterior larder is obtuse, smooth, and with- out notches, save at its upper portion, where a deep fissare may extend from the border to the hilum. The upper lorder of the spleen is in contact with the Diaphragm in the adult, and with the under sur- face of the left lobe of the liver in the foetus, and sometimes in the 3'oung infant. The loiver lorder is held within a fold of peritoneum, derived from the great omental sac, and lies upon the transverse meso- colon. In addition to the above, a small fold of peritoneum unites the organ to the left extremity of the pancreas. The spleen is accommodated more or less accurately to the hollow of the Diaphragm, between the ninth and the eleventh dorsal vertebra;, and to the curves of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Beyond it laterally, lie the slips of the costal origins of the Dia- phragm, the pleural cavity with the lower portion of the left lung, and the wall of the thorax. The position of the spleen is modified by the move- ments of the stomach. Thus, when the latter organ is contracted, the longest diameter of the spleen is vertical; but, when it is distended, the longest diameter of the spleen is nearly horizontal. In inspiration it is depressed about an inch, and in ex- piration it is raised the same distance. Minute Stkucture.—The elastic covering of the spleen sends down numerous processes, termed the trabeculse, which penetrate through every portion of the organ, and are continuous with the sheaths of the bloodvessels. The intervals between the intricate interlacings of the splenic bloodvessels and their as- sociated terminal trabeculse form openings of an in- which are tilled by the splenic pulp. Passing within the pulp are minute branches of the splenic arteries, which bear berry-like or bead-like appendages termed the Malpighian corpuscles. These corpuscles present an average diameter of from three to four millimetres. They are of an opaque gray color, and of a semifluid consistence. Their walls are ordinarily derived from the sheath of the artery to which they are attached. They are more distinct in early life than in the adult. The pulp is soft, and of a dark, cherry-red color, passing to a mahogany brown, and constitutes the bulk of the organ. In the normal state, the pulp breaks when the spleen is firmly grasped, but in many morbid conditions it liquefies, so that the same manipulation will cause it to flow out like water from a sponge. It contains both colored and colorless elements, which, according to Sappey, may be classed as follows: free nuclei, cells with large granular nuclei,. bodies resembling- white blood-corpuscles, corpuscles from which the pulp derives its color, and blood-corpuscles in a stale of decomposition.^ The arteries of the spleen are large and numerous compared with the size of the organ. Each artery follows the trabeculge, as already described. A note- Avorthy feature, and one indicating the composite character of the organ, is that the capillaries of the several terminal branches of the splenic artery do not anastomose. Variations Supernumerary spleens (spleniculi), in the form of rounded cherry-like masses, have been not infre- quently found inclosed in the peritoneum below the main organ, either free from it or attached by delicate peduncles. As many as twenty-three spleniculi have been met with in the same subject. Tliey may in some instances be found in the mesocolon or the great omentum. In the last-named position they may be mistaken for enlarged lympliatic glands. W. H. Bainbridge^ found a super- numeraiy spleen within the omentum winch was lodged in the pelvis, where it had exerted pressure upon the upper portion of the rectum, and di-agged down the great omentum. It is tenable to assume that tiie spleen is composed of numbers of united spleniculi. Tlie notches on its borders may be viewed as imperfect attempts at their resolution, and the limitation of the capillary network of each division of the splenic artery as a practical isolation of the different segments of tlie spleen from one another. In multiple spleens it would appear that each division of the splenic artery had been simply more completely separated from its fellows than is usual. ' For bibliography of the spleen see A. C. Cole, Studies in Microscopical Science, 1882, i. No. 35, p. 238.