TI-IE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 428 ooo^oo« . internal jugular vein, notwithstanding its size, is rarely wounded. It has been opened during the extirpation of a bronchocele, but without fatal issue and in one instance it has been punctured by a fragment of frac- tured clavicle.^—It has frequently suffered from the effects of ulceration in its coats. When suppuration has followed a high grade of cellulitis near swollen lymphatic glands, such as are so common in scarlet fever, the danger of ulceration of the walls of the internal jugular vein is universally conceded.^ Cervical sinuses resulting upon degeneration of the lymphatic glands will, in rare instances, involve the coats of the vein. In a case of this character, reported by Dr. D. W. Cheever,^ the repeated escape of blood of a cranberrjr hue, from a sinus, led the ob- server to conclude that the common carotid artery was ulcerated. The vessel was tied, but the hemor- rhage recurred and proved fatal. At the autopsy, the walls of the vein were found ulcerated through, while those of the artery were intact. The vein may be occluded by pressure from with- out, as by an enlarged lymphatic gland,* or by an encephaloid tumor of the thyroid body, which may compel the blood from the corresponding side of the head to pass by a transverse vein to the internal jugular of the opposite side.^ Various other cancer- ous growths of the neck may impinge upon the vessel, or the vein may be impervious without apparent cause. L. S. Pilcher^ found the right internal jugular vein impervious from the base of the skull to within a short distance of the innominate vein. Tlie median veins were abnormally large. The internal jugular vein may be inflamed from its escape at the base of the skull to the orifice of the inferior thyroid veins, and be occupied by black de- tritus of clot. It may also be secondarily involved by malignant disease.* The Veins of the Upper Extremity. The veins of the upper extremity are of two sets: the superficial and the deep. The superficial veins are subcutaneous. Thej'' are numerous and inconstant about the hand, but are fewer in number and more regular in distribution in > W. W. Greeue, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1871, 80. 2 J. W. Ogle, Br. Med. Journ., 1873, 83. 3 S. W. Gross, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., 1871, 337. Literature. 4 Archives of Clinical Surgery, ii. 1877, 127. 6 J. F. Metcalfe, N. Y. Journ. of Medicine, 1850, 37. « Burns's Surg. Anat. of the Neck, 236. ' Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, 1881, 159. 8 See p. 338. the forearm and the arm. The veins are bet-ter de- veloped upon the back of the fingers and hand than on the palm ; and better upon the front of the fore- arm than on the back. The veins on the back of the hand are collected chiefly from the sides of the fingers, where they lie behind the digital arteries. The vein on the ulnar margin of the little finger passes upward along the corresponding border of the fifth metacarpal bone. The other veins seen upon the dorsum answer in position to the second, third, and fourth interosse- ous spaces. The external vein of the index finger, and the two marginal veins of the thumb, unite to form a small trunk called the main vein of ilie thumb. It communicates with the veins of the palm through the opening for the radial artery in the fii'st inter- osseous space. The radial vein extends along the ulnar margin of the Supinator Longus to the elbow, and terminates in the cephalic vein, which continues its upward course to the outer side of the Biceps muscle to gain the groove between the Deltoid muscle and the Pectoralis Major. The vein, after piercing the coraco-brachial fascia, terminates in the axillary vein. A branch of the ve'n may pass in front of the clavicle. The ulnar vein extends upward parallel to the ulnar border of the forearm to the elbow ; a branch, often called the posterior ulnar, ascends upon the poste- rior surface of the forearm near the ulnar border to join the main trunk near the elbow. It is continuous above with the basilic vein, which is larger than its fellow, the cephalic, but ends at a much lower point, viz., about midway along the inner border of the Biceps, where it passes through a slit-like opening to join one of the vense comites of the brachial artery. The basilic vein is more constant in position than the cephalic, and lies in front of the brachial artery. The median vein, the least constant of the veins of the upper extremity, is placed in the forearm between the radial and ulnar, and lies upon the Palmaris Longus. It terminates, as a rule, below the bend of the elbow by dividing into two small veins which diverge : the inner (lying over the fibrous prolonga- tion of the tendon of the Biceps) goes to join the basilic vein ; the outer the cephalic. These are culled the median basilic and m.edian cephalic veins respec- tively. Filaments of the cutaneous nerves are seen in relation with these two trunks: the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve passes either behind or in front of the median basilic. At the point of division into these trunks, the median vein sends a deep branch to join one of the venas comites of the ulnar or radial arteries.