432 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. frequently remarked in cases of injury of the leg, to the presence of old blood-clots the results of the rup- ture of veins lying in the calf.—In the study of senile gangrene of the foot and leg, the condition of the deep veins should be carefully considered. Subsequent research may connect the exciting cause of this, and of many of the numerous examples of malnutrition and inflammation of the leg and the foot, with the pressure exerted against the tibial arteries by their varicose accompanying veins. The proximal limita- tion of the effects of chronic ostitis of the tibia is sometimes found to correspond exactly to the position of the oblique line. While conceding that this may be due to muscular strain of the Soleus (see p. 105), it is not improbable that it may arise from interfer- ence with the free entrance of blood into the nutrient canal, the orifice of which is a short distance below the oblique line.—In searching for pygemic abscesses, the interior of the Soleus and the site of the veins escaping from it should ^be carefully examined, since many instances of abscess in these regions have been recorded. It is evident that an embolus, moving proximally from a dilated vein of the Soleus, would obstruct the narrowed portion of the vein which lies free at the border of origin of the muscle. THE POPIJTEAL VEIISr. The Popliteal Vein lies behind, that is, superficial to the artery of the same name. In addition to the veins already mentioned, it receives the short saphe- nous as well as those veins associated with the artic- ular and muscular arteries. The popliteal vein at first lies to the inner side, but subsequently crosses to the outer side of the popliteal artery and termi- nates in the femoral vein. Variation The popliteal vein is sometimes double. Eemarks. — Both the popliteal artery and vein have been torn through in fracture of the femur above the condyles. Hemorrhage need not follow such an accident, owing to the occlusion of the vessels by the pressure of the end of the proximal fragment. Gangrene of the limb below the point of injury is imminen^ though it may not occur; a collateral circulation being established, as in ligation of the popliteal artery for aneurism.^—A. Bruce^ records an instance of a popliteal aneurism compress ing the popliteal vein, which was incorporated with the outer wall of the sac. In consequence of this pressure, both the superficial and the deep veins of the leg were enormously distended and partially occluded by coagula. The deep tibial veins in this case were so large and tortuous as completely to conceal the artery, which was found, however, on dissection to be occluded by a thrombus throughout its entire extent. THE FEMORAL VEIN. After reaching the opening in the tendon of the Adductor Magnus muscle, the popliteal becomes the Femoral Vein. In company with the femoral artery, the femoral vein passes through this opening, the Hunterian canal, at first lying behind the artery, but soon reaching its inner side, and extends proximally as far as Poupart's ligament, where it terminates in the external iliac. It receives the long saphenous vein, the superficial epigastric, the external piidic, and the small muscular vein which joins it from behind. Langer^ describes two or three small collateral veins which sooner or later terminate in the main trunk. Variation.—The femoral vein is sometimes double. Eemarks.—Violent dislodgment of a clot which had formed in the femoral vein during an attack of phlebitis was observed by F. C. Skey* to be followed by death. During the course of an attack of phlebitis of the femoral vein,^ according to Sibson, the super- ficial veins over the anterior abdominal wall may become enlarged, as well as those over the buttock and the sacrum. The iliac veins may also be involved. In an extraordinary case of obstruction of the femoral vein in a male aged sixty-eight, Murchison® found the 1 Veriieuil, Ball, de la Soc. Anatomique, t. xliv., 1869, 241. 2 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., 1867, 83. 3 Wien. Med. Wochensclirift, 1867, No. 22. < Lancet, Aug. 1870, 247. 5 Med. Times and Gazette, 1867, 334. 6 Traus. Path. Soc. Lond., xiv. 1865, 137. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXIIL Fig. 1. Spinal veins seen in a sagittal section of the verte- Fig. 3. The portal system of veins. The portal vein is bral column. that portion above the point of reception of the splenic Fig. 2. Spinal veins seen in a horizontal section of the ver- vein—the portion below the junction being the superior tebral column. mesenteric vein.