345 THE HEAET !X>0^00<^ In tlie same cormection Mr. King calls attention to a mus- cular band, which stretches across the cavity between the two walls. This band may have an average length of six to seven lines, and a circumference of three or four; it is de- signed to limit the degree of ventricular distension, and is named the moderator hand. It is especially well developed in the hearts of mammalian quadrupeds. An analogous structure of great strensrtli exists in the hearts of birds. The left auricle (fig. 4, Plate LX.) is of a cuboidal shape, and lies almost entirely at the posterior suj)e- rior portion of the heart, a part of the auricular ap- pendage alone being visible from in front. Its walls are slightly thicker than those of the right auricle, but its capacity is less than that of the right. Tlie upper border is inclined backward and the lower border forward. Its anterior surface thus looks somewhat upward, and its posterior downward. Its form is slightly impressed by the pulmonary artery as well as by the aorta. Its posterior surface lies in front of the descending aorta and oesophagus. The auricular appendage is slightly twisted, some- what constricted at the orifice, and emarginate at the sides. It rests against the pulmonary artery. The inter lor of the auricle is made up of the main chamber or sinus and the auricular appendage. The former is smooth, free from pectinate fibres, and presents near its upper border the orifices of the pul- monary veins. The orifices of these vessels are arranged in approximated pairs on either side, the lower one being, as a rule, the larger. The vessels of the left side may empty into a common depressicjn or orifice prior to opening upon the auricle. Near this point is the orifice of the auricular appendage. The septal wall exhibits a foint raised edge, the remains of the annnlus of the foramen ovale. The left ventricle is situated more to the back of the heart than is the right. It is slightly longer than the right, so that the apex of the heart entirely per- tains to the left side. While narrower tlian the right, the left ventricle is nearly three times as thick. Its general form is that of a pyramid. The base is directed upward and inward toward the median line of the body, the aorta actually arising a little to the right side of the septal line of the heart. In the interior the coluninse carnese (fig. 2, Plate LX.) are smaller but more numerous than in the right ventricle. The stout muscular papilljB are ar- ranged in two groups; one anterior, the other poste- rior. The left auriculo-ventricular valve is named bicuspid as distinguished from the tricuspid. It is, however, very generally called the mitral valve. The 44 two valves closely resemble each other, and closely conform to the type already seen in tlie anterior and posterior segments of the tricuspid valve. Tlie chordce tendineag are occasionally muscular, and may pass upward into the auriculo-ventricular vahe. Muscular fibres, however, may be rarely found in the valve entirely apart from the preceding source.' THE STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The heart exhibits an intricate arrangement of fibrous and muscular tissues. The fibrous tissue is found for the most part at the base of the organ. In the angle between the aortic and the two auriculo- ventricular openings is found a small fibrous mass. This may be fibro-cartilaginous, and in some animals is bony. From this region processes of fibrous tis- sue extend backward between the two auriculo-ven- tricular orifices beneatli the inter auricular septum. Others pass forward, one on each side of the opening of the aorta. The muscular tissue of the ventricles exists chiefly in the form of layers which are more or less perfectly defined, and are arranged in an exceedingly intricate manner. Following Pettigrew, the layers of the ven- tricle are seven in number. They are so arranged that the first three, counting from without inward, are oblique. The fourth is transverse, while the remain- ing three are again oblique, but pursue a course the opposite of that seen in the outer three. Pettigrew uses the following language with respect to the details of the above arrangement:— There is a gradational sequence in the direction of the fibres constituting the layers, whereby they are made gradu- ally to change their course from a nearly vertical direction to a horizontal or transverse one, and from the transverse direction back again to a nearly vertical one. Thus, in dissecting the ventricles from without inwards, the fibres of the first layer, which run in a spiral direction from left to ri^ht downward, are more vertical than those of tiie second layer, the second than those of the third, tlie third than those of the fourth—the fibres of tlie fourth layer having a transverse direction, and running at nearly right angles to those of the first layer. Passing tlie fourth layer, which occupies a central position in the ventricular walls, and forms the boundary between the external and internal layers, the order of arrangement is reversed, and the fibres of the remaining layers, viz., fifth, sixth, and seventn, gradually re- turn in an opposite direction, and in an inverse order, to the same relation to the vertical as that maintained by the fibres of the first external layer. Tiiis remarkable change in the direction of the fibres constituting the several external and 1 John W. Ogle, Trans. Path. Snc. of London, ix., 1858, 116. /