374 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. ooo^OOo The artery lay in the above-named unusual course in a sub- ject used by the Royal College of Surgeons for the examina- tions for the fellowship. Tlie candidate failed to secure it by the ordinary operation. Tiiis failure occurred to a hospital surgeon in a case recorded by M. Dubrueil," where the axillary artery had to be secured in consequence of not finding the subclavian in its usual position—The acquired displacemeut of the artery is generally due to the pressure of tumors from below upward, or to an exostosis of the first rib, several cases of which are recorded by Mott,^ Gregg,^ and others. Ligation of the TJiird Part of the Subclavian Artery— An incision should extend from the outer fibres of the clavicular portion of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle outward, one-half inch above the upper border of the clavicle and following its curves, to terminate over the clavicular fibres of insertion of the Trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia, Platysma Myoides, and the deep fascia being divided along the entire length of the wound, and the anterior jugu- lar vein drawn to one side, the positions of the Omo-H}'oid muscle and the transvcrsalis colli or supra-scapular artery are made out. The fascia extending from the Omo-Hyoid to the clavicle is divided, and drawn upward out of the way. The shoulder must now be depressed as far as the parts per- mit, in order to render the wound as shallow as possible, and a search should be made with the finger for the Scale- nus Anticus. Using this muscle as a guide, the finger is carried downward until the line of the Scalenus joins that of the first rib. The artery will be found in most instances pulsating in the angle made by these two lines. Should the lower bundles of the brachial plexus be seen at the bottom of the wound, they may aid in securing the vessel, since the latter is known to lie between the plexus and the Anterior Scalene muscle. But the intimacy of this relation also serves to deceive the surgeon, and may, if he be off his guard, lead him to mistake one of the nerves of the plexus for the arteiy. A nerve trunk has been in this way ligated, or included within the ligature embracing the vessel. To avoid such a mischance the pulsation of any structure whatsoever in the wound should not be relied upon, since the beating of the artery against the lowermost branch of the plexus has been known to lead experienced operators into the error of mis- taking the nerve for the artery. On the other hand, the absence of pulsation is not conclusive in determining the nature of any particular texture, since, as a result of ex- posure, the artery itself may contract and its pulsation cease. The proximity of the pleura to this portion of the artery, while in health an indirect relation, can be converted into a direct relation by aneurismal dilatation of the artery. Prof. Agnew,^ in speaking of this fact, uses the Ibllowing language: " Dr. Warren, while isolating this vessel in a case of unusual perplexity, opened the chest, which accident was announced by a distinct whistling sound. The accident in 1 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 18:^7, p. 5G2. 2 Mott's edition of Velpeau's Surgery, ii. 38. 3 Dublin Journal, xxv. 211, 1858. < Principles and Practice of Surgery, 1878, 645. this case did not interfere with the patient's recovery. To avoid such complications the operator should place a finger between the tendon of the Anterior Scalenus muscle and the vessel, and with the point of the director cautiously tear away the existing cellular tissue from the artery, always keeping the instrument directed toward the rib, so that it may not go beyond the proper limitation." The needle should be passed from without inward. The subclavian vein is often not seen during this operation. At other times it swells up into the wound, and requires carefully sustained gentle downward pressure with a retractor to give the ope- rator room enough for his manipulations. The presence of anomalies, of course, modifies the perform- ance of this operation. The artery may be seen running in front instead of behind the Scalenus. The phrenic nerve may run across the third part of the subclavian artery. Lym- phatic glands may be enlarged and numerous. The clavicle may be fixed in an elevated position and demand division. Ashton Key' found, in dissecting a limb twelve years after ligation of the subclavian artery at its outer part, the follow- ing to be the plan of the collateral circulation. Subclavian. Axillary. Suprascapular ) , i„f,,,, i^^,. Posterior bcapular ^ i Internal Mammary_|_ j ( Short and Long ' < ( Tlioracic. ( Infrascapular. In addition to these, a set of unnamed vessels passing from the subclavian to the axillary immediately surrounded the site of ligation. The cervical rib (see p. 114), when two or more inches in length, always supports the subclavian artery, and is tliereibre a reliable guide to its position.'' The branches of the subclavian artery are— The Vertebral. The Thyroid Axis. The Internal Matninary. The Superior Litercostal and Deep Cervical. THE VEKTEBl^AL ARTERY. The Vertebral Artery is the largest branch of the subclavian. It arises from the upper surface of the first part of this vessel, passing through the fora- mina of the transverse processes of the cervical ver- tebraa from the sixth upward, and ascends through- out the entire length of the neck, to escape thence above, where it winds round the atlas, to enter the cranium at the foramen magnum. The artery here passes obliquely forward and joins the vessel of the same name of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. 1 Ghiy's Hosp. Ro-p. 1836, 62. 2 I^udwig Stille, Virchow's Archiv, Bd xxxvi. 1866, 425, figs.; and A. Poland, Med.-Cliir. lii. 255. Literature.