THE INTEENAL ILIAC ARTERY. 397 OOO^OOO ■ versity of Pennsylvania, the following junctions are con- spicuous :— Ilio-1 umbar —|— Lumbar. Obturator-]-Lumbar. Obturator and Pi'ofanda , jj;^ .^^^^^^^^ teinoris I Cases of symmetrical gangrene of the lower extremities have been recorded in which the lumina of the common iliac arteries were obliterated by clots.' THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The Internal Iliac Artery extends from the lateral aspect of the promontory of the sacrum toward the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. It is smaller than the external, measuring from one-and-a-half to two inches in length, and supplies the pelvic viscera, the external genitals in part, the anal walls, the buttock, and the origins of some of the muscles of the thigh. In the foetus the internal iliac gives off the hypo- gastric artery, which passes forward to the sides of the bladder, and thence ascends to the umbilicus. At this time the artery is larger than the external iliac. Some authorities have reserved to tlie internal iliac artery the name of hypogastric, even after the pla- cental formations have disappeared, and the remains of the hypogastric artery have assumed a ligament- ous form. It will be remembered that the vessel may be, though rarely, the seat of diseased action even in the adult. M. Fere records a case of aneurism of this vessel involving other branches of the internal iliac, and refers to two specimens. The tumors do not appear to induce special symptoms; at least it is noteworthy that in each instance recorded the speci- men was secured in an autopsy where other causes for death were assigned, and where no histories of symptoms referable to the aneurism existed. Relations—Tiie internal iliac artery is sligiitly curved, the concavity looking forward. Above it lies near the inner border of the Psoas Magnus muscle, and lower down it rests upon the Pyriformis muscle. Behind it lies tlie internal iliac vein. In front is the peritoneum witii the ureter. The pulsations of the iliac artery can, under favor- able circumstances, be felt by rectal palpation. Ligation of the Internal Iliac Ai-terij Holden tlnis de- scribes tlie metliod of ascertaining the position of tlie internal iliac: Draw a line from tlie outer side of tiie tuberosity of the ischium to tiie posterior superior spine of tlie ilium. The junction of the lower with the middle tliird of this line gives the position of the artery. The operation is essentially the same as that for the ex- ternal iliac. It may be necessary slightly to enlarge the primary incision, in order to obtain room enough for the ' Dupuy, BuH. de la Soe. Anatoniique, t. xlvii. 1872, 285. manipulations requisite in reaching the deeper-seated internal iliac. In view of this fact, the incision in the skin may be five inches long. The line of the first incision should extend from the umbilicus to a point midway between the spine of the pubis and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; this incision should begin at the outer edge of the Rectus muscle, and terminate about an inch above Poupart's ligament in order to avoid the spermatic cord. The remain- ing steps of the operation are the same as those for ligation of the external iliac. The vein lies behind and toward the outer side of the vessel on the riglit side, or in the angle be- tween the internal and external iliac arteries. The ureter need not interfere, since it is raised and pushed away with the peritoneum. The internal iliac artery divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The branches of these in turn may be arranged as foll<jws:— («) Vesical. ^ {L) Obturator. Anterior Branch. ^ (c) Internal pudic. {d) Uterine, (e) Vaginal. r (/) Sciatic. _ . -r, 1 ! (7) Gluteal (superior). Posterior Branch. \ )'[ . \ ' ' I (ft) ilio-lumbar. 1^ (/) Lateral sacral. Lnschka adds to the anterior branches an inferior gluteal. The hypogastric artery of the foetus arises from the anterior branch. Henle includes the arteries supplying the pelvic viscera as median branches. The obturator artery sometimes arises from the posterior branch. («) The vesical arteries are two in number, the supe- rior and the inferior. The superior vesical artery supplies the posterior wall and sides of the bladder. It is continuous with the remains of the hypogastric artery of the foetus. The inferior vesical artery accompanies the iireter to the base of the bladder, vesiculfe seminales, and vas deferens. It also supplies the prostate gland, and, in females, the lower part of the vagina. It anasto- moses with the spermatic artery. Variations The arteiy is often duplicated or is even multiple. {b) The obturator artery passes forward along the lateral wall of, and a short distance below, the brim of the true pelvis, between the nerve and vein of the same name. It lies between the obturator fascia and the peritoneum, and enters a special passage (obtu- rator canal) at the superior border of the obturator foramen by which it obliquely pierces the obturator membrane, and divides into its terminal branches, the internal and external obturator arteries. The internal