THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. s>O0^0&<T 405 a line uniting the trochanter major to the symphysis pubis, the artery is superficial, and lies upon the median portion of the conjoined tendon of the Psoas Magnus and the Iliacus Liternus. Laterally, lies the anterior crural nerve; medianly (and inclining to a plane deeper than that of the artery), lies the femoral vein. Tlie artery is covered by the deep and super- ficial fixscia and by some lymphatic glands. In the region extending from tlie above line to the middle of the thigh, the artery lies upon a quantity of connective tissue and fat occupying the interval between the Vastus Internus on the lateral, and the Adductor Brevis and Adductor Magnus muscles on the median, side. Laterally, lie the long saphenous nerve and a second branch of the anterior crural nerve, the Sartorius muscles, and indirectly the Vas- tus Internus muscle and the shaft of the femur. The profunda femoris branch here lies parallel to the vessel. In the region extending from the middle of the thigh to the lower fourth, the artery lies upon the glisten- ing tendon of the Adductor Longus, and nearly par- allel to the fibres of that muscle. At its termination, it lies upon the tendon of the Adductor Magnus. Late- rally, lie the femoral vein, the Vastus Internus mus- cle, and indirectly the shaft of the femur; medianly, lie a quantity of connective tissue fat and the skin. The vessel is covered by a layer of fibres extending from the Vastus Internus to the Adductor Longus and the Adductor Magnus (the canal of Hunter), by the Sartorius muscle, and indirectly by fascia and skin. Variations The femoral artery may be double. The second vessel then becomes one branch of an island-forma- tion, of which the normal vessel is the other branch. As a rule, it is a branch of the external iliac artery, and joins either the femoral or the popliteal artery. A vessel—the long saphenous artery—maybe seen accomiianying the long saphe- nous vein. When this vessel arises above the point of origin of the profunda femoris, it supplies the thigh alone ; but, when it arises below the point of origin of the profunda, it may pass to the leg and even reach the ankle. It is plain that the failure of an operation dependent on ligation of tlic femoral artery may be attributed, among other causes, to the presence of a second femoral or of an enlarged long saphe- nous artery—A small artery may arise from the femoral, and pass upward over the antero-median portion of the thigh, where it may as a consequence be divided in femoral herni- otomy. The femoral artery may be small and sui)ply only the upper and middle portions of the thigh. The ischiatic artery in such specimens is unusually large. The profunda femoris may arise near Foupart's ligament. It often arises from the median side of tiie femoral or behind it, but rarely from the anterior surface. The profunda, when found lying to the median side of the femoral, will be found to give otf the internal circumflex, and when lying to the lateral side, the external circumflex.* THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. The Popliteal Artery is the continuation of the femoral. It begins at the annular opening in the Adductor Magnus muscle, at the lower fourth of the posterior aspect of the thigh. It passes down- ward within the popliteal space, crosses the posterior surface of the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, and lies upon the Popliteus muscle, and at the upper border of the Soleus muscle, as it crosses the inter- osseous space, it terminates in the anterior and the posterior tibial arteries. It lies deep throughout, and is strictly popliteal in its relations, save where it passes beneath the Semimembranosus and the Gastro- cnemius. It divides at a point one inch and a quarter below the head of the fibula, and one inch below the head of the tibia. The branches of the popliteal artery are arranged as follows:— (rt) Muscular. (/>) Lateral Articular. (c) Median Articular, (a) Muscular branches are given off above the line of flexion of the knee-joint. They form two groups: the one, comprising the muscular branches proper, is composed of small twigs which supply the ham-string muscles; the other is composed of the two vessels known as the sural arteries^ A^•hich supply the Gastro- cnemius muscle. Each of these enters the head of the latter upon its own side, and extends along the muscle. {b) The lateral articular arteries at the side of the joint consist of two pairs, as follows :— (1) Superior Articular. (2) Inferior Articular. (1) The superior articular arteries arise above the line of flexion. They consist of an external and an internal artery. The external inferior articular artery passes upward and outward close to the femur to reach the Vastus Externus muscle to which and to the tendon of the Biceps its branches are distributed. The internal branch, also lying close to the bone, winds around to the inner side of the femoral con- dyle, and supplies tlie muscles inserted into the inner tibial tuberosity. Its terminal branches pass ante- riorly as far as the patella. (2) The inferior articular arteries also embrace ' Zaaijer, .Jonrn. of Anat. and Phys., i. 180.