3W THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. =00^00= The jjyloric branch is a small artery which joins the coronary. It supplies the upper border of the pylorus. It is sometimes a branch of the gastro- duodenal artery. The gastro-duodenal, about two inches in length, passes downward behind the pylorus at its lower border. It divides into two branches, the gastro- epiploica-dextra, and the pancreatico-duodenalis. The gastro-epiploica-dextra passes along the greater curvature of the stomach, and anastomoses Avith the gastro-epiploica-sinistra branch of the splenic. It sup- plies the walls of the stomach, and, by numerous short epiploic branches, the great omentum. A rare form of aneurism affecting this vessel has been described.' The payicreatico-duodenalis branch runs along the inner border of the second portion of the duodenum, and sends a branch to the head of the pancreas. It often joins the superior mesenteric by a small branch which runs between the lower margin of the pancreas and the third portion of the duodenum. TABLE OF THE BRANCHES OF THE HEPATIC AETERY. Upper (right) Division. Lower (left) Division. Branches entering tlie liver. Cystic. Pyloric. Gastro-Duodenalis. Gastro-Epiploica Dextra. Pancreatico-Duodenalis. (3) The splenic artery, the largest branch of the axis, is directed to the left. It runs along the entire length of the upper border of the body of the pan- creas, and reaches the spleen, to which its terminal branches are distributed. The vessel is wavy and sometimes tortuous, especially in engorgements of the spleen. The branches of the splenic artery are— (1) Pancreatic. (2) Gastro-Epiploica-Sinistra. (3) Gastric Branches (Vasa Brevia). (4) Terminal. (1) The pancreatic are numerous small branches which are lost in the substance of the pancreas. ' Virchow's Archiv, 1867, 384. (2) The gastro-epiphica-sinisira supplies the cardiac end of the stomach, where it anastomoses with ter- minal branches of the gastro-epiploica-dextra and those of the coronary. It also supplies the omentum. (3) The gastric (vasa brevia) are numerous small branches which supply the cardiac end of the stomach. (4) The terminal hranches are four or five in number, and are received in the spleen at the hilum. {l)) The superior mesenteric artery is slightlv larger than the coeliac axis, and arises below it from the front of the aorta. It supplies the lower part of the duodenum, the jejunum, the ileum, the caecum, the ascending and the transverse colon. It descends vertically between the pancreas in 'front and the third portion of the duodenum behind. It enters between the two layers of the peritoneum, which form the mesentery where that membrane joins tlie transverse mesocolon. It is engaged in the adherent borders of the mesentery at the lower border of the beginning of the jejunum, whence it proceeds obliquely downward and toward the left, to terminate in the ileo-colic artery in the neighborhood of the ileo- csecal valve. The artery is sligiitly curved, presenting its convexity toward the left side. The branches of the superior mesenteric are as follows:— Branches to the Small Intestine | (arise from the convexity of-< the vessel). ' Branches to the Large Intestine (arise from the concavity of - the vessel). Those for the small intestine comprise the duodenal (inferior pancreatico-duodenalis) and the jejunal and ileal (intestinal branches proper). The inferior pan- creatico-duodenalis artery runs along the inferior border of the pancreas to join ihe pancreatico-duo- denal branch of the hepatic artery. The jejunal and ileal branches vary in number from sixteen to eighteen. Each separate branch soon divides into two, which in their turn divide and inosculate with one another. Following this method of distribution, the Duodenalis. Jejunales et Ilese. Colica Dextra. Colica Media. Ileo-Colica. EXPL.\NATION OF PLATE LXVIII. Fig. 1. The stomach, liver, and pancreas, sliowing the coeliac axis and branches. The branches exhibit the following variations: The hepatic artery sends two branches instead of a single branch to the liver. The pyloric artery and the gastro-duodenalis arise sepa- rately from the main trunk of the hepatic artery. The coronary artery arises from the hepatic artery near the origin of this vessel, instead of arising from the cojliac axis. Fig. 2. A diagram showing the relations of the duodenum and the pancreas to the descending vena cava and the aorta. Fi<T. 3. The stomach and its arterial sup[>ly.