THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 450 OOO^CXX: riC GLANO Lymphatics of the Small Intestine axd the Mesbxtert. The lumbar plexus. This is situated in the lumbar region, and receives lymphatics from the Quadratus Lumborum and Psoas muscles, and from the verte- bral column. To it converge lymphatics along the course of the external iliac artery, of the remains of the hypogastric artery, as well as the vessels from the internal organs of generation, the kidneys, and the suprarenal capsules, the lateral walls of tbe abdo- men, and, on the left side, those from the sigmoid flexure and the rectum. The coeliac group of glands. This is not sharply separated from the preceding. It surrounds the aorta, the coeliac axis, and the superior mesenteric artery, as well as the portal vein; extends behind the head of the pancreas, and is composed of from sixteen to twenty glands which receive lymphatics from the stomach, small intestine, large intestine, spleen and pancreas, and from the liver. The gastric group. From the stomach proceed three groups of vessels—from the left, the upper, and the lower surfaces respectively. The lymphatics of the left group accompany the vasa brevia, and are in association with the lymphatics of the spleen. The vessels of the upper group lie within the folds of the gastro-hepatic omentum, in company with the coro- nary vessels. Those of the lower group lie upon the greater curvature in company with the right gastro- epiploic vessels. Some of the lymphatic vessels lie beneath the peritoneal coat, while others lie between the muscular and mucous coats. The lymphatic vessels from the small intestine, here called the lacteals, lie between the two layers of the mesentery. Hence, the glands which accompany them are called the mesenteric glands. Each gland presents an average length of six to seven lines, and is four to five lines in width. Three rows of these glands are recognized: the first, nearest the intestine, is composed of small and widely dispersed glands; the second are somewhat larger and more approximate; while the third row lies at the root of the mesentery. The entire number of . glands is estimated to range from one hundred and thirty to one hundred and fifty. They are more numerous toward the upper portion of the mesentery than at the lower. The minute lymphatics within the walls of the intestine are arranged as in the stomach, viz., one layer beneath the peritoneum, the other between the muscular and mucous coats. The former are arranged along the axis of the intestine, the latter transversely. Several small lymphatic glands are seen lying in the fold of peritoneum at the lower border of the spleen. The lymphatics of the large intestine. These closely resemble those of the small intestine. The glands, however, are smaller, fewer in number, and are arranged in one or two rows. Those from the sigmoid flexure and rectum are directed to the left lumbar plexus; the remaining ones join the coeliac plexus, either directly or indirectly through the last row of mesenteric glands. The lymphatics of the spleen and the pancreas. These follow the course of the splenic veins, and join the upper cceliac glands. The lymphatics of the liver. The lymphatics are here superficial and deep. The siqjcrficial lie on the convex surface of the liver, in great part, and form a lateral and a median network on the right lobe, and, passing within the suspensory ligament of the liver, finally join the internal mammary plexus, as already described. But others, namely, those situated over the left lobe, in part, pursue a different course. These are collected upon the left lateral ligament of the liver, and enter the upper part of the coeliac group in company with the lymphatics from the spleen and the pancreas. Hyrtl mentions a third group of vessels from the posterior border of the right lobe, which join the posterior mediastinal glands. The superficial vessels of the concave surface join the deep at the transverse fissure.—The deej) lymphatics enter the transverse fissure with the portal vein. As