THE SYSTEMIC AETEEIES. * Hommel, Commerc. Litter., Norimb. 1737, 161. 3 Martin MuUer, Arcliiv, 1839, fasc. 3, p. 222. -;x^O^O-Cx= Tlie liability of the left bronchus to compression as com- pared with the right is worth noting. It is the weaker bron- chus ; for in an exact sense the trachea does not bifurcate, but continues both in volume and direction in tiie right bron- clius—the left bronchus being a twig-like growth from the main stem. Hence the smaller volume of the left lung, and, probably, its greater liability to disease. The parts contained witliin or beneath the arch of tlie aorta are:— (1) The right pulmonary artery. (2) The portion of tiie left auricle with wiiich the appendage is connected. (3) The left bronchus. (4) Tiie cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg. (5) The ligamentous remains of the ductus arteriosus. (6) The recurrent branches of the pneumogas- tric nerves. Opposite to tlie position of the semilunar valves, a sligiit constriction of the calibre of the aorta takes place. Directly above the plane of the insertion of the valves the aorta is slightly dilated, forming the sinuses of Valsalva. The aortic semilunar valves are on a level with the top of the body of the eighth dorsal vertebra, and the spine of the sixth dorsal vertebra. In front their position answers to the middle of the sternum, or they may be on a line with the junction of the sternum and the third costal cartilage. The average circumference of the adult aorta above the semilunar valve is two inches and eight and a half lines; and below the valves three inches and a fourth of a line.^ The semilunar valves are rarely two in number; either the right and the left may coalesce, or the pos- terior valve may be absent. Variations of the Aorta The following are among the most striking of the varieties of the arrangement of the aortic arch and its branches :— The right aortic arch present in common with the left. Tiiis is constant in many Batrachia. The arrangement is due to the retention of the fourth right bi'aciiial arch. The ascending aorta forming a ring, which gives off from its periphery tiie subclavian, external carotid and internal carotid arteries. The pulmonary artery passes backward through the ring.' The arch of the aorta crosses tlie trachea just above its bifurcation. The right subclavian and common carotid arteries arise from the posterior and tlie left common carotid, and the left subclavian from the front.' Tiie right aortic arch is persistent, the left is absent. Tliis arrangement is constant in the birds. The arch of the aorta passes behind the trachea. The innominate artery, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian arise from the ' N. Chevers, Loud. Med. Gaz., 1846, 191. 2 Malaoarne, Osservaz. in Chirurg., 1788, ii. 119. 45 begiiuiing of the arch of the aorta in front The left sub- clavian may arise from tlie ascending portion of the aortic arch, and pass to the left behind the trachea. It may also arise from tiie summit of the arch, and the ri^ht subclavian artery take its origin I'rom tlie junction of the arch with the descending [jortion, and pass to the right behind the trachea and oesophagus The right subclavian artery may arise from the descending portion of the aorta, and pass to the right side under the aortic arch The arch of the aorta may yield, in addition to its usual branches, the arteria tiiyroidea ima, and the vertebral artery Tlie innominate artery may be absent, and its place supplied by the right sub- clavian and right common carotid having distinct points of origin. The anterior aortic roots may unite into a single trunk—The left carotid may be united with the innominate. —The left carotid and subclavian may unite to form a left innominate. This is constant in birds The common caro- tids may unite, leaving the subclavians distinct The in- nominate may give origin to the subclavian and carotid arte- ries, leaving the left vertebral to arise separately. In the chests of persons deformed by rickets, the aorta may be so curved as to make its pulsations visible either to the right or left of the sternum, in this way simulating an aortic aneurism. Of tliis pecu- liarity, Barkow' has figured a number of examples, in one of the most remarkable of which the ascending aorta lay directly behind and in contact with the surface of the chest, from the second to the fourth ribs on the right side, and from the second and third ribs on the left. Balfour^ has discussed this subject from a clinical point of view. The aortic bulb may be imperfectly divided, so that a septum is seen within. The anterior roots of the primordial aorta may imperfectly unite, and persist as a septum within the ascending aorta. The division of the aortic bulb into tlie origin of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, while complete, may transpose the vessel in such wise that the pulmonary artery is posterior, and the aorta is anterior. In five cases collected by Albers,' tlie pulmonary artery sprang from the left, the aorta from tiie riglit ventricle; in all death ensued within a few months after birth. In two cases of Fane's, the pulmonary artery arose from both ventricles. " The proper aorta gave off the arteries of the head and of the upper extremities only, and united by a thin branch with the descending aorta, which was derived from the pulmonary artery, ieyond the point where the latter sent of!" its branch to the lung." The Relations of the Aorta sjjeciaUy considered in connection with aortic aneurism.—The portion of the aorta within the 'pericardium differs in some import- 1 Die Verkrummungen der Gefiisse, etc., Breslau, 1869. 2 Diseases of the Heart, etc., London, 1876, 320.