Pelvis. Coccygeal Body. IX. ^ Lancet, 1878, i. 778 ; also Clin. Leotures by Gueneau d<; Jlussy. J GENEEAL REMARKS ON THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. ooog^OOc 453 reported hy Dr. Lewis/ a stricture of the o3Sophagus was associated with engorgement of the bronchial lymphatics. The presence of enlarged bronchial glands can be diagnosed during life, according to B. Yeo/ who finds that the position occupied by them corresponds to an area of dulness situated below the level of the fourth dorsal verte/bra. The pressure of the glands may induce tracheal stenosis, and even perforation of the trachea. This lesion was detected by Sidney Copeland,^ who found, in a boy four years of age, scrofulous degeneration of these glands, followed by occlusion of the trachea just above the point of bifurcation. The aperture in the trachea permitted the entrance of the diseased gland, and measured nearly half an inch along the axis of the tube, while for more than an equal dis- tance above the calibre of the trachea was narrowed by the pressure of the gland from without. The bronchial lymphatic glands may aid the left bronchus in making injurious pressure against the oesophagus (see Trachea). THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. The Ductless Glands are special vascular structures found in the head, neck, and trunk. They include the pituitary, the thyroid, the intercarotic, the thy- mus, and the coccygeal bodies ; the adenoid structures of the alimentary canal; the spleen, and the supra- renal capsules. The place these structures should occupy in an anatomical system is subject to dispute. From the data furnished by embryology, the spleen, the solitary and agminated bodies of the small intes- tine, the toiisil, and other adenoid structures of the alimentary canal, are shown to be closely related to the lymphatic system, while the pituitary body, in part, the thyroid body, the thymus body, the inter- carotic body, and the coccygeal body are developed from the hypoblast of the embryo in association with the primitive alimentary tract, and, while presenting some features in common with the lymphatic system, form a distinct group. The suprarenal capsules, the intercarotic body, and the coccygeal bodies are abundantly supplied with branches of the sympathetic nerve, and are included by Luschka in a group of appendarjes to the 7iervous system. The suprarenal capsules are developed in intimate association with the sympathetic ganglia, and each retains a medullary substance rich in nerve-cells. The ductless glands are all very vascular, and, from the circumstance that they bear functional relations to the composition of the blood-corpuscles, both red and white, as well as in some instances (e. y. the spleen and the thyroid body) holding secondary positions as ' Med. Timt-s and Gaz. 1861, i. 332. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond. 1874, xxv. 30. blood-diverticula or reservoirs, are named by some observers appendages to the blood-vessel system, or hlood-vessel glands. With the exception of the intercarotic and the coccygeal body, the ductless glands are abundantly supplied with lymphatics. Some of the ductless glands, as the spleen, the thyroid body, the thymus body, the suprarenal cap- sules, the intercarotic body, and the coccygeal body, exhibit a tendency to divide or to form supplemental mas.ses. The functions of the ductless glands are in a measure supplemented in the foetus by the liver, and in the adult by the medulla of bone. The lymphatic glands, together with the ductless glands, are most active during infancy and adolescence. The best arrangement of the ductless glands for practical purposes is that based upon the regions in which they occur. A Classification of the Ductless Glands. Head, Neck, and Thorax. r I. Pituitary Body, IL Thyroid Body. 1 IIL Intercarotic Body. IV. Thymus Body. I V. Adenoid Bodies of the Pharynx. r VI. Spleen. VII. Adenoid Bodies of the Intes- : tine. I VIII. Suprarenal Capsules.