THE HEAKT 378 BLOODVESSELS. AND THE (/) The branches of the basilar to the pons Varolii are minute vertical twigs, which are distributed to tlie entire substance of the pons. Thev bear a close re- semblance to the branches of the anterior spinal artery. The middle cerebellar artery. Under this name Duret describes a branch of the basilar artery passing to the basal surface of the cerebellar hemisphere. It sends a few twigs to supply the seventh and eighth nerves at their apparent origins. A small transverse twig supplies the apparent origin of the sixth, and another larger arteriole passes to the apparent origin of the fifth nerve. Eemarks.— Aneurism of the posterior cerebral artery as it curves round the crus will exert pressure upon the spheno-temporal lobe, the corresponding crus. and the pons, as well as upon the second, third, fifth, and seventh nerves. Hemorrhage from the rupture of such an aneurism may raise the floor of the lateral ventricle, and involve the floor of the fourth ventricle (Durand). Hemorrhage from the branch to the median aspect of the optic thalamus (internal posterior) may create an isolated clot which is either confined to the thala- mus or projects into the third ventricle. Hemorrhage from the branch at the lateral aspect of the optic thalamus (external posterior) will cause laceration of the optic thalamus posteriorly, and the clot may be found extending thence within the crus cerebri as far as the pons Varolii. When the hemor- rhage is extensive, the walls of the cavity in the optic thalamus limiting it may rupture, and the blood escape into the third ventricle. Hemorrhage from the branch lying within the calcarine fissure creates a gross lesion in the occipital lobe, which sometimes perforates the calcar avis (hippocampus minor), when the blood-clot will be found lying within the lesser cornu of the late- ral ventricle. THE THYROID AXIS arises from the anterior surface of the subclavian artery in the first part of its course, at a point oppo- site the vertebral artery, atid to the median side of the Scalenus Anticus muscle. After ascending a few lines, it terminates by division as follows :— Inferior Thyroid. Suprascapular. Transversalis Colli. THE INFERIOR THYROID. The Inferior Thyroid artery appears to be the con- tinuation of the stem of the thyroid axis. It passes upward on the Longus Colli muscle as far as the fifth cervical vertebra, at which point it inclines inward to reach the thyroid body, where it freely anasto- moses with the artery of the opposite side and the superior thyroid artery. The vessels enter the base of the body at the sides and beneath. In broncliocele, the vessels supplying the thyroid body are greatly increased in volume. No matter to what size the growth may attain the vessels always preserve the usual relation to the under surface and basal borders of the thyroid body. This fact is of importance in extir[)ating tumors of this organ. W. W. Greene,' of Portland, Maine, advises that the base of the mass be reached as rapidly as possible in order to compress the source of arterial bleeding. Relations Tlie inferior thyroid of the left side lies upon the oesophagus and near tlie thoracic duct. These relations are of importance in oesophagotomy. As the artery ascends the neck it lies in front of the inferior laryngeal nerve. Variations., — The thyroid axis is sometimes absent, when the inferior thyroid secures origin from the sub- clavian. It may arise in common with the suprascapular, or from the aortic arch between the innominate and the left carotid artery. Jas. Blake^ has described an inferior thyroid artery of the size of a goosequill, which arose from the innominate artery, crossed the trachea three-fourths of an inch above the sternum, and returned to enter the thyroid body at its right side. It has occasionally been seen to arise from the common carotid. Very rarely, the artery, when of carotid origin, after supplying the side of the thyroid body nearest to it, sends another branch between the trachea and the oesophagus to the opposite side of the thyroid body. The branches of the inferior thyroid artery are— (a) Ascending cervicaL {b) Laryngeal. (c) Tracheal. (a) The ascending cervical branch passes upward along the inner side of the phrenic nerve between the Scalenus Anticus and the Eectus Capitis Anticus Major, which it supplies with blood. Branches enter the intervertebral foramina, and are distributed to the spinal cord and membranes. It anastomoses with the ascending pharyngeal. (Ij) The laryngeal branch arises uear the branches entering the thyroid body. It ascends behind the inferior angle of the thyroid cartilage, and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. (c) The tracheal is one of the most, constant of the branches of the inferior thyroid. It arises oppo- site the transverse process of the seventh cervical ver- tebra, and descends behind the trachea as far as the bifurcation, giving branches to the oesophagus, trachea, ' Amer. Jonrn. Med. Sci., Jan. 1871, 80. ^ St. Louis Med. and Surg. .Tourn., .lune, 1848.