THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 402 —^xxO^Ooo Ligation in Hunter's canal. This operation is rarely resorted to. It is performed by making an incision from the apex of Scarpa's triangle, downward for a distance of three-and-a-half inches. The internal saphenous vein and the long saphenous nerve are carefully avoided, the deep fascia over the Sartorius muscle divided, and the muscle drawn downward. The anterior wall of the canal is now exposed. This being carefully opened, the artery is ex- posed. Great care sliould be taken not to mistake an enlarged anastomotica magna for tlie main vessel. The collateral circulation after ligature of the femoral artery above the profunda femoris artery:— Gluteal Circumflex Iliac Obturator Sciatic ^ —j— External Circumflex. I -\- Internal Circumflex. Ilio-lumbar -|- External Circumflex. Comes Nervi Iscliiadici -j- Arteries in Popliteal Space Below tiie profunda femoris artery :— Internal Circumflex Branches of the Profunda Femoris External Circumflex Superior Articular. Recurrent bran ches of Tibial. Anastomotica Magna, f Recurrent branch ofAuteriorTibial. Grastrocnemial brauch of Pop- liteal. External Articular. Terminal Branches -|- Comes Nervi Ischiadica—|- | Superior Articular Arteries. J Muscular branches of Popliteal. Branches of Posterior Tibial. After ligation of the femoral above the origin of the pro- funda femoris for a popliteal aneurism. Sir A. Cooper^ found the collateral circulation to be established in tiie following manner: The profunda was enlarged. Several of its branches passed along the course of the sciatic nerve, anas- tomosing witli the inferior articular artery of the popliteal. Another branch anastomosed with the two superior articular branches of the popliteal. Another passed along the inner side of tiie Biceps muscle, to anastomose with a branch of the popliteal, supplying the Gastrocnemius muscle. The external circumflex artery was larger than usual, but effected no anastomosis. The obturator was not changed. In a specimen in which the circulation liad been estab- lished after a similar operation, John D. HilP found the anastomotica magna inosculating with the superior articular, and thence joining the anterior tibial recurrent artery on the inner side. The descending branch of the external cir- cumflex artery received the superior articular, and anasto- mosed with a branch of the anterior tibial recurrent. Then the latter artery represented a stem into which the blood from 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., ii. 1809, 249, figs. 2 Lancet, 1869, ii. 297, fig. both the anastomotica and the external circumflex flowed. This in its turn was continuous with the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial being joined to the latter vessel by a few intermediate vessels. The femoral artery may divide into two branches just below the origin of the profunda. These branches may remain distinct afterward, or may re-unite at the tendinous orifice in the Adductor Magnus muscle to form the popliteal. Sir Chas. Bell described' an anomaly of this description which was associated with popliteal aneurism. The recorder had tied one of the two femorals for the cure of the disease. The anomaly was not detected until the parts were dissected after death. Mr. Houston^ states that, in an example of a similar anomaly which had (!ome under his notice, the internal vessel supplied the Adductor muscles, while the external supplied the Vastus Internus, and gave origin to the anasto- motica magna. Remarks—Tiie artery bears a more intimate relation to the femur than the brachial bears to the humerus. In- stances of lesion, or of morbid action in the vessel, follow- ing injury or disease of the bone, are frequent. The vessel is more apt to be affected at its point of passage through the Adductor Magnus than elsewhere. In a case of vari- cose aneurism described by J. G. Perry,^ in a male aged forty-seven years, a communication between the femoral artery and vein occurred at the above locality. After death the external iliac was found to be very tortuous, and the fem- oral greatly dilated and attenuated, while an aneurismal distension was situated upon the popliteal artery. The in- extensile opening in the Adductor Magnus in this instance resisted the tendency of the vessel to dilate at this point, and determined the communication witii the femoral vein. H. Thompson* records a case of fatal hemorrhage in a boy aged nine years, from a superficial aberrant femoral artery, which wound round the shaft of the femur directly above the . internal condyle. The vessel had been ruptured by a spicule of the necrosed shaft of the bone. In a case of spon- taneous rupture of tlie femoral artery, occurring in a gouty subject, a male of seventy-three years, Leggett" found the Sartorius, Rectus Femoris, Vastus Internus, and Adductor muscles more or less infiltrated by extravasated blood. The femoral vessels were pushed inward, while the blood had passed upward along the crural canal, and had to some ex- tent infiltrated the Psoas and Iliacus muscles. Th. Z. Kneider^ has described a case of a small pulsat- ing tumor arising over the left portion of the pubis, conse- quent upon a violent blow received at that point, in a man aged forty-eight. On the seventh day after the injury, the collection emptied into the scrotal tissues. The recorder • Anderson's Quarterly Journal, Oct. 1826. 2 Dublin Hospital Reports, 1827, 313. « Med.-Chir. Trans., xx. 1837, 31. « Dublin Journ. of Med. Sci., iv. 1847, 251. 6 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., ix. 1858, 163. 6 Ohio Med. and Surg. Journ., i. 1848, 120.