386 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. The lower portion. The artery lies superficially between tlie tendons of the Supinator Longus and of the Flexor Carpi Radialis. The nerve lies to the lateral (outer) side. When the vessels are known to be enlarged, care should be taken not to confound the radial artery with the superficialis volae. The artery can be secured as it crosses the bottom of the space between the tendon of the Extensor Secundi Inter- nodii Pollicis and the sheath containing the tendons of the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis and the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. An incision one inch and a half in length is made obliquely across this space. The artery is easily detected lying at the base. According to Butclier,' " In wounds of the radial artery on liie back of the forearm, the lower end retracts into the lax tissue lodged in the triangular space, tlie walls of which are formed on the one side by the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, and on the other by tlie Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. Tiie way this ditficulty is to be met, is by cutting down on the radial artery, just betbre it dips down to form the palmar arch. It must he remembered, however, that it is covered in by a very dense fascia, which will require to be freely slit on a director. A large vein and a considerable branch of tlie radial nerve run superficial to the artery in this part of its course, and must be avoided." Holden^ states that the line of the superficial palmar arch crosses the palm at about the junction of the upper with the lower two-thirds, that is, in the line of the base of the walls of the thumb separated widely from the fingers. The artery near the wrist, before it turns over the styloid process, may be separated from the bone by a bursa.' The vessel thus situated may become unduly prominent, and transmit its pulsation to the bursa and the surrounding parts. Sir Astley Cooper mentions an instance of ligation of the vessel by an incautious operator who mistook the misplaced artery for an aneurism. The branches of the radial artery are as follows :—■ r (a) Radial Recurrent. {b) Anterior Carpal. (c) Superficialis Vols',. (d) Muscular. f (e) Posterior Carpal. j (/) Metacarpal (first dorsal B. Behind the wrist. \ interosseous). 1 (//) Dorsal is Pollicis. y (h) Dorsalis Indicis. „ _ , , , ( (/■') Princeps Pollicis Arteria. C. In the hand. { ; i -n, t t t t • (j) Radians Indicis. 1 Surgery, 407. ^ Landmarks, 120. 3 Wm. Coulson, Loiidou Med. Journ., 18.51, 884. A. In the forearm. \ (a) The radial recurrent artery arises from the outer side of the main vessel at the bend of the elbow. It curves outward and upward with the convexity of the curve downward, to ascend along the groove be- tween the Supinator Longus and the Brachialis An- ticus. It rests upon the Supinator Brevis, and sends branches to that muscle as Avell as to the origins of the radial extensors and to the Extensor Communis Digitorum. It anastomoses with the superior profunda artery. (l) The anterior carpal artery is a slender, constant branch arising from the radial artery at the level of the lower edge of the Pronator Quadratus. It passes inward to form with the junction of the anterior carpal branch a transverse arch across the line of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. It sends branches to the Pronator Quadratus, to the periosteum of the radius and ulna, and to the inferior radio-ulnar arti- culation. (c) The superficialis voice arises at the level of the styloid process of the radius. It descends vertically across the annular ligament to reach the ball of the thumb, to the muscles of which it is in the main dis- tributed. Its terminal branches lie beneath the palmar aponeurosis, and anastomose with the analo- gous branches of the superficial ulnar artery to form the superficial palmar arch. According to Sappey, this artery supplies the first two lumbrical muscles. {d) The muscular branches supply contiguous mus- cles of the forearm, and the nutrient branch. (e) The posterior carpal artery is larger than the preceding. It arises from the radial vessel near the inter-carpal articulation to the outer side of the Exten- sor Carpi Radialis Longior. It passes transversely across the first row of carpal bones beneath the tendon of the extensors of the thumb and finger, and forms with a branch of the ulnar an arch whose concavity is forward. Branches arise from the arch both above and below. Those above are slender and are distri- buted to the dorsum of the carpus, the radio-carpal articulation, and to the skin, and anastomose with the anterior interosseous. Those below the arch are larger, and perforate the Dorsal Interosseous muscles to join the deep palmar arch. (/) The metacarpal {^Yfit dorsal interosseous) arises to the outer side of the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis above the first interosseous space. It lies upon the second interosseous space, anastomoses with the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch, and supplies branches to the index and middle finger. {(j) Tlie dorsalis piollicis frequently arises from the radial jnst prior to the vessel perforating the first