381 THE AXILLAEY ARTEEY. supplies the Complexus and other deep muscles of the vertebral scries, and thus has no organic connection with the muscles inserted into the superior extremity. —The ascending cervical artery supplies the Scalene muscles, which may be said to constitute the superior Costo-Vertebral group of muscles. THE AXILLARY ARTERY. The Axillary Artery is the continuation of the subclavian. It begins at the lower (lateral) border of the first rib, and ends at the lower border of the ten- dons of the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Minor muscles behind, and the lower border of the Pectoralis Major in front. It proceeds obliquely downward and backward across the arm-pit, changing its position slightly according to the position of the limb. When the superior extremity is at rest, the vessel describes a curve downward and inward, the convexity being directed toward the shoulder. The artery is situated more deeply above than below, where it is covered by the skin and fascia only. Belovf, it lies near the humerus, from which it is separated by the Coraco- Brachialis muscle. The axillary artery is divided for convenience into three portions. The first portion includes that part of the vessel lying above the tendon of the Pectoralis Minor muscle; tlie second portion lies behind the tendon; and the third lies below it. Relations.— The first portion of the axillary artery. In front it is covered by the skin, the Platysma Myoides, the cephalic vein, and tlie costo-coracoid membrane. Beneath, it rests against the external layer of the first Intercostal muscle and the Serratus Magnus, as well as against a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia, which forms, with the costo-coracoid membrane, a sheath inclosing the artery and vein. To the median side lies the axillary vein, and to the lateral side is the brachial plexus of nerves, the trunk formed by the union of the eiglith cervical and first dorsal nerves lying near and a little superficial to the artery. The second portion lies beneath the Pectoralis Minor, and is embraced by the trunks of the brachial plexus. A quantity of connective tissue lies between the vessel and the Siibscapularis muscle; to the lateral side is the insertion of tlie tendon of tiie Siibscapularis; and to the median side, the axillary vein. 27ie third portion—In front of the artery in this portion are the skin, fascia, and the median nerve which crosses the vessel obliquely from within outward. Beneath lie the lower part of the tendon of the Subscapularis, the tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi, and the Teres Minor muscle, as well as the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. To tlie lateral side lie the Coraco-Brachialis muscle, the external cutaneous nerve, and the outer root of the median nerve. To the me- dian side lie the axillary vein, the ulnar, the internal cuta- neous and the lesser cutaneous nerves, together with the inner root of the median nerve. When the arm is forcibly abducted, the axillary artery at its third portion rests on the Subscapularis muscle. Ligation of the Axillary Artery—For the o[]eration of ligation of the artery near its origin, an incision three inches long is made, beginning one inch from the sternal end of the clavicle, and extending to the anterior edge of the Deltoid muscle. The Pectoralis Major is drawn downward, and tlie costo-coracoid membrane carefully divided upon a grooved director. The operator should then search for the acromial branch of the artery, which ordinarily lies in the loose con- nective tissue beneath the membrane. Using the acromio- thoracic artery as a guide, the artery is seen lying deep in tiie wound between the vein and the brachial plexus of nerves. If seen, the vein should be drawn to the median side, and the needle passed from within outward. Tliis ope- ration is rarely performed, the ligation of the outer third of the subclavian being easier and safer. For obvious reasons the ligation of the axillary at its second portion is rarely at- tempted. For ligation of the axillary artery at its lower portion, the elbow is flexed, the arm is abducted, and an incision three inches long made in the axillary space, a little nearer the median than the lateral side. Using the inner border of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle as a guide, a careful search for the artery is instituted in the loose connective tissue. The axillary vein is first exposed, and, on drawing this to the median side, tlie artery is disclosed lying to the median side of the median nerve. The needle is passed from within outwai'd. The collateral circulation varies according as the arteiy is ligated above or below tiie subscapular. the Above Subscapular Below Subscapular other arteries about scapula. Internal Mammaiy aud Deep Ejiigastrio. (Subscapular —[- Long Tlioracic—[— ( Posterior Circunitlex-|-Suprascapular and I Acromial-Thoracic. Subscapular —j-Superior Profunda. Mr. Skey reports^ an instance in which this artej-y was wounded by spicules of bone from a fractured humerus. A ditfused aneurism ensued, ending in death. The branches of the axillary artery are— {a) Superior Thoracic. {b) Acromial-Thoracic. (c) Long Tlioracic. {d) Thoracica Alaris. (e) Subscapular. ■ (/) Posterior Circumflex. {(j) Anterior Circumflex. {a) The superior thoracic arises from the first part of the vessel, as high up as the Subclavius muscle. It is often a branch of the acromial thoracic. Crossing ' Lancet, 1859, ii. 661.