868 THE HEA-ET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. Portal' asserts that a minute ai'tery pierces the internal auditory canal to reacli tlie tympanum ; a second enters the posterior orifice of tlie pterygoid canal to anastomose with the pterygoid* artery ; a third ascends to tiie cranium through the sphenoidal foramen after having given a branch which accompanies the branch of tiie nerve which unites the sympathetic with the pathetic, and after having furnished various branches to the din-a mater. Other twigs anastomose with the recurrent branches of the oplithalmic artery. The ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries are occasionally given oft" from the internal carotid. (c) The ophthalmic artery. The ophthalmic artery arises from the internal carotid just before it divides into the anterior and the middle cerebral. It takes its origin from the last curve of the vessel directly after it has pierced the dura mater, on a level with the anterior clinoid process of the splienoid bone. It lies over the cavernous sinus at the base of the skull, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, beneath and to the outer side of the nerve, but within its sheath. Soon after entering the orbit it escapes from the sheath, and crosses the nerve obliquely to get to the inner wall of the orbit, along which it passes between the Internal Rectus and Superior Oblique muscles to the trochlear process where it terminates by division into the frontal and nasal branches. The ophthalmic artery gives off the following branches:— (1) Laclirymal. (2) Posterior ciliary. (8) Supra-orbital. (-1) Central retinal. (5) Posterior ethmoidal. (6) Anterior ethmoidal. (7) Palpebral. (8) Muscular. (9) Frontal. (10) Nasal. (1) The lachrymal artery^ the largest branch of the ophthalmic, passes along the outer wall of the orbit, above the External Rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland, to which it gives numerous branches, and ' Anatomie Medicate. escapes upon the upper eyelid to terminate in the external palpebral. The lachrymal, not far from its origin, sends a recurrent branch through the anterior lacerated foramen to the dura mater to anastomose with the middle meningeal artery. The malar fora- mina convey other branches to the temporal fossa and the face. The lachrymal artery also sends branches to the periosteum of the outer wall of the orbit, to the External and Superior Rectus, and to the Levator Palpebrte. (2) The posterior ciliary branches. These are divided into a short and a long set. The vessels of the short set, varying from four to ten in number, arise from the main artery as it crosses the optic nerve, and pursue a tortuous, somewhat spiral course forward through the fat surrounding the optic nerve to pierce the sclerotic coat about the point at which the nerve efiects its entrance. They are dis- tributed to the choroid coat. The vessels of the lona: set are two in number. They penetrate the sclerotic coat near the preceding on either side of the eyeball between the sclerotic and choroid coats as far as the ciliary ligament, where each divides into two branches, an upper and a lower. These branches, uniting with the corresponding twigs of the opposite side, consti- tute a circle from which the iris receives its blood. (3) The supra-orhitallranch passes forwai'd, between the roof of the orbit and the elevator of the lids, to the supra-orbital foramen, within which it sends a small branch to the diploe of the frontal bone. It then divides into a superior and a deep branch; the former, the larger of the two, goes to the Occipito- Frontalis muscle and to the integument; the latter to the periosteum of the frontal bone. (4) The central retinal artery. This minute vessel arises from the ophthalmic artery. It enters the optic nerve obliquely from beneath, and passes along the centre of the nerve to enter the eyeball. It supplies the retina and the hyaloid membrane. In the foetus the vessel is prolonged through the centre of the vitreous humor, and is lost upon the posterior cap- sule of the lens. (5) The posterior ethmoidal Iranch is of variable size. ' It passes to the inner wall of the orbit, and enters the EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXIV. Fig. 1. A section of the cerebrum, showing the position of tlie choroid plexus. Fig. 2. The ophthalmic artery and its branches. Fig. 3. The circle of Willis. The anterior communicating artery has been represented many times too wide.