THE INFEEIOE ^ branches subdivide into from four to five tiers of mesenteric brandies before arriving at the intes- tines. In addition' to the above, the intestinal branches give off to the peritoneum minute twigs, which have received tlie name of the superficial branches. The branches for the large intestine are (in addi- tion to the ileo-colic, which is the terminal branch of the main vessel, but conveniently here included) the colica dextra and colica media. The colica dextra passes directly outward toward the colon. It divides into two branches, the upper one of which inosculates with the colica media, and the lower with the ileo- colica. The colica media resembles the foregoing in its plan of distribution. It ascends vertically to the transverse colon, and inosculates with the colica sin- istra of the inferior mesenteric, and with the colica dextra. The ileo-colica inosculates with the colica dextra, and sends some branches to anastomose with the terminal branches given oft' from the convexity. An intermediate branch passes behind the cajcum and supplies that structure, the vermiform appendix, and the ileo-CiBcal valve. I The anastomotic loops of the colic branches of the superior mesenteric artery are much fewer and coarser than those of the jejunal and ileal arteries. Tlie net- work is most conspicuous at the hepatic flexure of the colon. The relations of tlie omphalo-mesenteric artery and the superior mesenteric artery may occasionally prove of great importance in determining the nature of intestinal obstruc- tion. This foetal vessel is a branch of the superio]- mesenteric artery, and is destined to furnish arterial blood to the um- bilical vesicle. Under exceptional conditions the omphalo- mesenteric artery persists after the vesicle has been absorbed, and is seen appended to the superior mesenteric artery in the form of a fibi'ous cord, which may be eitiier attached to the abdominal wall at a point near the umbilicus, or hang free in the abdomen. Or it may lie in the abdominal cavity as a vagrant vessel covered with peritoneum, crossing the abdomen to anastomose with the bloodvessels supjdying the fundus of the bladder; vessels which are themselves, doubt- less, survivors of the foetal hypogastric arteries. Both of the above groups of anomalies are sometimes associated with diverticuli of the small intestine. In a case of fatal intestinal obstruction, recorded by Mr. F. A. Mahomed,' a fibrous band, identified as the persistent obliterated omphalo-mesenteric artery, was found after death extending from the abdominal wall, midway between the pubis and the umbilicus, backward toward the right iliac fossa, carrying with it a triangular fold of peritoneum, and held firmly to a branch of the ileo-colic branch of the ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 181r<, 117. b:NTEEIC ARTERY. ^95 superior mesenteric artery. It closely embraced a loop of the intestine. In a case re[)orted by Drs. Wood and Hulke,' the vessel was found to be pervious as far as the fundus of the bladder. The superior mesenteric arterv has been found by Sabbo'to be plugged by an embolus, as a result of which the large intestine became ulcerated, and at a single point perforated. Such a lesion is the more remarkable when the free anastomoses of the branches of this artery with those of the neighboring arteries is recalled. The root of the vessel tends to present a fixed point for the lower end of the duodenum, and aids indi- rectly in retaining that viscus in position. It further assists in strengthening the mesentery. See the sec- tion upon the Duodenum for its agency in causing lesions of the small intestine. Aneurism of the superior mesentei'ic artery has been known to incline to the right side, raising the pancreas before it, and, by pressing upon the ductus communis cholcdochus, to induce jaundice.^ (c) The inferior mesenteric artery arises from the abdominal aorta, below the superior mesenteric and about an inch above the origin of the common iliacs. It supplies the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and upper portion of the rectum. It is directed downward and to the right of the sacrum. Its branches are the colica sinistra sigmoid artery, and superior ha^mor- rhoidal. The colica sinistra inosculates with the colica media and the sigmoid arterv. From the loops derived from this union, branches of distribution are supplied to the descending colon. The sigmoid branches unite, in a manner similar to the above, with the colica sinistra and the superior hasmorrhoidal. As the name suggests, its branches of distribution supply the colon at the sigmoid flexure. The sigmoid artery may be a branch of the colica sinistra. The superior hsemorrhoidal descends to reach the posterior surface of the rectum, which structure it supplies. It anastomoses, with the middle and in- ferior haemorrhoidal arteries. According to Power,* it divides about four inches above the anus, giving one brancli to each side of the rectum. Thi^se again divide into numerous terminal branches whicdi are distributed around the inferior extremity of the intestine. ((/) The middle sacral artery is a small median branch placed at the point of bifurcation of the common iliacs. 1 Ibifl., 1873, 120. 2 BuU. de la Soc. Anatoniique, t. xlii., 18n7, 329. 3 .1. A. Wilson, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv., 1842, 221. Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries.