THE SUBCLAVIAN AETERY. 373 cOOj^CXx: Remarks R. L. MacDonnelP describes a dissection of the parts involved'by cancer of the supra-clavicular portion of the left lung. The carotid artery was pressed outward, as was also the first part of the left subclavian artery, while the third jjortion was reduced to the size of the radial, and obliterated by a coagulum. In phthisis a fibrous deposit has been found by R. Quain to surround and obliterate the left subclavian and left verte- bral arteries.''—Embolus is of more frequent occurrence in the left subclavian artery than in the right.' Ligation of the left subclavian artery to the median side of the Scalenus Anticus is an operation of exceptional difficulty. The details do not appear to require repetition here, since it is not likely that tlie attem[)t would be made without careful preparation on the cadaver. The Second Part of (he Subclavian Artery lies in the triangular space between the Scalenus Anticus in front and ttie Scalenus Medius behind. It repre- sents the highest portion of the curve of the main trunk. Above, and in part behind, lies the brachial plexus. In front lie the Scalenus Anticus, the phrenic nerve, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus, the cer- vical fascia, the Platysrna Myoides, and the integu- ment. The under surface of the artery lies along the outer aspect of the cervical projection of the pleural sac. Ligation of the Second Part of the Subclavian Artery Since this portion of the artery lies beiiind tiie Scalenus Anticus muscle, and is in contact with the pleura, and near the internal jugular vein, its ligation is generally thought to be a more hazardous operation than the ligation of the first part. Moreover, it is nearer the origin of branches of unknown dis- position and number, since the thyroid axis, first intercostal, and the deep cervical arteries are variable, and may interfere with the formation of a clot in the artery on the distal side of the ligature. The operation for the ligation of the vessel in its third portion can be readily used as a method of general procedure for that of the second, by careful division of the Scalenus Anticus at its insertion, by strict avoidance of the phrenic nerve normally seen running thereon, and by so dis- posing of the point of the needle as to avoid injuring the pleura. The Third Part {outer 'part or third) of the Subcla- vian Artery extends from the outer border of the Sca- lenus Anticus muscle downAvard and outward to the lower border of the first rib. The vessel thus lies at first at tlie base of the neck, and is here in relation with the Omo-Hyoid muscle above, tiie Scalenus Anticus muscle to the median side, and the upper 1 N. Y. .lourn. of Medicine, ]850, 15,5. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1850, 51, 85. 3 Duret, Archiv. Physiol, 1874. border of the first rib below. To its lateral side lies the lower borderof the brachial plexus. In front, and between it and tiie integument, lie tlie deep cervical fascia, Platysrna Myoides, superficial fascia, and the skin. Beneath and at a variable distance to its median side lies the pleura After reaching the first rib the vessel lies upon the anterior surface of tliis bone obliquely fi-om above downward and i'rom within out- ward. In front lie the clavicle and the Subclavius muscle. Crossing it vertically in front is the anterior thoracic nerve. To the outer side is the brachial plexus. The first dorsal nerve rarely passes between the subclavian artery and the subclavian vein. The Scalenus Minimus muscle has been described by Zuckerkandl as jiassing between the subclavian artery and the brachial [)lexus. The subclavian vein lies well to the inner side of the artery, but the vessel may be surrounded hy a plexus of veins, or crossed by several large venous trunks, the com- panion vein of the transversalis colli artery, as well as by t!ie cephalic vein. On the Vertical Position of the Third Part of the Subcla- vian Artery in the Neck—A case of aneurism of the left subclavian artery in a woman aged 30 is recorded by J. M. Warren.' The vessel in question was found to pass nearly vertically upward, parallel to, and about an inch from, the lateral border of the Trapezius muscle. The first rib and part of the second were felt passing obliquely across the neck above the clavicle. The insertion of the Scalenus Anticus into the first rib was distinguished. The vessel was the subject of aneurism for the cure of which the recorder successfully ligated the artery in its third [lart In a case recorded by A. Poland^ the right subclavian artery emerged from be- tween the Scaleni muscles two inches above the clavicle. It then descended nearly vertically to the axilla and passed behind the clavicle a little to the inner side of the junction of the external third, with the internal two-thirds of that bone Quain, in his Commentaries on the Arteries, alludes to this arching of the subclavian artery in tlie neck, and gives the measurements of specimens coming under his notice. Dupuytren (Lemons Orales, t. iv. p. 528) also adverts to the superficial position of the third portion of the artery in tliose who are thin, and have long, slender necks, with lean and sloping shoulders The deviation of the artery is not of unusual occurrence, and may be due either to a congenital or to an acquired condition. In the " Guy's Hos- pital Reports," 18G9, p. 445, are recorded the descriptions of two specimens observed in the dissecting-room. The height to which the vessels rose in the neck was such as to render the direction of the third portion of the artery almost vertical; this occurred in one instance on the right side, and in the other on the left, the artery emerging from behind the Scalenus fully an inch and a half above the clavicle ' Surgical Observations, 1867, 429. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans, lii. 177. The remaining remarks in tlie text on the vertical position of the third part of the subclavian artery are taken from Poland's paper.