THE VEINS OF THE HEAD. OOO^OOO 417 Van Buret!* describes an instance of aneurism of the descending aorta, in which the right innominate vein was obliterated. CEderaa of the right upper ex- tremity had been noticeable during the life of the patient. The left subclavian vein was greatly dilated. Owing to the intimate relations existing between the right innominate vein and the lung of the corre- sponding side, the products of inflammation in pneu- monia or in pleuritis may press against the vessel and interfere Avith the return of venous blood to the heart from the arm, the neck, and the head. Variations The superior vena cava may be absent, when the innominate veins open separately into the right auricle. The thyroid, intercostal, and mammary branches may join the superior vena cava. The lett innominate vein may pass through the thymus body. THE VEINS OF THE HEAD AND THE NECK. The veins of the Head and the Neck may be described separately, as follows:— I. The Veins of the Head. The Veins of the Head include— I. The External Veins. II. The Encranial Veins. I. The External Veins are— Facial. Temporal. Internal Maxillary. Temporo-Maxillary. Posterior Auricular. Occipital. Lingual. Pharyngeal. The Facial Vein (anterior facial) arises by the angular vein at the side of the root of the nose. Lying to the outer side of, or behind, the facial artery, though less tortuous than that vessel, it de- scends obliquely downward and outward to the lower jaw, which it crosses in front of the Masseter muscle, to appear upon the neck. It here terminates in the temporo-maxillary or common facial vein. Upon the face it is surrounded by subcutaneous fat, and lies beneath the Z3^gomaticus Major muscle; but on the neck it lies beneath the superficial fascia and the Platysma iMyoides muscle. The tributaries of the facial are the frontal, which 53 • New York Journ. of Med., 1849, 203. descends the forehead ; the sujyraorlntal, which passes inward along the upper eyelid and the brow; the in- ferior palpebral, the dorso-nasal, the vena alee nasi, the superior and inferior labial, the buccal, masseteric, pala- tine, ranine, and submental veins. The/)a?«^?'r2e derives blood from the soft palate and the tonsil; the ranine from the tip of the tongue. The submental vein answers in position to the submental artery, and derives blood from the submaxillary gland and the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. The facial vein anastomoses with the anterior branches of the infraorbital, with the pterygoid branches of the internal maxillary, and, through its anterior and transverse branches, with the temporal veins. Remarks.-—-It will be seen that the venous supply of the face differs in some important particulars from that of the trunk and limbs. In the last-named locali- ties, both deep and superficial currents flow in the same direction towards the heart. The facial trunk, however, is not formed by primal venules, as is commonly the case, but by branches communicat- ing with the frontal and supraorbital veins, and by a transverse branch found at the bridge of the nose. It is highly probable that much of the blood of the interor- bital space and of the locality about the inner canthus of the eye flows through the orbital conduits to the cavernous sinus. Further down the face, it is seen that the infraorbital artery alone of all the vessels of the face possesses venas comites. These promptly join the orbital set of veins, or aid in swelling the volume of the internal maxillary vein. The veins corresponding to the deep parts of the face, other than those mentioned, also seek an outlet in the same trunk, so that much of the superficial blood of the upper part and side of the face passes invjard to the brain- case and to the interior of the facial region, while the remaining portion flows downioard to join the exter- nal and the anterior jugixlar veins. It is of interest to note that in facial phlebitis the disease has a tendency to extend upward, except when the exciting cause lies at a point in or about the lower lip, in which case, as a rule, the inflammation extends downward. In a case reported by M. Bechez,' illus- trative of the fact just stated, a soldier, aged forty- two, was attacked with fever, followed by redness and slight swellins; of the forehead. This swelling soon became more pronounced along the course of the temporo-frontal veins, which were hard, prominent, and of a violet color. The eyelids were oedematous, 1 Gaz. Heb., 1863, 716.