436 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. :X>C'§§0'^>^^ vein. Infrequently the veins are occup'ed by coagala in renal disease. The supra-renal veins are relatively large. They pass obliquely downward, the right emptying into the vena cava, the left into the left renal. The siierraaiic veins arise from the body of the tes- ticle and the epididymis. At first having the form of a plexus {plexus pampinifornnis), the spermatic veins from each testicle converge to form four vessels, which, as they reach the external inguinal canal, decrease to two or three, and finally within the abdomen all the blood is collected by one vein. The vein on the right side empties into the inferior vena cava; that on the left into the left renal vein. The fact that varicocele is almost invariably confined to the left side indicates the presence of a local cause. Dr. Jno. H. Brinton,^ of Philadelphia, has suggested that it lies in the frequent absence of the valve at the orifice of the left renal vein. According to W. Rivington,'' valves ordinarily exist at the orifices of both spermatic veins. When the orifice of the left vein is without a valve, one is often found at the orifice of the left renal within a quarter of an inch of the orifice of the spermatic. In the opinion of Luschka, the sigmoid flexure, when loaded with hardened feces, may exert so much pressure upon the vein as to induce vari- cosity independently of other causes. Rarely the spermatic veins empty into the left azygos vein, or even into the ex- ternal iliac. The ovarian veins are the representatives in the female of the spermatic veins. They may end either in the vena cava or in the renal vein. They derive blood from the ovary, and are in intimate communi- cation with the uterine plexus. In pelvic phlebitis, the ovarian veins may be inflamed their entire length, and be occupied by coagula or detritus. Some of the English writers include the ovarian veins under the same head as the spermatic. The inferior cliaphraymatic veins are generally two in number, and are associated with the arteries of the same name. They open directly into the cava, or rarely into the hepatic or the suprarenal vein. 1 Am. Journ. of Med. Sci., xxxii. 1856, 111. 2 Jouni. of Anat. and Phys., vii., 1873, 1G3. The hepatic vein joins the cava at an acute angle, iminediately before that vessel enters the thorax. It is a short but important trunk, which receives the blood from the liver. • It is without valves. The flow of blood from the vein to the cava is influenced by the movements of the Diaphragm, the descent of this muscle tending to constrict the opening through which the vein passes. While a valve at the orifice of the hepatic vein is absent in the adult, it commonly exists in the human foetus and in many animals. Tiie vein is subject to but few variations. It has been known to join tlie right azygos vein, the common trunk entering the right auricle, and the inferior vena cava being absent.' Remarks.—The inferior vena cava can be studied with advantage from the following points of view :— (1) The establishment of a collateral circulation after occlusion of the vessel. (2) Localization of diseased action as determined by the reception of the blood from the renal veins. (8) The same as determined by the reception of blood from the hepatic portion of the trunk. (4) The same as determined by diseases of the kidneys. (5) The congenital variations of the vessel and its tributaries. (6) The localization of morbid growths and injuries. (1) When the inferior vena cava is occluded, as by pressure from an aneurism or other tumor, or by inflammation, the blood from the extremities and from the pelvic and abdominal organs may reach the heart in a variety of ways. The following examples are given in illustration of this subject:— In a case reported by Gely,^ tiie blood from the super- ficies of the right lower extremity passed along the super- ficial abdominal veins and the external mammary vein to the superior cava. The blood from the deeper portions of the same limb passed into the abdomen by a large vein accom- ' Wistar's Human Anat., ii. 320 ; also W. Horner, Journ. of the Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., i. 1818, 401; and J. Abernetliy, Phil. ' Trans., xvii. 296, 1809. 2 ttaz. Med. de Paris, Nov. 7, 1841. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXIV. Fig. 1. A diagrammatic representation of the arrangemetit I Fig. 2. The anterior aspect of a frontal section of the pelvis, of the haemorrhoidal veins and of the rectal and the showing the rectum, the bladder, the pelvic arteries and anal mucous membrane. ' veins.