THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 356 ooo^goox:. i artery, where it is possible for the position of the vessel to be detected by a dull percussion note heard over the sternum below the sterno-clavicular junction. THE COMMON CAEOTID ARTERIES. The R'ujlit Common Carotid artery (figs. 1 and 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 1 and 2, Plate LXI.; fig. 2, Plate LXIII.) arises from the innominate artery, while the left common carotid arises from the arch of the aorta. Within the region of the neck, both vessels ascend as far as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage or the third cervical vertebra, at which point they end, by division, in the internal and external carotid arteries. Relations Each vessel lies on a line midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the lower jaw. Lying deep at the base of the neck, it becomes more superficial on either side of the larynx. Superficially to it lie the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid muscle, the Platysma-Myoides, the omo-hyoid branches of the superior thyroid vein, and the descendens noni nerve. The thyroid body may slightly overlap it. To the outer side lies the internal jugular vein. Since both the right and the left internal jugular veins terminate toward the right, the left vein tends to cross the carotid at its lower portion. To the inner side lies the trachea. Beneath, and in part to the outer side, is the pneumogastric nerve. The anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are guides to the position of the vessel. The inferior laryngeal nerve lies behind the carotid. Variations The common carotid normally gives off no branches. Very infrequently the inferior thyroid arises from its lower part. The artery may give off the superior thyroid, and, when on a level with the hyoid bone, may divide into the external and internal carotid branches.^ The termination of the common trunk in the internal and external carotid may occur at a lower point than the one assigned in the text. The vessel may be absent, when both the arteries last named will arise separately from the aorta. The right artery arises from about the level of the second dorsal vertebra. As it lies within the thorax it is more superficial than the left, and is seen at its origin nearly in the median line, but inclines to the right, and' lies at the base of the neck behind the sterno-clavicular articulation. Over it is the right innominate vein. The subclavian vein lies to the outer side. The left artery is longer than the right, and is the more deeply seated. It ascends nearly vertically, and lies on the trachea and oesophagus. Behind it is the thoracic duct. It is crossed by the right inno- ' Jsessel, Archiv fur Anat. und Eiitwickelungsgesphichte, 1878. minate vein. On the outer side lie the pleura and the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves. Remarks—The suppurative processes about the cervical lymphatic glands following scarlet fever may expose and even ulcerate through the walls of the common carotid artery. Mr. Wm. Cayley' has recorded an instance occurring in a boy, aged eighteen, in whom suppuration about the glands at the angle of the right inferior maxilla had excited angina. On the tenth day of the pharyngeal complication a profuse hemorrhage occurred from the throat. Ligation of tlie com- mon carotid was in vain tried to save the life of the yjatient, who died five liours after the operation. At the autopsy the tonsils were enlarged, but not ulcerated. The posterior wall of the pharynx, above and to the left of the soft palate, was perforated by a small ragged opening leading to an irregular cavity two to three inches in diameter. Dii-ectly within this cavity was an opening in the left common carotid artery one- half inch below its point of entrance into tiie temporal bone In a case of cancer involving the pharynx, recorded by E. Desnos,^ death occurred from rupture of the common carotid artery into the pliarynx. The greater frequency with which the left internal carotid artery is plugged by emboli is due to the fact that the left common carotid arises directly from the aorta, while the right arises from the innominate.* When the oblique posi- tion of the innominate artery is recalled, it is evident that a clot thrown into this vessel will not of necessity enter tlie common carotid, and if it does so the fbice carrying it is already somewhat diminis'hed. Ligation of the Common Carotid above the Omo-Hyoid Muscle—An • incision three inches long should be made extending downward from the angle of the inferior maxilla to the cricoid cartilage. The fascia being divided the entire length of the wound, the sheath of the great vessels is ex- posed, the descendens noni nerve being usually seen passing downward upon it. The remaining steps of the operation are the same as in the operation below the Omo-Hyoid. It is well to remember that the communicans noni nerve some- times lies within the sheath. Ligation of the Common Carotid below the Omo-Hyoid Muscle An incision is made parallel to the inner border of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle extending downward three inches from the level of the cricoid cartilage. Tlie fascia is carefully opened at the lower end of the incision, so as to permit the entrance of a grooved director, and is divided the length of the first incision. It is necessary to carefully avoid the anterior jugular vein in this stage of the ope- ration. Retractors are then used to draw the Sterno-Cieido- Mastoid muscle outward and the integument inward. If tiie muscle be unusually well developed, it may be divided to a degree sufficient to secure a free exposure of the deeper 1 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1865, 85. 2 Bull, de la Soc. Anatom., 1878, t. 53, 395. 3 Duret, Archiv. de la Pliys., 1874.