363 of the outer portion of the orbit is subject to much varitUion. Tlie laclirynial gland and the parts adjacent are apt to derive much of tiieir blood supply irom the terminal branches of the external carotid artery. Hence the " temporal pulse," or the pulsation of the anterior temporal artery, is of great importance in ascertain- ing the degree of vascular turgescence of the orbital con- tents. In both intra-ocular and peri-ocular pressure the pulse is tense and bounding. The practice of opening the artery has been superseded of late by leeching and deep scarifica- tion, and by the use of tlie artificial leech. Should it be deemed advisable to open the vessel, it is important to bear in mind that, while it is readily compressed over the zygomatic arch, it would be inadvisable to attempt its divi- sion at that place, since the retraction of the divided ends has been followed by hemorriiage and abscess. Mr. Har- rison narrates a case in wliich varicose aneurism followed such practice. The anterior branch should in all cases be selected. Ligation of the Temporal Artery A vertical incision one inch in length above the zygoma and near the ear will be in the line of the position of this arterj'. Division of the temporal aponeurosis is next necessary, with careful isola- tion of the vessel from the small twigs of temporal nerves. The temporal artery, as it lies imbedded in tlie parotid gland, becomes an important vessel in operations upon the gland. Owing to its deep position, and its varied and im- portant surroundings at this point, the vessel is never here exposed witli a view to its separate ligation. THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. This is the largest of the branches of the external carotid. It arises behind the parotid gland, and passes forward in a tortuous manner to supply, for the most part, the deeper structures of the facial region. It is, from this fact, often called the deep facial artery. It is customary to divide the artery for description into three portions:— 1st, that which lies behind the neck of the inferior maxilla. 2d, that which traverses the interval between the neck and the superior maxilla. 3d, that which lies within the region of the supe- rior maxilla. The branches of the artery are as follows:— 1st portion f [a) Tympanic, (branches passing J (i) Middle or Great Meningeal, through osseous | (c) Small Meningeal, openings). |^ [d) Inferior Dental. 2d portion f (e) Deep Temporal, (branches not pass- J (/) Pterygoid, ing through osse- | (<■/) Masseteric, ous openings). (li) Buccal. 3d portion (branches again passing through osseous openings). [i) Alveolar or Superior Max- illary branch. (/) Infra-Orbital, (/b) Descending or Superior Palatine. (Z) Vidian. (?n.) Pterygo-Palatine. [n) ISTasal or Spheno-Palatine. (a) The tympanic branch enters the chamber of the tympanum through the fissure of Glaser, and supplies the membrane of the tjnnpanurn. It sup- plies the Laxator Tympani, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch and with the Vidian arteries. (L) The middle^ or great menirKjeal branch, ascends obliquely to the base of the skull, through a loop of the auricalo-temporal nerve, enterin'g the spinous foramen of the sphenoid bone to be received in a groove upon the inner surface of the greater wing. From this point it ascends the lateral wall of the cranium in a series of divergent grooves which range chiefly upward and backward upon the inner surface of the parietal bone. The artery supplies the dura mater and the diploe. Minute branches pass to the lachrymal gland, to the ganglion of the fifth pair of nerves, and through the hiatus Fallopii, beyond which they anastomose with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. Before entering the skull the arteries send small branches to the Pterygoid muscles and adjacent parts. The great meningeal arter}' ™<'iy supply the lachrymal gland to the exclusion of the ophthalmic. In rare instances, where the latter artery is absent, the great meningeal sup- plies its place. Quain gives an example in which deficiency of the internal carotoid had resulted in two tortuous branches from the internal maxillary, which entered the skull by the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale to supply its place. Karely branches of the encranial portion of the artery, according to Hyrtl,^ will perforate the wall of the skull, and anastomose with the deep temporal branches of the main trunk. The grooves receiving the terminal portions of the artery are often at intervals converted into bony canals. In dis- eased conditions this tendency is exaggerated. The distri- bution of ostitis dependent u])on constitutional causes, sucii as syphilis and scrofula, is frequently determined in the skull by the course of this vessel witliin the sphenoid and parietal bones. The intimate relations existing between this vessel and the diploe afford an easy ex[)lanation of the occurrence of compression of the brain after tlie reception of blows upon the side of the head. According to Mr. Prescott Hewett,''' out of thirty-one cases of fracture of the skull, accompanied by extensive extravasation, the blood had proceeded from the ' Oesterr. Zeit. fur prakt. Heilkunde, 1859, Nos. 9, 30, 39. ^ Holmes's System of Surgery, ii. 106.