THE C(ELIAC AXIS. ■ ooO^OO-i 393 lower intercostal vessels, and sends one branch downward to the ilium, where it joins the circumflex iliac artery. The anterior branch anastomoses with the terminal branches of the deep epigastric and in- ternal mammary arteries. (c) The renal arleries are two in number. They arise from the sides of the aorta a little below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and pass almost transversely outward to the kidneys. The right vessel is longer than the left by reason of the necessity of crossing the vertebral column. The left passes slightly downward. Each vessel divides into from four to five branches at the hilurn of the kidney. On the right side the renal vein lies in front of the artery, but on the left it lies behind it. The number of the renal arteries may be increased to four. The renal arteries, together with the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery, were found by Ede^ much contracted in a case of fibroma of the retro-peritoneal space. (d) The svpra-reiial arteries are two small vessels (often branches of the renal) which pass outward to supply the supra-renal bodies and the surroimding fat. (e) The s/jeT-TOaizc a?-;:er?Vs are two in number. They arise from the anterior portion of the abdominal aorta, a little below the position of the renal arteries. The right vessel often arises from the corresponding renal artery. Each vessel passes downward, following at first the course of the ureter of the same side. Near the brim of the pelvis it crosses the ureter at an acute angle, to be directed forward along the course of the common iliac artery, and finally reaches the inguinal canal of its own side, which it enters in company with the vas deferens. It thence becomes tortuous, and is distributed to the testicle; one branch entering the epididymis, and the other the body of the testis. Each artery sends off minute twigs to the ureter, to the sub-peritoneal connective tissue, to the lumbar lymphatic glands, and, according to Henle, to the fat about the kidney. It anastomoses with the artery of the vas deferens. The right vessel lies in front of the vena cava and behind the sigmoid flexure. (/') The ovarian arteries are representatives in the female of the spermatic arteries, and have a similar origin. They are designed chiefly for the ovaries, although a small branch descends the Fallopian tube to the side of the uterus. Each artery passes outward and downward between the layers of the broad ligament, and enters the ovary ' Amer. .loiivn. Med. Soi., Jan. 1871, 92. at its attached border. A branch may be given off which descends with the round ligament to the groin. Twigs from the main vessel also supply the ureter and the subperitoneal connective tissue. The Asymmetrical Branches are— (a) Coeliac Axis. {h) Superior Mesenteric. (c) Inferior Mesenteric. {d) Middle Sacral. [a) The coeliac axis is a short but robust branch of the abdominal aorta, from one inch to one-and-one- half inch in length. It ari.ses from the vessel as it lies between the crura of the Diaphragm, and is directed forward and slightly to the left. It divides into three branches:— (1) Coronary. (2) Hepatic. (3) Splenic. (1) The coronary artery is the smallest branch of the coeliac axis. It arises from the middle part of the axis, and is at first inclined to the left, but, turn- ing abruptly to the right, it supplies the upper or lesser curvature of the stomach, sending branches upward around the oesophagus, and anastomoses with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. F. A. Bailey^ describes a case of aneurism in the coeliac axis in a man aged thirty-three. The tumor was of the size of a cocoanut, and lay midway between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus, and was appended to the aorta as a kind of pouch from which the branches of the axis arose. Aneurism of the coronary artery rarely occurs. The fact, however, that thirteen cases have been recorded^ should be borne in mind by practitioners, as the symptoms of the affection closely simulate those excited by gastric cancer or ulceration. (2) The hepatic arterv is directed behind the pylorus and toward the right side. It passes near the lobus Spigelii, and enters the gastro-hepatic omentum, soon to divide into two and sometimes into three branches which enter the transverse fissure of the liver in company with the portal vein. The artery lies between the portal vein and the bile-duct. The upper branch, or hepatic artery proper, commonly divides into a right and a left branch. From the right is derived the cystic branch which supplies the gall- bladder. The left trunk supplies the left lobe of the liver. The lower branch of the hepatic artery com- monly gives origin to the pyloric and gastro duodenal branches. 1 Mftd. Times and Gazette, 1862, ii. f;2(5. « M. Villard, Bull, de la Soc. Anatomique, t. xlv. 1870, 273. 5(1