414 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. well established, the vense hepaticee revehentes form a distinct trunk, which receives the name of the hepatic vein, and opens, not into the heart, but into the inferior vena cava; and a new trunk appears, the ductus venosus, which connects the hepatic with the ■umbilical vein. After birth the umbilical vein and the ductus venosus disappear, and the portal vein alone carries blood from the sources of nutrition to the heart by way of the hepatic capillaries, the hepatic vein, and the inferior cava. During the period in which the nutritive veins are being elaborated, the blood is returning from the de- veloping limbs, and in the end it materially modifies the arrangement of the cardinal veins and the primi- tive jugulars. The thoracic trunk of the right primi- tive jugular becomes the rii/ht invominate vein and the superior vena cava. The left thoracic portion of the primitive jugular disappears, the small transverse vein taking its place, and forming the left innominate vein, which joins the superior cava just before this vessel becomes continuous with the right duct of Cuvier. The thoracic portion of the left primitive jugular persists as a small vein, the vestigial vein (q. v.), which empties into the coronary sinus. The blood from the inferior extremity finds no trunk in the abdomen prepared to receive it save the pelvic radicles of the cardinal veins, which, by appro- priate enlargement, would be competent to return the blood to the duct of Cuvier. But the retrograde tendency of these veins attending the process of atro- phy of the Wolfian body is so pronounced, that they are unable to fulfil this new task. A new trunk appears for the purpose, namely, the inferior vena cava, a trunk which, at the same time that it conveys the blood from the extremities, also receives some of the detached radicles of the cardinal veins in the shape of the internal iliac veins. It also receives tributaries from the kidneys, the testes, the ovaries, the suprarenal bodies, and from the liver through the right hepatic vein. The persistent trunks of the cardinal veins are seen in the developed body as the azyyos vein, which repre- sents the right cardinal vein, and as the hemiazyyos, which represents the left cardinal vein, Eegarded in the light of the above facts, the veins of the body are of different degrees of significance. The external jugular represents the cervical por- tion of the primitive jugular vein. The main portion of the superior vena cava repre- sents the thoracic portion of the right primitive jugular. The vestigial vein represents the primitive right vena cava. The termination of the superior vena cava in the right auricle represents the right duct of Cuvier. The azygos vein and the hemiazygos vein, together with the internal iliac veins and their tributaries, represent the remains of the cardinal system of veins. Variations.—It is evident, from the statements already made, that the study of variations in the trunkal veins in- volves the entire life-history of the organism. The recorded malformations of tlie greater veins are capable of being grouped under nine distinct heads or types, as follows :— (1) The transverse vein is absent or much reduced in size. (2) Wiiile the transverse vein is normal, the left duct of Cuvier persists. (3) Anastomoses exist between the superior vena cava and the pulmonary veins, or a communication exists between the superior vena cava and the left auricle. (4) The inferior vena cava is absent. The common iliac vein opens either into the corresponding enlarged right, or into the left, (iardinal vein. (5) The lower portion of the left cardinal vein is enlarged between the renal and common iliac veins. (G) One of the cardinal veins supplants in part the cardi- nal vein of the opposite side of the body. (7) The omphalo-mesenteric vein persists. (8) The umbilical vein persists, wholly or in part. (9) The hepatic veins terminate in exceptional places.* That variations in the veins are correlated with defects in the visceral apparatus must be, from the preceding statements, a self-evident proposition. Eecorders of malformations or varieties have too often neglected to mention the related defects or peculiarities accompanying the arrangement of the venous trunks themselves. It is evident that a nar- row or enlarged internal jugular vein will be found associated with corresponding changes in the sinuses of the dura mater, and both of these again, most probably, with peculiarities of brain-structure, or retarded rates of brain-growth.^ It is well known that variations of the azygos vein in the thorax are apt to be associated with the presence of super- numerary lobes in the lungs. The kidney has been found absent in connection with some variations of the inferior vena cava, and the thymus gland dupli- cated in subjects presenting variations of the left innominate vein, etc. ■ See W. Krause, in Henle's Anatomy, iii. 379, for an exhaustive treatment of the subject, with copious references. 2 The disposition of the veins carrying blood from the hrain, especially those perforating the squamous portion of the temporal bone, has systemic signifloance in the mammalia.