396 THE HEAET AND It descends in the median line upon tlie last lumbar vertebra and upon the anterior surface of the sacrum to the coccyx, where it anastomoses with the lateral sacral and hemorrhoidal arteries. It is crossed in front by the left iliac vein and covered by the pelvic viscera. The vessel supplies the coccygeal body and tlie periosteum of the sacrum. According to Quain, several small twigs enter the anterior sacral foramen. Virchow^ has invited attention to the connection between the anomalies of the aorta and its branches, in heart disease—especially in endcjcarditis of the puerperal state—and imperfect development of the organs of generation. In cases of undue narrowing of the aorta throughout its thoracic and abdominal portions (aortic hypoplasia), associated with irregu- larity of origin of the intercostal, lumbar, and mesen- teric branches, the genital organs retain in the adult of both sexes the appearances of youth, and the sec- ondary characters of puberty are absent or imper- fectly developed. With these structural peculiarities, chlorosis and a disposition to dilatation of the heart and endocarditis exist. The tunica intima of the aorta may be diseased. Virchow would thus define chloro- sis to be a ■systemic disease of congenital origin, oc- curring in both sexes, and based upon defective blood- supply from a preternatarally contracted or imper- fectly developed aorta. Ill subjects in which the abdominal and genital organs are known to be imperfectly developed, care- ful study of the size of the thoracic and abdominal portions of the aorta, and of the arrangement of the branches, should be made. THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. The Common Iliac Artery extends from the termi- nation of the abdominal aorta downward and outward to a point directly above and in front of the sacro- iliac junction, where it divides into the external and the internal iliac artery. The vessel measures two inches in length. Eelations.—Tlie artery lies upon the lumbar ver- tebrae, along the median border of the Psoas Magnus ' Ueber die Chlorose unci die damit zusammenhangenden Anoma- lieii im Gefiissapparate, etc. Literature and tigures. Berlin, 1872. L'lIE BLOODVESSELS. muscle, and is covered by the peritoneum and intes- tine. The ureter crosses the artery at its origin. The relations existing between the two common iliac arteries and the corresponding veins differ. On the left side the artery lies to the lateral side of the common iliac vein. In front of it lie the sigmoid flexure and the lower part of the inferior mesenteric artery. On the right side the vein lies in the main behind the artery. Near its origin the artery lies to the inner side of the vein, then in front of it, and finally to the outer side. Behind it lie the sympathetic and the obturator nerves. According to Holden, the direction of the vessel answers to that of a line drawn from the umbilicus downward and outward to the middle of the groin. The vessel can be felt rather nearer the pubes than the ilium. The upper part of this line answers to the common iliac, the lower part to the external iliac vessel. The Ligation of the Common Iliac requires an incision similar to tliat for the external and internal iliacs (q. v.). An incision live inches in length may be made extending from just above the external abdominal ring, outward in a semicircular direction, one-halt' inch above Ponpart's liga- ment, until it terminates a little beyond the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium. After division of the External Oblique muscle, the spermatic cord is used as a guide to the retro-peritoneal space. The circumflex iliac artery usually requires ligation. Or, an incision may be made two inches and three-quarters above the umbilicus, three inches from the median line, and passed thence six inches downward in a curvilinear direction. The line of the sacro-iliac junction is a guide to the artery. The collateral circulation alter this ligation is expressed by the following formuliB :— Ha?niorrlioldal brancli of tlie _iSuperior Hfemnrrlioidal brancii of Internal Iliac "T" the Inferior Mesenteric. Uterine-j—Ovarian arteries. Vesical of one side-[-Vesical of the opposite side. Lateral Sacral—[-Middle Sacral. Deep Ei)igastric—|—Internal Mammary. Inferior Intercostal-|—Lumbar. Ilio-Lumbar—|—Last Lumbar. In a specimen showing such collateral circulation, pre- served in the Wistar and Horner Museum, at the Uni- EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXIX. Fig. 1. The arterial supply of the intestines, showing espe- cially the superior mesenteric artery and its branches. Fig. 2. The arterial su|)ply of the intestines, showing espe^ cially the inferior mesenteric artery and its branches.