448 the deep veins. From two to five glands are found in the forearm, and one to two in the arm. The lymphatics of the chest are su))erficial and deep. The superficial lie in the interval between the Pectoralis Major and Deltoid muscles, and also along the inferior border of the former muscle. With this set of vessels may be included a small gland lying- in the epigastric region. These lymphatics anasto- mose with the deep set, with the lymphatics about the umbilicus, and with those coming thence to the inguinal regions.—-K separate set of vessels drains the dorsal surface of the liver. The deep lyniphatics follow the thoracic veins, and receive the vessels from the mammee, anastomosing with the intercostal lym- phatics. They receive some filaments from the in- ternal thoxacic lymphatics. The lymphatic vessels of the back converge to the shoulder from the neck, back, and loins. The superficial vessels wind round the borders of the superficial muscles to join the deep vessels, which lie for the most part along the line of the axillary artery. Eosary-like dilatations are occasionally met with about the elbow. The lymphatic gland above the elbow is often enlarged in secondary syphilis, as are those in the axilla in cancer of the mammary gland. {b) The Right Lymphatic Duct is much shorter than the thoracic duct, measuring but an inch in length. It receives the lymphatic vessels from the right side of the thorax, the right lung, the right side of the heart, a part of the Diaphragm, the right superior extremity, the right side of the head and neck, and a portion of the upper surface of the liver. It joins the venous system at the angle between the right subclavian and the right jugular veins. III. The Lymphatics of the Inferior Extremities and of the Pelvis. The lymphatics of the inferior extremity comprise, like those of the superior extremity, a superficial and a deep set.—The superficial set arise in part from the dorsum and sole of the foot, towards its inner side, and follow the course of the long saphenous vein. Others ascend from the back and sole, and Fig. 88. Lymphatics of the Thigh. pass along the posterior or short saphenous vein. The vessels are most numerous along the inner side of the thigh, toward which the outer vessels converge in the neighborhood of the knee, and finally termi- nate above at the groin in the superficial lymphatic glands. Some of the vessels, however, terminate in a set of glands, lodged deeply in the popliteal space —the popliteal lymphatic glands—which are four or EXPLANATION OF PLATP: LXXVII. The lymphatics of the trunk, including the thoracic duct. For Left Azygos Vein, read left intercostal vein. Tlie leader to Receptaculum Cliyli is placed three lines too high.