350 THE HEART AND T E BLOODVESSELS. internally into two canals, without, however, any external evidences thereof. The presence of the aortic septum is not susceptible of a simple explanation. Its existence at the begin- ning of the aorta is indicative of imperfect division of the truncus communis, by which the formation of the second aorta of the chelonian type has been hinted at, but not accomplished. Its existence in the descending aorta is indicative of imperfect coalescence between the two primitive aortte. Approximcdion and coalescence of ilie innominate and left carotid arteries. Etiology.—Approximation and junction of these arteries are due to the vessel (third left ventral communicating) which connects the third and fourth left vascular arches. This vessel is ultimately developed into the left common carotid artery, which arises so near to the commencement of the fourth left arch that by a slight shortening of the arch it becomes continuous with the fourth right arch. Analogues.—In apes, many rodents, and carnivora. Ap2)roxi7nation and coalescence of the innominate., left carotid, and subclavian arteries. Etiology.—All the branches of the arch arise by a single trunk, which may be called the anterior aorta. No proper arch is formed by the aorta. Analogues.—The division of the aorta into two parts without the formation of a definite arch is the normal disposition in the horse and ruminants. Approxim.ation and coalescence of the left carotid and subclavian arteries. Etiology.—We have seen that the absence or imperfect development of the fourth left vascular arch may lead to the union of the left subclavian and the left carotid arteries. It may also occur in persistence of both aortic arches. Analogues.—In bats, some of the cetacea, and birds. Separation of the innominate into the right carotid and subclavian arteries. Etiology.—Shortening of the fourth right arch, by means of which both the right carotid and subclavian are brought into contact with the fourth left vascular arch so as to arise from it. The origin of the right subclavian from the right aortic root has been explained above. Analogue.—This disposition is normal in the walrus. Sepjaration of the iymominate into the riyht carotid and subclavian; approximation, and coalescence of the right and left common carotid arteries. Etiology.—The shortening of the fourth vascular arteries at their com- mencement would lead to the coalescence of the two vessels. Analogue.—This disposition is normal in the ele- phant. Separation of the innominate into the right subclavian, and through atrophy of the right commoyi carotid, into the right external and. internal carotid ctrteries. Etiology.— Shortening or absence of the third ventral communi- cating artery. Analogue.—In some cetacea, as the dolphin, the internal and external carotids arise from the innomi- nate artery. The great importance of a knowledge of the meclianism of the heart, as studied in connection with the etiology and symptomatology of its diseases, has been so thoroughly appreci- ated by the profession that there would a[)pear to be no need of epitomizing so important and yet so difficult a subject in this connection. The reader is referred to any of the manu- als of the heart and its diseases, or to the cha[)ters on physi- cal diagnosis of the diseases of the heart in works on the practice of medicine. PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. THE PULMOXABY ARTERY. The pulmonary artery (figs. 1 and 3, Plate LVIII.; figs. 1 and 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 3 and 4, Plate LX.; fig. 2, Plate LXI.) arises from the front part of the right ventricle, from which it is separated during the ventricular systole by the semilunar valves. The trunk passes upward and slightly to the left, in front of the origin of the aorta. Its length is from one and a half to two inches. Its circumference above the semilunar valves is two inches and eight and a half lines, and at the point of junction between the infundibulum and the semilunar valves three inches and two and a quarter lines.' The vessel lies at its origin behind the second inter- 1 N. Clievers, Lond. Med. Gaz., 1846, 191. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXL Fig. L The aorta and its branches. Fig. 2. The heart and great vessels, seen in position from tlie left side. Fig. 3. The heart and great vessels, seen in position from the right side.