430 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. =00§§00<5 apparent just above the line of the sterno-davicular articulation, when it will be covered bj the origin of the Sterno Cleido-Mastoid ranscle. The subclavian receives veins answering to the branches of the subclavian artery, the most constant of these being the transverse scapular vein. The variations of the subclavian vein present some unusual features. Thus, very rarely, the vein and artery are interchanged in position, the vein passing behind the Scalenus Anticus, wiiile the artery lies in front of it. Or the vein lies with the artery behind the muscle. An equally rare occurrence is for the vein to be double. Luschka describes a specimen in which there was a single vein which divided at the Scalenus Anticus muscle, embraced that structure, and reunited to its median side. Eemarks.—Toward its termination the anterior wall of the vein is fixed by the superficial fascia. Beneath the clavicle, in the angle which is formed between the Subclavius muscle and the first rib, the vein is in intimate association with the fascia of this muscle. It follows that in movements of the clavicle, a corresponding motion is transmitted to the anterior wall of the vein. In elevation of the clavicle, as in forced inhalation, the return flow of blood from the upper extremities is in this way facilitated. Ilenle lays especial stress upon the above arrangement in reference to operative procedures about the shoulder, since elevation of the clavicle may lead to entrance of air into the sub- clavian vein.—The vein may be obstructed at the junction with the internal jugular vein. The orifices of the thoracic ducts are as a consequence compressed. For compression of the subclavian vein by the clavi- cle, see p. 169. THE AZYGOS VEINS. The Azygos Veins (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXI.) are representations of the cardinal veins of the fcetus. They are two in number, the right or great azygos, and the left or hemiazygos. The Right Azygos Vein (vena azygos major) is the larger of the two. Arising from the radicles of the lumbar and at times of the renal veins, it may receive a branch from the inferior vena cava. It ascends vertically, passing into the thoracic cavity through an interval between the fibres of the right crus, or through the aortic opening of the Diaphragm. It is received within the posterior mediastinum, and lies to the right side of the thoracic duct, behind the root of the right lung, above which it turns forward over the right bronchus to empty into the superior vena cava from behind, just above the pericardium. The vein receives directly the right intercostal veins, excepting the first and second, which unite before joining the third intercostal vein. The vein conveying blood from the seven upper intercostal spaces of the left side (left superior intercostal vein) joins the right vein opposite the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra. It is noteworthy that the intercos- tal veins of both sides have free communication with the innominate veins. The right azygos vein also receives blood from the trachea, bronchial tubes, oesophagus, posterior medi- astinum, and from the thoracic walls at the fifth and sixth left intercostal spaces. It sometimes anasto- moses with the inferior vena cava, at times with the right primitive iliac vein, or with the lumbar as well as with the two innominate veins. Its valves are but few. The Left Azygos Vein (hemiazygos, vena azygos minor) may be considered as a tributary to the right or main vein. It collects blood from the left lumbar and renal veins, and commonly receives a branch from the left iliac. After entering the thorax either through the aortic opening or the left crus of the Diaphragm, the vein crosses the vertebral column ob- liquely at the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, be- hind the aorta, and joins the right vein at an acute angle. While the hemiazygos vein commonly joins the azygos at the level of the ninth or the tenth dorsal vertebra, it may have a range from the sixth to the eleventh. The variations of the azygos veins are numerous. Thus the right may open into the vena cava higher than as above described, and may even be received within the right innominate vein. In rare cases the vein may join the cava within the pericardium, or enter the right auricle of the heart. At times the left vein unites with the superior vena cava instead of with the right vein, or it may join the left superior intercostal trunk of its own side. The latter vein may not empty into the right veins, but may pas§ directly into the left innominate vein. The left azygos may send an accessory vein downward over the front of the left kidney and the Psoas Magnus muscle of the same side, to join the left common iliac. For further discussion of the azygos veins, see " Remarks" under Inferior Vena Cava. J. Chienne' describes a case of anomalous distribu- tion of the azygos vein which Avas associated with the presence of a supernumerary lobe of the right lung. 1 Journ. of Anat. and Pliys., iv. 89, 1870.