THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS OOO^OOC . Between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the orifice of the inferior vena cava, but separated from the latter bj the Eustachian valve, is a depression whicli receives the coronary vein. The depression is called the coronary sinus, and a valve at the orifice of the vein has received the name of the valve of The- hesius. Scattered over the auricle are depressions known as the foramina of Thebesius, several being- found in the coronary sinus and several elsewhere on the lateral and anterior surfaces. Some of these have no special significance; others are the openings of small veins (yense minimse cordis). The median (septal surface) is marked by a rounded flat depression, the fossa ovalls—the site of the em- bryonic foramen ovale—by means of which the blood entering the auricle by the inferior vena cava passed into the left auricle. The depression is guarded above and at the sides by a thickened fold, the annulus ovalis. The closure of the foramen ovale need not be so com- plete as to prevent the passage of blood from the right to the left auricle. Often, indeed, in hearts of individuals who have never been subject to the effects of such passage, small slit-like valvular openings have been detected after death in the upper part of the fossa ovalis. The ri'jht ventricle is convex anteriorly, flat poste- riorly, and slightly convex again Avithin, at the median or septal side. Its walls are much thinner than those of the left ventricle, measuring but two-twelfths to three-twelfths of an inch in thickness. The interior of the right ventricle (fig. 3, Plate LX.) is bounded behind and to the right by the tricuspid valve, and above and to the left by the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery. The walls, where they come in contact with the leaflets of the tricuspid valve, and thence forward, are much roughened by raised, and in part free, interlacing muscular bands, the columnse carnese or trabeculse, which unite to form a spongy cavernous network. Above, i. e., between the region of the tricuspid valve and that of the semi- lunar valves, the walls are smoother, especially upon the septal side. The space embraced by the column;-e carnese is the true ventricular cavity, as opposed to the narrowed ascending smooth portion, which is called the infundihulum or conus arteriosus. The tricuspid valve, as the name expresses, is com- posed of three segments, which have received the conventional names of the anterior, posterior (right), and septal (left). The anterior segment is of a semi- circular figure, the posterior of a sub-triangular figure, and the septal is triangular in form. The anterior and the posterior segments agree in possessing stout chords tendiyiese, which are attached, for the most part, to their free edges, a few chordae only passing to the mural surfaces. The septal segment is secured by delicate chordx, which, far from being confined to the margin of the segment, extend from the entire septal surface to the septum. A greater degree of motion is thus allowed to the anterior and posterior segments than to the septal.—The papillary muscles controlling the segments vary in size. The anterior segment has a large muscle attached to the anterior wall of the ventricle, while the septal segment has two small, in- conspicuous muscles. The posterior segment pos- sesses a stout muscle, upon the anterior wall of the ventricle (near to and often united with the muscle of the anterior segment), and a second Avell-developed muscle in the angle between the anterior and the septal walls. In addition, accessory segments are occasionally met with lying between the main divisions. Per- haps the most common of these is one lying between the posterior and septal segments. It partakes more of the character of the latter than of the former. Mr. T. W. King' describes in detail the right ventricle of man, mammals, and birds, witii the object in view of demonstrating a physiological arrangement of the tricuspid valve, which permits a distension of the ventricular cavity and regurgitation of blood to tlie auricle. He names the anterior and posterior walls of the ventricle the yielding walls, and the septal the fixed wall. Since the anterior and posterior segments of the valve secure attachment from the yielding walls, they are more mobile than the septal, and are more or less under the control of the mus- cular fibres in the yielding wall. They act efficiently in preventing regurgitation when the ventricle is moderately distended. When the ventricle is over-distended (as often occurs during transient states of pulmonic congestion), the segments are so dragged upon by the yielding walls as to prevent perfect closure of tlie auriculo-ventricular orifice. > Guy's Hospital Reports, 1837, 104. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LIX. Fig. 1. The heart, seen in position from in front. | Fig. 2. The heart, seen in position from behind.