376 THE HBAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS -^XXO^OOO- - lumbar and lateral sacral at its lower portion. It is covered by the pia mater, to which, as also to the spinal cord, it sends minute branches. The vertebral artery sends minute branches to sup- ply the sheaths of the nerves arising from the sides of the medulla oblongata. (/) The posterior inferior cerebellar branch passes between filaments of origin of the hypoglossal nerve, thence lies in front of the roots of the pneumogastric and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and passes round the medulla behind the middle peduncle of the cere- bellum to the inferior surface of the cerebellum. It is the largest of the branches of the vertebral, and sends a branch to the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and another longitudinal branch backward in the groove between the cerebellar hemisphere and the inferior vermiform process, upon which it anas- tomoses with the vessel of the same name of the opposite side, to supply the inferior surface, and the borders of the hemisphere, and the upper portion of the spinal cord. Variations The anterior spinal artery may be formed by a branch of one vertebral only. The inferior posterior cere- bellar artery may arise from the basilar or be absent; or it may pursue an aberrant course, and give off the posterior spinal. The right vertebral may arise from the left subcla- vian and reach the right side of the cervical vertebras by passing behind the cesopiiagus. It may arise from the arch of the aorta between the left subclavian and the left com- mon carotid arteries. The vessel may be tortuous before entering the canal designed for its accommodation. It may enter the canal at any of the openings in the trans- verse processes. The vessel may thus be found to run in the pre-vertebral region of the neck for a variable distance parallel to tlie common carotid, for whicii trunk it might be readily mistaken. It may give origin to the infe- rior tliyroid, tlie first intercostal, and the deep cervical ar- teries. At tlie region where tlie artery terminates, a branch may be given off wiiich interchanges with the branches of the occipital artery. An island may form about the trunk of the - hypoglossal nerve, and another in front of the medulla oblongata. The upper as well as the lower portion of the trunk may be tortuous, a disposition which enables the motions of the head and the cervical portion of the vertebral column to take place without violence to this vessel. Remarks Ligation of the first portion of tlie vessel has been resorted to in deep-seated iiemorrbage following wounds of the neck—The incisions recommended for the ligation of the innominate should bere be used. The sheath of the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein are drawn to the median side, and the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is sought for. The artery will be found lying just beneath this process The vertebral artery may be lacerated in fracture of the base of the skull Rarely, facial palsy has been found to be associated with aneurism of the vertebral artery as it lies in front of the medulla oblongata, a condition due to pressure upon the trunk of the seventh nerve. THE BASILAR ARTERY. The Basilar Artery is formed by the union of the two vertebrals. It passes upward and forward along the upper surface of the basilar process of the occi- pital bone, where it is protected by the arachnoid membrane. It is received above within the median groove of the pons Varolii, the entire length of which it traverses. The vessel divides at the anterior border of the pons into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Remarks According to Cruveilhier, the sectional area of the basilar artery is not equal to tlie sum of the sectional areas of the vertebrals. Hence the blood received from these vessels must pass with augmented pressure through the basilar. Tiie character of the basilar artery as essentially a median vessel, composed of two converging elements, is maintained by such observations as the following: Davy' found in a specimen of basilar artery a median septum. According to Quain, the artery has been found perforated by a small fora- men, which indicated an attempt at division of the vessel along the middle line. Hyrtl mentions a case in which the complete division of the basilar artery into two vessels was accomplished. Tiiese subsequently united to form an island, and the posterior cerebral arteries arose from the resultant trunk in the usual manner. From its position upon the basilar process, the vessel may be compressed by any force oi)erating from above. Brain-tumoi's, brain-hypertrophy, or any condition pro- ducing unusual encranial pressure, may thus impair its vitality. The vessel is found to be frequently the seat of diseased action.^ Aneurism of the basilar has been known to compress the eighth nerve, and cause deafness, as well as to occasion symptoms indicative of disturbed function in the ninth and tenth nerves. The origins of the sixth and seventh nerves may also be compressed. In hemorriiage from the rupture of the basilar artery, blood may be found lying over the entire base of the brain, as well as in the pons Varolii, from which it may escape to enter the fourth ventricle. Or it may pass around the medulla oblongata and flow into the spinal cord as far as the cauda equina.—A thrombus 1 Researches, i. 30 ; also Edinburgh Medical aud Surgical Journal, 1838. This arrangement is similar to the occas-ional union of the two anterior cerebrals into a single trunk. 2 In view of the fact that the basilar artery lies against an un- yielding bony surface, a comparison can be instituted between it and the femoral artery as it winds round the femur, or with it and the popliteal artery throughout its entire length. Diseased action is of common occurrence in all three vessels.