FOR SALE BY SUBSCRIPTION ONLY. REYNOLDS' SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Revised Edition. Now Ready. A SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Edited by J. Russell Reynolds, M. D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in University College, London. With notes and additions by Henry Hartshorne, M. D., late Professor of Hygiene in the University of Pennsylvania. In three large and handsome royal octavo volumes, containing 3056 double-columned pages, with ■317 illustrations. Per volume, cloth, ^5; leather, $6; half Russia, ^6.50. Per set, cloth, ^15; leather, ^18; half Russia, $19.50. The labors of the American editor, Dr. Hartshorne, have been very conscientiously performed, and his judicious notes distributed throughout, afford abundant evidence of the thoroughness of the revision at his luinds. In conclusion, we take pleasure in commending this work to our readers, feeling coulident that it will not only become standard, hut from its containing just that information which the busy practitioner frequently finds himself in need of, from its completeness, its fulness of det.ail, and its excellence, it will bo justly ap- preciated by the entire profession on this continent.—Soiilheni Pracliliuiier, April, 1880. For conciseness and coniiireheusiveness in the treatment of all tlic subjects embraced under the head of "Practice of IMcdicine," there is no work in the English language, or in any other language, for that matter, which equals, much less e.xcels, Keynolds' System. Each volume contains a complete inde.K, a feature wliicli those wlio may have eneyclopicdio works of medicine not containing this index can fully appreciate.—ilichigan Medical Kews, June 10, 1880. AVe regard this the finest work on the practice of medicine in tlie English language. In fact, we do not think it has its superior in any language in tlie world. Combining, as it does, a complete history of dis: ases, a thorough account of their patliolo^,'y, a full description of therapeutics, and a minute detail of tieatnient, etc., it cuibodies all tlu>t a pracliliouer can wish.—Cincinnati Medical Times, August 1880. HOLMES' SYSTEM OF SURGERY. Americanized. Just Ready. A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. In Treatises by Various Authors. Edited by Timothy Holmes, M. A., Surgeon and Lecturer on Surgery at St. George's Hospital, London. American edition, thoroughly revised and much enlarged, by John H. Packard, M. D., Surgeon to the Episcopal and St. Joseph's Hospitals, Philadelphia, assisted by a corps of thirty-three of the most eminent surgeons of America. In three large and very handsome royal octavo volumes containing 3137 double-columned pages, with 979 illustrations on wood, and 13 lithographic plates, beautifully colored. Per volume, cloth, $6; leather, $']; half Russia, raised bands, $7.50. Per set, cloth, $18; leather, $21; half Russia, raised bands, $22.50. Representing originally the most advanced school of British surgery, it has been supple- ; sufficient guarantee that the work has not only been brought fully up to date, but also that mented, through tlie labors of its editor, by what is latest and best in the surgery of America. It may therefore lie regarded as embodying whatever is of established value in this depart- ment of our art. No surgeon wlio proposes to keep abreast with his rivals can afford to be without it.—American Practitioner, April, 1882. It is a subject for congratulation that the idea of an American edition, incorporating all recently acquired knowledge and experience, should have been conceived and its execution entrusted to such able hands as Packard's. The names of coadjutors afford a it has been accomplished in this large, thorough and scientific spirit, wliich characterizes the contributions to the original edition.—Gmarfa Journal of Medical Science, Nov. 1881. The elegant American revi.sion of this justly celebrated work, will give to the Anu'rican practitioners, a corresponding collaboration of surgical lore, to tliat tliey already have in possessing the volumes of Reynolds' System of Jledicinc, and with the two works, the fortunate possessor has a most complete library on Practical Medicine and Surgery.— Brailhwaite's Retrospect and Quarterly Epitome of Pract. Med. and Surg., Sept. 1881. PERIODICALS. SUBSCRIPTION RATES, POSTAGE PAID. The Medical News (pulilished every Saturday) in advance SS-OO The American Journai, w the Medical .Sciences (quarterly) in advance ............... ^5.00 COMMUTATION RATES. The Medical News The Aiwerican Journal ok the Medical Sciences in advance, $n.oo THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. I. MINIS HAYS, A. M., M. D., EDITOR. For sixty-two years the American Journal has maintained its position in the front rank of medical literature, and to-day it stands alone as the only periodical in the English language capable of presenting extended and elaborate articles on every branch of medical science, the very class of contributions, in fact, in which nearly all the important discoveries in the science have been communicated to the profession. During the year the Journal will present, in its original department, a continuation of elaborate articles from the pens of the most eminent members of the profession throughout the country. The review department will contain extended reviews of prominent new works, by competent writers, together with numerous analytical and bibliographical notices, giving a full survey of medical literature. The quarterly su.MMARY of. improvements and discoveries in the medical sciences, classified and arranged under various heads, will furnish a digest of medical progress at home and abroad. With the issue for January, 1882, the size of the Journal was permanently increased by the addition of 16 to 20 pages. It is still furiiished, free of postage, for FIVE DOLLAR.S per annum, in advance. THE MEDICAL NEWS. A NATIONAL WEEKLY MEDICAL PERIODICAL, PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY, EACH NUMBER CONTAINING 28 DOUBLE-COLUMNED QUARTO PAGES, EXCLUSIVE OF ADVERTISEMENTS. The Medical News aims to satisfy the demand of the profession for the most rapid possible conveyance of intelligence, in short, to be a professional news^ paper. To this end it comprises the following departments: ist. Clinical Lectures, by the ablest teachers of the day. 2nd. Oricinal articles, of a brief and practical nature. 3rd. Hospital Notes, gleaned from the leading hospitals on both continents. 4th. The Progress of Medical Science, being extracts from the medical and scientific journals in all quarters of the globe, showing the advances made in medicine. 5th. The EDITORIAL Department, conducted by a large and able Editorial Staff. 6th. Proceedings of the meetings of prominent medical societies. 7th. News items and correspondence from the pens of medical men in the leading cities of the United States, Canada, Great Britain, the Continent of Europe, Asia, South America and Cuba. 8th. Notices of new publications, new instruments, and new pharmaceutical preparations, and a column of Notes and Queries. A feature characteristic of the News will be a liberal use of the telegraph. The News is printed by the finest Hoe presses, on handsome paper, from beautiful type cast expressly for its use. The price, FIVE DOLLARS a year, in advance, places it within the means of every physician to subscribe to a medical newspaper, which represents the most enlightened thought, and ])ossc.s.scs the most progressive spirit of the age. The American Journal and the Medical News together contain an amount of the choicest medical literature equal to 4000 large octavo pages, in which duplication of matter is prevented by .special arrangement. They will be furnished for NINE DOLLARS per annum, in advance, an offer unparalleled in the history of medical journalism. HENRY C. LEA'S SON & CO., PHILADELPHIA.