438 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS, c-OO^OOo kidney has been found associated with inflammation or thrombosis of the cava, might be mentioned in relation to this subject. (5) The congenital variations of the inferior cava include the follovving: The vessel may incline to the left of the aorta at the lower part of its course, but may enter the Diaphragm to the right. It may arise opposite to the kidneys, or just beyond them, an arrangement due to the fact that the iliac veins remain ununited until they have reached this point. In a case described by James Jeff'ray,' the inferior cava was absent. The left azj'gos vein continued upward in the thorax to join the superior cava a short distance above its termination. It received the lumbar and intercostal veins. The hepatic vein opened into the right auricle. The hemiazygos vein passed from the left side of the inferior cava below the heart to the left subclavian vein. The right innominate vein was smaller than the left. Eothe^ describes an instance in which one of the hepatic veins entered the right ventricle, its orifice being supplied with valves.^ Since the inferior cava does not appear until the inferior extremities have developed, some correlation between anomalous conditions of the external iliac vein and inferior cava, and the variations in the struc- ture of the limb, might be expected. No such relations, however, have hitherto been observed by anatomists, nor has any connection been traced between the varia- tions in the course of the cava and the vessels of the lower limbs.—The internal iliac vein in the embryo forms part of the system of cardinal veins, and changes its point of termination only after the development of the extremity. As a rare anomaly, the internal iliac retains its connection with the cardinal veins by emptying into the azygos or the hemiazygos vein, when the external iliac and the inferior cava form a single trunk. As a rule, it may be said that, when any of the tributaries of the inferior cava fail to join the main vessel, they will be found to join the azygos vein, or, in the case of the hepatic vein, the right auricle. When the cava is congenitally absent, the azygos vein takes its place. But, when the vessel is obstructed or obliterated by acquired conditions, the connection with the azygos is not reopened; still, as seen in the 1 Glasgow Med. Journ., i. 1828, 1, figs. 2 Act. Acad. Joseph. Med.-Chir. Vindobonensis, i. 1788, 233, fig. ^ For an elaborate account of the variations of the inferior cava. the reader may consult W. Krause, Heule's Anat., iii. Bd. 380. above cases, the radicles of communication between the epigastric and mammary veins are enlarged, and seem to convey the blood from below the obstructed point to the heart. The venous blood passing from the renal vein into the vena cava evidentlj^ exerts considerable influence over the variations of that vessel. Anomalies may be restricted to the cava from its origin to the orifices of the renals, or may be confined to the cava from the orifice of the renals to the Diaphragm, or from the same point to the termination of the cava in the right auricle. Dr. W. Ogle^ dissected a subject in which the lumen of the cava from the renal veins to the Diaphragm was obliterated. The blood was returned chiefly by the azygos veins and the portal vein. (6) In a man thirty-three years of age, a ball-like phlebolith was found growing from the inner wall of the right auricle at its junction with the inferior vena cava. A portion of it projected into the auricle and a portion into the cava, reducing the calibre of the vessel to a narrow crescentic slit. Luschka^ at- tributed the occurrence of Bright's disease in this subject to the resulting interruption of the return of blood from the kidneys. Thrombosis of the inferior cava has been noticed as a result of compression from a misplaced kidney.^ H. Thompson'' records the case of a young girl who suffered from the lodgment of a needle in the inferior cava. Thrombosis existed from the orifices of the renal veins to the lower extremity of the vessel. Phlegmasia dolens of the left lower extremity ensued on the fourteenth day after the appearance of con- stitutional symptoms. A short time before death, which occurred on the fifty-third day, phlegmasia appeared in the right lower extremity. The selection of the left side for the first invasion of the phlegmasia may have been caused by the peculiar relation exist- ing between the left internal iliac artery and the external iliac vein {q. v.). From the fact that cedema does not necessarily ensue in these cases, and that no collateral trunks are found to be established, it is likely that a thrombosis may after death present the appearance of having occluded the vessel, although the obstruction may not have been absolute during life. 1 .Journ. of Anat. and Phys., xiii. 291. 2 Virchov?. Archiv, vol. Ivi. 1872, 176, fig. See the researches of Frerich and Robinson ; also R. McDonnell, Brown-Sequard's Journ. de la Physiologie, ii. 1859, 300. 3 Delafield, Handbook of Post-Mortem Examinations, 207. * Trans. Clinical Soc. of London, viii. 1874, 23.