435 THE INFEEIOE VENA CAVA. of the mesentery, the horizontal portion of the duode- Trans. Path. Snc. Lond., 1865, 92. »OO^OOo and inferior hsemorrhoidal veins, which accompany the arteries of the same name. The superior htemor- rhoidal is tributary to the inferior mesenteric vein, to the middle, to the inferior, and to the internal iliac vein. The plexus effects anastomosis with the vesical, with the utero-vaginal, and with the prostatic plexus. At the anus the veins are arranged in three sets, namely, about the External Sphincter (peri-sphinc- teric), beneath the skin, and beneath the mucous membrane. (See Plate LXXIY.) The vesical plexus embraces the veins of the blad- der. It anastomoses with the hfemorrhoidal and the prostatic plexus in the male, and with the utero- vaginal plexus in the female. The xUero-vayinal plexus surrounds the vagina and uterus, and passes thence along the broad ligament of the uterus toward the ovarj^, where it anastomoses with the ovarian veins. The veins of this plexus, being connected with the uterine sinuses, become enormously dilated during pregnancy. The prostatic plexus is situated at the sides and base of the prostate body, at the neck of the bladder, and along the membranous portion of the urethra. It receives the dorsal veins of the penis at the sides, and anastomoses with the veins from the vesical plexus and with the veins of the vesiculas seminales. Remakks.—The branches of the internal iliac vein aid indirectly in supporting the pelvic viscera. They are apt to be varicose in the aged, particularly in females. The blood of a pelvic htematocele is de- rived from these veins. THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The Inferior or Ascending Vena Cava (Plate LXVI.) is formed by the confluence of the primitive iliac veins. It extends from a point between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae to the ninth dorsal vertebra. At the posterior border of the liver be- tween the Spigelian and right lobes, the vessel lies within a groove in the hepatic substance known as the hepatic groove. Beyond this groove it passes through the Diaphragm by a special opening, and, penetrating the pericardium, empties into the right auricle. It is convenient to name that portion of the ascending cava above the Diaphragm the thoracic, and that below the Diaphragm the abdominal por- tion. The inferior vena cava lies at first upon the verte- bral column, and rests then upon the right crus of the Diaphragm, having the aorta to the left; the base num, and the pancreas being in front. At its origin, it is in contact with the aorta; above, it lies to the right side; and in the epigastric region a considerable interval is defined between it and the aorta; in this interval are seen the thoracic duct, the right azygos vein, the right crus of the Diaphragm, and the Spi- gelian lobe of the liver. It is covered in front by the peritoneum within the abdomen, and by the serous layer of the pericardium in the thorax. While within the groove in the liver the inferior vena cava is almost surrounded by the hepatic sub- stance, and is firmly held to the parenchyma by connective tissue. The inferior vena cava, besides the common iliac veins, receives the lumbar, renal, right supra-renal, right spermatic, ovarian, inferior diaphragmatic, and hepatic veins. The luvibar veins are derived from the veins of the back and walls of the abdomen. They have for the most part a loose plexiform arrangement (lumbar plexus) in the region of the loin. One of the largest vessels {ciscending lumlar) ascends vertically beneath the Psoas Magnus muscle to empty into the right azygos or the left azygos vein. The renal veins (emulgent veins) are two in num- ber, the right and the left. They are large, but short trunks, and lie, as a rule, in front of the arteries of the same name. The left is slightly h'gher than the right, and receives the blood not only from the left kidney, bat from the left spermatic and supra-renal veins. It crosses the aorta in front to join the cava, but lies behind the superior mesenteric artery. Each ve.n, as a rule, is protected by a valve at its orifice. The left renal vein was found to be imper- vious in a case reported by Andrew.'^ The blood was returned in part by the lumbo-sacral veins, and in part by the left supra-renal vein. Thrombosis may occur here and involve the whole length of the vessel. The I'enal vein occasionally receives minute branches from the capsule and the surrounding fat. The left renal frequently anastomoses with the left azygos, and may be double, when one will be found behind and the other in front of the aorta. At times the single left vein will pass behind the aorta. To this occurrence may be attributed the greater fre- quency of hypertemia of the left kidney. When the inferior vena cava is absent, the renal vein joins the right azygos or the left azygos vein. The renal vein in rare instances receives an abnormal mesenteric