THE OPHTHALMIC VEINS. z>oO^OOo 423 sionally a branch of the great meningeal vein empties into the cavernous sinus. IV. VEINS TRIBUTARY TO THE ENCRANIAL VEINS FROM ORGANS OR SURFACES OUTSIDE THE BRAIN-CASE. Tliey embrace— Tlie Ophthalmic Veins. The Venge Emissarite. Numerous small veins not included in the above. THE OPHTHALMIC VEINS. The ophthalmic veins are two in number—■ Superior Ophthalmic. Inferior Ophthalmic. The Superior Ophthalmic vein, or the ophthalmic vein distinctively so called, is an important trunk lying in the orbit. It receives tributaries from the frontal and facial veins, and within the orbit, from the eyeball and its muscles, from the ethmoidal cells and the lachrymal duct, as well as from the inferior ophthalmic vein. The main trunk answers in posi- tion to the ophthalmic artery, and, entering the brain- case at the median extremity of the anterior lacerated foramen, terminates in the cavernous sinus. The Inferior Ophthalmic Vein lies at the base of the orbit, between the Rectus Inferior and the Rectus Externus muscles. After receiving tributaries from the facial vein and from the venules perforating the malar bone, it is joined by an anastomotic branch from the superior ophthalmic vein, and passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure, being theii received by the pterygoid plexus. Occasionally it may empty with the superior ophthalmic vein into a common trunk which joins the cavernous sinus. Remarks.—The superior ophthalmic vein is of spe- cial interest to the physician. It is the largest channel found in the adult by means of which blood from the head and face can enter the system of encranial sinuses. Inflammation of any of the veins of the face can thus involve by continuity the ophthalmic vein and the cavernous sinus (see Facial Vein, p. 417). For- merly the angular trunk of the facial was opened to relieve cerebral congestions. During facial contor- tions, the blood from the frontal and facial veins, being prevented from having free communication with the ophthalmic veins, is retained or conducted away by the anastomotic branches of these vessels with the superficial veins. The superior ophthalmic vein, from its serving as a channel for the return of the blood from the eyeball, is to be carefully considered as a factor in man}^ clinical intraocular conditions. Pressure in any part of the sys- tem of encranial sinuses, but more especially in pres- sure exerted at the anterior basal portion of the skull, creates turgescence in the retinal venules, conspicuous at the point of entrance of the optic nerve. Long-con- tinued impact of swollen and indurated veins against the yielding fibres of the nerve is liable to impair their vitahty, even after the venous blood returns to its accustomed channel and the turgescence disappears. The vein has been ruptured by severe blows, and the cellular interstices of the orbit found after death oc- cupied by clot. The differential diagnosis between the varieties of venous hemorrhage, as occurring either from a ruptured ophthalmic vein following a blow without fracture of the base of the skull, or from a blow with fracture of the base of the skull, is difficult to establish. While subconjunctival ecchy- mosis is present in both forms of the lesion, cerebral congestion, inflammation, and coma are absent in the first named, but likely to be present in the last. The inferior ophthalmic vein pursues a course that might have been anticipated, Avhen the fact is re- called that in the lower animals the orbit, temporal, and zygomatic fossae are not separated from one an- other. In studying the course of this vein it is shown that a communication with the encranial blood is pos- sible by means of the pterygoid plexus, which receives meningeal veins as tributaries. Such connections, however, are not known to have practical import. Ven.e Emissari^.—A number of small veins termed the venae emissarite, and not enumerated among the diploic veins, reach the sinuses either from outside the skull or from the middle and the inner ear. Among those which enter the sinuses from without may be mentioned the mastoid vein, which reaches the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen. This is ordinarily small, but may attain the diameter of a goose-quill. F. Bustard' narrates a case in wliicli, after suppuration of the mastoid cells, tlie pus escaped from the cells through the mastoid foramen. The ve'ns passing from the ear are unimportant. They may be enumerated as follows: The tympanic vein, which runs through the junction of the petrous bone with the squama, and joins the superior petrosal sinus. The vein from the vestibule, which escapes through the aquseductus vestibuU, and joins the same sinus. The internal auditory veins, which escape from the internal auditory meatus, and unite with the inferior petrosal sinus. The posterior condyloid vein 1 Br. Med. Journ., 1871, 89.