THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 4Ui 'jOO^C-Oo • veins, one on either side. These unite inferiorly in the single trunk lying to the inner side of the artery. {b) The circumflex ilii artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac. It passes outward between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum, above Poupart's ligament, to the crest of the ilium, along which it proceeds to about its middle, where it pierces the Transversalis; for the rest of its course it lies between this muscle and the Internal Oblique. Its terminal branches anastomose with the lumbar and epigastric arteries. The artery may arise a little higher than usual, or it may come oft" from the femoral. Liqation of the External Iliac Artery.— An incision is made one-half an inch above Poupart's ligament, extend- ing from above the anterior superior spinous process to a little above the inner margin of the external abdominal ring. The incision should- be curved downward toward Poupart's ligament. The abdominal muscles are succes- sively divided until the transversalis fascia is reached. The space between this fascia and the peritoneum is opened near the outer end of the wound, and the finger, reaching the iliac fossa, is guided by it to the position of the artery. The anterior crural nerve lies to the outer side of the artery, and the vein to the inner side. In Sir Astley Cooper's operation, the incision through the External Oblique muscle apparently opened the inguinal canal, and the deep epigastric artery was used as a guide to th'i position of the external iliac. The position of the deep epigastric is not to be forgotten in tlie latter procedure. Dupuytren lost a patient by wounding it; as did Beclard by tying the iliac immediately beneath its origin, so that in- sufficient space was left for the (brniation of a cnagulum.' In a dissection made ten weeks after the ligation of the external iliac artery, Astley Cooper'^ met with the following arrangement of the collateral circulation :— Internal IIiac-|—External Pudendal. r Epigastric. Lateral Sacral—j— \ Branch of Femoral. 1^ Obturator. Ilio-Lumbar—|—Circumflex Ilii. Branch of Internal Iliac-|-Profunda Femoris. Gluteal—[-External Circumtlex. In a second specimen described by the same authority, the following wns noticed :— Branch of Internal Iliac-U \ Ep'gastric. I I Obturator. Same—|—Internal Circumflex. Gluteal —[-Profunda Femoris. Internal Pudic—(—Obturator. > Power's Anat. of the Arteries, 1862, 325. « Med.-Chir. Trans., iv. 1813, 428, fig. THE FEMORAL ARTERY. The Femoral Artery is the continuation of the external iliac artery. It pursues a straight course from above down ward, starting at Poupart's ligament at'-Hi point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of the pubis, and terminating at the beginning of the lower third of the thigh at the annular opening of the Ad- ductor Magnn.s. It passes nearly vertically down- ward, lying upon the Adductor Longus and Adductor Magnus muscles. In consequence of the oblique position of the shaft of the femur, the artery lies in front or to the inner side of the bone at the groin, but close to the inner side of the shaft below. The course of the artery is nearly parallel to a line drawn from the centre of Poupart's ligament to the inner margin of the patella. The artery can be felt about an inch below the spine of the pubis. Ligation of the Femoral Artery Ligation above the oi-igin of the profunda. The limb being flexed and abducted, ail incision two inches and a half in length is made, begin- ning at the lower border of Poupart's ligament, and extend- ing in a line drawn from the middle of the ligaiiKMit down- ward and inward to the inner femoral condyle. The skin being divided, the lymphatic glands and superficial veins are carefully avoided, the sartorial fascia opened, and the inner edge of the Saitorius muscle drawn outward. The sheath of the vessels is now carefully opened, and the nee- dle passed from without inward to avoid the vein which lies to the outer side of the artery. Troublesome bleeding may arise from neglecting some of the small arteries supplying the sheath. Porter, of Dublin, has recommended a transverse incision. This method might present advantages over the longitudi- nal in an attempt to secure the artery in the stump of an amputation of the thigh higli up. Ligation below the pro- funda includes two procedures—one in Scar[)a's triangle, and one in Hunter's canal. The ligation in Scarpa's triangle is performed by making a longitudinal incision three inches in length in the line above mentioned, and beginning three inches below Pou- part's ligament. LTsing the inner edge of the Sartorius muscle as a guide, the sheath of the vessels is readily found lying beneath its inner border. The sheath is opened to a small extent, and tlTe needle passed from within outward with great care, since the vein lies beneath the artery. Power recommends that a small blunt instrument, such as an eye-probe, should be used in separating the artery and the vein before introducing the needle. Small branches of the crural nerve usually lie to the outer side of the sheath. Frencli authors recommend drawing the Sartoi'ius muscle inward in searching for the arterv. 51