THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 380 lying between the pleura and the Internal Intercostal muscle, they run for the greater part of their course between the Internal and External Intercostals. (cZ) The anterior (^•perforatinKj) branches pierce the sternal portion of the intercostal spaces to supply the Pectoral muscles and the manimaj, in which tliey are assisted by branches from the anterior intercostal. They are greatly enlarged during lactation. (e) The musculo-phrenic is the outer main division of the artery. It supplies the Diaphragm, the lower Intercostal muscles, where they form twigs known as the anterior intercostals^ and the upper portion of the anterior abdominal wall. (/) The abdominal (superior ejyiyastric) branch passes downward behind the Rectus Abdominis. It supplies this in common with the other abdominal muscles, and anastomoses with the deep epigastric artery. It sends twigs to the Diaphragm and to the integument. Variations The internal mammary may arise from the thyroid axis or the scapular arteries, and rarely from the in- nominate artery or the aorta. Occasionally it is double on each side. THE SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL AND DEEP CERVICAL ARTERIES. It is convenient to treat of these arteries under one head, since they commonly arise from the sub- clavian by a single trunk. This vessel arises behind the Anterior Scalene muscle on the right side, and immediately at the inner side of the corresponding- muscle on the left side. It passes backward and slightly downward over the thoracic wall, and divides into two branches, as follows: — (o) Superior Intercostal (descending trunk). (b) Deep Cervical (ascending trunk). (a) The Superior Intercostal passes over the pleura at the apex of the lung, and enters the thorax in front of the neck of the tirst rib, to the outer side of the first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. The artery supplies the muscles of the first and in part those of the second intercostal space. It sends minute branches to the dorsal region, and a small twig to the spinal cord, through the neighboring intervertebral foramen. (b) The Deep Cervical artery (posterior cervical) ascends vertically, reaching the posterior cervical region between the transverse process of the last cer- vical vertebra and the first rib. It thence ascends vertically between the transverse and spinous pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae, and lies beneath the Complexus muscle. It supplies the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomoses with branches of the ver- tebral and the descending branch of the occipital artery. General Remarks on the Branches of the Sub- clavian Artery The arrangement of the branches of the subclavian artery, above presented, is for tiie most part the one generally accepted by anatomists both in this country and in England. It is nevertheless but justice to Mr. Quain to say that, in his work on the anatomy of the arteries (the most authoritative in the English language"), he declares that the branches as frequently present irregular disposition as they do the arrangement called average in anatomical text- books. It need not excite comment, therefore, if departures from the descriptions above accepted are occasionally noted. ThusHenle describes the thyroid axis, under the name of the thyro-cervical trunk, as having lour branches, the inferior thyroid; the ascending cervical, whicli supplies the deep mus- cles of the neck, ascending as far as the atlas, where it anasto- moses with the ascending pharyngeal; the superficial cervical (transversalis colli); and the transverse scapidar (supra- scapular). The third portion of the vessel gives off" inde- pendently the transversalis colli (posterior scapular). J. B. Pervin* found in eleven subjects out of fifty the transversalis colli arising as described by Henle, and in fourteen to arise independently of the axis, from the second part of the subclavian artery. In another series of examina- tions he found the artery arising in nearly half the number of examples from the third part. It becomes, therefore, an important fact for the surgeon to remember, in ligating the subclavian artery in its third part, that in a large per- centage of cases an artery may be found, contrary to the statements of many observers, springing directly from it. ISTo explanation of the frequent variations in these branches has yet been given. Students of the sub- ject have neglected stating any related facts, such as the anatomy of the muscles and of the nerve trunks in the vicinity, or the departures which such branches exhibit from the arrangement of the corresponding vessels in the lower animals. Since the frequent use of the word " cervical" in the names of branches of the subclavian artery has led to some confusion, the following grouping of the three main "cervical" branches may prove of service. The superficial cervical branch supplies the upper por- tion of the Trapezius, the Levator Anguli Scapulas, the Rhomboideus, and the Serratus Posticus Superior. These muscles, with the exception of the last-named, are associated in nature (see Variations of these mus- cles, pp. 274-276), and might receive the name of the Cephalo humeral group.—The deep cervical branch ' Bi-it. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Ivii. 187(3, 186.