GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. ooo^oo<= 337 for the occasional union of the two profundaB arteries in a common trunk, viz., that it is an attempt to repeat in the upper extremity what is normal in the lower by giving the- nutrient or segmentary artery of the tipper arm the same plan as that usually seen in the lower. On the other hand, the femoral profunda artery may take upon itself the normal disposition of the brachial profunda. The variations in the bloodvessels are numerous, and arise either from irregular development of the parts of the body in which the variation occurs, or from imperfect absorption of foetal or other tem- porary structures. When an organ normally receiving blood through a given channel is seen in an exceptional instance to receive it from another, it is reasonable to assume that owing to some temporary retardation in its development, the organ demanded little or none of the blood arriving through the accustomed channel, and the vessel became rudimentary. The organ subsequently renewing its activity of growth would be compelled to rely upon the capillaries of an adjacent vessel for its supply, and through them gradually establish an aberrant trunk of sufficient size for its purpose.—Instances of retention of temporary structures explain irregularities in the great trunkal vessels with great exactness.' In a minor degree, variations of the great vessels of the thorax may be influenced both by habit and age, and by causes dependent upon defects in the curva- tures of the vertebral column and the respiratory movements.—Errors of observation in the relations of bloodvessels have occasionally arisen from study- ing the parts in a state of over-distension, either as a result of diseased action or the unskilful use of in- jecting material. While a thorough knowledge of the large blood- vessels is of the first importance, an acquaintance with the smallest twigs must not be ignored. By these apparently insignificant vessels the means are afforded by which a collateral circulation is established after the obliteration of the larger vessels, whether by ligation or by the pressure of morbid growths.—The smaller vessels also serve as guides in reaching the larger vessels. Thus the deep epigastric artery when traced up will lead the operator to the external iliac, the acromial artery to the axillary, and the small twigs in the intermuscular septum of the front of the leg to the anterior tibial artery.—A vessel usually small may * See sections on variations of tlie arch of the aorta and the veins of the trunk. 43 become abnormally enlarged and be mistaken for the main vessel of the part. The deep humeral artery has in this way been confounded with the brachial artery, the anastomotica magna with the femoral and the superficial volar with the radial artery.—A small vessel arising from the side of a large trunk, as, for example, a twig arising from the femoral artery, will bleed more freely than will another of the sam.e size arising from a small trunk. The amount of blood lost is out of all proportion to the size and the rela- tive importance of the vessel. The same remark is applicable to the terminal twigs of a short vessel arising from a large trunk. The ranine branch of the lingual artery is an example of such a vessel. The larger nerves and vessels of a limb are pro- tected by the joints, and invariably lie in the lines of their flexion. Thus the axillary artery and vein are lodged within the angle formed between the scapula and the humerus; the brachial artery and the median nerve, together with the more important superficial nerves, are situated in the angle (anterior surface) be- tween the humerus, the ulna, and the radius. Similar arrangements of parts are found in the lov/er ex- tremity. The following case is of great value as an illustration of the slight degree of force required to create alarming if not fatal disturbance resulting from a blow upon a large vessel in an unprotected situa- tion. A girl, twelve years of age, while standing erect, was struck over the groin with a stick, which was thrust up beneath the clothing by a companion. Death ensued on the third day. The femoral artery just below Poupart's ligament was found distended, and, upon dissection, showed rupture of the inner and middle coats. The walls of the femoral vein were injected, and its lumen blocked up with fibrinous deposit.' The volume of blood flowing through an artery can be controlled by the position of the joint. The least amount of resistance to the flow is offered in semi-flexion. Extreme extension retards, while ex- treme flexion retards if it does not arrest the flow. Hence forced flexion of a joint on the proximal side of a wound is often employed to arrest hemorrhage, and to cure aneurism. Localization of Diseased Action.—The frequency of aneurism at the bend of the knee, at or near the groin, at the arch of the aorta or the subclavian arteries, or at the flexure of the internal carotid, is suggestive when the relative infrequency of this condition in the artery running along the side of the > D. Stewart, Lancet, 1860, vol. 62.