TUE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 433 cause in a sacculus of the urinary bladder, wliicli liad extended laterally as far as the ilium. According to Braune, the femoral vein lying under Poupart's ligament sucks in the blood from the dis- tal parts at each outward turn of the upper part of the thigh, and empties into the iliac veins at each inward turn, or on flexion. THE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIJT. The External Iliac Vein, the continuation of the femoral, lies within the pelvis. It is a short but large trunk, and receives the circumflex ilii and the deep ejjiyaatric ve'.ns. The right vein lies behind the external iliac artery, while the left remains to the inner side of its accouipanying artery. The siiperfcial veins of the lower extremity are the long scq'jhenous and the short saphenous. The long saphenous vein begins with the veins upon the dor- sum of the foot, which form a wide-meshed network; from the inner side of this network, in conjunction with the veins of the plantar region and great toe, the vein ascends behind the inner malleolus. It soon crosses the leg obliquely to reach the inner border of the calf and the knee ; it thence gains the thigh to terminate in the femoral vein, through the saphenous opening of the deep fascia, about one inch below Poupart's ligament. The long saphenous vein re- ceives the exlernal pudic, the superficial epif/asfric, and the superficial circumflex iliac {inguinal) veins. Variations Sometimes the long ;^aphenous receives the short saphenous vein ; in other instances it divides, again to unite to form a single trunk, or it may be double throughout its entire length. The short sapheiious vein arises from the outer border of the foot, ascends behind the outer malleolus, gains the outer border of the tendo Achillis, and thence passes to the posterior surface of the calf of the leg, to terminate between the heads of the Gastro- cnemius muscle in the popliteal vein. It is accom- panied by the external saphenous nerve, which lies to its outer side. Variations.—The short saphenous vein may join the long saphenous by piercing either the Biceps or the Adductor Magnus muscle. Eemarks.—-Snperficial veins are apt to terminate either before reaching the lines of flexion of a joint, or after passing this line, as is seen in the short saphenous vein at the knee, the long saphenous at the groin, and the basilic vein near the axilla. Arte- ries likewise are apt todivide or give off large branches after passing this line, as is seen in the brachial, femoral, and popliteal arteries. J. Gay' believes that the superficial and deep veins of the limbs do not communicate, save at the points of termination of the former. Jno. Hutchinson^ has, however, described a general enlargement of the superficial veins in a male aged thirty-six, following, as was supposed by the observer, obliteration of the deeper trunks from rheumatic fever.—In the course of an operation for removing a fibroid tumor from the thigh, the long saphenous vein was found by McClellan^ to be enormously enlarged. The same vein, as it lies at the lower third of the thigh, was found by the writer* to be inflamed in a number of inflammatory conditions of the lower ex- tremity. The following comments maybe found use- ful in connection with this subject. A slight amount of inflammation, with thickening, is apt to occur in the connective tissue about an inflamed vein. In subcutaneous phlebitis the brawny red line in the skin is indicative of this—the cord- like induration of the vein alone being expressive of the phlebitis proper. At certain points the periphle- bitis may become circumscribed and pass on to sup- : puration, but more commonly it retains its diffuse character, and may extend up along the tract of the i vessel beyond the limit of the involved vein itself. Tills latter tendency the writer has noticed in a stump of the right foot—the patient dying of pycsmia following amputation through the tarsus. The tissues at the inner side of the ankle were infiltrated with I serum, but the veins lying along the internal plantar ! artery and between the abductor of the great toe and the short flexor were conspicuously swollen and I inflamed. The tract of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve was infiltrated with serum, the tissues being matted together. When the veins are deeply situated, as in the j intermuscular spaces, they are more liable to serve I as conductors of inflammation than are the suj^erficial veins, which, being -held more firmly in position by the deep fascia of the limb, are obedient to the gene- ; ral rule, that the nearer the parts lie to the surface, I the more compact is their connective tissue. The comparative rarity of subcutaneous phlebitis, when the vast number of lesions capable of producing it is considered, is remarkable, and affords an instructive contrast to the frequency of this complication after ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1879, 323. 2 Br. Med. .Journ., 1871, 118. — * Surgery, p. 194. ♦ Phila. Med. Times, i. 1871, *433.