313 THE HEAET. =.00^000 the right ventricle, according to Sibson, entirely covers the left. Viewing the heart in its relations to the sternum, it is seen that the right auricular appendage and a small portion of the right auricle lie to the right of the sternum. The right third or half of the right ventricle, the right auriculo-ventricular valve, the median fourth or fifth of the conus pulmonalis and the pulmonary artery, with the origin of the aorta, lie directly behind the sternum. The remaining por- tion of the right ventricle, conus pulmonalis, and pul- monary artery lie to the left of the sternum. The following rules, according to Sibson, mark the position of the several parts of the heart. The origins of the great vessels correspond to a line running across the sternum and along the lower edge of the second costal cartilage. In some subjects the vessels cor- respond with the line of the third cartilage. The right auriculo-ventricular junction crosses ob- liquely from the left of the sternum above, to the rioht of it below. The tricuspid valve is immediately to the left of the lower half of the sternum.—The semilunar valves lie on a line drawn through the centre of the third piece of the sternum, and passing midway between the third and the fourth costal cartilages, and thence behind to about the tip of the sixth dorsal spine.—The plane of the aortic orifice looks downward,/o?-u'a?-t/, and toward the left. The plane of the pulmonary orifice looks downward, backivard, and toward the left.^ The pulmonary valves usually lie behind the second intercostal space.—The heart is in contact with the walls of the chest from the fourth to the sixth costal cartilage of the left side. This space is usually three inches from side to side, and two inches from above downward. The superior surface of the heart in position is a small quadrilateral space, which measures three inches in diameter from right to left, and about two inches from above downward. It is bounded below by the Diaphragm, on the right and left by the lungs. The right side is flat, the left concave. The tongue- shaped lobe is pushed aside in systole, but returns in diastole. It is a noticeable fact that the axis of the right side of the heart, passing from the auricle to the ventricle, is nearly horizontal, while that of the pulmonary conus is vertical. On the other hand, the axis of the left ventricle is nearly vertical, while that of the conus aorticus is also nearly vertical. It follows I John Wood, .Toui-n. of Anat. and Phys., 18G9, iii. (i. that the current of blood in the right side leaves the ventricle at nearly a right angle to its line of entrance, while the blood of the left side leaves the ventricle at a very acute angle to its line of entrance. The posterior margin of the heart is partly lodged, with the intervention of the pericardium, in a depres- sion of the left lung. A Detailed Account or the Heart. The right auricle is the first chamber of the heart, since it receives the venous blood from the superior and inferior cavaj, and transmits it to the right ven- tricle. The exterior is of an irregular cuboid form, and pre- sents for examination four surfaces; an anterior, a posterior, a right or lateral (also called the external), and a left or median. The latter may be also named the septal surface, since it corresponds to the inter- auricular septum. The anterior surface of the auricle is convex, and, when the heart is in position, extends from the outer border of the sternvim, about on a level with the upper border of the third rib, to the junction of the seventh rib with the sternum. At its anterior median part is placed the auricular appendage. This is of a triangular form, the base being at the auricular wall, and the apex nearly reaching the pulmonary artery. It is concave be- hind to accommodate itself to the anterior surface of the aorta, but convex in front. The posterior surface is small and flat. The lateral surface is yet smaller than the posterior. It is limited by the space between the orifices of the venas cavre. The interior of the auricle (fig. 1, Plate LX.) is marked as follows: above is the orifice of the superior vena cava. This, the smaller of the two great venous orifices, being placed slightly in front of the jolane of the inferior cava, is directed downward and slightly forward and inward. Below is the orifice of the infe- rior cava, which is directed nearly horizontally for- ward and to the left. Between the two the auricular surface is slightly raised, and has received the name tulerctdum Loiueri. The anterior surface is marked with numerous vertical muscular ridges, arranged in the form of a coarse netAvork, which have received the name of the pectinate fibres [Musculi Pectinati). The base of the auricle presents the large oval auriculo-ventricular orifice, having a diameter of one and a fourth inch.—Extendincj from the inner mar- gin of the orifice of the inferior vena cava is a sickle- shaped fold of the lining membrane, containing a few muscular fasciculi, called the Eustachian vcdve.