HE BLOODVESSELS. 434 THEHEARTAND ' Bozeman, N. Y. Med. Journ., xviii. 360. ' Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1879, 323. amputations and resections of bone. Tlie general statement that phlebitis is more common in the super- ficial than in the deep-seated veins is only correct as far as the absolute number of cases observed is con- cerned. When compared with reference to their rela- tive liability to become inflamed, the deep-seated are by far more apt to be selected, either primarily, through their own coats, or, secondarily, by periphle- bitis in the soft connective tissue about them. When the short saphenous enipties into the popli- teal vein, as is the rule, ulcerations along its tract are very rare. When, however, the vein joins the internal saphenous, it becomes more liable to disease, and ulcers are very apt to appear along its course, especially at the outer side of the ankle.^ The long saphenous vein is so commonly the seat of moderate dilatation in females that the terms " Frauenader" and " Rosenader" are of frequent oc- currence in the descriptions of this vein in the writ- ings of German clinicians and anatomists. THE COMMOX ILIAC VEIN. The Common Iliac Vein is associated with the com- mon iliac artery of its own side. Each vein is formed by the convergence of the corresponding internal and external iliac veins. The left is longer and more oblique than the right. Each vein terminates in the inferior vena cava opposite the interval between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. The left receives from the hollow of the sacrum a small vein known as the median sacral. The relations of the iliac vein are of importance in the operation of Hgating the common iliac artery. The left vein lies to the inner side of its artery and passes beneath the right common iliac artery to gain the inferior vena cava. The right vein lies at its origin behind the corresponding artery, but soon gets to its outer side. Tlie two iliac veins may remain distinct until they receive the renal veins. THE INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. The Internal Iliac Vein is a short thick trunk directed inward and backward, in front of the sacral plexus and the Pyriformis muscle, but on a plane be- hind that of the corresponding artery. The internal iliac vein is without valves, though its tributaries are rich in them. It receives blood from parietal and from visceral branches. The blood supplied by the parietal branches of the internal iliac artery is returned through the double veins (vena3 comites) of the ilio-lumbar, the superior and inferior gluteal, the lateral sacral, the obtui'ator, the internal pudic, and the sciatic arteries. The visceral branches, comprising those derived from the pelvic organs, are plexiform. They form usually close-meshed and intricate networks within the walls of the bladder, genital organs, and rectum, and finally terminate in the internal iliac vein. Ex- ceedingly free anastomosis exists between the several networks. The veins joining them are the lateral sacral, the pudic, and the dorsal vein of the penis; while the networks themselves are called the sacral^ the heemor- rhoidal, and tlie vesical plexuses. The female has a special plexus, the iitero-vayinal^ and the male another, the prostatic. The lateral sacral vein on either side anastomoses with branches of the median sacral, and forms a dif- fuse plexus lying upon the anterior surface of the sacrum. A portion of this plexus joins the common iliac through the median sacral vein; the remaining vessels join the internal iliac vein; they may empty into the ascending lumbar. The pudic vein is smaller than the artery of the same name. It collects blood from the parts about the perineum and the base of the penis. The dorsal veins of the penis tend to be symmetri- cal, though there may be but one. When two exist, they lie to the outer side of the dorsal arteries. The vein receives distinct branches from the spongy and cavernous bodies; those from the former join it from behind the corona glandis, while the others emerge from the under border of the cavernous body, and pass upward around the sides of the penis to termi- nate in the main trunk. The dorsal vein pierces the sub-pubic ligament, and divides into two branches, one on either side of tlie prostate gland, to join the prostatic plexus. The veins of the clitoris are analogous to those of the penis, and are received by the utero-vayinal plexus. J. Gray* concluded, from a careful study of the veins in a case of gangrene of the cavernous and spongy bodies where the integuments remained intact, that the venous currents from the deep structures of the penis have no outflow towards the heart save through the deeper veins ; so that obstruction in these is fatal to the body of the penis but not to its tegu- mentary covering- The lisernorrlioidal plexus lies beneath the mucous membrane of the rectum, and is best developed at its lower portion. It gives origin to the superior.^ middle.^