360 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. —■ ooo^ (d) The rcmine or terminal branch lies beneath the tip of the tongue. Its chief importance consists in the danger of excessive bleeding following a wound of the free end of the tongue. In attempts to divide the lingual frenum in so-called "tongue tie," the ranine artery has been wounded, and, the apparently slight hemorrhage being increased by the act of sucking, serious results have been known to ensue. These are avoided by incising the frenum with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and directing the blades down- ward before cutting, while the tip of the tongue is raised. The extraordinai'y independence of the nutrition of the two halyes of the tongue is in part explained by the fact that the right and left lingual arteries have fewer anastomoses than most other arteries. Variations—The lingual artery may lie on the Hyo- Glossus muscle, and be accompanied by the hypo-glossal nerve. It may arise from the internal maxillary artery. It may be absent on one side; the vessel of the opposite side taking its place.' The lingual artery may arise from a com- ■ mon trunk with the facial. It may givy off the facial and the internal maxillary and the ascending pharyngeal arte- ries.—The dorsal bi'anches may be multiple, or may be repre- sented as a union of two or more branches. The hyoid branch may interchange with the crico-thyroidean branch of the superior thyroid artery. Ligation of the Lingual Arte=."y An incision two and a half to three inches in length from the anterior edge of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle directed forward one-half inch below the inferior maxilla and parallel with it, is the best for this operation. The guides for its exposure are first the free end of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and afterward the hypo-glossal nerve as it crosses the sulcus between the region of the larynx and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. The nerve being found, the lingual artery is seen lying below it. For ligation of the artery as it lies under the Ilyo-Glossus muscle, it is necessary to prolong the incision to a point nearer the median line, the head being thrown upward and backward, and carefully maintained in tliis position in order to make the supra-hyoid space as large and as superficial as possible. Tiie guides for the position of the artery are tiie cornu of the liyoid bone and the hypoglossal nerve. The submaxillary salivary gland and its covering of deep cervical fascia being turned upward, the intermediate tendon of the Digastric muscle is seen, above which is the hy- poglossal nerve lying upon the Ilyo-Glossus muscle. The nerve being drawn U|)ward the muscle is divided upon a grooved director, leaving tlie artery exj)Osed beneath. Tiie artery needle is passed from above downward. Mr. Moore^ tied the lingual artery in a case of cancer of " E. Zuckerkan.il, Wien. Merl. Woohensclirift, No. 29, 833, 1881. 2 Proo. Med. and Chir. Soc, 1862. the tongue. The ulcer became paler after the operation, but neither sloughed nor healed, and in five weeks the whole tumor was perceptibly smaller than before the operation. From that time the tumor began to increase, the patient, liowever, having greater comfort than before. THE FACIAL ARTERY. The Facial artery arises from the external carotid above the lingual. The vessel passes upward and for- ward to gain the face, and, assuming a tortuous course, terminates at the side of the root of the nose. It is divided by the edge of the lower jaw into a cervical and a facial portion.—The cervical portion is less tortuous than the facial. It lies upon the Mylo- Hyoid muscle; and toward the lower jaw it is deeply imbedded in the submaxillary salivary gland. The facial j^ortion begins at the base of the lower jaw directly in front of the Masseter muscle. The artery passes upward and forward on the face, at first between the Masseter and Depressor Anguli Oris muscles, afterward beneath the Zygomatic muscles and the elevators of the upper lip. It becomes super- ficial at the side of the nose, where it receives the name of the lateral nasal artery. The branches of the Facial artery are as follows:— {a) The Inferior or Ascending Palatine. (h) The Tonsillar. (c) The Glandular. (d) The Submental. Cervical Branches Facial Branches (e) The Inferior Labial. (/) The Inferior Coronary. {(l) The Superior Coronary. [ (/i) The Angular. (a) The inferior or ascending palatine branch as- cends the neck to the outer side of the Stylo-Glossus muscle to the level of the soft palate. It sends a branch to this latter structure, to the oriticc of the Eustachian tube, and to the tonsil. (I)) The tonsillar branch is the chief source of nourishment of the tonsil. When absent, its place is taken by a branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery. (c) The (jlandular branches are numerous. They pass in all directions from the trunk as it is enveloped by the submaxillary salivary gland. (d) The sulmental branch. This is the most im- portant of the cervical branches. It passes forward from the median aspect of the main vessel, to sup- ply the chin and the muscles in the supra-hyoid space. It anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. (e) The inferior labial branch is inconstant. It is distributed to the skin and muscles of the chin.