410 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. <x>O^OOo— Extensor Longus Digitoram to the outer. It becomes superficial at its lower fourth, where it lies upon the tibia between the tendons of the Extensor Longus Digitorurn and of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. It is crossed at the ankle by the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus muscle, and is here covered by the skin and fascia only. A straight line drawn from the middle of the space between the head of the fibula and the tubercle of the tibia to the middle point of the intermalleolar space represents its course. Hyrtl and Henle de- scribe the artery as passing in a fibro-muscular canal which is defined behind by the interosseous membrane, and in front by the fibres of origin of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. The artery, vein, and nerve are inclosed in a kind of short tubular compartment opposite the ankle-joint. The artery yields its larger branches at the upper and lower extremity of the leg. They are as fol- lows :— (a) Anterior Eecurrent. (.5) Muscular. (c) Internal Malleolar. (d) External Malleolar. (a) The anterior remrrent, always of considerable size, arises from the main vessel immediately after its appearance upon the front of the leg. It ascends obliquely upward and inward, through the substance of the Tibialis Anticus, to gain the internal tuberosity of the tibia, about which it is distributed after the fashion of a periosteal vessel. Its superior and larger branch runs along the outer border of the liyamentum jxttellas, anastomosing with the inferior external artery. The inferior branch anastomoses with the internal articular artery. Henle describes a superior filjular artery which winds around the head of the fibula under the origin of the Peroneus Longus. It supplies these muscles and gives branches to the knee and to the superior tibio-fibular articulation. The muscular branches are numerous, but small. They supply the muscles and skin of the anterior tibial region. A few twigs pierce the interosseous membrane to supply both it and the Tibialis Pos- ticus muscle. (c) The internal malleolar is given off at the front of, and a little above, the ankle, between the tibia and the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus, where it divides into two branches, a deep or articular, and a superficial, which supply the periosteum of the inner malleolus and the inner side of the tarsus, and anastomose with the internal tarsal branch of the internal plantar artery, as well as with terminal branches of the pero- neal artery. (f/) The external malleolar, somewhat larger, and placed a little lower than the preceding, is variable in its origin. As a rule it arises a short distance above the ankle-joint beneath the tendons of the Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum and of the Peroneus Tertius muscles, passes downward and outward to supply the parts about the external malleolus and the outer as- pect of the calcaneum, and anastomoses with the an- terior peroneal, with the external tarsal, and with branches of the external plantar. Ligation of the Anterior Tibial Artery.—The anterior tibial artery is secured at its upper part by mniiing an incision parallel to the tibia in a line corresponding to the se[)tum between the Tibialis Anticus and the Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum muscles. This line can be defined by exciting contraction of the first-named muscle. Tiie incision should be i'ully three inches in length. The deep fascia being divided, the muscles should be separated toward the lower end of the wound. If any small branches of arteries be seen beneath the fascia, they will serve to guide the operator to tlie anterior tibial, wliich lies with its accom- panying veins upon the interosseous membrane, together with the nerve of the same name, the latter lying to the outer side of the vessel. At tlie lower portion of the leg, the artery lies between the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus muscle and that of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. Its relations are here essen- tially the same as at the upper part. The incision should be three inches in length along the outer margin of tlie Extensor Proprius Pollicis. Rkmarks The vessel may be injured by the fragment of the fractured tibia. M. Verneuil reports an instance in which the artery was obliterated by the upper fragment of the bone, in a man aged forty-eight, with resultant gangrene of the limb below the injured point. Amputation was resorted to, but death ensued from [)ya3mia. THE DORSALIS PEDIS. This artery is the continuation of the anterior tibial upon the dorsum of the foot. It begins at the lower border of the annular ligament, and passes directly forward, crossing the second cuneiform bone nearly parallel to the inner border; it terminates in the first interosseous metacarpal space at the first meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation, where it divides into (a) the tarsal, {h) the metatarsal, (c) the dorsalis hal- lucis, and {d) perforating branches. (a) The tarsal branch arises from the dorsalis pedis upon the scaphoid bone. It passes outward between the tarsal bones below and the Extensor Brevis Digi- torum above, supplying that muscle as well as the