THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 361 000^00= great meningeal in twenty-seven cases. In the language of the same writer, " The spot usually referred to in extra- vasation of blood fromi the middle meningeal artery is the antero-inferior angle of the parietal bone; but extensive extravasations may occur from this vessel or some of its branches over pretty nearly the whole of the lateral surface of the skull. In fractures involving the middle fossa, the most common of all the iVactures of the base of the skull, this vessel may be torn across in any part of its course between the foramen si)inosum and tlie antero-inferior angle of the parietal. And in the middle fossa of the skull, it frequently happens that the middle meningeal artery divides into two large branches of equal size, one proceeding to the antei-o-iuferior edge of the parietal, and the other passing much more posteriorly, and sending large ramifications over the whole of the parietal and corresponding parts of the frontal and occipital bones. A fracture running across any of these large branches may give rise to an extensive extra- vasation of blood." Aneurismal tumors have rarely been found upon the artery as it lies within the groove of the parietal bone. (c) The small menhvjeal artery (tneningea parva) often arises from the preceding. It euters the cra- nium through the foramen ovale, and supplies the dura mater of the middle cerebral fossa and the gan- glion of the fifth cranial nerve. {(1) Hh.Q inferior dental branch arises from the main trunk opposite the middle meningeal. It passes obliquely downward and forward between the inter- nal lateral ligament and the neck of the lower jaw to the posterior dental foramen, through which it enters the inferior dental canal in compaiiy with the inferior dental nerve. At the position of the mental fora- men it divides into its terminal branches. One branch effects its exit at the foramen to supply the adjacent soft piarts, and to anastomose with the facial; the other continues within the cancelli of the lower jaw as far as the symphysis. The main trunk, while within the dental canal, gives off nume- rous minute branches for the supply of the bone and teeth ; the latter twigs penetrating the foramina at the tips of the roots of the teeth. Before entering the inferior dental canal the artery gives off the mylo-hyoid branch, which runs along the groove of the same name in company with the mylo- hyoid nerve. It supplies the Mylo-Hyoid muscle and the mucous membrane of the mouth. (e) The deejj teviporal branches. These are two in number, the anterior and the posterior. The poste- rior ascends between the Pterygoid muscles to the lower part of the Temporal muscle, as it arises from the temporal fossa. The anterior deep temporal ascends in the anterior or sphenoid portion of the temporal fossa. It com- monly perforates the orbital se})tum to reach the lachrymal gland. Both deep temporal arteries supply chiefl}^ the Temporal muscle, occasionally aiding in nourishing the diploe. (/) The '[)tery(joid branches, as the name implies, go to the Pterygoid muscles. ((/) The masseteric branch passes outward through the sigmoid notch to reach the Masseter muscle. It anastomoses with the transverse facial artery. Velpeau^ asserts that this vessel is necessarily com- pressed and possibly ruptured in dislocation of the jaw. (A) The buccal branch passes forward to the tissues of the cheek in company with the buccal nerve. After supplying the Buccinator muscle and mucous membrane of the-cheek, it pierces the former to anas- tomose with the transverse facial. (/) The alveolar or superior maxillary hrav.ch.. This artery often arises in common with the infra-orbital. It descends upon the tuberosity of the superior max- illa, and enters special canals to reach the roots of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the mu- cous membrane of the maxillary sinus, and the gum. ( /) The tn/ra-oj-bitalhraxich passes forward in com- pany with and above the infra-orbital nerve. It traverses the entire length of the infra-orbital canal, and terminates at the infra-orbital foramen by two small twigs, an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending branch supplies the lachrymal sac and adjacent structures, anastomosing with peripheral twigs of the facial and ophthalmic arteries. The de- scending branch lies upon the Levator Anguli Oris, and anastomoses with the facial artery. The artery in the canal sends important branches to the front teeth and lining membrane of the maxil- lary sinus. It also sends small branches upward to Gupply the Inferior Pectus and the Inferior Oblique muscles of the eye. (Jc) The descending jialatine branch descends in the posterior palatine canal to the hard palate. It passes horizontally forward along the lateral aspect of the hard palate, grooving the bone, to the incisive fora- men, in which it terminates by anastomosis with the nasal branch. It supplies the gum-tissue of the upper jaw, hard palate, and alveoli. Within the posterior palatine canal it commonly sends a small branch to the mucous lining of the nasal chamber. It anastomoses with the pharyngeal branch of the facial, or, in the absence of this branch, it sends a posterior division to the site of the pharynx, tonsil, and velum palati. This distribution is given as the normal one by most German authors. 1 Chir. Anat., i. 90.