413 THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. Fig. 85. JUQULAR VEIN DUCT OF CUVIER VEN>£ HEP. REVEHENTES jcAROtNAL VEINS DUCTUS VENOSUS VEN/E HEP. ADVEHENTE8 — UMBILICAL VEIN PORTAL VEIN A Tlan of Principal Veins or the F(ETns of about Foce Wleks. the primitive jugular veins at about the point Avhere thej become thoracic. The cardinal veins (vertebral veins) are two in number, the right and the left, their presence being determined the activity of the Wolfian bodies. Accessions are received by the main vessels from the vertebral intercostal and lumbar veins. The cardinal veins ascend to join the primitive jugular veins, to form, with the assistance of the primitive jugular vein.s, the duels of Cuvier. The lines of continuity from the right and left primitive jugular veins constitute in the thorax the right and left /cetoZ vense cavse. Independently of the formation of the primitive jugular veins, the cardinal veins, and the ducts of Cuvier, blood is collected from the vitelline sac or its rudiments, and from the umbilical vesicle, to form the right and the left omphalo-mesenteric veins, which together form a short trunk to empty into the auricle of'the heart. In the formation of this trunk, the initial step is taken toward the separation of a distinct trunk for the conveyance of blood to the heart from its source outside of the trunk. After the disappearance of the umbilical vesicle, the right and left omphalo-mesenteric vessels, for the most part, disappear also, the proximal portion of the left trunk alone persisting to receive the blood collected The right and left veins now re- from the placenta. ceive the name of the umbilical veins, which unite in the trunk representing the remains of the om- phalo-mesenteric system to form the common om- phalo-mesenteric trunk. (See p. 395.) The liver is an organ of great activity from the time of the development of the vitelline circulation. The venous current from the source of nourishment, whether that be in the vitelline sac, in the placenta, or in the intestinal tract, passes through a capillary system in the liver, but is again collected by one or more trunks which pour the return venous blood into the heart. The manner by which the blood is received and transmitted through the liver is essen- tially the same from the period of the vitelline circulation to adult life. In the vitelline type, the branches of the omphalo-mesenteric vein, as it enters the liver, form two main trunks which are called the vends hepaticse advehentes^ while those which collect the blood from the hepatic capillaries are called the vense hepaticse revehentes. This arrange- ment is modified in the placental circulation by the common trunk of the omphalo-mesenteric vein receiv- Fig. 86. JUGULAR VEINS SUBCLAVIAN VEIN TnANSVERSe VElM AZYGOS VEIN DUCTS OF CUVIER DUCTUS VENOSUS CARDINAL VEIM UMBILICAL VEIN PORTAL VEIN lAO VEINS EXTER. ILIAC VEINS INTER. ILIAC VEINS Plan of the Principal Veins of the Fcetus at the time of the fik£T Establishment of the Placental Circulation. ing the blood from the umbilical vein, and in addi- tion from the portal vein, which is as yet a small trunk. Finally, when the placental circulation is