THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 367 OOO^CxZ'O the vessel enters it througli the carotid canal, are of great importance in studying aneurism of this vessel. The sac has been known to press the optic nerve downward and stretch its fibres, to absorb the body of the sphenoid bone, and to create a cavity within the anterior perforated space of the cerebrum of its own side, as Avell as to obliterate the adjoining roots of the corresponding olfactory nerve and the anterior part of the corpus striatum.^ In other instances the effects of the pressure have been most evident in the cavernous sinus, and upon the ganglion of the fifth nerve.^ The symptoms created by the above lines of pressure are as follows: Pressure on the optic nerve will induce blindness; on the cavernous sinus, venous stasis in the orbit, cedema of the eyelids, and optic neuritis. Pressure on the nerves passing through the cavernous sinus or in its outer wall will, if slight, affect the sixth only (since this of all the cranial nerves is the most exposed ), when the External Rectus muscle will be paralyzed and internal strabismus will follow. If the pressure prove excessive, the third and even the fourth nerves will suffer, Avith consequent paraly- sis of the remaining periocular muscles, together with dilatation of the pupil or sloughing of the cornea. It may be expected, therefore, as a result of aneur- ism of the terminal portion of the internal carotid artery, that the case will include one or more of the following symptoms: neuralgia, referable to the fifth nerve, corneal sloughing, ptosis, fixation of the eye- ball or converging strabismus, and amaurosis. Tumors, other than those of an aneurismal nature, may also compress the internal carotid at the base of the skull. Among these may be mentioned growths originating in the body of the sphenoid bone, in the pituitary body, and in the cavernous sinus.^ Pollock found the artery, in fracture of the skull in a male, ruptured nearly one-half of its circumference, at a point a little beyond the carotid groove of the sphe- noid bone. Under the head of the temporal bone, instances of fatal hemorrhage, excited by the laceration attending the removal of the necrosed bone, have been cited. When the relations of the temporal bone to the artery are considered, such a lesion would appear to be inevitable. The proximity of the trunk of the internal carotid artery to the ear has induced aurists to seek for the cause of one form of tinnitus aurium in the conduc- » Mr. Moore, Tr. Path. Soc. London, i. 243. 2 Jas. Adams, Lancet. Dec. 18G9, 76(1. M. H. Romberg Nervi Quinti specimen, Berlin, 1840, fig. 3 Virchow's Archiv, 1870. NeuraL tion of the pulsations of this vessel directly to the auditory nerve. The internal jugular vein, a small artery occasionally passing through the stapes, and even the posterior auricular branch of the external carotid, have been held by various observers to cause similar vascular murmurs; and, while no proof has been presented to show that such may be the case, it is highly probable that under abnormal conditions noises may be transmitted to the ear from the vessels in its neighborhood. Variations—The branches of tlie internal carotid artery in the neck may interciiange in part with the superior larj'n- geal, the ascending pharyngeal, the occipital, and tiie trans- verse facial branch of tiie temjioral. The encranial branches may interciiange among tiiemselves, and a separate encranial branch may anastomose witli a branch of the posterior auri- cular and the internal maxillary arteries. The branches of the internal carotid artery are— {n) The Tympanic. (/;) The Branches to the Dura Mater, (c) The Ophthalmic. {d) The Anterior Cerebral, (e) The Anterior Communicating. (/) The Middle Cerebral. (,'/) The Posterior Communicating. (//) The Choroid. (/) The Anterior .Choroid. («) The tympcmic arises from the carotid artery as it lies within the carotid canal. It is'a minute twig, which pierces the roof of the canal, and supplies the membrane of the tympanum. It anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid. Vidian, and tympanic branches of the internal maxillary artery. (l)) The Iranches to the dura mater. Within the cavernous sinus a small vessel supplies the dura mater defining the sinus. In addition it sends twigs to the dura mater about the pituitary fossa, the.pitui- tary body, and the ganglion of the fifth nerve. A twig passes to the tentorium, and anastomoses in the middle cerebral fossa with the great meningeal artery. J. Sapolini' pro[)Oses for the brandies of tlie twig supply- ing the region of the pituitary fossa the name of the rayed arteries (arteres rayonnees). One twig passes along the pathetic nerve, and one to the basilar process. Duret found the internal carotid furnishing minute branches to the optic chasm at its outer border. It may rarely send two twigs to the striated body, wliich it reaches through the anterior perforated space. ' L'Aire de la Selle Turcique, Brussels, 1880, 46, fig.