Jouni. Med. Sci. 1842, ii. s. iv. 369. Literature. 2 (iny's Hosp. Rep. 1838, iii. 425. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. '>00^<>00 457 Remarks.—Clinical points in connection with the spleen relate to the area of dulness as compared to other areas with which it may be confounded, to ab- scess, to wounds, and to rapture. The area of splenic dulness is confined to a space defined above by the ninth or the tenth rib, and below by the eleventh or the twelfth. A line drawn from the free end, of the eleventh rib to the nipple or to the borders of the axilla, would divide this area in its greatest length. The dulness is continuous behind with that of the left kidney. The spleen is subject to hypertrophy, a condition which, when due to malarial disease, has received the name of " ague-cake." Ague-cake may extend into the pelvis. When found in association with a gravid uterus, it may be violently compressed and give rise to marked local distress and even peritonitis. Not only does the dulness extend as far as the epigastric and right iliac regions, but the notched border may be felt beneath the integument at the umbilicus, and, if the patient be a female, the spleen may be deter- mined ^je/- vayinam lying in front of the uterus.' Sappey refers to a case in which the spleen extended to the groin, where it had the appearance of a hernia. The spleen, when malplaced or liypertrophied, may be confounded witli tlie left lobe of the liver. The lobulated anterior border serves to distinguish the splenic tumor. The left hepatic lobe is not apt to be enlarged unless the right is also. The enlarge- ment of the left lobe may thus be indirectly de- termined.—It may be necessary carefully to dis- criminate between the area of splenic dulness and that of scirrhous thickening of the stomach, of dis- eased omentum, of feculent accumulation in the cas- cum, of diseased kidney, and of ovarian tumor or hydatids. Abscess of the spleen may open in one of five differ- ent directions, viz., into the peritoneal cavity, which is the most frequent; into the left pleural cavity; into the large intestine ; externally through the skin ; or through the kidney. Bright- records an example of rupture into the transverse colon. The lesion occurred in a female of twenty-five years. The spleen was found enlarged and firmly adherent to the transverse colon, and had formed adhesions likewise to the Diaphragm. Tlie abscess had involved one- half of the spleen, and had ulcerated into the trans- verse colon at the place of adhesion. 1 Spencer Wells, Med. Times and Gaz. 1866, i. 2. 58 Wovnds of the spleen are not liable to occur except from without, when, as a rule, both the Diaphragm and the lower part of the left pleural cavity are perforated. Li rupture of the spleen the parenchyma may suffer without laceration of the elastic coat; in fatal cases, an appreciable interval—in a case reported by Mr. Partridge,' five daj's—has elapsed between the time of the initial lesion and the rupture of the elastic capsule. Spontaneous rupture can occur only in advanced hypertrophy accompanied with softening of the parenchyma. Dr. J. B. Potter^ records a case in which half a gallon of blood and pultaceous pulp escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. The Suprarenal Capsule (adrenal) is a flattened triangular body situated, as the name implies, above the kidney, and held to it by connective tissue at the inner and anterior portion of the superior border. It is not, however, supported by the kidney, but is held in position by its own bloodvessels and nerves; thus in displacement of the kidney the suiifarenal capsule remains undisturbed. Its lower border is broad and concave for the reception of the convex border of the kidney. Its u[)per portion is narrow and convex or straight. Both anterior and posterior surfaces are broad and nearlv flat, the latter being slightly convex, and ordinarily exhibiting a groove for one of the capsular veins. Both organs rest upon the crura of the Diaphragm. The anterior surface of tlie left suprarenal capsule lies behind the spleen and fundus of the stomach, and occasionally retains also a relation with the tail of the pancreas. The anterior surface of the right capsule is in contact with the liver, and lies beliind the first portion of tUe duodenum. The superior border of the capsule of the right side is near the inferior cava, while that of the left is near the semi- lunar ganglion. The anterior surface is distinguished bv a groove named the hilum, extending from within outward, and presenting rounded borders. It trans- mits the capsular vein. The capsule measui'es one-and-a-fourth to one-and- three-fourths of an inch in length, one-and-a quartei- inch in width, and from two to three lines in thick- ness. Its weight is from one to two drachms. These measurements and weights are subject to si ght varia- ' Med. Times and Gaz. 1866, i. 350. 2 Western Lancet, 1845, iii. 412 ; see, also, Dr. J. Neill, Anier.