408 THE HEAET AND HE BLOODVESSELS. oblique line, and supplies the interior of the bone. Before its entrance it gives a small twig to the peri- osteum, to the Tibialis Posticus, and to the Flexor Longus Digitorum muscle. The nutrient artery is relatively of large size, and may be a branch of the anterior tibial artery. (4) The muscular branches supply the Soleus, the Flexor Longus Pollicis, and the Tibialis Posticus.. Relations.—In the leg the posterior tibial artery is crossed at its origin by the tendinous arch extending between the upper slips of origin of the Soleiis muscle. Tlie artery lies at first upon the Tibialis Posticus and upon the Flexor Longus Digitorum, and to their outer side at the lower third of the leg. The vessel is covered in the leg by the posterior tibial aponeurosis and by the muscles of the calf lying between tiiis membrane and the skin. The vessel is accompanied by vence comites and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies chiefly to its outer side. At the ankle, the artery lies be- tween the sheatli inclosing the Tibialis Posticus and the Flexor Longus Digitorum, and that of the Flexor Longus Pollicis, the last-named muscle lying on the deeper plane. The artery is covered by the posterior tibial aponeurosis and by layers accessory to the annular ligament and the tendo- Achillis. At its termination the artery lies beneath the origin of the Abductor Pollicis, the skin, and the fascia. Remarks In an aneurism of tiie posterior tibial artery recorded by W. Adams,' the tumor was situated on the posterior aspect of the bones of the leg, and protruded ante- riorly between them. The fibula was bent perceptibly out- ward ; the tibia slightly inward. The deep layer of mus- cles was for the most part displaced. The Flexor Longus Pollicis was superficial, while the Tibialis Posticus appeared expanded equably around the tumor. Ribes attributes tlie powerful contraction of the arteries in amputation of the upper part of the leg to the position of the end of the pop- liteal artery on the upper part of the interosseous ligament, a fixed point against which the vessel contracts.^ The artery may be distended or torn in lateral dislocation of the astragalus.^ Ligation of the Posterior Tibial Artery This vessel may be ligated at its middle and lower portions. For the upper portion the limb is semiflexed and allowed to rest upon its outer side. An incision is made four inches 1 W. Adams, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1854, 11. 2 Doane's Blandin, 345. 3 Paul Broca, Memoires de la Soc. Chir. Paris, iii. 1853. in length parallel with the shaft of the tibia and a little to its outer side. Tiie superficial fascia being exposed should be carefully divided, avoiding the internal saphenous vein and nerve which lie in the line of incision. The margin of the Gastrocnemius is then drawn to the outer side, and the tibial origin of the Soleus is next raised upon a director and divided the entire length of the first incision. The plane of the vessel is now reached, and the Soleus being drawn to the outer side, the vessel is felt lying under another thin layer of fascia overlying the Tibialis Posticus muscle. Tiie vessel is carefully separated from its accompanying veins, and the needle passed from without inward. Tiie large posterior tibial nerve lies to the outer side, and need not be injured. By Guthrie's method the vessel is reached by an in- cision four or five inches in length, made the middle line of the fleshy part of the calf. The Gastrocnemius and the Soleus are freely divided until the plane of the vessel is reached. The remaining steps are as in the other operation. It is claimed for this procedure that it is less tedious and bloody, while the additional size of the wound, so far from being a disadvantage, favors drainage. In the first-named method an inexperienced operator is apt either to mistake the interspace between the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus for the plane of the artery, or to confound the tibial origin of the Tibialis Posticus ninscle with that of the Soleus, and thus to get beneath the sought-for plane. In whatever way performed, the ligation of this portion of the vessel is justly held to be one of the most difiicult of any required upon arteries of the lower extremity. For ligation of the lower portion, namely, as the vessel lies behind the internal malleolus, an incision three inches in length is made midway between the malleolus and the heel. After dividing the superficial fascia, the annular ligament, which here represents the deep fascia, is next divided, while yet a third layer of fascia requires division before the vessel is reached. It is i'ound with its accom- panying nerve lying between the sheath of the Tibialis Posticus and of the Flexor Longus Digitorum muscles to the inner side, and that of the Flexor Longus Pollicis to the outer side. The nerve lies to the outer side, and need not be seen. Before ligation the artery sliould be next care- fully isolated from the venie comites. Variations Tlie posterior tibial artery may arise from the popliteal artery in the popliteal space. It may inter- change with the peroneal, or unite with it by large trans- verse arteries, which may be held to be analogous to simi- larly placed vessels in the forearm, uniting the radial and EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXX. Fig. 1. The femoral artery and its branches. Fig. 2. The anterior tibial artery and its branches. Fig. 3. The posterior tibial frtery and its branches.