379 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. -OOO^OOO bronchial lymphatic glands, and to the thoracic por- tion of the Longus Colli muscle. It anastomoses with the superior intercostal and bronchial arteries. THE SUPRASCAPULAR. The Suprascapular artery (transverse scapular, transverse humeral) passes downward and outward behind the clavicle and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus and Trapezius muscles, and upon the Scalenus Auti- cus. It reaches the neck of the scapula, -^^nd, winding around it, enters the infraspinous fossa, to anastomose with the subscapular artery. Its branches are— (a) Thoracic. (h) Acromial. (c) Supraspinatus. (d) Infraspinatus. (a) The thoracic branch supi.)lies the Subclavian muscle. (b) The acromial branch supplies the acromial attachment of the Trapezius muscle and the skin over the acromion. (c) The supraspinatus branch supplies the muscle of the same name. Many writers regard this branch as the termination of the axis of the main trunk. (d) The infraspinatus, in addition to supplying the Infraspinatus muscle, sends a small branch along the axillary margin of the scapula, which anastomoses with the posterior scapular branch of the transver- salis colli. Variations The suprascapular may arise from the sub- clavian artery either singly or in common with the trans- versalis cervicis. More rarely it arises in conjunction with the internal mammary artery. It may even arise from the axillary or the subscapular artery. THE TRANSVERSALIS COLLI. The Transversalis Colli artery is larger and more tortuous than the preceding. It passes directly out- ward beneath the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus and Tra- pezius muscles, and in front of the Scaleni and the phrenic nerve. In the neighborhood of the superior angle of the scapula, it divides beneath the Levator Anguli Scapulae into two branches :— (rt) Superficial Cervical (Ascending). (l>) Posterior Scapular (Descending). (a) The superficial cervical branch passes upward in the posterior cervical region, and supplies the Tra- pezius, Levator Anguli Scapulae and Sjilenius muscles, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the occipital artery. (Ij) The posterior scapular branch j^asses downward along the whole of the vertebral border of the scapula. It supplies the Rhomboideus, Serratus Magnus, and Latissimus Dorsi muscles, as well as in part the Leva- tor Anguli Scapulae. It anastomoses with the infra- spinatus branch of the suprascapular artery. A small branch extending parallel with the main trunk aids the subscapular artery in supplying the Subscapularis muscle. Variations The transversalis colli artery may be absent, and its place taken by a deep cervical artery, having an ascending and a descending branch, and arising from the outer third of the subclavian artery. It may arise from tlie subclavian artery, and, except in passing through the brachial plexus, be found to answer to the above descri[>tion. THE IKTERKAL MAMMARY ARTERY arises opposite the inferior thyroid arter3^ It passes downward and sliglitly forward and inward, along with and parallel to the Scalenus Anticus muscle, to a point behind the sternal end of the clavicle, and there enters the thorax. Passing downward beneath the pleura, along the posterior surface and near the border of the sternum, the artery reaches the lower part of the body of this bone, at which point it lies beneath the Triangularis Sterni, and at the level of the sixth or seventh rib divides into its terminal branches. Relations.—In front is the descending vena cava, and, in the first part of its course, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. The phrenic nerve lies at first to its outer side, but afterward runs parallel to it. The branches of the internal mammary are— (a) Superior Phrenic. {h) Thymic. (c) Anterior Intercostal. (d) Anterior (Perforating). (e) Musculo-Phrenic. (/) Abdominal. (a) The superior p)hrenic artery passes between the pericardium and pleura to reach the Diaphragm. It anastomoses with the musculo-phrenic branch and the inferior phrenic artery from the aorta. {h) The thymic branches supply the thymus body, the lymphatic glands, and the fatty and connective tissue in the same locality. Pericardial branches may be given off near the thymic. (c) The anterior intercostal arteries answer to the intercostal spaces. They arise from the sides of the main artery, at the intercostal spaces, from the first to the sixth or seventh, two branches being given to each interval. One of these runs along the lower border, the other along the upper border of the space. At first