440 THE IIEAET AND rilE BLOODVESSELS. right side. About it are numerous lymphatic gh^nds and filaments of the hepatic plexus. Baccelli suggested the theory that, at times of gastric repletion, the splenic vein is compressed by the stom- ach and temporarily occluded. The flow of the return blood from the spleen is, under such circumstances, impeded; the organ becomes turgescent, and the blood is forced to pass through the small veins accompany- ing the vasa brevia to the veins in the walls of the stomach. It is supposed both by this observer and by Schiff that the spleen, while thus turgescent, elimi- nates a special substance (peptogen of Schifl) which furnishes to the peptic gland the material from which ])epsin is secreted. Baccelli further traces the con- nection existing between the above conditions of the spleen and the states of health of malarial subjects. Variations The most variable veins of tlie ))ortal system are those connected with the spleen. When accessory spleens exist, each spleen is apt to return its blood by a separate vein which is tributary to the splenic. Tlie infe- rior mesenteric vein may join either the splenic near its ter- mination, or the superior mesenteric vein ; it may receive the utero-vaginal vein. In the examination ol" subjects known to have exhibited clinical relations between condi- tions of the rectum, the spleen, and gastric digestion, it would be rationul to search for variations in tlie inferior mesenteric vein, with respect to the place at wliich the splenic and the inferior mesenteric veins may have joined. The portal vein in rare cases opens directly into the vena cava, near the level of the renal vein, without enter- ing the liver. This peculiarity may coexist with trans- position of the viscera.^ Dr. Robert McDonnell^ describes a valve composed of two segments in tlie vena cava at tlie orifice of the renal vein. Attention was directed by Dr. John H. Brinton^ to the presence of this valve at the orifice of the right renal, and to its absence at the orifice of the left. Wiien no valves exist at the opening of the left spermatic vein, they are generally present in the renal, within a quarter of an inch of tlie orifice of the spermatic. Tiie ovarian vein has been found to present a similar pecu- liarity.* ' John Abernethy, Pbilosoph. Transactions, xvii. 1809, 296, figs. 2 Glasgow Med. Journ., ii. 1854, 285. 8 American Journ. of the Med. Sci., xxxii. 1856, 111, figs. * W. Kivington, Journ. Anat. and Phys., vol. vii. 1873, 163. The portal vein may retain its anastomoses with a persistent umbilical vein,' and with the epigastric vein at the umbilicus. When tlie last-named commu- nication exists, the enlargement of the veins about the umbilicus and in the hypogastric region enables the observer to detect the condition in the living subject. The veins may be seen in the healthy individual forming clusters about the umbilicus (caput Mednsse), or extending from the umbilicus to the eroin. AVhen ! the portal circulation is obstructed by cirrhosis or by analogous conditions of the liver, the enlargement of a small and previously unrecognized epigastric vein may create pronounced varicosities. Eemarks.—The relations of the portal vein and its tributaries to practical medicine can be conveni- ently included under the following heads, viz.:— (1) Occlusion of the trunk. (2) The establishment of a collateral circulation. (3) Lesions of the vein. (1) The portal vein may be occluded either by pressure from without, or by a thrombus. Pressure from without may be produced by enlarged lymphatic glands about the aorta, when the common bile-duct may also be involved,^ or it may arise from the pre- sence of concretions in the gall-bladder.—In a well- marked example of this morbid condition, A. S. Don- kins* found that the posterior extremity of the gall- bladder rested in the transverse fissure, over the portal vein at its entrance into the liver, causing partial obliteration of the vessel. The tributaries of the portal vein were found distended, the spleen was engorged, and extravasations of blood existed between the great omentum and the ascending meso-colon. The gall-bladder contained a number of calculi, but no bile. Occlusion of the portal vein and its tributaries from ihr'ombosis is a frequent accompanying condition of diseased action in the abdomen.^ Usually the result ' See p. 414. J. A. Russel (Jouru. of Anat. and Phys., 1873, 149) describes two cases. 2 M. Pozzi, Bull, de la Soc. Anat., 1870, t. 45, 277. 3 Med. Times and Gaz., 1868, 396. * See Fenwick on the Stomach and the Duodenum ; also R. Virchow, Trans. Wiirzburg. Phys. Med. Soc, 1857, vii. 21. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXV. Fig. 1. The veins and lym"phatics of the upper extremity. Fig. 2. Tlie veins and lymphatics of the foot and the leg. Fig. 3. The veins and lymphatics of the upper portion of tiie leg, the thigh, and the external genitals.