in Microscopical Science, 1882, i. No. 27, p. 200. ' St. Thomas's Hosp. Rep. 1875, 23. scribed as it appears in the infant gland is of an elongated pyriform figure, its base being directed downward, and presents a minutely lobulated structure, more or less concealed by an envelope of connective tissue. It lies in the anterior mediastinum, extending thence into the lower part of the neck, and, when well developed, may reach the lower border of the thyroid body. Within the thorax it rests upon the upper portion of the peri- cardium, the ascending portion of the aorta, the left innominate vein, and the trachea. It is slightly con- vex anteriorly, but flat or concave posteriorly. It is two inches in length by oue-aud a-half inch in width, two to three lines in thickness, and weighs about half an ounce. It is inclined to be symmetrical, although the right side is commonly the larger. The two parts present rounded borders toward each other, but thin borders laterally. A connecting lobe may occasion- ally be seen between them. Henle describes associ- ated thymic lobules situated Bear the main mass at the sides, or lodged upon the nutritive artery. The thymus bears a superficial resemblance to a salivary gland. It presents, like it, a loosely lobulated struc- ture, although its color is more of a pinkish tinge, and its structure is much less compact. The thymus body is composed of a number of small, compressed lobes (primary lobules of Quain) which are arranged around a central stem or space, extending spirally through the length of the gland. The connective-tissue element is abundant about the lobes, holding them together. Each lobule is made up of from seven to eight rounded masses (secondary lobules of Quain), each of which in turn receives a lateral diverticulum from the main hollow stem. These lobules are cellular, and permit the entrance of capillary bloodvessels. According to Henle, the milk-like fluid which exudes from the thj^mus after section is held within these lobule.-^, which gradually become converted into cyst-like bodies, having thick- ened walls. Authorities differ as to the relations of the lobules to the central stem. The presence of a central spiral hollow stem with lateral diverticula is, however, commonly conceded.' The arteries of the tlij^mus gland are derived from the internal mammary and the inferior thyroid. The veins empty into the mammary, into the left innomi- nate veins, and at times into the inferior thyroid veins. The vessels for the most part do not lie upon the surface, but are received within the axis of the THE SPLEEN. 455 ^O-C-^OCo The thymus gland. The nerves are derived from the pneumogas- tric and sympathetic nerves. Development.—The thymus body develops from the hypoblast about the region of the visceral arches of the embryo. Remarks.—The thymus body, while often classi- fied as an appendage of the bloodvessel system, is more closely related to the lymphatic system than is any other of the ductless glands. Gulliver has deter- mined that the corpuscles of the parenchyma of the thymus are identical with those found in the chyle. G. Rainey' believes that the thymus is a true lym- phatic gland. The lymphatic vessels passing from it are numerous, and either join the lymphatics of the pericardium and the thoracic lymphatic glands, or empty into the jugular veins at the base of the neck. The morbid conditions of the thymus body cannot be studied separately from those of the lymphatic sys- tem, and engorgement of the thoracic lymphatic glands is to be expected when the thymus is primarily affected. Disease of the body is, however, rare. Tu- mors of the thymus exhibit a tendency to invade the thoracic space from before backward, and may even distort the thoracic walls. Out of forty-two cases col- lected by E. Riegel, thirty-three were examples of cancer and sarcoma, four were fibrous in character, and five were dermoid. The diagnosis of tumor of the thymus necessitates the exclusion of aneurism of the aorta, and of engorgement of the thoracic lym- phatic glands, THE SPLEEN. The Spleen is that ductless gland found in the abdomen in the left hypochondriac region. Its form may be compared to that of a grain of colfee, one side being convex, the other nearly flat, and divided by a longitudinal depression, called the hilum, into two nearly equal surfaces. The hilum is perforated by a number of openings, ranging from ten to fifteen, and is designed for the transit of the splenic vessels and nerves. The spleen is inclosed by an elastic capsule, and is everywhere covered with peritoneum except at the hilum. The spleen is the most inconstant in form of the abdominal viscera. Its average length may be stated to be five inches, its width three inches, and its thick- ness one-and-a-half inch. In the same individual it varies in size, which is dependent upon conditions of the systemic circulation. Its weight is about eight ' For bibliography of the thymus body, see A. C. Cole, Stiidies