THE SUBCLAA^IAN ARTERY. 371 ■ cxjO^OOO Relations of the Posterior CommunicatiiKj Artery. Anterior perforated space. Optic tract. • Crus cerebri (anterior portion). Corpora albicantia. Sixth nerve. Tliird nerve. Anterior choroid artery. Sub-arachnoid lymph-space. Inner end of ridge of petrous portion of tlie temporal bone. It will at once be seen from the above plan that, if an aneurismal swelling upon the posterior communicat- ing artery extends outward, it will cause paralysis of the third nerve ; if it extends inward, paralysis of the sixth nerve; and if it extends upward, disturbance of vision with hemiplegia. In each of the three cases of this aneurism collected by Durand some of the above symptoms were present. The two vessels are frequently of unequal size, the right being commonly the larger, and in some speci- mens the vessel appears to be a large branch of the internal carotid equal in size to the anterior or middle cerebral. When the posterior communicating artery of one side is thus enlarged, the opposite vessel is correspondingly small. A female of eighteen years, who was suffering from paralysis of the third nerve, died suddenly on the twenty-third day. A small ovoid aneurism was found upon the left communicating cerebral artery, near the internal carotid.' (A) The choroid artery. This vessel is given off to the outer side of the preceding. It is a small vessel, which passes backward and outward along the optic tract. It sends branches to the crus cerebri, on its way to the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, which it enters at the transverse fissure, to supply the hippo- campus, corpus fimbriatum, and the choroid plexus.' (/) Tlte anterior choroid artery. The anterior cho- roid artery varies in origin, and is larger than the pos- terior communicating vessel. It is directed obliquely outward and backward between the crus and the spheno-temporal lobe of the cerebrum, along the outer side of the optic tract, and joins the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. It su])plies the optic tract, the upper and the outer aspect of the crus, and the unci- form convolution of the cerebrum. Cruveilhier describes a jwsterior choroid^ a branch of the posterior cerebral, which accompanies the choroid, but turns round the crus cerebri, and, passing up- ward to supply the corpora quadrigemina, terminates in the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. • Hare, Tr. Path. Soc. London, ii. 1G9. THE CIRCLE OF WILLIS. The basilar artery, as it divides into the two pos- terior cerebral arteries, and the internal carotids, as they lie within the brain-case between the carotid canals and the cavernous sinuses, are the most im- portant agents in the formation of a peculiar anas- tomosis between the vessels of the encranial arterial supply. This anastomosis has received the name of the circle of Willi.s, and may be thus described:— The internal carotid artery, and the posterior cere- bral artery of one side are united by a small branch of the former—the posterior communicating ; so that there are two vessels of this name, one on either side of the base of the brain. The anterior cerebral arte- ries are united by a small vessel called the anterior communicating. The union of four large streams of blood in this circle must exert a poAverful influence over the rhyth- mical movements of each of its several parts, and thus are explained the alternate elevation and depression so conspicuous in the exposed brain in the living sub- ject. Tiie capacity of tlic basilar artery is less than the sum of both vertebrals. Hence it is subject to great strain, and is predisposed to aneurismal enlargements. Hypertrophy of the brain can effect pressure on the circle of Willis only through the basilar artery. Tliis in ifs turn would cause retardation of the flow of blood along the vertebrals, and an undue strain upon the internal carotids. Tiie posterior cerebellar artery may be displaced by an aneurism. THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The Subclavian Arteries are the arbitrarily limited beginnings of the arched vessels that are destined to supply the upper extremities. Each artery forms an irregular arch, which lies for the most part at the root of the neck. The median abutment of the arch is within the thorax, while the lateral abutment is at the proximal margin of the axilla. The arch is divided into three portions by the position of the Scalenus Anticus muscle. The first portion lies to the median border of the Scalenus Anticus. The second portion lies behind the Scalenus Anticus. The third portion lies beyond the lateral border of the Scalenus Anticus, and extends as far as the lower margin of the first rib.' 1 Authors are not agreed upon the inferior limitation of the third portion of the artery. Accortling to Kdcli (Langenbeck's Arcliiv fiir Klinische Chir., Bd. 10, Heft 1), the vessel extends to the lower border of tlie Pectoralis Minor. Cruveilhier and some