341 THE HEART. • ^oo^cxx^ Teutleben,^ previous to tlie observations of Forbes, described bands of fibrous tissue passing from the cervical fascia to the pericardium as suspensory liga- ments of the last-named structure, which act in check- ing the descent of the tendinous centre of the Dia- phragm. The inner or serous layer of the pericardium is divided into a parietal and a visceral layer. The parietal layer lines the fibrous layer. It is not, how- ever, continuous upon the fibrous covering of the bloodvessels, but passes at a point about one to one and a half inch from the base of the heart into the visceral layer. The visceral layer holds somewhat the same relation to the heart that the pulmonic pleura does to the lungs. It is closely adapted to the out- line of the heart, and is so arranged over the great vessels as to embrace them in a common sheath. The pericardium contains from half a drachm to half an ounce of a clear straw-colored fluid. The arterial blood-supply is derived from the bronchial, the diaphragmatic, and the oesophageal arteries. The veins form three groups, two lateral, which join the superior diaphragmatic vein, and the middle, which is directed posteriorly to empty into the azygos vein. The nerves to the pericardium have been traced from the sympathetic and pneumogastric nerves. J. Marshall^ has described a fold of pericardium lying between the left pulmonary artery and the pulmonary vein, and extending thence to the left auricle, which contains a small vein {vestigial, vein) thought to be the remains of the left vena cava of the foetus. Remarks.—The fact that the pericardium extends further to the left than to the right of the sternum enables the physician to puncture the sac by thrust- ing a trocar or aspirating needle through the fourth or fifth intercostal space at its median end,—namely, at a point two and a quarter inches from the median line of the sternum; or, as suggested by Larrey, through the space between the ensiform cartilage and the seventh costal cartilage. The pericardium has been frequently wounded by knives and other implements. Intense acute pericar- ditis accompanied by paroxj^sms of dyspnoea is liable to ensue. For a case graphically described see A. Blaha.3 In distension of the pericardium the sac may reach ' Archiv. fiir Anat. uiid Physiol., 1877, 281, fig. 2 Phil. Trans., part i., 1850, 133. 3 Wien Med. Presse, July 1(J, 1877. a point as high as the first intercostal space, and as low as the epigastric region, where it may form a globular swelling visible beneath the integument. The lungs, especially the left division, will be dis- placed backward, and the liver and stomach down- ward. In extreme forms of distension the trachea at its bifurcation may even be pressed upon, and its lumen narrowed, while the heart is pushed upward. Friction sounds may be thus developed as high as the third, second, and even the first intercostal space.^ THE ENDOCARDIUM. The endocardium is a thin serous membrane lining the interior of thq heart. On the right side it is con- tinuous with the venae cavse and the pulmonary artery, and on the left with the pulmonary veins and the aorta. The endocardium intimately adheres to the heart, but has different degrees of thickness at its various parts. Thus it is thinner over the ventricles than over the auricles, and thinner over the right auricle than over the left. It is of extreme delicacy where it lies in contact with the Musculi Pectinati and the columnse carnese. The endocardium is composed of two layers, an endothelial and a fibro-elastic layer. The endothelial layer is composed of pavement endothelium. The fibro-elastic layer is irregularly developed. It is best seen where the endocardium covers the valves of the heart. Elsewhere it intimately adheres to the muscular substance of the heart. THE EXTERNAL FORM OF THE HEART. The heart, described by its external features (figs. 3, 4, Plate LVIII., and figs 1, 2, Plate LIX.), is seen to be an inverted cone, whose base is directed up- ward and backward in the median line of the body, and whose apex lies at a point to the left of the median line. Its long axis is therefore placed between these two points. This statement is not strictly accurate, except as to the ventricular portion, since the axis of the auricles lies nearly in the longitudinal axis of the body. The heart presents for examination an anterior and a posterior surface, a base, an apex, and an anterior and a posterior margin. The anterior surface is convex, and looks upward. It is marked above and to the right by the right auricular appendage and the anterior border of the right auricle. The greater part of the anterior sur- face is composed of the right ventricle. To the left 1 Sibson, Medical Anatomy.