416 AND THE BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET doubtless the cause of constriction. During life it was observed that the capillaries of the face had always been dilated, and the skin livid. The skin of the chest above the level of the Diaphragm was studded with clusters of dilated capillaries, the largest collection being over the cartilages of the left false ribs.—Aortic aneurism may rupture into the superior veua cava. The superior cava was found by Wharton' com- pletely torn off from the heart, in a woman who had been injured by a wagon passing over the trunk. In this case no bones were broken, nor was other serious lesion incurred.^ THE INNOMINATE VEINS. The Innominate Veins (brachio-cephalic veins) are two in number, the right and the left. They are not symmetrical, the left being the longer. Each vein is formed by the union of the internal jugular and the subclavian vein of the corresponding side, and ex- tends from the inner extremity of tlie clavicle down- ward to unite with its fellow at a point nearly opposite the first intercostal cartilage of the right side. It will be seen, therefore, that the right vein is nearly vertical, while the left inclines downward and toward the right. The right vein receives the right thoracic duct, and the left the main left or tho- racic duct. To the outer side and somewhat in front of the right innominate vein lies the right lung. To its inner side is the thoracic aorta; and in front, the carti- lage of the first rib, together with the slips of origin of the Sterno-Hyoid and the Sterno-Thyroid muscles. The left innominate vein crosses the innominate artery and the left carotid artery, as they arise from the arch of the aorta. It has an indirect relation with the left subclavian, and lies directly between the first- mentioned vessels and the manubrium of the sternum. The veins opening into the innominate are the same on both sides, viz.:— ^ Inferior Thyroid. From above I From below Vertebral. Deep Cervical. Superior Intercostal. Internal Mammary. Thymic. Bronchial. Mediastinal. Pericardiac. The inferior thyroid vein arises from the lower part of the thyroid plexus. The right vein inclines to the right side, while the left is nearly in the median line. The vertebral YQm accompanies the vertebral artery. It arises by tributaries about the foramen magnum, and anastomoses with the vertebral plexus. De- scending the canal for the vertebral artery, the vein escapes at the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. The vertebral vein may be received by the subclavian. The veins about the anterior condyloid foramen may open into the verte- bral vein, and others may join the posterior spinal plexus. Remarks.—Deep wounds of the neck may be ac- companied by venous bleeding of unexpected severity, if any of these directly communicating branches of the vertebral vein be divided. Pitha' records a fatal case due to inflammation following a wound in the neighborhood of the mastoid foramen, and thence involving the emissary veins. Luschka suggests that cupping and leeching at the back of the neck may relieve congestion of the pharynx. The deep cervical vein lies between the Multifidus Spinas anrl the Semispinalis muscles. It anastomoses with the occipital, and empties into the innominate vein to the outer side of the vertebral. Struthers^ describes this vein as furnished with a valve. It often unites with the vertebral near its termination. The stiperior intercostal vein collects blood from the upper intercostal spaces. Its relations with the azvgos veins (q. v.) are important. The interned mammary veins accompany the artery of the same name, as venae comites. They unite into a single trunk immediately prior to their termi- nation. The positions and functions of the remaining veins are expressed in the names they bear, and do not require separate description. Remarks.—The left innominate vein in young subjects is placed at a higher plane than in adults, and, like the innominate artery, may form one of the component parts of the pretracheal space. Mr. Whillie mentions a case of a practitioner who, in performing tracheotomy upon a man apparently drowned, unwittingly opened this vein. From the position of the innominate veins, with respect to the great vessels, it is evident that they may be compressed by aneurismal tumors. Dr. W. H. ' Dub. Quarterly Journ., xlix. 1870, 501. 2 For additional clinical literature see T. Tliurnam, Med. Cliir. Trans., xxiii. 1840, 344. 1 (Est. Zeit. fiir prackt. Heilkunde, i. 1859. 2 Edinburgh Mod. Journ., 1856, 418.