385 THE RADIAL ARTERY. =.o«^oo<= • Ligation of the Brachial Artery—For the upper third of the arm, the limb is rotated outward and abducted. An incision is made two inches long, using the inner (ulnar) border of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle as a guide. The integument is thin, and the basilic vein is sometimes found lying beneath it upon the brachial fascia. After dividing the fascia, the artery and venag comites are exposed. The internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves lie to the inner side, and the median nerve to the outer side. For the middle third of the arm, the limb being held as before, an incision of the same length is made along the inner (ulnar) margin of the Biceps muscle. Tlie remaining steps of the operation are those above given. The median nerve is seen lying upon or crossing the artery. It may, however, lie beneatli it. Tlie nerve should be drawn inward, the muscle outward. The profunda artery, wlien enlarged, may be mistaken for the brachial. It is important to remember tliat the latter vessel lies nearer to the humerus than tlie former, and the operator should continually work toward rather than away from tlie shaft of the bone. This vessel was the subject of a traumatic aneurism in a mason wlio had received a severe blow over the region of the Deltoid muscle, tracturing the humerus. Tlie man died of hemorrhage due to the bursting of the aneurism.' At the lower third of the vessel tlie inner edge of tlie Biceps tendon serves as a guide. The artery is reached after dividing the bracliial ii[)oneurosis, tlie median nerve lying well to the inner side. Tiie relation which the artery here holds to the median basilic vein is important. The vein lies over the artery and parallel to it, and in tiie opei'ation of phlebotomy tiie artery has been frequently wounded. At tlie elbow the artery may be reached by an incision extending two inches and a half along the inner margin of the median basilic vein, about one inch above tlie epitro- chlear process, and thence downward and outward along the radial border of the Pronator Radii Teres. After dividing the ante-brachial fascia and tlie semilunar slip going to it from the Biceps muscle, the Biceps tendon is exposed. The artery is found lying to the inner side of the tendon. The median nerve lies to the inner side of the artery, but is more superficial. Tiie collateral circulation is established as ibllows :— Above the Superior Pro I'unda Below tlie Superioi' Profunda I Superior Profunda—[-Anterior Circumflex, f Recurrent branches of I o • T> <• 1 I the Radial, Ulnar, < Superior ProiundaH— i t j. ■ I ' I and Interosseous arte- I. ries. THE RADIAL ARTERY, The Radial Artery, althou.frh the smaller of the two branches arising at the termination of the brachial artery, is the direct continuation of that vessel. It is directed a little obliquely outward at the region of • Portal, Anatoniie Medical. 49 iii. 236. the neck of the radius, but soon becomes vertical, and descends along the anterior aspect of the forearm to the wrist, at which point it turns between the sty- loid process of the radius and the scaphoid bone to reach the back of the carpus. It thence passes through the first (occasionally tbe second) interosse- ous space to the palm, where it joins the ulnar artery in forming the deep palmar arch. On the forearm the vessel is superficial, save at its upper two-thirds, where it is slightly overlapped by the Supinator Longus muscle. The vessel rests upon the Supinator Brevis and the fibres of insertion of the Pronator Radii Teres, as well as upon the Flexor Longus Pollicis and the thin radial edge of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. To the inner (ulnar) side lie the middle third of the Pronator Radii Teres and tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis for the lower two-thirds of the forearm, and to its outer (radial) side lie the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and the Supinator Longus. At about the middle third of its course, it has the radial nerve to its outer (radial) side. At its distal third, the vessel lies superficially between the tendons of the Supi- nator Longus and Flexor Carpi Radialis muscles. At the wrist the artery winds around the outer border of the radius to reach the radial border of tlie forearm, where it descends vertically on the external lateral ligament to the oitter'side of the radial exten- sors and beneath the extensors of the thumb. It then becomes superficial, and is contained within a trian- gular space defined laterally by the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, and mediauly by the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis. The radial artery is accompanied by venae comites. Some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve pierce the fascia beneath the lower part of the artery, which they accompany to the bade of the carpus. Ligation of tlie Radial Artery A line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to a point midway between the styloid process of the radius and tiie tendon of the Flexor Carpi Eadialis corresponds nearly to the position of the radial artery. The vessel can be secured by ligature at its upper and lower portions. The upper portion. An incision three inches in lengtli in the dire(^tion of tlie above line beginning one inch below the bend of tiie elbow. Branches of tiie median vein are to be avoided, the antebrachial fascia divided, and the Suiii- nator Longus and Pronator Radii Teres muscles drawn apart. The artery and nerve lie in the interspace. The nerve, however, lies toward tlie radial border, and need not be seen. The vence comites are carefully separated, and tiie needle passed from either side.