458 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 1 tion in different individuals and upon opposite sides of the body. Minute Structure.—The organ is surrounded bj a tliin fibrous capsule from the inner surface of which delicate trabeculas extend into the parenchyma. This is divided into two portions, an outer or cortical, and an inner or medullary. The outer or cortical portion presents on section a yellowish-brown color, and is of firm consistence. Upon microscopic section it is seen to be composed of fasciculated groups of cells arranged in a columnar manner from without inward. At either end of this arrangement of cells are groups of others smaller and rounded. The cells contain yellowish pigment-matter and oil-globules. The inner or medullary portion is of a blackish or liver-brown color, and of soft consistence. A¥hen examined in a perfectly fresh condition, it is seen to be solid, but it soon undergoes decomposition in the centre, as a result of which a cavity forms which has been described by some writers as normally existing. The medullary portion differs from the cortical in the fact that it presents rounded cells only, and in the fact that these cells contain blackish pigment-matter, though no oil-globules. These cells are loosely im- bedded in a delicate connective-tissue stroma. The suprarenal capsule is very vascular. The arteries are derived from branches of the inferior phrenic and renal arteries, and often, in addition, di- rectly from the aorta. The veins are numerous and disproportionately large. They are collected in a single trunk which escapes from the hilum. The right vein joins the inferior vena cava, the left the corresponding renal vein. A capillary network is established in the cortical portion. The nerves, which are present in greater number than in any other of the ductless glands, are derived from the solar and renal plexuses of the sympathetic system, though distinct accessions have been seen passing from the pneumogastric nerve. These, to- gether with the vessels, serve to keep the organ in position. The connective tissue of the medulla is believed by some writers to be in continuity with the nerves, and it is claimed that nerve-cells are seen intermingled with the cells of the medulla. The capsule is, in relation to the kidney, larger in the foetus. Variations in form are frequent. Rarely the capsule is rounded or elliptical instead of triangular. It has been known, when enlarged by disease, to compress the thoracic duct. Accessory bodies of a small size and rounded form are occasionally seen. The suprarenal capsule probably has more essential rela- tions with the nervous than with the bloodvessel vsystem. In Addison's disease, morbid changes are in some cases recognized in these bodies. These changes, however, are by no means constant. THE COCCYGEAL BODY. The Coccygeal Body is a gland-like structure ap- pended to branches of the median sacral and lateral sacral arteries, and lodged in an interspace between the fibres of the Levator Ani and the Sphincter Ani muscles, directly in front of the tip of the coccyx. It is of the size of a split pea, of a grayish-red color, and firmly held down by connective tissue, which, besides enveloping it, penetrates the body in all directions to form a network of coarse fibres. The parenchyma is lodged in these meshes of connec- tive tissue, and is composed of epithelial cells ar- ranged in little clumps, in the centre of each of which lies a minute arteriole. The vessels of the body are relatively large and numerous, and effect many anastomoses. The nerves are also remarkable for their number and size, and are derived from the sympathetic. The coccygeal body is thus seen to be closely allied with the intercarotic body. Luschka, who discovered it, calls it a " nerve-gland," and believes that this gland forms with the intercarotic body and the suprarenal capsule, a natural group of structures. Remarks.—J. Y. Simpson' detected morbid con- ditions in and about the coccygeal body which he included under the clinical term coccygodynia. The condition is supposed to represent the results of inju- ries received at the region of the coccygeal body and of the nerve and osseous structures in its neighbor- hood (see p. 119). R. IleschP found the coccygeal body to be the seat of a variety of cystic degeneration in congenital malformation of the pelvis and its contents. 1 Clinical Lectures, 202. 2 (Est. Zeit. fur prakt. Heilkuiide, 1860.