vessels as cross the vertebral column supply, by minute 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lonrion, viii. 1857. 162. THE ABDOMINAL AO ETA. OCO^OOC 391 of the aorta, and supply the connective tissue of the posterior mediastinum. (f) The aortic intercostal arteries, unlike the pre- ceding branches of the descending aorta, are not dis- tributed to the viscera, but to the walls of the chest; they are from nine to ten in number, the first and the second intercostal spaces being supplied by the first intercostal artery. They arise from the sides of the thoracic aorta, the right branches being longer than the left, since they must cross the dorsal vertebras to reach the intercostal spaces of the right side. The arteries for the upper spaces ascend somewhat obliquely outward; those for the middle and lower spaces are directed outward and slightly downward.. Each artery, as it passes to the angle of the rib, divides into two branches, an anterior or true inter- costal, and a posterior or dorsal. The anterior bi'anch gains its corresponding space about midway between the costal borders. It thence lies within the groove along the under border of the rib. At the point where this groove disappears, the artery regains its first position in the middle of the space, but soon terminates by anastomosing with the internal mammary artery. The vessel at first lies upon the Internal Intercostal muscle, and subse- quently between the two Intercostal muscles. Just at its entrance between the muscles it gives oft' the supracostal branch. This is a small vessel, which gains the upper border of the rib immediately below, along which it runs for a short distance, and is finally distributed to the periosteum and to the external surface of the thorax. It supplies the Inter- costal muscles, and sends minute branches to the Pec- toralis Major and Pectoralis Minor, the Serratus Magnus, the External Intercostal muscles, and to the digitations of the abdominal muscles. The posie^-io?-or dorsal branch passes to the inner side of the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and sends a branch through the intervertebral foramen in com- pany with the posterior branch of the corresponding spinal nerve. This supplies the spinal cord and the interior of the vertebral canal. A second branch passes backward, and is lost in the deep-seated mus- cles. A few twigs supply the integument. Remarks—English writers describe under this head an internal branch which is directed toward the spinous pro- cess, and an external branch which passes under the Lon- gissimus Dorsi muscle, and which becomes superficial between tliat muscle and the Sacro-Lumbalis. The above presents the general distribution of the aortic intercostal vessels. It may be remarked that such of these twigs, the bodies of the vertebrce and the intervertebral disks. The third intercostal artery anastomoses with the first inter- costal. The third vessel on the right side often supplies the corresponding bronchial artery. The lower intercostal arte- ries pass behind the pillars of the Diaphragm. They sup- ply the origins of the abdominal muscles and the costal origin of the Diaphragm. They anastomose with the terminal twigs of the internal mammary, with the epigastric, and with the phrenic arteries. In the female, branches of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal arteries go to the mammas. The seventh has been seen supplying the sixth as well as its own intercostal space. Tlie collateral circulation, after obliteration of the thoracic aorta by disease or malformation, may, according to Sydney Jones,* be sustained as follows:— First, the internal mammary artery anastomoses with the intercostal arteries, with the phrenic of the abdominal aorta by means of the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici, and lai'gely with the deep epigastric. Secondly, the supe- rior intercostal anastomoses anteriorly by means of a large branch with the first aortic intercostal, and posteriorly with the posterior branch of the same artery. Tliirdly, the infe- rior thyroid artery effects, by means of a brancli of about the size of an ordinary radial, a communication with the first aortic intercostal. Fourthly, the transversalis colli, by means of very large branches, joins the posterior branches of the intercostals. Fifthly, the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries going to the side of the chest are large, and anastomose freely with the lateral branches of the inter- costals. Variations The aorta may lie on the riglit side of the vertebral column, give off tiie right subclavian artery, and send branches to the under surface of the right lung; it may contribute a branch to the right kidney. THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. The Abdominal Aorta extends from the Diaphragm, opposite the last dorsal vertebra, to the fourth or the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it ends \>j dividing into the two common iliac arteries. The vessel is in direct continuity with the descending thoracic aorta, and lies on the left side of the ver- tebral column. The vena cava, the thoracic duct from its origin, and the azygos vein, lie to the right. In front lie the pancreas, the splenic vein, the third portion of the duodenum, and the peritoneum. To make pressure upon the abdominal aorta, it is recommended to place the pad of the abdominal tour- niquet one to one-and-a-half inch below the umbilicus and slightly to the left, or from this point down to the level of the highest part of the crest of the ilium. This procedure may be an effective adjunct to the