406 THE HEART AND T HE BLOODVESSELS. an external and an internal branch. Both vessels arise below the line of flexion of the knee-joint, and often pursue an oblique course downward and out- ward. The external inferior articular artery passes to the outside of the joint beneath the accessory exter- nal lateral ligament, and along the outer border of the external semilunar cartilage to the upper border of the Popliteus muscle. It here divides into twigs which supply the tendons of the Biceps, the Gastrocne- mius, and the Plan tar is muscles. The internal branch passes downward to the inner tibial tuberosity, around which it winds to yield small branches to the inner head of the Gastrocnemius and to the muscles inserted into the head of the tibia. (c) The median articular artery is often a branch of the superior external articular artery. It pierces the capsule above the oblique fasciculus and, dividing, into branches, supplies the crucial ligaments and the synovial folds. The popliteal space, or ham, is that lozenge-shaped space defined by the Biceps Femoris and Plantaris muscle to its outer side, by the Semimembranosis and the Semitendinosis, with the inner head of the Gastro- cnemius to the inner side. The upper or proximal end of the space corresponds to the beginning of the lower fourth of the femur; the lower or distal end corresponds, nearly, to a girdle drawn round the leg at the level of the tubercle of the tibia. The floor of the popliteal space above the knee-joint is the femur, at the knee, the posterior capsule of the joint, and below the knee-joint, the upper portion of the interosseous space. The more important contents of the popliteal space are the popliteal artery, the papliteal vein, the inter- nal and external popliteal nerves, and lymphatic glands. Relations.—As the artery lies on the femur, the vein lies close to its outer side, and tlie internal popliteal nerve passes well to its outer side, and more superficial to the plane of the artery. As the artery lies upon the capsule of the knee- joint, and on the space below the joint, the vein lies upon it. The internal popliteal nerve lies more superficially to its outer side. On the same plane with the nerve on either side of the artery are the nerves and vessels for the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. Remarks.—The popliteal artery suffers from the effects of diseased action and violence more fre- quently than any large artery of the limbs. The posi- tion of the vessel on the femur and the posterior liga- ment of the knee-joint will produce symptoms referable to these structures, if an aneurism projects from the anterior aspect of the ves-sel. In such instances the femur may be eroded, the capsular ligament destroyed, and the knee-joint entered. When the aneurism lies upon the posterior aspect of the vessel, it is apt to incline toward the inner side, and may form, in addition to the fulness of the ham, a swell- ing of the thigh at its lower third. Since it is in the latter locality that the inflammatory swelling occurs, dependent upon femoral necrosis, the two con- ditions should be carefully distinguished from each other. The sequestrum of femoral necrosis may wound the popliteal artery, as shown in the follow- ing case as recorded by Mr. Porter, of Dublin: A youth of fifteen years suffered from necrosis at the inner side of the femur at its lower third, where a sequestrum formed. At the age of twenty-nine, a traumatic popliteal aneurism was developed from the irritation of the sequestrum. The sac ulcerated and hemorrhage ensued. The parts being examined after amputation, the artery was found lacerated a little below its origin. A similar lesion from the end of a fragment in a broken femur is described by Heath.^ The artery was found ruptured opposite the origin of the median articular branch. Neither the nerve nor the vein was injured. If the popliteal artery be torn across above the bend of the joint, the resultant tumefaction is extensive and superficial. If below the joint, beneath the heads of the Gastrocnemius, the blood will diffuse itself be- tween them, elevate the muscles of the calf, and cause uniform and general enlargement of the upper part of the leg, and thus aid in concealing the condition. The blood from such a lesion may pass down as far as the tendo Achillis, or become superficial at the lower part of the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus. According to Pollock.^ if the condition is chronic, and the contents of the tumor fluid, the muscles may become atrophied from pressure and fluctuation be present.—The author saw two instances, during the American civil war, of division of the popliteal artery by bullets. In both cases the parts distal to the division mortified and amputation was necessitated. The artery may be involved in the late stage of suppuration in the knee-joint. Ligation of the Popliteal Artery.—The vessel can be secured at its upper and lower portions. The middle por- tion, by reason of the character of its association with the posterior aspect of the capsule of the knee-joint and with the vein, is never ligated. Ligation of the upper portion. The patient being placed upon his abdomen, and the limb extended, an incision three 1 Lancet. Aug. 1868, 246. ^ «uy"s Hosp. Rep., 1866, 247.