442 THE HEART AND T liE BLOODVESSELS. The Great Cardiac or Coronary Vein arises from tlie apex within the interventricular groove in front. It passes upward to the transverse groove and inclines to the left, between the left auricle and left ventricle, to reach the posterior surface of the heart, where it empties into the lower border of the right auricle near the interauricular septum. Within an inch of its termination it has received the name of the coronary sinus and is surrounded by muscular fibres. The vein receives blood from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the heart and from the septum between the ventricles. The right auriculo-ventricular groove is occupied by a small vein which empties into the coronary sinus. The Posterior Cardiac Vein lies on the posterior surface of the heart within the interventricular groove, its radicles anastomosing freely with the preceding. It passes directly upward to join the great cardiac vein at the coronary sinus. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are from five to six in number. They derive their blood from the walls of the right ventricle, and, uniting finally into two or three trunks, empty into the right auricle at the in- ferior border of the anterior wall. One of these veins is larger than the I'est. Their orifices have been called the Thebesian foramina, although the same name has been given to minute depressions of the endocardium received within pockets on the auri- cular walls. Through the minute network vvliich surrounds the roots of the great arterial trunks, the cardiac veins are continuous in part with the diaiiluagmatic veins. Very rarely the great cardiac veiu empties into the left innominate vein. J. W. Meckel records an instance in vvliich the vein opened into the right auricle. The circular sinus, a small auricular vein, and a small oblique vein, vestigial vein, opening into it, are survivals of the foetal lel't supej-ior vena cava. A DESCRIPTION OF THE FCETAL CIRCULATION AS OBSERVED AT ABOUT THE SEVENTH MONTH OF DEVELOPMENT. (Fig. 1, Plate LXIII.) In many points of structure and relation, the foetal heart and the great vessels in its immediate neigh- borhood differ- from the same parts in the adult. Thus the auricles are proportionately more capacious, and, the right side of the heart being as robust as the left, the entire organ is relatively larger. The interauricular septum is defective, and presents at the lower and back part an opening called the foramen ovale, which is protected by a valve in the left auricle. Lying to the right side of the ori- fice of the inferior vena cava is an oblique ridge of membrane directed upward and to the left, called the Eustachian valve. Continuous with the pulmo- nary artery, and in the line of its trunk, is the ductus arteriosus, a short vessel which communicates with the aortic arch just beyond the origin of the great arteries of the head and neck. These peculiarities are necessary in an organ which, while adapted to the necessities of an air-breathing creature, is temporarily in the position of the heart of an aquatic animal, or, to speak accurately, of an animal sustaining external respiration by means of a fluid medium., The placenta is the source of the respiratory interchange and of nourishment, the um- bilical vein carrying the revivified blood to the foetus, and the two umbdical arteries returning the blood to the placenta. The umbilical vein passes along the edge of the suspensory ligament to the liver, and enters the longi- tudinal fissure of that organ, following it as far as the transverse fissure. It here divides into three or four branches, one inosculating with the portal vein (or, as represented in the figure, this may be said to be the branch to the right lobe which receives the portal vein), one going to the left lobe of the liver, one to the right lobe, another to the quadrate and Spigelian lobes, and a fourth which forms the ductus venosus, and which may be considered as the continuation of the main trunk, joining the inferior vena cava near the entrance of the hepatic vein. Dr. Jno. Reid^ gives the umbilical vein a termination in the left branch of the portal vain. From this branch the ductus venosus arises as a distinct structure. The blood of the inferior vena cava enters the right auricle. The current is directed by means of the Eustachian valve upward and inward to the foramen ovale, and through it to the left auricle, thence to the left ventricle, and, by way of the aorta, to the innominate, carotid, and subclavian arteries. It is a remarkable fact that all or nearly all of this blood goes directly to the head, neck, and superior extremities, notwithstanding the fact that no structural peculiarity in the aorta prevents its passage downward past the orifice of the ductus arteriosus. The venous blood descending by the superior vena cava enters the right auricle, and is directed down- ward in front and to the right of the orifice of the inferior vena cava to the right ventricle, a small ' Edin. Med. and Surg. Jonni., 1835, xliii. 310.