446 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. ^OO^OOo Ljmph-streams pour- | ing into the venous J stream at the left ' subclavian vein. Those of the left side of the head and neck. Those of the left upper extremity. Those of the inferior ex- tremities. Those of the pelvic and abdominal oi'gans(in part only of the liver). Those of the external geni- tals. Tiiose of the left thoracic wall. Those of tlie left lunar. Those of the left side of the heart. Of all classifications of lymphatic vessels the one just presented is the most inviting; but, inasmuch as such a grouping would demand a separate descrip- tion of the lymphatics on the right and left sides of the head, the neck, the upper extremities, the thoracic wall and thoracic contents, it' has been thought best to retain the regional classification which is herewith given. A CLASSIFICATION OF THE LYMPHATIC VE.SSELS. The lymphatics of the body are arranged for topo- graphicalpurposes as follows:— I. Lymphatics of the Head and Neck. II. " " Upper Extremity, including the Eight Lymphatic Duct. III. " " Lower Extremity, the Pelvis, and the External Genitals. lY. " " Abdomen, including the Left Thoracic Duct. Y. " " Thorax. I. The Lymphatics of the Head and Neck. The lymphatic vessels of the face lie for the most part along the junction of the cheek with the nose. They are received here from the central portions of the forehead, and pass downward over the face, and thence into the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The Lymphatic Glands-of the head and neck are disposed in the following order:— First, a group of small glands, two to three in number, lie upon the parotid gland in front of the external auditory meatus. It is exceptional to find glands upon the face above the line of the mouth. Infreqnently a small one is seen at the side of the root of the nose, and another about the size of a pea may be sometimes recognized below the symphysis, in cases of syphilis. Yelpeau is of the opinion that the median parts of the forehead and eyebrow are drained by a set of vessels distinct from those belonging to the lateral portion. The natural deduc- tion from these premises is that morbid processes excited in the region of the temple would be apt to involve the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw, while diseased action in the median portion of the forehead would involve the glands lying about the chin and the suprahyoid space. Second, a group of three or four is placed behind the auricle at the insertion of the Sterno-Clcido- Mastoideus. Both the first and second group derive their afl'er- ent vessels from the external soft parts of the skull. Third, a group of deep facial glands, six to eight in number, lies in the spheno-maxillary space, and upon the lateral wall of the pharynx. These glands collect the lymph from the orbit, the nasal cavities, the pharynx, and the parts about the spheno-maxillary space. According to Arnold, a number of the lym- phatics of the brain-case jom this series through the oval and spinous foramina of the sphenoid bone. Fourth, a group of the submaxillary glands is situated superficially beneath the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw, is covered in by the superficial layer of the fascia. One of the largest of this group over- lies the submaxillary salivary gland. These glands receive from the superficies of the face the lymph which is conducted downward along the course of the anterior facial vein. Other vessels are received from the tongue and the base of the mouth. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXVI. Fig. 1. The superficial lympliatics of the head and neck. Fig. 2. The deep lympliatics of tiie head and neck, together with the lymphatics of the side of the thorax and the heart. The tributary to the internal jugular vein must be considered anomalous. The transverse vessel is a large submental vein, continuous with the external jugular, wliich joins the internal jugular.