« T. Thuniam, Med.-Cliir. Trans. 1840, xiii. 334. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 18G6, xvii. 1G3. THE LYMPHATICS already seen, they unite with the superficial, and, after joining those of the stomach, they are received into the coeliac group of glands. The glands that are seen along the interval Ijetween the liver and the coeliac region are called the he])atic glands. Remarks.—According to Murchison,' an enlarged lyinphatic gland lying in the transverse fissure of the liver is apt to press against the common bile-duct and the portal vein. Such pressure is often seen in cancerous and waxy changes in the liver.—Eetro- peritoneal lymphatic glands may assume enormous proportions, especially when cancerous or tubercu- lous. When such masses project forward, they may surround the pyloric end of the stomach, and com- press the common bile-duct. When they project to one side, they may involve the inferior vena cava and the aorta. In aneurism of the aorta, the glands may become imbedded in the walls of the vessel, and in this way form part of the surface of the morbid mass.^ The Thoracic Duct (left l^ymph-trunk) receives the lymph from the intestine (both from the villi and the coats of the bowel) and the greater portion of its appendages, from the kidney, the parietes of the ab- domen, the lower extremities, the right lung, and the right side of the heart. That portion of the dorsal surface of the liver pertaining to the right lobe is drained by the right thoracic duct. The duct is formed by the union of three vessels: a right and a left branch from the lumbar plexuses, and a central branch from the intestine. The point of confluence is situated in front of the second and third dorsal vertebrte. Tlie thoracic duct extends thence upward along the vertebral column, either behind or to the right of the aorta, enters the aortic orifice of the Diaphragm, and, lying in the space between the aorta and the az_ygos vein, keeps to the right side as far as the fourth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses obliquely to the left of the vertebral column over the azygos vein, and ascends along the median border of the as- cending portion of the vertebral artery to the base of the neck. From its deep position at the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, it curves forward, down- ward, and outward at the inner border of the Scalenus Medius, ov^r the apex of the pleura, and terminates at the angle of junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side. The duct is from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, and has an average diameter of two lines. • Diseases of tlie Liver, 340. OF THE ABDOMEN. 451 At its origin it is dilated into an irregularly triangu- lar figure termed the receptaculum chyli (reservoir of Pecquet); at its termination the duct is again slightly expanded. Its outlet into the subclavian vein is guarded by a distinct valve. Variations.—The tlioracic duct sometimes em|)ties into the jugular, tlie azygos, or the left innominate vein. As an exceedingly iut'requent occurrence, the duct may be double, or even multiple, as many as six separate terminal vessels being present, which are received into the subclavian, in- ternal jugular, vertebral, and axillary veins. From five to twelve vessels may converge to form the receptaculum} Associated with transposition of the viscera, the right and left duets may be transposed ; but they may be thus ar- ranged independently of mal-arrangeraent of other ])arts. The duct may be deflected by an exostosis, or obliterated, when a collateral trunk, running up along the right side of the vertebral column, may be established.^ In addition to the thoracic duct, and, in a measure, taking its place, lymph- vessels may be found opening into the renal veins, the inferior vena cava, the portal, and the azygos and the hemi- azygos veins. Remarks.—The thoracic duct, as it passes through the chest, may be pressed upon and obliterated by tumors, or by a hypertrophied heart. In cases of chylous dropsy, or other diseases associated with ob- struction of the lymph-return, the thoracic organs should be carefully examined. In like manner, all conditions which maintain states of distension of the laree veins of the neck and thorax should be studied in connection with the lymph-return, for the difficul- ties attending such return must be thus inevitably increased. Thrombosis of the left internal jugular vein at its junction with the subclavian vein or of the left subclavian vein will obstruct the lymph- return from the thoracic duct. A case of obstruction of the thoracic duct at the point of its junction with the subclavian vein, with subsequent perforation of the receptaci'Ium chyli and infiltration of neighbor- ing lymphatic glands, is described by W. Cayley.^ The pus of a psoas abscess may pass into a radicle of the thoracic duct, and similar invasions may ensue upon inflammatory and gangrenous states of the mesentery. In chylous dropsy, a disease character- ized by the presence of a chyle-like liquid in the peri- toneal cavity, it is assumed that sufficient pressure has been exerted against the thoracic duct, at or near its origin, or upon tiie chyle bearing vessels of the ' For anomalies of the lympliatic system, see (r. Breschet, Le Systeme Lymphatique, Paris, 1836, 238. 2 W. Kranse. Heiile's Aiiatomie.