THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 898 obturator passes around the inner margin of the fora- men, and, lying between the Adductor Longus and Adductor Brevis, and supplying these muscles, to- gether with the Gracilis and Pectineus, anastomoses with the internal circunjflex femoral. The external passes round the outer margin of the foramen, and sup- .plies the Quadratus Femoris and Obturator Externus muscles, and the origins of the flexors. It anastomoses with theexternal circumflex femoral and with theinter- nal branch. The artery sends in addition a small branch to the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, suppl^dng the lining membrane of the acetabulum, the round liga- ment, and the head of the femur. While within the pelvis the obturator artery yields small twigs for the Lnernal Iliac, Psoas, Levator Ani, and the Obturator Internus muscles, and, just before entering the obtura- tor canal, sends a small pubic branch to the connective tissue behind the symphj^sis pubis. These branches anastomose with corresponding twigs of the opposite side, and often with the deep epigastric artery of their own side. Viiriations Tlie obturator artery may arise from tlie posterior branch of tiie internal iliac. Some writers de- scribe liiis as tiie normal arrangement. Its terminal portion may take the place of the internal pudic, and supply the artery of the bulb or the dorsal artery of the penis, as well as the strictly pelvic branches, such as the vesical and tiie uterine. It is interesting, on the other liand, to remark its close relation to the external iliac artery and its branches —a class of variations more common in the female than the male. It rarely arises from the main trunk, but frequently (in about one-fourth of the subjects) it arises in common with the deep epigastric. It may even arise, althougli very rarely, from the external iliac at Poupart's ligament. In the latter instance, as well as in some instances of its origin from a common trunk with the deep epigastric, tlie obturator artery passes over the femoral vein, curves round to the inner side of the femoral canal, and would in tiiis position of course be wounded in operating for femoral hernia. Fortunately tliis variety is so rare that practically it does not often enter into the surgeon's calculations of tiie risks attending this operation. In a patient of Dupuytren's, aged 60, operated upon for femo- ral hernia, alter tlie urgent symptoms had ceased severe diar- rlnjea set in and death ensued. On dissection, a broad layer of effused blood was observed through the peritoneum, evi- dently {ilaced between that membrane and the transversalis fascia, extending from the lower part of the pelvis nearly to the umbilicus. Tlie hemorrhage had taken place from the obturator artery, which in this case had arisen from the ex- ternal iliac by a trunk common to it and the epigastric, and had nearly surrounded the neck of the sac, and vviiich during tiie ojieration liad been cut across." " John Reid, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1836, xlvi. 66. The fact that the origin of the obturator artery from the epigastric is more common in the female than in the male is worthy of more than a passing notice, in view of the lact that femoral hernia is almost peculiar to the female. When the artery thus arises, it proceeds downward and inward, first passing along tlie outer side of tlie femoral canal, and then along its posterior margin to reach the upper portion of the obturator foramen. (c) The internal pudlc artery. This vessel is slightly larger than the obturator. It arises from the lower part/ of the anterior division, passes across the cavity of the pelvis between the rectum and the outer wall, and escapes at the lower part of the great sciatic foramen in company with the sciatic nerve. It thence turns round the spine of the ischium, enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic foramen, is received within a groove defined by the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic liganient and the bone, and passes thence upward and forward within the obturator fascia about one-and-a-half inch above the tuberosity to the subpubic arch, where it termi- nates between the layers of the deep perineal fascia in the deep artery of the penis and the dorsal artery of the penis. The internal pudic artery thus describes an irregu- lar course which consists of four stages. The first, Irom its origin to the great sciatic foramen; the second, as it winds round the spine of the ischium; the third, as it lies within the obturator fascia; and the fourth, as it lies between the layers of the deep perineal fascia. In the first stage it lies at first external to the sciatic nerve, and afterwards in front of it. Below, it lies at the lower border of the Pyriformis muscle. It is here accompanied by the pudic nerve and vein.—-In the second stage the artery and its accompanying nerve and vein are covered by the Gluteus Maximus muscle. It is concealed from view in operations upon the perineum. W. L. Atlee^ mentions a case of rupture of a branch of this artery during childbirth, resulting in a large hsematoma of the internal genitals. In the first stage the internal pudic gives origin to the middle hsemorrhoidal artery. It supplies the base of the bladder, the prostate gland, and the portion of the rectum not covered by peritoneum. It anasto- moses with the superior and inferior haemorrhoidal.—• In the second, it gives off several small branches which supply the Gluteus Maximus, Pyriformis, and Obtu- rator muscles. ' Ovarian Tumors. .364.