437 THE INFEEIOEVENA CAVA. ooc^O'Cx: panying the crural nerve. It then entered the lumbo- vertebral veins, thereby reaching the inferior cava above the constriction. The blood of the superficies of the left lower extremity was returned as in the right. That of the deeper parts, however, passed upward by way of tiie deep epigastric vein, and thence to the portal vein and inferior cava at the upper portion of the abdomen by an open umbilical vein. In a second case, recorded by M. Raynaud,' tlie inferior cava was obliterated for three inches from its termination, as were also the hepatic and the right branch of the portal vein. In a case of occlusion, described by James Wilson,^ several vessels passed from the liver to the rigiit auricle. The superficial abdominal and axillary veins were enor- mously enlarged, and emptied into tlie right azygos vein. The cava was occluded from the I'enal veins to a point just below the hepatic vein, as a result of acute inflammation. The renal, spermatic, and primitive iliac veins were imper- vious. Anastomosis occuri'ed between the sapiicnous vein and the veins accompanying the muscular twigs of the femoral artery ; tlie blood thus reaching the obturator vein was carried tlirougli the obturator foramen, and thence by the lumbo-vertebral veins to the azygos, and tlius to the superior cava. A second anastomosis existed which con- nected the pudic veins with the inferior mesenteric, and thus with the portal vein. In a case of Haller's,' the vena cava was obliterated between the renal and iliac veins. The right spermatic vein was enormously enlarged, and received blood from the ureteric vein of the same side. In a case of Baillie's,* in which tiie inferior cava was ob- literated from the renal vein to the right auricle, the renal and diaphragmatic veins o[)ened into tiie lumbar and azygos, by means of which communication the blood of the abdomen gained the superior cava. Both tlie umbilical and urachal veins may remain open, and a varicose tumor may form about the umbilicus in obstruction of the deeper venous trunks.^ (2) Thrombosis may extend throughout the en- tire length, or may be limited to a portion only of the vesseh In the latter instance the clot may ex- tend from the renal vein to the auricle, as in the cases of Wilson and Baillie above cited, or it may extend from the iliac vein to the line of the orifices of the renal veins, as in the cases of Haller and Thompson. In a case reported by Coyne and Trosier^ the vessel ' Nouv. Diet, de Med. et de Chir. prat., ir. 385. 2 Trans, of Soc. for Imp. of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, iii. 1812, 65. ^ Loc. cit., iii. 70. 4 Loc. cit., i. 1793, 125. 5 Xavier Gouraud, Bull, de la Soc. Anat., 1863. 6 Bull, de la Soc. Anat., 1871, t. 46, 239. For additional cases of obliteration, and literature to 1845, see T. B. Peacock, Med.- Chir Trans., xxviii. p. 1. was compres.sed by a cancerous mass springing from the left kidney. The left renal vein and the inferior cava from this point to the auricle were occupied by a recent soft clot, while below the orifice of the left renal the vessel was filled and obliterated by an old and firm clot. It would appear from these and from analogous cases that the formation of a thrombus in the inferior vena cava is modified by the blood flowing from the kidney into the cava. Blood drawn from the renal vein is poor in fibrin, and coagulates imperfectly. Hence, a stream of renal blood pouring into the cava may modify, under favoring conditions, the process of coagulation going on there. (3) The cava as it passes along the hepatic groove may easily be influenced V^y morbid processes originat- ing in or about the liver. The vessel may be obliter- ated by a hydatid cyst or hy a carcinomatous growth. An instance of such occlusion has been recorded by Dr. Wm. Gull.^ The venous blood from points below the constriction had been returned by the azygos vein to the right side of the heart. Fibrous growths origi- nating in the liver may compress the hepatic vein and the vena cava as they pass in the hepatic groove. In a specimen described by S. Wilks,^ while the lower part of the cava Avas of usual size, it was encroached upon as it lay in contact with the liver, and much diminished in calibre. Intruding into its interior was a hard fibrous nodule. ISTear this, two contracted hepatic veins were seen. Luschka men- tions an instance in which a hydatid cyst lodged within the liver near the hepatic vein had burst, and in which the echino-cysts, passing into the cava at its hepatic portion, were carried to the right side of the heart, and thence to the pulmonary artery, where they caused obstruction and death. In a case of hepatic hydatid cyst pressing against the cava, not only was the trunk occluded, but ulceration of its coats ensued.^—Rapture of the liver from external injury may involve the inferior cava.—In thrombosis of the cava the clot may be firmer as the vessel lies within the hepatic groove. (4) In all cases of thrombosis of the cava the con- dition of the kidney should be ascertained. The case of Luschka^ in which a constricted cava was associated with Bright's disease, and numerous in- stances in which infarction of the parenchyma of the ' Lancet, 1864, 379. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1863, xiii. 124. 3 Bull, de la Soc. Anatomique, 1855, 254. See also Frerich's Diseases of the Liver. 4 See p. 438.