THE HEAET BLOODVESSELS. 352 AND THE O-OO^OKX^ The aorta is divided by the Diaphragm into two portions, the thoracic and the abdominah The thoracic portion is composed of an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. The first two, and the descending portion as far as the fourth or the fifth dorsal vertebra?, constitute the arch of the Aorta. The remainder of the descending portion to the Diaphragm is commonly called the "thoracic portion" proper, in contradistinction to the arch. The "arch of the aorta" and the ''thoracic aorta" will, therefore, be described separately. The arch of the aorta. — This is composed of the ascending^ the transverse, and the descending portions. The ascending portion arises from the base of the heart, a little to the right of the septum. It passes upward, forward, and toward the right border of the sternum at the junction of the second cartilage with the sternum. This portion of the vessel is at first in relation with the different parts of the base of the heart; the infundibulum of the right ventricle and the pulmo- nary artery lying in front.—The pericardium em- braces both it and the pulmonary artery, extending higher upon the former than upon the latter.—The aorta is soon disengaged from these surroundings. It ascends obliquely, and with a slight lateral curva- ture to the right, as far as the second costal carti- lage, as above stated. It lies immediately beneath the sternum, from which, however, it is separated by the anterior mediastinum and the pericardium. To its right is the descendin"' vena cava, and behind is the right branch of the pulmonary artery.—The right side of the ascending portion is often slightly dilated. The transverse portion of the arch lies between the second costal cartilage and the front of the trachea just above its bifurcation, and extends from the right second costal cartilage to the intervertebral substance between the fifth and the sixth dorsal vertebrae. The top of the arch answers to the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and occasionally to the third, and one inch to a half inch below the episternal notch in the adult. According to Sappey, it is nearer by four lines in the aged, and by seven lines in the in- fant. Among the relations of this portion of the aorta may be mentioned the following: Above lies the left innom- inate vein, with which it is connected by fibrous tissue. The innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left sub- clavian arteries arise from its upper surface. Below the transverse portion are seen the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the remains of the ductus arteriosus^ and the left inferior recurrent branch of the pneumo- gastric nerve, as it turns round to ascend the neck. The anterior surface toward its posterior portion is crossed by the left pneumogastric nerve and the phrenic nerves, and by some of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. It is in part covered by the left pleura. The posterior surface lies upon the trachea, as already mentioned, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct.—The arch is slightly depressed during full inspiration. The descending portion of the arch extends from above the tracheal bifurcation at the second dorsal vertebra to the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra. It is here crossed by the left bronchus, and is continuous with the "thoracic aorta." It is in relation on the right side with the cesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its left side is the pleura. Behind are the Longus Colli muscle and the vertebral column. This portion of the aorta is surrounded by a number of dark-colored lymphatic glands. The left bronchus determines both the end of the arch of tlie aorta and the alterations in the relations of the oesophagus.* ' One might, with propriety, speak of the supra-bronchial por- tion of both the aorta and the a3sophagus. EXPLANATION Fig. 1. Scheme of the mode of formation of a double arch of the aorta througii persistence of both fourth vascular arches (see p. 348). Fig. 2. Scheme of the mode of origin of a right aorta, and the origin of the left subclavian artery from a " pouch- like" trunk by the persistence of the left aortic root. Fig. 3. Scheme of the mode of origin of the right sub- clavian artery, as the last branch of the arch of the aorta, through atrophy of the fourth right arch and persistence of the right aortic root. OF PLATE LXn. Fio-. 4. Scheme of the normal mode of development of the arch and great vessels in the mammal (after Ranke). Fig. 5. Scheme of the mode of origin of the descending aorta and left subclavian artery from the ductus arteri- osus and pulmonary artery. Atrophy of the fourth left arch between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. Termination of the ascending aorta in the right sub- clavian and right and left carotid arteries.