THE OCCIPITAL'AETEEY. XSC-^OOC (/) The iv fertor coronary \yva.X].c\\ often arises in com- mon with the succeeding vessel. It supplies the lower lip, Ijiug between the plane of the Depressor Anguli Oris and Depressor Labii Inferioris muscles to the outer side and the mucous membrane to the inner. (ij) The superior coronary branch, somewhat larger than the inferior, supplies the upper lip, occasionally sending small brandies to the nose. Both the preceding vessels anastomose with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side of the face. Hence their name, coronary arteries. This an- astomosis, however, is not invariable. (li) The angular branch. This is the terminal por- tion of the facial. Properly speaking, it is not a branch, but is a continuation of the lateral nasal portion of the vessel. It is situated between the internal canthus and the nose. The vessel anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Tlie surgical bearings of tlie facial artery vary markedly in the cervical and facial portions of its course The cer- vical portion differs in no particular from tlie other cervical brandies of the external carotid. It is surrounded by loose connective tissue, and is protected by the Platysma Myoides and deep fascia If divided just beneath the inferior maxilla, as may readily occur in the operation for excision of tlie latter, the cardiac end of the vessel is apt to retract into the submaxil- lary space.—The position of the coronary arteries witli respect to tlie mucous membrane of the lip is important to remember. Slight wounds of the latter membrane may lacerate these vessels; Erichsen* mentions an instance where the hem- orrhage from a slight lesion of this cliaracter had passed unnoticed until the large amount of blood swallowed had been ejected, wlien the wounded vessel was sought for and se- cured—PortaP alludes to a case in which profuse hemor- rhage followed the opening of a submaxillary aliscess. The blood, it was thought, escaped from the submental artery. The Liyatlon of the Facial Artery Tlie facial artery can be exposed below the jaw by an incision similar to that for tiie lingual artery. Tiie submaxillary salivary gland is the best guide to the position of the vessel. By drawing the gland slightly upward and outward, the patient's head being at the same time thrown ujiward and backward, the vessel can be seen lying within the line of the lower jaw upon the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. The artery, as it passes upon the face, can be easily com- pressed against the lower jaw, and is readily exposed by an incision made directly in front of the anterior border of the Masseter muscle. Variations—The facial may interchange in part with the internal maxillary artery ; the labia! and submental branches 1 System of Surgery, Am. ed., p. 378. 2 Anatomie Meaicale, iii. 166. 46 may interchange among themselves, off the ascending pharyngeal. 361 Tlie vessel may give THE OCCII^ITAL ARTERY. The Occipital arterj^ arises from tlie external caro- tid above or about opposite to the facial. It passes upward and backward, covered by the posterior belly of the Digastric and by the Stylo-Hyoid muscle as far as the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It here runs along a groove behind the digastric groove. It lies beneath the muscles inserted into the mas- toid process, and above the Superior Oblique and Complexus muscles. Toward its termination it be- comes superficial, and reaches the occiput by passing through the Trapezius muscle. It is distributed to the scalp, anastomosing wdth its fellow of the opposite side and with the teinporal arteries. Branches.—The branches of the occipital artery are— (a) Muscular. (h) Auricular. (c) Descending Cervical. (c/) Mastoid. (a) The muscular branches supplv the posterior belly of the Digastric, the Stylo-Hyoid, and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscles. One of them may give origin to the stylo-mastoid artery. (!-■) Tlie auricular branch. This is an inconstant branch supplying tlie auricle and the muscles in- serted into the mastoid process. (c) The descendimj cervical branch (ramus cervicis princeps). This arises under the Splenius muscle. It passes down the neck to anastomose with the super- ficial and deep cervical arteries. {d) The mastoid branch enters the mastoid foramen to supply the diploe, and also sends branches to the walls of the lateral sinus and the dura mater of the occipital fossa. Variations The occipital artery may arise from a trunk in common with the facial. It may give off an accessory ])liaryngeal branch. It may interchange with the deep cer- vical branch of the subclavian, and anastomose at the occi- put with the vertebral artery. The Ligation of the Occipital Artery The occipital artery, as it passes from its origin to the occiput, is deeply situated beneath the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. An incision three inches in length, corresponding to the upper anterior margin of this muscle, will expose the artery as it crosses the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. The parotid gland and its fascia should be drawn well forward and upward. The Stylo-Hyoid and tiie poste-