383 THE BEACHIAL ARTERY. -XxC^Ooo Remarks A curious accident to these vessels, in con- nection witli tlie disciiarge of cannon, has been described.' The discharge was received by tlie hand, wiiicli was in part lacerated and destroyed, while the whole extremity, as far as the axilla, was carried backward by tlie explosion with a degree of violence sufficient to rupture tlie axillary ves- sels. In such cases tiie acromial ligaments may be rup- tured, while the shoulder-joint, the ribs, and the clavicle escape. Variations The variations of the axillary artery and its branches are included under two heads : (a) those parts embraced in the trunk, and [b) tliose included in the exserted portion of the limb. (a) The trunkal branches are best studied in connection with the nature of the muscular attachments of the shoulder. The fact that the branches of the subclavian, supplying the Trapezius, the Levator Anguli Scapulae, tlie Rhomboidei, and the Scaleni muscles, may in rare cases arise from the axil- lary artery is easily understood when tlie variations of these muscles (see p. 27G) are borne in mind. The variations, con- sisting of interchanges of the superior thoracic, the acromial thoracic, and the long thoracic, are in like manner under- stood if tlie pectoral significance of these branches be re- membered. Tlie superior thoracic and the acromial thoracic often arise from a common trunk which has received the name of the thoracic axis.—The subscapular is apt to domi- nate the other branches and some of the branches of the brachial. Thus the posterior circumflex and the superior profunda are seen arising from tlie subscapular; an arrange- ment suggesting the plan normally pursued in the tliigh, wliere the profunda femoris represents the subscapular. Or the posterior circumflex may dominate, when the anterior circumflex, the superior profunda, and the dorsal scapular artery will arise from it—The dorsalis scapulce may arise from the axillary artery. (b) Some of the most interesting variations of the axillary are comprised in what may be called tlic distal variations, i. e., those embraced in the arrangement of branches of the artery to the arm, the forearm, and the hand. In the preceding section the superior profunda is seen arising from the axillary, an arrangement which may be said to connect one group with the otlier. Rarely a complementary ulnar artery arises from tiie axillary or one of its branches, and has received tlie name of tlie coUateral ulnar Tlie artery may divide into the radial and the ulnar, or both of these vessels be present together with the interosseous artery. The branches of the brachial plexus of nerves may em- brace a branch of tiie artery instead of the main stem. In such an instance it may be assumed, according to Quain, tliat the main stem of the brachial artery lias been obliterated, " and that there has been developed in its place, as an appar- ent brachial artery for the supply of the lower portions of tiie limb, a vas aberrans, such as is sometimes seen arising from the brachial artery, and uniting witli one of its brandies." » Br. Med. Jourii., Sept. 23, 1871, 342. THE BEACHIAL AETERT. The Brachial Arteiy is the continuation of the axillary. It begins at the lower margin of the Latis- simus Doi'si muscle, and passes downward and some- what obliquely outward, pursuing a straight course to terminate at the side of the coronoid process of the ulna, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. It lies in the groove between the flexor and extensor muscles of the arm. Relations—In front are the brachial fascia and the skin ; to the outer sid(3 are the Coraco-Brachialis and the median margin of the humerus ; to the median side are the fascia and the skin, from which tlie artery is separated by the tendon of the Coraco-Brachialis. Behind, the artery lies on the Triceps above, and the Brachialis Anticus below. The vessel is superficial till it reaches the elbow, when it sinks within a triangular area, bounded on the median side by the Pronator Radii Teres, on the lateral by the Supinator Longus, behind by the Bracliialis Anticus, and in front by the semi- lunar fascia from the tendon of the Biceps. Within this space, and to the inner side of the Supinator Longus, is the tendon of the Biceps, to the inner side of which in turn is the brachial artery. Tlie relations of the artery being complicated, the usual metliod of description will be departed from, and the rela- tions of tlie veins and nerves to the vessel separately given. The veins (vena; comites) are. generally two in number, one on either side of the vessel. Of these the larger is on the inner side. Here and there they are united by transverse veins either in front or behind the artery. The vente comites unite with tlie basilic veins by perforating the brachial fascia about the middle of the arm. Of the su[)er- ficial veins at the elbow, the median basilic passes over the aponeurotic slip from the tendon of the Biceps The nerves are branches of the brachial plexus, and are arranged as follows :— Tlie median nerve is inclosed in the same sheath with the artery and the veins. Above, it lies to the outer side, then upon the vessel, and finally, at the middle or lower third, crosses it, and near the elbow appears to the inner side. Above, the external and internal cutaneous nerves are also inclosed in the sheath.—The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side, inclosed in a separate sheath. At first it lies near the vessel, but, toward the elbow, passes far to the inner side of the arm The musculo-s[)iral nerve lies beliiud the artery at its origin, but soon winds around on the posterior surl'ace of the humerus The external cutaneous nerve lies to the outer side of the artery, se[)aratiiig it trom the Coraco- Brachialis muscle ; toward the middle of the arm, however, it pierces the last-named muscle, and enters into new rela- tions The internal cutaneous lies to the inner side, and separates the median from the ulnar nerve. The Biceps, when well developed, may project a little over the vessel.