THE HEAET AND T 348 HE BLOODVESSELS. ventricular septum. It may also be clue to a con- traction of the left auriculo-ventricular orifice, wbicli results in the blood being forced to the right of the imperfect septum, and thus tending to prevent closure of the septum and the ductus arteriosus. Analogues.—The heart of the turtle, which has no ventricular septum and a permanent ductus arteriosus. The heart of tlie serpent, which has an imjierfect ven- tricular septum and a permanent ductus. The contraction of the pulmonary artery at an early period of intra-uterine life may produce suffi- cient obstruction to ])revent the complete develop- ment of the ventricuhxr septum.^ The septum in such cases is present. Therefore, in a tricoelian heart (i. e., one possessing three chambers), the pulmonary artery is not apt to be obstructed. That the con- traction is not the sole cause of septal insufficiency is shown by numerous examples. Even in the normal adult heart, a small space measuring seven lines in width, which corresponds to the position of the inter-ventricular opening of foetal life, can be defined at the basal portion of the inter- ventricular septum, at which the two ventricles are separated only by the endocardium and fibrous tissue. It is probable that the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve protects this space, and guards the inter-ventri- cular opening when present. The space is closed at birth, though it may rarely open under the influence of disease.^ It may also form the base of a diverticu- lum directed within the left ventricle. When, with the permanence of the ductus arte- riosus an incomplete ventricular septum is associated, some serious impediment to the circulation, existing either before or after birth, and which ceased to ope- rate as age advanced, or remained undetected after death, may be inferred.^ Heart with a patulous ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale, wiih an imjjer/ectventricular septum.'—This is due to the same general causes as the foregoing; the con- traction occurring in the pulmonary artery beyond the origin of the ductus arteriosus, or the contrnction being located in the mitral valve. The blood in the latter instance is forced through the foramen ovale into the riglit auricle, and thence into the left auricle, pre- venting closure of the ventricular septum and the ductus. Heart with truncus commvnis imyterfecthj divided into aorta and pulmonary artery.—This is usually a more or less successful attempt at the formation of an auricular septum and of auricular appendages. Heart luith truncus communis completely divided, hut the vascular arch abnormally united thereto.—In these cases the fifth vascular arch meets the aortic (systemic) stem, and the fourth the pulmonary. The aorta arises, therefore, in such cases from the front of the right ventricle, while the pulmonary artery arises from the buck of the left ventricle. With this trans- position the ventricular septum-is often defective. Heart with incomplete ventricular septum inclined to the left, and the aorta communicating toiih both ventricles. —This malformation is due to obstruction in the flow of the blood in the right side of the heart, and its de- flection to the left side through an imperfect ventri- cular septum. According to Peacock,^ in some cases the retention of the aorta in connection with the right ventricle is an example of arrest of development by which the earlier position of the vessel is retained. Heart with an imperfectly defined ventricular septum, and tendency to separatio7i of the right ventricle from the infundibulum.—Etiology. Arrest of development of the ventricular septum, with exaggeration of the ven- tricular limit of the infundibulum. Peacock^ describes this malformation as an apparent reduplication of the right ventricle. Analogue.—Heart of turtle, in which the above conditions are constant. The foramen ovale prematurely closed, with the result of enormous enlargen-ient of the right and diminution of the left side of the heart. The ductus arteriosus premoiurely closed, witli the result of restricting the fioio of the blood of the right side of the heart to the lungs. The heart may rarely present a double apex. Etiology.—Eetraction of the line of the ventricular septum. Analogue.—Heart in the dugong. Heart wiJi the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus both open. Heart with the foramen ovale open, but the ductus arteriosus closed.—This malformation is commonly associated with constriction.of the mouth of the aorta. A. T. Tliompson describes a case (Med.-Cliir. Trans. XXV. 247) in wliicli a septum existed between the infundi- bulum and the body of the right ventricle. " One of the divisions" of tiie tricuspid valve was employed in partially covering the communicating opening between the divisions of the right ventricle. Heart with ductus arteriosus arising from the right ventricle. The following is the probable solution of this malformation: Cleavage of the truncus com- munis in such wise that three instead of two trunks 1 N Chevers, London Med. Gaz., iii. N. S. 1846, 703. 2 Peacock, loc. cit. 29. » Chevers, loc. cit. 1087. ' Loc. cit. p. 43. 2 Loc. cit. p. 76.