THE VEINS OE SINUSES OF THE DUEA MATER. 421 and enters the beginning of the straight sinus above the veins of Galen. Unlike the superior sinus, it receives few or no collateral veins. The Straight Sinus (sinus tentorii) is the continua- tion backward of the union of the inferior longitu- dinal sinus and the veins of Galen. It lies in the median line upon the upper portion or roof of the tentorium. The straight and superior longitudinal sinuses unite in front of the internal occipital protuberance in the tormlar Herophili (wine-press of Herophilus, confluens sinuum). This is a lacuna! widening which communi- cates on either side with the lateral sinuses. Not infrequently the main current of blood is deflected either to the left or to the right of the median line, when the groove for the lateral sinus on the occipital bone corresponding to the line of greater deflection will be larger than the groove of the opposite side. The Circular Sinus extends around the pituitary body and unites the two cavernous sinuses. It is often incomplete posteriorly, ^vhen the anterior con- necting portion is called the transverse sinus. The Anterior Occipital Sinus lies in front of the foramen magnum, and unites the two inferior petrosal sinuses. It is very irregular, and, as a rule, small. A tendency to the exaggeration of the veins has led Virchow to include the sinuses in this position under the name of the basilar plexus. It represents upon the basilar process of the occipital bone the posterior vertebral veins of the vertebral column. These veins are apt to become enlarged in the aged. The Posterior Occipital Sinus is formed by a small vein running around the posterior arch of the fora- men magnum, and extending upward along the cerebellar falx. It anastomoses with the posterior spinal plexus. It also ascends along the cerebellab falx near its hinder border, and terminates at the torcular Herophili. The branch around the border of the foramen is sometimes mentioned as the circular sinus of tlie foramen ynaynuvi. Under the name of the anterior confluent condyl- oid vein, Trolard' describes a vessel situated in front ' Loc. fit. Fig. 87. LONGITUDINAL SINUS POSTEniO^ OCCIPITAL SINUS LATERAL SINUS TORCULAR HEROPHILI LONGITUDINAL SINUS The Sinuses of the Dura Mateu seen in Horizontal Section of the Skull.