THE LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITIES. 447 Fifth, a group of superficial cervical glands lies upon the lateral parts of the neck, in front of and upon the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus and below the parotid gland. They receive superficial lymphatic vessels both from behind and in front. Small glands are often seen in the middle of the neck, lying on the Sterno-Hyoid muscles, but rarely on the Platysma Myoidcs. Sixth, a set of deep lymphatics accompanies the course of tiie internal carotid and the common carotid arteries. They receive vessels from the brain-case through the posterior lacerated foramen, from the pharynx, the tongue, the larynx, and the thyroid body. The glands at the base of the neck have received the name of the supra-clavicular glands. In addition to those from adjacent parts, these receive vessels from the vertebral canal. Remarks.—The superficial gland at the angle of the jaw is frequently enlarged in pharyngitis. En- largement of the gland over the submaxillary salivary gland may be mistaken for disease of the latter struc ture. It is easy to distinguish the two conditions by the fact that the salivary gland is fixed, while the lymphatic gland is niovable. In cancerous involve- ment, however, this gland soon becomes fixed to the lower jaw. Allan Burns' invites attention to the liability of the lobulated edges of a bronchocele being mistaken for enlarged Ij^iiphatic glands.—Enlargement of lym- phatic glands at the base of the neck is of exceptional interest apart from the importance of anatomical relations. Paget alludes to the importance of the enlargement of the glands in old persons who are the subjects of cancer and scrofula.^ The cervical glands are capable of assuming enor- mous proportions in strumous subjects, and may act as exciting causes of dyspnoea and dysphagia, either by direct pressure upon the trachea and the oesophagus or by interference with the pneumogastric nerve. The removal of enlarged cervical glands which are found to maintain injurious pressure should never be inconsiderately undertaken. The following state- ments will have practical interest in connection with this subject. The lymphatic glands along the course of the in- ternal jugular vein have been known to excite ulcer- ation of the walls of the vein, and to cause death by subsequent losses of blood. After operation for their removal the vein may ulcerate, as it lies in the wound of incision. Suppuration excited in or about the ' Surgical Anatomy of Neck, 225. 2 St. Bartliolomew's Hosp. Rep., iii. 412. glands may involve the common carotid (see p. 356) and the internal carotid arteries (see p. 366). D. W. Cheever,! in removing a large lymphatic tumor from the basal portion of the neck, probably Avounded the thoracic duct and the subclavian vein. Death followed in thirty-six hours. An attempt, reported by Moxon, to remove a can- cerous lymphatic gland of the neck excited oedema of the glottis. Death ensued within twenty-four hours.2—In the case of a girl of thirteen years, a cervical lymphatic gland, the seat of sarcomatous deposit, was found by the same writer'' to occlude the internal jugular vein, and to cause death by the exten- sion of inflammation to the pleura of the correspond- ing side.—The lymphatic glands at the nape of the neck are frequently found engorged in syphilis and in various forms of disease of the scalp.—For other com- ments on the cervical lymphatic glands, see pp. 261, 264, and 366. II. The Lymphatics of the Upper Extremities AND THE Thoracic Wall. Under this head are embraced— (a) The Lymphatics of both Upper Extremities and the adjacent portions of the Thoracic Wall. (/>) The Right Lymphatic Duct. («) The lymphatics of the upper extremity and the adjacent portion of the thoracic wall converge toward the axilla, in the abundant connective tissue of which from eight to ten glands are situated. Small isolated glands are here and there seen, as at the inferior border of the Pectoralis Major, and in the interval between the same muscle and the Deltoid. The lymphatic vessels of the arm accompany the superficial and deep veins. The superficial set collect the vessels from the fingers in a palmar arch, which, together with others from the inner border of the palm, ascend the arm. They are more numerous on the inner than on the outer side of the arm. One or two glands are found near the elbow, viz., at the position of the basilic vein a short distance above the internal condyle. The lymphatic vessels on the back of the hand and forearm gradually join the preceding by winding around the margins of the forearm, notably the ulnar. The deep lymphatics of the hand are much less numerous than the superficial, which they join at the carpus. They extend in the direction of • Boston Med. and Surg. Jonrn. 1875, N. S., xv. 424. 8 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond. 18.39, xx. 3B9. 8 Ibid. 1869, XX. 400.