THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 342 o<=«^OOo border is seen a small portion only of the left ven- tricle. Between the right auricle and right ventricle is a transverse furrow, carrying the transverse portion of the coronary artery and vein and the lymphatic vessels; while between the right ventricle and the left ventricle is seen a longitudinal furrow carrying the longitudinal portion of the coronary artery and vein. The posterior surface is nearly flat, looks downward, and lies in part upon the Diaphragm. It is marked by a transverse groove between the auricle and the ventricle for the transverse portion of the coronary artery, vein, and lymphatics; and near its right side by a longitudinal groove between the ventricles for the longitudinal portion of the coronary arterj^, vein, and lymphatics. The anterior margin is thinner and longer than the posterior. It is composed entirely of the right ven- tricle and looks downward, forward, and to the right side. The posterior margin is thick and obtuse; it is com- posed entirely of the left ventricle and looks toward the left side. The base presents on either side the upper surfaces of the auricles. The pulmonary artery and the aorta are here seen, the former lying in front and to the left of the latter. The presence of the well-defined groove between tlie auricles and ventricles has led to the adoption by anatomical writers of the phrase transverse constriction, or the sulctis auriculo- ventriculorum. Lying between the ventricles in front and behind is a second groove which has received the name of the longitudinal groove or sulcus. These grooves, as ap- plied to the entire figure of the heart, are confusing ; for, while they are conspicuous features on tlie cardiac super- ficies, they bave no exact value in reference to the heart as a whole. The transverse groove, for example, is absent in front of the origin of the pulmonary artery, and the longi- tudinal groove is absent both at the apex and at the base of the heart. The heart should be considered as having its pi'imary or true axis parallel to the vente cava3, which is the position maintained in quadrupeds. The long axis is, therefore, in such relations, parallel to the axis of the body. In man the heart is deflected to the left, in consequence of the flat- tened sternum. The peculiar half-twist forward of the ven ■ tricular portion, by which the anterior surface is made to look upward and the posterior surface downward, is, perhaps, due to the sagging of the heavy left ventricle while the base of the heart is fixed. Size of heart.—The heart is five inches long, three and a half inches wide at its broadest part, and two and a half inches antero-posteriorly. The size of the heart has been commonly compared to that of the fist in the same individual. Its length is to its breadth as five is to four. Its weight is about eleven ounces. In the female the heart is about one-sixth less in weight and size than in the male. The relative size of the orifices of the heart is a matter of importance to the physician. In early life those of the pulmonary artery' and the aorta are of about the same size, but after the fortieth or fiftieth year the aortic orifice is the larger. Of the auriculo- veutricular orifices the right is somewhat the larger. TOPOGRAPHICAL RULES FOR THE POSITION OF THE HEART„ (Figs. 1, 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 2, 3, Plate LXI.) The heart lies in the middle mediastinum. Seen from in front it is directed obliquely downward and to the left. The auricles are nearly concealed in this view, since they lie more to the right side and behind. A¥hen seen from below, it is observed that the axis of both chambers is nearly vertical, that of the right Ijnng directly to the right of the median line, while that of the left is at the median line. Behind the heart are the oesophagus and the aorta. In front of it lies the sternum, at the sides are the lungs. The base lies opposite the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, the apex at about a thumb's breadth to the median side of the left nipple, at the fifth intercostal space. The anterior surface of the heart is almost entirely derived from the right auricle and ventricle. A small portion of the left ventricle forms the left border of the surface, the anterior edge of the left auricular appendage appearing at the border above. Tlie apex is formed by the left ventricle in health, but in mitral regurgitation and pulmonary emphysema EXPLANATION Fig. 1. General plan of the right side of the heart. Fig. 2. General plan of the left side of the heart. Fig. 3. General view of the lieart and the great vessels arising from its base. OF PLATE LVIII. ' Fig. 4. The right side of the heart drawn in position—as seen in the supine body.