THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 400 ^<><>§^0<:x' ■ border of the great sciatic foramen. It divides into two branches, the deej:) and the superficial. The deep lies between the Gluteus Maximas and the Gluteus Medius; the superficial between the Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus Minimus. This artery gives off" a nutrient branch to the ilium. Holden' gives the following direction for finding the gluteal artery: Rotate the femur inward, and draw a line from the posterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium to the trochanter minor. The junc- tion of the upper with the middle third of this line lies over the artery as it emerges from the upper border of the great ischiatic notch. {h) The illo- lumbar artery. This artery passes outward and upward behind the Psoas Magnus mus- cle. It divides into two branches, an upper, which ascends to supply the Psoas Magnus and the Quad- ratus Lumborum, and a descending, which supplies the Iliacus Internus. This branch anastomoses with the circumflex ilii, and the lumbar branch with the last lumbar and the lowest intercostal arteries. A nutrient artery for the ilium may arise from this vessel. Another branch enters the spinal cord be- tween the last lumbar vertebra and the first sacral to supply the cauda equina. (i) The lateral sacral. This vessel gives off an upper and a lower branch, both of which are distributed to the sides of the sacrum. They anastomose with the median sacral. The outer branches of the artery enter the sacral foramina, and are lost upon the membranes of the spinal cord. Its lower twigs anas- tomose with the coccygeal branch of the sciatic. Hemorrhage from a wounded branch of the internal pudic can be checked (should the bleeding occur in advance of the great sciatic ligament) by pressure beneath the spine of the ischium. Harrison^ mentions an instance of sach pressure being successfully em- ployed by the patient himself. THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The External Iliac Artery begins at the lateral border of the fifth lumbar vertebra, or at the sacro- iliac junction, and terminates at Poupart's ligament, where it is continuous with the femoi'al. Its direc- tion is downward and slightly outward between the Psoas muscle and the brim of the true pelvis. It measures from three-and-a-half to four inches in length. Relations.—Behind the artery lies the vein of the same name. It gradually secures a position to the inner side, ' Landmarks, 88. 2 Surg. Anat. of Arteries, 322. and at Poupart's ligament it is entirely to this side. Both the artery and tlie vein are surrounded by subperitoneal connective tissue. In front of the artery lies the peritoneum. For the upper four-fifths of the artery, this membrane is in contact with the artery ; but for the lower fifth, the mem- brane, as it passes from the abdominal M'all to the iliac fossa, does not toucii the vessel, wliich is here surrounded by fat and lymphatic glands.' RemaiuvS—R. J. Levis^ reports a case of fatal hemorrhage from the left external iliac artery following a perforating ulcer, tiie result of the pressure from a symmetrical chronic psoas abscess that had opened externally. The blood escap- ing from the opened vessel fdled the cavity of the abscess before escaping from the external orifice. Tlie branches of the external iliac artery are— [a) The deep epigastric. (h) The circumflex ilii. (a) The deej} epigastric arises from the inner aspect of the artery. It passes downward and slightly inward as far as the inguinal canal. It here describes a curve whose concavity is upward, and is crossed by the vas deferens. It thence ascends obliquely to reach the anterior abdominal wall, and passes upward to the outer border of the sheath of the Rectus, which it pierces, and lies upon the muscle posteriorly as far as the umbilicus, where it anastomoses with the in- ternal mammary and the lower intercostal arteries. Variations The most important variation is the origin of the obturator artery from the epigastric (see the descrip- tion of that vessel). An aberrant branch ascending the ante- rior abdominal wall has been wounded, according to Berard, in the performance of paracentesis. The vessel occasionally rises higher than usual, or it may take its origin from the femoral. The branches of the deep epigastric are— (1) Cremasteric. (2) Pubic. (3) Muscular. (1) The cremasteric^ entering the inguinal canal, supplies the Cremaster muscle, and the coverings of the spermatic cord. In the female the cremasteric artery supplies the fat of the mous veneris, the labia, and the round ligainent. (2) The pulic, ordinarily a small branch, is directed to the connective tissue behind the pubis, where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side and with the obtura,tor. (3) The m.uscular branches supj^ly the Rectus muscle and the skin of the abdomen. The deep epigastric artery is accompanied by two ' Lewinsky, OEater. Zeitsclirift fiir prakt. Heilkunde, Wien, 1863. 2 Phila. Med. Times, xi. 1881, 380. I