THE VEINS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 431 THE SPINAL VEINS. The Spinal Veins are arranged in lliree groups: one upon the posterior surface of the vertebral col- umn, the others within the vertebral canal. The first group consists of the dorso-sjnnal veins or dorsal plexus ; the second group, of the anterior and posterior longitudinal spinal veins and the veins of the spinal cord. The spinal veins are remarkable for their plexi- forni arrangement, for their intimate association, and for the absence of valves. They anastomose freely with the cranial, occipital, vertebral, lumbar, and intercostal veins, the last-mentioned of which, in great part, receive the outflow of the venous blood from the vertebral canal. The dorso-spinal veins lie on the vertebral arches and about the spinous and transverse processes. They receive branches from the deep muscles of the back, and anastomose above with the deep cervical veins, and below with the intercostal and lumbar veins, as well as with the posterior longitudinal spinal veins, through the spaces between the arches. The anterior longitudinal sjnnal veins form two groups of markedly plexiform arrangement which lie upon either side of the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrse. Toward the upper portion of the canal, they are continuous Avith the basilar plexus and the occipital sinus (where the veins composing the plexus are better defined), and anastomose freely with the occipital, intercostal, lumbar, and dorso-spinal veins, as also with the posterior longitudinal spinal, and with one another by transverse veins passing beneath the vertebral ligaments. At this last point they receive the diploic or the basi-vertebral vein— or veins, for they are at times double—from the bodies of the vertebrae, and, toward the outer border, minute vessels from the front of the bodies. These may be, however, entirely tributary to the intercostals. The jJosterior longitudinal sjnnal veins are smaller and less compact than the anterior. They are better developed below than above, and form anas- tomoses with the anterior longitudinal spinal, and the lumbar, intercostal, and dorso-spinal veins. The veins of the sjnnal cord are two in number, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior occupies the anterior median groove; the posterior, the posterior median groove. The latter effects a junction above with the inferior cerebellar vein and the inferior petrosal sinus. (See the Bloodvessels of the Spinal Cord.) THE VEINS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. The Veins of the Inferior Extremity are super- ficial and deep; they all possess valves, those of the veins of the leg being the more numerous. The deej) veins of the foot and leg are arranged as venae comites to the arteries. They converge to form the popliteal vein, which becomes continuous with the femoral vein, and this in turn with the external iliac vein. Remarks.—All deep veins of the limbs, immedi ately after leaving muscle-tissue, are apt to undergo an abrupt increase of calibre. Those Avhich pass through a fibrous band or ring are apt to be dilated as they pass from its proximal orifice.—The place at which superficial veins end in the deeper veins, near the line of flexion of joints, is often the place at which some of the deeper veins pass out from muscle-tissue. Owing to this circumstance, the deeper veins are often large near the joints. The region best illustrating the above conditions is that which lies at the upper part of the leg posteriorly. Here the large veins from the Soleus pass from that muscle beneath the fibrous arch extending across the interosseous space, where the popliteal artery ends and the posterior tibial and anterior tibial arteries begin. Congeries of dilated veins thus form about these vessels, and serve as a determining cause for the localization of diseased action in the leg. — In the dissecting-room the writer has often observed these dilated veins pressing against the arteries in subjects in which the injecting fluid had failed to penetrate the anterior and posterior tibial arteries; and in one aged subject, in which the leg and foot were both infiltrated with the products of inflammation, the veins were plugged with clot, and had doubtless exerted pressure against the arteries during life. In connection with this the following case will prove instructive. Mr. Cock^ observed marked dilatation of one of the posterior tibial veins in a female aged twenty-eight. The condition had been confounded with abscess, and the collection was opened, when its character was deter- mined. The blood was dift'used through the popli- teal space and thence into the thigh, necessitating amputation of the limb. Examination of the parts showed that the clot had extended half way down the leg.—Verneuil- ascribes the tardy recovery so ' Med.-Chir. Trans., xxxiv. 328. 2 Ai-fliiv. Gen. de Sledecine, Feb. 1877.