TRE SYSTE tarsal articulations. It anastomoses witli branches of the metatarsal, the external malleolar, the peroneal, and the external plantar arteries. (J) The metatarsal branch is not so large as the preceding. It curves outward at the base of the metatarsal bones, and sends three digital branches from the anterior portion of the curve, each of which divides a little beyond the base of the first phalanx into two branches which supply the opposed surfaces of the toes. The artery communicates with the plan- tar vessels by two minute perforating arteries to each interosseous space, which are termed respectively the anterior and the posterior perforating arteries. (c) The dorsalis hallucfs lies in the first inter- osseous space. It divides near the toe cleft into two branches. Of these the internal passes under the tendon of the Extensor Proprius PoUicis, and gives off small vessels to the dorsum of the great toe. According to Power, it may be directed beneath the first metatarsal bone to supply the inner border of the great toe, there to anastomose with the internal plantar artery, and thereby completing the ^;fo?ztar arch. (d) The perforatintj or communicating artery pene- trates the first dorsal interosseous space to join the terminal branch of the external plantar artery. Quain has described a plantar digital branch which crosses beneath the first metatarsal bone, and which IC VEINS. 411 runs along the inner side of the great toe upon its plantar surface. Ligation of the Dorsalis Pedis.—Upon the instep, the artery is found between the Extensor Proprius Pollicis and the inner border of the tendon of the Extensor Communis Digitorum. The artery lies upon the first interosseous space. The line of incision extends from a point at the middle of the anterior intermalleolar space to a point between the anterior extremities of the first two metatarsal bones. An incision one inch long in the course of the line, or along the outer border of the tendon of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, should be made, and, upon cutting through the skin, the superficial fascia, and tiie deep fascia, the artery is secured, after separating the accompanying veins, by passing the ligature from witliout inward. Variations.—The artery may arise at a point in the pop- liteal space. It may pass with the cutaneous branch of tiie external popliteal nerve round the fibula, instead of piercing the interosseous spaces, and be parallel to the fibula, as far as the ankle, wliere it lies in front of the joint. In in- stances of absence of the posterior libial artery the popliteal may divide into the anterior tibial and the peroneal arteries. The anterior tibial may become superficial at the middle of the leg, and thence to its termination be covered only by the fascia and the skin. The artery may be absent, when its place is taken in the leg by muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery, and in the foot by branches of the peroneal artery. The dorsalis pedis and the plantar arteries and their branches may interchange with one another. THE VEINS. Tlie veins of the human body are of two kinds, the systemic and the pulmonary. The systemic veins are those which receive the blood from the capillaries (excepting those of the lungs), and convey it to the right auricle of the heart. The pulmonary veins are those which receive the blood from the capillaries of the lungs, and convey it to the left auricle of the heart. These have been already described (p. 351). THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. in collecting blood from the extremities, the head and the neck, tlie chest walls, and the pelvic organs. The second, commonly called the portal system, includes the veins conveying the blood from the ali- mentary canal and related abdominal appendages (organs of chylifaction) below the Diaphragm, as well as the spleen. Terms Used in Descpjbixg the Veixs. A Radicle. A small vein which forms the root or one of a number of peripheral branches to a main trunk.' The systemic veins are divided into two groups. The first of these groups embraces the veins employed ' The " root" of an artery is its cardiac end. The " root" of a vein is its peripheral end.