HE BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET AND T Tlie position of tlie vessel is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between tlie folds of the axilla to a point midway between the epicondyle ajid the epitrochlea of the humerus. Variations The bracliial artery may be sliorter than usual, owing to the radial and ulnar arteries arising above the elbow, when the artery is said to undergo the " high division." In rare instances the vessel may be absent, when the axillary arteiy is said to terminate by division into the radial and ulnar arteries. In some forms of " high division," the interosseous artery may represent the main stem of the brachial artery, i. e., it may extend down the arm to the interosseous space, at the same time that tlie radial and the ulnar arteries occupy respectively the median and lateral borders of the arm. The artery may be of normal length, but may lie upon the deep fascia. Tlie pi'oximity of the elbow-joint and the presence of the slip from the tendon of the Biceps muscle to the fascia of the fore- arm frequently serve to determine the site of variations.—Tlie artery, as it lies just above the elbow, may thus, in aged per- sons, be curved or contorted. In subjects of all ages, the artery at this point may be forced from the straight line by the material employed to fill the bloodvessels—The artery and the median nerve pass through the rarely-present epi- trochlear foramen or under the epitrochlear process (see p. 175) The artery may divide either proximally to or be- neath the slip of the Biceps tendon.—It may divide at a point a little distally to the centre of the joint. Rarely an island-formation occui-s in the trunk.' The artery may be overlaid by an accessory head of the Biceps, by the Pronator Radii Teres muscle, by the Brachialis Anticus, or by the tendon of the Coraco-Brachialis. It may lie beneath the nerve, or between it and the Brachialis Anticus. The branches of the brachial artery are as fol- lows :—• (a) Si-iperior Profunda (profunda brachialis). (b) Inferior Profunda (collateralis ulnaris superior). (c) Nutrient Artery of the shaft. (rZ) Anastomotica (collateralis ulnaris inferior), (e) Muscular branches. (a) The siqyerior 2^rofunda arises from the posterior part of the vessel below the lower margin of the Teres Major muscle. It enters the groove between ' The term "island-formation" implies that the trunk of the vessel illustrating its use has divided into two branches, which, however, instead of remaining distinct, reunite a short distance beyond the point of division^ the inner and outer heads of the Triceps muscle, in company with the musculo-spiral nerve, to gain the ottter side of the arm, where, near the insertion of the Deltoid muscle, it divides into two branches, the ante- rior and the posterior.—The anterior branch pierces the external intermuscular septum, and lies between the Brachialis Anticus and Supinator Longus muscles. It gives branches to the Deltoid, Triceps, and Bra- chialis Anticus, and to the muscles arising from the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus. It anasto- moses with the anterior radial recurrent.—The post- erior (articular) branch descends vertically to supply the third head of the Triceps, and, reaching the elbow- joint, anastomoses with branches of the recurrent interosseous. The anterior branch will sometimes descend vertically along the outer side of the arm to a position behind the epicondyle. (/>) The inferior profunda^ smaller than the pre- ceding, arises opposite the insertion of the Coraco- Brachialis muscle, a little below the middle of the forearm. It passes downward and backward, piercing the intermuscular septum, to reach the Triceps mus- cle, on the anterior face of which it descends to the epitrochlea. (c) The nutrient artery of the shaft enters the humerus through a foramen upon the median side of the middle portion of the shaft. It is directed down- ward, and supplies the interior of the bone. It may perforate the Coraco-Brachialis. Harrison' describes a case of aneurism of tliis vessel, the result of fracture of the humerus, for which amputation of the arm became necessary. (cl) The anastomotica artery arises from the main trunk, about two inches above the bend of the elbow. It supplies the Brachialis Anticus, the third head of the Triceps, and the origins of the flexor muscles of the forearm, besides sending a branch across the pos- terior surface of the humerus above the olecranon fossa. The artery anastomoses with both ulnar re- current arteries. (e) The muscular branches supply chiefly the mus- cles on the front part of the arm, viz., the Biceps and the Brachialis Anticus. 1 Surg. Anat. of Arteries, 180. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXV. Fig. 1. The axillary and brachial arteries. | Fig. 2. The radial and ulnar arteries.