358 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. the Stylo-Hyoiil muscle, which must be drawn upward and forward. It is well, when pi-acticable, to expose the vessel at its origin from the common carotid, to be sure of ligating the main trunk below the point of origin of the superior thyroid. The needle should be inserted from without in- ward. The internal carotid artery and possibly the internal jugular vein may be seen, as well as the hypoglossal nerve, which crosses the vessel near the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle. In ligating tiie vessel above the Digastric, the procedures are the same as those above given, witii the exception tiiat the relation with the parotid gland is to be noted, and that this structure should be drawn outward. The point usually selected for the application of the liga- ture is from four to six lines above the point of bifurcation of the common carotid into the external and the internal carotid trunks, and between the origin of the superior thyroid and that of the lingual arteries, a distance of about half an inch. L. R. Longworth' found it to be less than this in eight instances out of twenty-eiglit examinations. The collateral circulation after ligation of the external carotid is readily established through the free anastomosis existing between the branches of the ligated vessel and those of the external carotid of the opposite side. In a ligation of the vessel for an aneurism on the common carotid artery at the origin of tlie external carotid, recorded by Mr. A. Poland, the ligature at first failed to check the bruit.^ This was attributed to the free entrance of blood down the external carotid into the sac. The sac, however, gradually filled with coagula, and a cure resulted. The cervical branches of this artery are capable of form- ing a vascular growth which simulates aneurism of the com- mon carotid artei-y. A case of this kind has been recorded by Kerr.* A woman of thirty-seven was observed to have a small pulsating tumor behind the angle of the inferior maxilla. At the end of three years it began to extend down- ward, and at the age of sixty-seven it had reached the sternum. The common carotid artery was now tied. Nine months afterward the patient died of pneumonia. No aneu- rism was found, but a vascular tumor, as above described, was seen to be supplied by the external carotid artery. The following include the branches of the External Carotid artery :— 1 Arcliives for Scientific and Prac. Med., 1873, 403. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, 1868, 528, 3 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ. Ixi. ■ cx^o^CXX- Directed inward (medianly). The Superior Thyroid. The Lingual. The Facial. Directed outward (laterally). The Occipital. The Posterior Auricular. Directed upward. The Temporal. The Internal Maxillary. The Ascending Pharyngeal. The branches of the external carotid mostly arise near one another below the parotid or deep portion of the vessel. THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. This artery arises from the external carotid, on a level with the hyoid bone. It passes forward and downward to supply the hyoid bone, the larynx, and the muscles depressing the hyoid apparatus, and ter- minates in the thyroid gland. As it crosses the interval between the great vessels and the larynx it is curved, with its concavity up- ward. It is covered anteriorly by the superior belly of the Omo-Hyoid muscle, by some small laryngeal veins, and by the Platysma and skin. Its branches are— (a) Hyoid. (b) Muscular. (c) Superior Laryngeal, {(1) Crico-Thyroid. (e) Terminal, (a) The hyoid hrancli passes beneath the Thyro- Hyoid muscle, and supplies the hyoid bone and ad- jacent parts. It is small, and not infrequently effects a direct anastomosis with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Dr. L. S. Pilcher^ reports (not, however, as having occurred in his practice) an interesting case in illustration of the im- portance of this small and apparently insignificant vessel. A child, nineteen months old, who had drawn during in- spiration a portion of a vertebra of a fish within the larynx, 1 Annals of Anat. and Surg., 1881, 160. • EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXIII. Fig. Fig. L 2. A diagram of the fojtal circulation. The arteries of the side of the neck and face. Fig. 3. The external carotid artery and its branches.