BLOODVESSELS. AND THE THE HEART 420 =>00^0<x=— I. THE VEINS OF THE PIA MATER. The Veins of the Pia Mater. These constitute the first grouping of the trunks conveying the return blood from the brain. AVhile the radicles are arranged in systems of coarse networks, the main vessels tend to accompany the cerebral arteries. They are divided into four groups. The firat group is composed of the veins lying upon the upper and median surfaces of the cerebrum. They occupy the sulci for the most part, and are directed slightly forward toward their termination, where they join the great longitudinal sinus by seven or eight distinct trunks. The second ^jroup is made up of veins derived from the interior of the brain. These collect blood from the choroid plexus and fornix, as well as from the walls of the lateral ventricle, and convey it to the velum interpositum, where the main vessels, called the venae Galeni, or the internal cerebral veins, escape from the brain at the transverse fissure and empty into the straight sinus. As these vessels pass from the brain, they are inclosed in a tubular prolongation of the arachnoid, known as the foramen of Bichat. According to Luschka this foramen is best seen in the young. The veins from the crura cerebri enter the veins of Galen, each by a distinct trunk. The third group includes the veins emptying into the sinuses at the base of the brain. These vessels are four in number. First, the anterior cere- hral vein. This vessel collects blood from the supra- orbital convolutions, and joins the cavernous sinus. Second, the middle cerebral vein, which corresponds in position to the course of the middle cerebral artery, and is received into the cavernous sinus. Third, tlie posterior cerebral vein, which follows the course of the posterior cerebral artery, and empties into the lateral sinus. Fourth, the anastomotic vein. This consists of two branches, both passing forward from the pos- terior cerebral vein : one follows the course of the posterior cerebral artery; the other the external border of the spheno-temporal lobe, to join the middle cerebral vein in the Sylvian fissure. Duret describes them as emptying independently into the superior petrosal sinus. When the anastomotic veins empty independently of the middle cerebral, they constitute the inferior cerebral veins, Avhich are specially described by Luschka. Two small veins from the spheno-temporal and occipital lobes empty into the superior petrosal sinus. The fourth group comprises the cerebellar veins. Tlie superior cerebellar veins, from two to four in number, extend along the upper surface of the supe- rior vermiform process, and enter either the lateral sinus or the veins of Galen. The inferior cerebellar veins, smaller than the preceding, terminate in the same manner.' II. THE VEINS OR SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The Veins of the D ura Mater. These include the system of trunks lying betwen the layers of the dura mater. They connect the veins of the brain with those of the neck. The Sinuses of the Dura Mater (fig. 2, Plate LXXIL; also F'g. 87) are sixteen in number:— The Unpaired Sinuses. Superior Longitudinal, Inferior Longitudinal. Straight. Circular. Anterior Occipital. Posterior Occipital. The Paired Sinuses. Cavernous. Spheno-Parietal. Superior Petrosal. Inferior Petrosal. Lateral. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus extends from the foramen csecum in the frontal bone to the internal occipital protuberance, where it ends in the torcular Herophili. It is narrow in front, wide behind, and of a triangular form. It at first lies upon the frontal crest, but afterward occupies the deepening groove upon the parietal and occipital bones. The interior of the sinus is traversed by numerous cords or trabecular. The superior and median cerebral veins join the sinus by branches which are directed forward, excepting a few at the anterior portion of the sinus, which, according to Cruveilhier, are directed from before backward. Out of thirty subjects, P. Trolard^ found in all but five a vein extending along the fissure of Sylvius between the superior longitudinal sinus and the superior petrosal sinus, or cavernous sinus. He designates this vessel as the great anastomotic vein. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus is lodged in the free inferior border of the falx, and collects blood from that membrane. It is small, of cylindrical form, 1 For special studies of the veins of the pia mater, see P. Troland, Recherch. sur I'Anatomie du Systeme veineux de rEncephale et du Crane, 1868; also Archives Generales de Medecine, 1870, 257 ; also Qh. Labbe. Archives de Pliysiol. Norm, et Path., 2 s^rie, t. vi. 1879, 135, fig. 2 Archives Generales de Med., March, 1870, 257.