369 THE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. posterior ethmoidal foramen to supply tlie posterior ethmoidal cells and the dura mater. (6) The anterior etlimoidalhr and I is generally larger than the preceding. It enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen, and passes, in company with the nasal nerve, through the anterior foramen of the cribriform plate, to the nose. It supplies a branch to the superior and middle turbinated bones and a small twig to the roof of the nasal chamber and the septum, where it anas- tomoses with the spheno-palatine artery. (7) The palpebral arteries. These are the terminal twigs of the main trunk, and supply both upper and lower lids, the tarsal cartilages and glands. The external palpebral and internal palpebral twigs anas- tomose one with another. (8) Muscular branches. In addition to those already described as branches of the lachrymal, twigs arise from the main trunk which are distributed to the inner, superior, and inferior periocular muscles. (9) The frontal artery winds round the inner edge of the supra-orbital margin of the orbit, furnishes branches to the inner part of the upper lids, and divides into branches which are lost beneath the skin of the lid and the forehead. A few twigs are distributed to the nasal slip of the Occipito-Frontalis muscle. (10) The nasal branch pierces the Orbicularis Palpe- brarum over the internal palpebral ligament, and passes down alono- the root of the nose to anastomose with the terminal angular branch of the facial. Occasion- ally a vessel is seen crossing the bridge of the nose to join the vessel of the same name of the opposite side. Branches also go to the lachrymal sac and canal, to the lachrymal caruncle, and to the origin of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum. The ophtliahnic artery with its field of distribution has been compaied to a cone wliose general figure answers to tiiat of the orbit, and which retains the central retinal artery as an axis. In reviewing its branches, it is seen that distinct branches are reserved to the eyeball and its appendages. Important anastomoses are observed at the root of the nose, between branches of the external carotid, the facial and the nasal, the ethmoidal, and the spheno-palatine arteries. It appears never to anastomose with the anterior or the niidJIe cerebral artery. Nunneley^ lias described an example of aneurism affecting the encranial portion of the artery. The ophthalmic artery may effect an important anas- tomosis with the middle meningeal, and in a measure interchange with this vessel. In orbital aneurism it is probable, therefore, that branches of the middle meningeal would be found enlarged. 47 ' Trans. Path. Soc. 1860, xi. 8, fig. (</) The anterior cerebral artery. The anterior cere- bral artery arises from the carotid, nearly at a right angle to that vessel, and forms with the middle cere- bral an obtuse angle open forward and outward, and directed toward the rostrum of the corpus callosum. After curving forward round the anterior extremity of this body, near and parallel to the corresponding artery of the opposite side, it divides into three or four branches which supply the frontal lobe, the parietal lobe as it appears within the longitudinal fissure, and the corpus callosum. In addition to this distribution, the vessel supplies the optic nerve of the same side, the rostrum as well as the main portion of the corpus callosum, and the caudate nucleus. The su[)ply of the latter may, however, be derived from the middle cerebral artery. The terminal twigs may supply the pineal gland, and even reach the posterior cerebral commis- sure. Aneurism, at the basal portion of the artery, press- ing upon the seventh nerve, has been reported by Durand and J. W. Ogle.' (e) Tlie anterior communicating artery. The anterior communicating artery unites the two anterior cerebral arteries. It is situated beneath the rostrum of the corpus callo.um, a short distance in front of the optic chiasm. Sometimes there are two arteries in this position, one of normal size, the other smaller. The communicating arterv furnishes branches to the gray layer in connection with the optic chiasm, to the rostrum of the corpus callosum, and often one or two larger branches perforating the latter to the ante- rior pillars of the fornix, the anterior commissure, and the septal area. { f) Tlie middle cerebral artery. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, divides into four branches on the island of Reil. Commonly the first of these is detached from the others, and supplies the orbital region at its outer part and the inferior frontal convolution. The second branch supplies the middle frontal convolution poste- riorly, while the third passes by means of the fissure of Rolando to the upper part cf the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions. The fourth is limited to the posterior division of the fissure of Sylvius, to both sides of which it gives branches, above to the inferior frontal and below to the superior splieno- temporal convolution. The artery, in addition, sends numerous minute twigs through the anterior perfo- rated space to supply the striated body and associated parts. ' M<-d.-Chir. Trans., xlii. 407.