• Archiv. Generales de Med., 2d serie, t. xii. 1836, 81. 2 London Med. Gaz., 184(), 834. PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. c»00^00<i 351 costal space, directly to the left side of tlie sternum, the right margin of the vessel answering nearly to the left border of the bone. On either side of the origin of the vessel lie the two auricular appendages. The margin of the left lung is placed in front of the pulmonary artery. When this is retracted, as in pleurisy, the pulmonary artery lies against the chest-wall. About on a level with the second costal cartilage the vessel divides into two branches—the right and the left pulmonary branches. The right pulmonary branch is the longer and stouter of the two. It passes transversely to the right side, beneath the ascending portion of the aortic arch and superior vena cava, to the root of the lung, where it divides into three branches, which enter the lung substance. The left pulmonary branch is directed less hori- zontally than the right. It passes in front of the left bronchus, behind the ascending portion of the aortic arch, to the left lung, where it divides into two branches before entering the lung substance. The vessel adheres to the arch of the aorta at the point where remains of the ductus arteriosus are found, and passes in front of the descending aorta. The ductus arteriosus thus lies to the left side of the point of division of the pulmonary artery, and joins that artery and the under surface of the aorta. In fcetal life the ductus receives the greater volume of blood flowing through the pulmonary artery. The walls of the pulmonary artery collapse after death.—Both the main vessel and the branches are in relation with the visceral or serous layer of the pericardium.—Filaments of the sympathetic nerve pasvsing to join the coronary plexus lie upon the vessel. Remarks.—The pulmonary semilunar valves are rarely increased to four. The additional valve is generally smaller, though it may be as large as the others.^ Dr. Norman Chevers^ has described a speci- men preserved in the museum of Guy's Hospital, in which the additional valve was without a corpus Arantii, but presented a thin membranous bridle which extended upward from the usual position of the corpus Arantii to the wall of the artery above. This arrangement recalls the normal disposition of the parts as seen in the shark. The pulmonary artery may be double, and yet the heart be normal.—Rupture of the pulmonary artery 1 Dr. .Jenner, Trans. Path. Soc. London, iv. 1853, 102, also C. H. Carter, Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1873, 48. both above and beneath the line of the reflected peri- cardium has been recorded. The plane of the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery is slightly above the plane of the analogous valves of the aorta. THE PULMONARY VEINS. The Pulmonary veins (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LVIII.; fig. 2, Plate LIX.; fig. 4, Plate LX.; figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXI.)are four in number, two on each side, and are somewhat larger than the corresponding pulmon- ary arteries. They convey arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle. Their course is transversely inward and slightly downward. Their terminal portions, as a rule, are covered in front with the serous layer of the pericar- dium. Those of the right side are longer than those of the left. The vessels on both sides enter the left auricle at the sides, near the summit. The veins may be said to lie behind the third costal cartilage. The radicles of the pulmonary veins within the lung substance lie behind both arteries and bronchi. At the root of the lung the veins lie in front of both artery and bronchus. The right veins pass below the pulmonary artery and behind the suj^erior vena cava, the right auricle, and the ascending aorta. The left veins pass in front of descending aorta. Variations—The pulmonary veins rarely unite to form a single trunk, but more frequently the vessels are increased in number. The pulmonary veins may be two or three instead of four or five in number. Tliey mny, in rare malformations, enter the venae cavii? or ventricles. In transposition of the two sides of the heart, tlie pulmonary veins open into tlie riglit auricle. In a case recorded by Ruval Chassinat,' a single pulmonary vein from the left lung entered the left auricle, while the single vessel from the right lung passed through the Diaphragm, and joined the ascending vena cava. . THE SYSTEMIC ARTERIES. THE AORTA. The Aorta (Plates LVIIL, LIX., LX., LXI.) is the largest vessel in the body. It arises from the sum- mit of the left ventricle, and passes upward and to the right as far as the second costal cartilage. It thence curves upward, backward, and to the left, and descends along the left side of the bodies of the vertebrae as far as a point opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in the two iliac arteries.