' Trans. Path. Soc. London, x. p. 4. some of which pass inward to supply the superior THE POSTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY. ^x>^ooo 377 within the basilar artery will be arrested at the point of origin of the posterior cerebral arteries, since these vessels are small and pass nearly transversely outward. See in addition the account of tiie circle of Willis. The branches of the basilar artery are— (a) Transverse, (b) Auditory. (c) Anterior Inferior Cerebellar. (d) Superior Cerebellar. (e) Posterior Cerebral. (/) Branches to the Pons Varolii. (a) The transverse branches, from three to four in number on either side, supply the inferior surface of the pons Varolii. (b) The audilory branch arises from the basilar near its origin. It passes forward and outward, and enters the internal auditory meatus to supply the labyrinth. (c) The anterior inferior cerebellar branch arises from about the middle of the basilar artery, between the sixth and seventh nerves. It passes outward along the middle peduncle of the cerebellum to be dis- tributed to the under anterior surface of the hemi- sphere of its own side. This appears to be the middle cerebellar artery of some writers. The last-named vessel may be an enlarged transverse artery lying be- tween the inferior and anterior inferior cerebellar arteries. Remakks Aneurism of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery is apt to press on the third, seventh, and eighth nerves. Anosmia may be found to coexist with tliese symp- toms.—Abnormal arrangements of the inferior cerebellar arteries have definite relations to the localization of emboli. The artery may arise from the trunk of the basilar, or from a trunk in common with one of the transverse arteries. Tlie blood supply to this surface, instead of being derived from the vertebral, may come entirely from tlie basilar. Tlie branches of the transverse vessels may come from the superior cerebi^llar instead of from the basilar, so that ob- struction of the latter artery need not necessarily affect the nutrition of the basal portion of the hemisi)heres. (t/) The superior cerebellar branch arises at a right angle from the basilar artery, near its point of division, just behind the anterior border of the pons. Many authors regard it as a terminal branch of the basilar. The superior cerebellar passes outward, lying in the groove which separates the crus cerebri from the pons, winds around the crus parallel to the fourth nerve and tbe posterior cerebral artery, from which it is sepa- rated by the origin of the third nerve. It divides near the corpora qnadrigemina into numerous branches, 48 vermiform process and the valve of the fourth ventri- cle, while others pass outward to the superior surface of the cerebellum. A case of aneurism of this vessel has been noted b}' Ri is- towe.' {/) The posterior cerebral branch is one of the two terminal branches of the basilar artery. It passes out- ward from its origin, winds round the crus cerebri of its own side in front of the third nerve, and, following the course of the great transverse fissure between the occipital lobe of the cerebrum and the cerebellum, supplies by its terminal branches the cortex of the occipital and spheno-temporal lobes of its own side, and the parts lying within and bordering upon the third ventricle. The branches of the posterior cerebral artery arre— (1) Branches to the Cortical Portion of the Cerebrum. (2) Branches to the Optic Thalamus. (8) Branches to the Crus Cerebri. (4) Posterior Choroid. (5) Anastomotic. (1) The branches to the cortical portion of the cere- brum supply the occipital lobe, including the calca- rine fissure, the region of the hippocampu;- major, and the spheno-temporal lobe. A branch to the median surface of the occipital lob.e at the lingual lobule has received the specific name of the occipital branch. (2) The branches to the ojAic thalamus pierce the posterior perforated space. Two sets of minute branches are embraced under this head, one passing to the median portion of the thalamus (internal poste- rior arteries), and another passing to the lateral por- tion (external posterior arteries). (3.) The trawc/ifs to tlie cms cere/rrMnelude a number of minute twigs which enter the crus at its lateral surface. (4) The posterior choroid branch passes forward from the transverse fissure to supply the choroid plexus, the velum interpositum, the pineal gland, the corpora qnadrigemina, and the geniculate bodies. The two structures last named may, however, receive their blood supply by distinct twigs from the cortical branches. (5) The anastomotic branches include (1) the 2Jos- terior communicating artery, which joins the posterior cerebral with the internal carotid (see account of the circle of Willis), and (2) the junction between the terminal branches of the posterior cerebral and those of the middle cerebral and the cerebellar arteries.