316 THE HEART AND internal layers, wbicli is observed to occur in all parts of the ventricular walls, whether they be viewed anteriorly, pos- teriorly, or from tlie septal side, lias been partially figured by Senac,^ and imperfectly described by Reid,^ but has not hitherto been fully elucidated. It has not had that share of attention bestowed upon it which its importance demands. The two sets of fibres which constitute the superficial or first external layer of the left ventricle, and which enter the left apex in two separate portions or bundles, are for the most part continuous in the interior with the Masculi Papil- lares, to the free ends of which the chordte tendinea3 are attached. The Ifuscitli PapiUares, as w-ill be seen fi-om this account, bear an important relation to the segments of the mitral valve, to which they are directly connected by tendi- nous bands. They merit from this circumstance a more pai- ticular description than that given of the other fibres. On looking at the left auricnlo-ventricular opening, the fibres of the first layer are seen to arise from the fibrous ring surrounding the aorta, and from the auriculo-ventricu- lar tendinous ring in two divisions: the one division pro- ceeding /Vom the anterior portions of the rings, and winding in a spiral, nearly vertical, direction, from before backward, to converge and enter the apex posteriorly; the other set proceeding from the posterior portions of the rinys, and winding in a spiral direction from behind forward, to con- verge and enter the apex anteriorly. Having entered the apex, the two sets of external fibres are collected togetiier, and form the Musculi Papillares and columns carnese; the one set, viz., that which proceeded from tlie auriculo-ventri- cular orifice anteriorly and entered the 'd[)exposteriorly, curv- ing round in a spiral direction from right to left upward, and forming the anterior Muscidus Papillaris and the columnce carnecB next to it; the other set, which proceeded from the auriculo-ventricular orifice posteriorly, and entered tlie apex anteriorly, curving round in a corresponding spiral direction, and forming the posterior Musculiis Papillaris and adjoining columnce carnece. As the external fibres converge on near- ing the apex, so the internal continuations of these fibres radiate toward the base; and hence the conical shape of the Musculi Papillares. Particular attention is directed to the course and position of these structures, as they have always, though erroneously, been regarded as simply vertical columns, instead of more or less vertical spiral columns. It is worthy of remark that, while the left apex is closed by two sets of spiral fibres, the left auriculo- ' Traite de la Structure du Coeur, de son Action, etc. Paris, 1749. 2 Cyc. of Anat. and Phys., art. "Heart." London, 1839. HE BLOODVESSELS. ventricular orifice is occluded during the systole by the two spiral flaps or segments constituting the bicuspid valve. The bilateral arrangement, therefore, which obtains in all parts of the left ventricle and in the Musculi Papillares extends also to tlie segments of the bicuspid valve, and hence its name. What has been said of the arrangement of the fibres in the left ventricle applies with slight modifications to the fibres of the right one ; and many are of the opinion that the tricuspid valve is in reality bicuspid in its nature. The shape of the ventricular cavities of the heart of the mammal greatly influences the movements of the mitral and tricuspid valves, by monlding the blood into certain forms, and causing it to act in certain directions. A precise outline of the ventricular cavities is obtained by filling the ventricles with wax or plaster of Paris, these substances, when allowed to harden, furnishing an accurate cast of the parts. The Development of the Heart and the Great Vessels. The heart at the third week is tubuhir, bent upon itself, and the auricular or lower portion receiving the omphalo-mesenteric vein is placed above or behind and to the left of the ventricular part. Above the ventricular part is a cone-shaped chamber, continuous above with the vascular arches, which is called the truncus communis arteriosus or aortic bulb. In the sixth or seventh week the septum of the ventricle makes its appearance. In the eighth week the auricular septum is begun. At about the same time, three veins enter the auricle from behind. Of these, two correspond to the right superior cava and the inferior cava, and the third to the left superior cava of the adult. They are connected with what afterward becomes the coronary sinus. In the eleventh week the Eustachian valve forms, beginning from above, and advancing toward the base of the heart. In the seventh week the division of the bulb into aorta and pulmonary artery begins. This affects the inner and middle layers of the bulb only. The development of the valves is coincident in time with the appearance of the septa. A. C. Bernays' has elaborately described and figured the development, of the auriculo-ventricular valves. He found the 1 Morpliolog. Jalirbucher, 1876, Bd. ii. 478. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LX. Fig. ]. The view of the interior of the right auricle. Fig. 2. The view of the interior of tlie left venti'icle. Fio-. 3. The view of the interior of the right ventricle. Fig. 4. The view of the interior of the left auricle.