THE SYSTEMIC AKTEKIES. 355 oo<;^C>oc I THE COROXAKY ARTERIES. The Coronary Arteries are two in number, tlie right and the left. They arise from the anterior aspect of the aorta, opposite the two anterior of tlie three sinuses of Valsalva. Both the arteries are very tortuous. The vessels pass downward and slightly outward on either side of the infandibulum.— The right coronary artery is the larger. It arises nearly behind the ini'undibulum, and passes along the right auriculo-ventricular groove to the posterior surface of the heart. Opposite the posterior inter- ventricular groove, it divides into two branches, one descending the groove to be lost toward the apex of the heart, the other passing transversely in the auri- culo-ventricular groove toward the left border of the heart. The branches of the right coronary artery are chiefly distributed to the right ventro-posterior wall of the left ventricle. Several smaller branches supply the left ventricle.—The left coronary artery passes obliquely downward to the left, between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendage. It lies for the most part in the anterior inter-ventri- cular groove. A transverse branch follows the direc- tion of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. The artery supplies the left auricle and the corresponding auricular appendage, and sends some small nutritive branches to the pulmonary artery and the aorta. Notwitlistanding the statement generally made to the contrary, the coronary arteries have a feeble commntiication with one anotiier. The trunks may be three or four in number. The coronary arteries are rarely the seat of aneu- rism, the right vessel being the one more frequently affected. They are peculiarly liable to atheromatous deposit. THE INXOMIXATE ARTERY. The Innominate artery (brachio-cephalic) (fig. 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 1, 2, Phate LXI.) arises from the beginning of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, passes obliquely iipward and backward toward the right, and is the most superficial of the branches of the arch. It measures from one to fifteen lines in length, terminating opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation in the right subclavian and right carotid arteries. Relations In front lie the sternimi, the Sterno-Tliyroid and Sterno-Hyoid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the left innominate vein, the right inferior thyroid vein, and, in inspiration, the median edge of the right lung. The vessel crosses the trachea obliquely. To the right side, and a little in front of the artery, are tlie right innomi- nate vein and the pleura. The right pneumogastric nerve is seen between the right innominate vein and the artery, but on a lower plane. To the left is the left common carotid, separated by a small triangular interval, within which the trachea appears. To the front and the left on the same side the remains of the thymus may also be seen. In infants, and occasionally in adults, the innominate artery crosses the trachea at a point so near the level of the upper margin of the sternum as to be included within the contents of the base of the neck. A knowledge of this iiict is of great importance to the surgeon, both in the perform- ance and in the after-treatment of tracheotomy. Incautious use of the knife may open the vessel, while the pressure of the tracheal tube may induce ulceration and fatal hemor- rhage. The great vessels do not arise from the arch of the aorta as vertical stems, but are more or less obliquely placed to the arch, forming a cone-like figure whose base is upward. Tlie innominate artery is slightly inclined from the median line toward the right, while the left carotid and subcla- vian are inclined from the median line toward the left. The carotid is nearer to the innominate than to the sub- clavian. According to Richard Barwell,' " if the ascending aorta be severed from the rest, a little to the proximal side of the in- nominate, and we look along the tube of the transverse part, we do not see the orifices of the carotid and subclavian vessels foreshortened into an oval or mere slit, as would be the case if these vessels were given off straight and plumb from the parent stem, but they look nearly round. If a little hole be made in each carotid, just below its bifurcation, and a probe be passed along each common trunk, as far as it will go without the use offeree, and if, then, the front wall of the chest, etc. be removed, and the ascending aorta care- fully opened, the two probes will be found crossing within the vessel. The right one will be seen to pass through the aortic opening, not far from its left margin, and to lie well in the ventricle. The left one will be seen to strike the tendinous ring of the aortic orifice on the right side of the vessel. The probe is never in the axis of the ascending aorta, but strikes the wall at a considerable angle." This writer gives reasons for believing that a concretion detached from an aortic valve almost invariably passes into the left carotid (sometimes into the left subclavian, but into the right carotid only once in twenty-five times), ahd conceives that the current of blood issuing from the aortic orifice fol- lows a course the shortest line of which is in the position of the probe j)assing from the left common carotid to the right of the aortic orifice. The most potent rush of the stream would be, therefore, somewhat obliquely across the ascending aorta in the direction of the left carotid. The artery may lie in front of the trachea. In forced expiration the lung retires from in front of the innominate • Med.-Ciiir. Trans., Ixii. 396.