422 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. of the anterior occipital condyle outside of the skull. As above remarked, this writer asserts that it re- ceives from in front the inferior petrosal and the petro-occipital sinuses, as well as several small veins from the sides and from behind. The Cavernous Sinuses are symmetrical structures lodged between the side of the body and the base of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Each sinus presents an irregular outline, slightly tapering in front, where it receives the ophthalmic vein. It ends abruptly behind, where it joins tlie superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. It unites on its inner side with the circular sinus. Among its minor points of limitation may be mentioned its extension a slight distance witiiin the carotid canal at the side of the artery. This lias received from Trolard the name of the carotid sinus. Each cavernous sinus and the spheno-parietal sinus also receives one of the great meningeal veins of its own side. A small branch uniting the sinus with the pterygoid plexus passes through the oval foramen of the sphenoid bone. The interior of the cavernous sinus is traversed by fibrous bands, from which fact the sinus receives its name. Extending apparently through it, but separated from the venous blood by the delicate lining membrane, are the internal carotid artery and its plexus of filaments of the sympathetic nerve. The third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair run within the outer bound- ary of the sinus. A little to its outer side is the sixth pair of nerves. The Spheno-Parietal Sinuses. These lie along the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. They communicate with the median meningeal vein with the anterior temporal and diploic, occasionally also with a small vein known as the ophthalmo- meningeal, and empty into the cavernous sinus. The Superior Petrosal Sinuses are small, and extend on each side along the petrous bone on the ridge be- tween the anterior and posterior surfaces. They lie between the layers of the lateral margin of the tento- rium, and join the cavernous sinus to its inner, and the lateral sinus to its outer, side. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus extends downward along the line of junction between the petrous and occipital bones. It joins the cavernous sinus in front and the lateral sinus behind. According to Trolard, he. cit., the inferior petrosal sinus does not join the lateral, but the anterior condyloid vein. A small associated sinus is sometimes found lying below the preceding. It extends through the fibro- cartilage of the middle lacerated foramen. The petro-occipital sinus of Trolard extends from the anterior to the posterior lacerated foramen, and ends in the anterior occipital sinus. The Lateral Sinuses extend between the torcular Herojjhili and the posterior lacerated foramen, where each sinus ends in the beginning of the internal jugular vein. Each lateral sinus is capacious, and lies in the transverse groove of the occipital bone, and in the deep sigmoid depression upon the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The main current of blood within the lateral sinuses is carried directly to the internal jugular vein. They receive the blood from the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, and very frequently from the cerebellar veins. Small poste- rior condyloid veins often empty into the lateral sinuses. The right lateral sinus is commonly larger than the left. "When the sinuses are sj'mrnetrical, the straight sinus commonly opens by two or three apertures on the anterior wall of the torcular Hero- phili. III. THE DIPLOIC AND THE MENINGEAL VEINS. The Diploic and Meningeal Veins are for the most part tributaries to the sinuses. The veins of the diploe (fig. 1, Plate LXXII.) are received within bony canals, which traverse the diploe in an arborescent manner, and are directed from above downward. They are arranged, according to Breschet, in a frontal, a temporal, and an occipital set. They empty by piercing the inner plate of the skull and joining the sinuses of the dura mater, as is occa- sionally seen in the temporal set, which joins the sinus of the lesser sphenoidal wing. Those of the forehead join the ophthalmic vein. Those of the occiput terminate in the transverse or the occipital sinus. Tlie diploic veins exist in great number as tortuous venous tracts of varying calibre, lined with pavement epithelium. Beginning without tnembran- ous walls, but gradually becoming better defined, they pass downward toward the lower limit of the vault of the skull. When the veins flow outward, they pierce the outer plate, and unite with the nearest vein of the scalp. The meningeal veins proper, as distinguished from those already described, are the vena3 comites of the corresponding arteries. The largest are the pair of veins of the great meningeal artery. One of these terminates in the cavernous sinus; the other escapes through the spinous or oval foramen, and joins the pterygoid plexus of the internal maxillary vein. Occa-