429 THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. Variations.—Sometimes the median vein will consist of three branches. The vente comites may unite to form a sinjrle vessel which passes between the two roots of the median nerve to join the axillary vein. The veins on the back of the forearm are constant for the most part, and increase the volume of the ulnar vein. A central trunk, more constant than the others, is called the interosseous vein. The radial may carry most of its blood to the basilar by a large radio-basilar vein, which also receives the greater part of the blood from the median. The deep veins consist for the most part of the venae comites of the main arteries of the limb ; they possess more valves, and are less variable, than those of the superficial set. The superficial contribute to the volume of the deep veins, especially in the neighbor- hood of joints. The deep veins terminate through the venfe comites of the brachial artery, emptying into the axillary veins at ths lower margin of the Subscapularis mus- cle. According to Cruveilhier, the circumflex vein does not join the axillary directly, but runs for some distance parallel to its course. Eemarks.—The median basilic vein is the one usually selected for phlebotomy. For the effects of phlebitis, see Axillary Vein. THE AXILLARY VEIN. The Axillary Vein extends from the tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi muscle to the upper border of the Pectoralis Minor at the lower edge of the first rib. It terminates in the subclavian, with which it is continuous. It lies to the inner side of the axillary artery, the ulnar nerve and the inner head of the median nerve alone intervening. In front of its upper portion is the Pectoralis Minor muscle. The vessel receives veinsaccompanying the branches of the axillary artery, as well as the basilic and cephalic veins. In rare instances it is double. Not uncommonly the trunk is single and well defined in the parts answering to the first and second portions of the artery of the same name; while opposite the third portion of the axillary arter}^ its place is taken by two trunks, the outer of these receiving blood from the vente comites of the brachial, and the inner from the skin of the inner side of the arm and the chest wall. Remarks.—The axillary vein is sometimes ruptured by the fragments of a broken humerus. This oc- curred in an instance reported by Eraser,' in a boy thirteen years old. Ligation was ])erformed, and the patient recovered.—B. Cooper^ details the serious effects of air entering this vein during an amputation at the shoulder-joint. The patient, after a protracted illness, recovered. The axillary vein is the point at which the changes peculiar to phlebitis of the superior extremity are arrested. This arrest is in harmony with the fact that an inflammatory process in one vein is not liable to be continued into the trunk into which it em[)lies, provided that the trunk is of much greater lumen than its tributary. Any of the radicles of the veins of the hand, the forearm, and the arm, readily trans- mit the effects of inflammation, since their calibres are nearly equal; but inflamed venous tracks, as they join the axillary vein, have but little disposition to involve that vein. As far as the writer knows, the effects of plilebitis of the superior extremity are rarely transmitted to the subclavian ve'n, and never thence either to the internal jugular vein or the in- nominate vein. This limitation to the spread of in- flammation of the veins in the upper extremity is in marked contrast to the tendency of femoral phlebiti.s, which frequently involves the iliac vessels, and may even invade the inferior vena cava. The position of the axillary vein, being as it is in a region of com- parative security and rest as compared with that of the femoral vein, may explain this contrast.—Phlebitis of the axillary vein, and inflammation of the axillary lymphatic glands and vessels, when of high grade, are apt to involve the upper intercostal spaces and the parietal layer of the pleura. In this way a fatal pleurisy may supervene upon a phlebitis and an angeioleucitis. THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. The Subclavian Vein is less arched than the artery which it accompanies, and extends from the lower margin of the first rib to the sterno-clavicular articu- lation. It rests upon the first rib, which it crosses obliquely from below upward and inward to reach the inner side of the subclavian artery, from Avhich it is separated hy the Scalenus Anticus muscle. As its name implies, it lies beneath the clavicle, as well as beneath the costo-coracoid fascia, the Subclavius muscle, and the clavicular fibres of the Pectoralis Major muscle. Toward its termination it may be > Lancet, 1849, 205. s Med. Chir. Trans., xxvii., 1844, 41.