THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. c><>o^§<><>g-- 375 A detailed account of the Manner in ivhich the Verte- bral Artery jjasses from (he Neck to the Head.—In con- sequence of the great width of the atlas, the vessel, after passing through the transverse process of the axis, is directed obliquely upward and outward across the inferior articular process of this bone. It enters the corresponding foramen of the atlas, and appears on the upper surface of the posterior arch, where it lies nearly horizontal in a deep groove, and winds abruptly round the posterior edge of the superior articular process. Thence it enters the cavity of the cranium at the foramen magnum, by piercing the occipito-atloid ligament and dura mater. Within the cranium the vessel passes forward and upward to the inner side of the occipito-atloid articulation, at the side of the medulla oblongata, between the olivary body and the anterior pyramid. It soon passes be- neath the medulla to iucline toward the median line, where it joins the artery of the opposite side at the spheno-occipital junction to form the basilar. Relations For the better appreciation of tlie relations of the vertebral artery, it is well to divide its course into four parts. 1st. Tiiat part between its origin and its entrance into the vertebrtB. 2d. That part within the vertebrse. 3d. That part on the posterior arch of tlie atlas. 4th. Tiiat part within tlie skull. 1st. The vessel lies to the outer side of the common carotid artery, and a little to the inner side, but not infrequently directly behind tlie thyroid axis, and.on a plane deeper than tiiat of either of these structures. It lies within a triangular space of which the subclavian artery forms the base, the Anterior Scalenus muscle the lateral, and the Longus Colli the median border. The internal jugular vein is in front of the artery, and the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic behind it. This portion of the vertebral artery is without branches. 2d. Within the vertebra3 the artery is surrounded by fila- ments of the sympathetic nerve. The vertebral vein lies in front of the artery. Behind it are the nerves tributary to the cervical plexus on their way to the intervertebi-al fora- mina. As the artery passes I'rom one vertebra to another it lies between the Inter-Transverse muscles. At these points the artei-y gives off the lateral spinal and muscular branches. 3d. Upon the posterior arch of the atlas the artery occupies a triangle, of which the Inferior Oblique muscle forms the base ; the Superior Oblique, and the Rectus Posticus Major, the outer and inner sides respectively. Beneath it, on the groove of the atlas, is the first occipital nerve. At the trans- verse process, the Rectus Capitis Lateralis separates tlie vessel from the occipital artery. 4th. Within the cranium the vessel lies between the medulla oblongata and the occipito-atloid articulation. It passes before or through the filaments of the hypoglossal nerve, and lies to the inner side of the suboccipital nerve. It terminates at the posterior border of the pons Varolii. This portion of the artery yields the remaining branches. The branches of the vertebral artery are— Cervical Encranial > (a) Lateral S]iinal, (b) Muscular. (c) Posterior Meningeal, ((/) Posterior Spinal. (e) Anterior Spinal. (/) Posterior Inferior Cerebellar. (rt) The lateral spi'/ial branches, from four to six in number, enter the spinal canal through the inter- vertebral foramina, and are distributed to the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebraa and the perios- teum. Branches also supply the membranes of the spinal cord; a few delicate twigs pierce the mem- branes to supplv the nerve matter. The artery anas- tomoses with the anterior and posterior spinals. (b) The muscular branches supply the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomose with the ascending and deep cervical arteries. (c) ^\iQ 'posterior meningeal branch enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and is distributed to the dura mater of the cerebellar fossa and the falx cerebri. ((/) The^Josto'/ors/y/riflZartery arises from the median side of the mam trunk, below the anterior spinal artery, and passes down the lateral groove of the spinal cord as far as the second lumbar vertebra, sending branches to the posterior roots of the spinal cord, and a delicate ascending braucli to the fourth ventricle. The vessel is smaller than the anterior spinal artery, and more tortuous. It anastomoses with branches of the lateral spinal, anterior spinal, and intercostal arteries. (e) The anterior spinal branch originates from the median side of the vertebral, a short distance from its termination in the basilar. It unites with its fellow of the opposite side, in front of the medulla oblongata, directly below the level of the foramen magnum. It thence passes as a single somewhat tortuous vessel along the anterior median fissure throughout the en- tire length of the spinal cord. The vessel gradually decreases in size as far as the cervical enlargement of the cord, from which point it presents a more variable calibre, and is irregularly tortuous near its termina- tion. The artery receives important accessions from the ascending cervical and pre-vertebral branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery in the neck, from the intercostals in the thorax, and from the ilio-