AND THE 338 BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET shaft of a bone, as in the linnbs, its rarity in the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta, and the almost absolute freedom from invasion seen in the common carotid are recalled. From the fact men- tioned in the preceding paragraph, that an artery can be temporarily occluded in forced flexion, it would appear that a vessel so placed would be liable to com- pression or tension from varying states of the joint near which it is placed. Under favorable conditions this might lead to diseased action.—The vessels near a joint are frequently lacerated in dislocation. Additional causes of diseased action are associated with undue constriction of the bloodvessels, or dimin- ished elasticity of their walls. Narrowing of the lumen of the aorta will induce disease of the parenchyma of the kidneydiminished elasticity of the walls leads to rupture and to the innumerable lesions arising from the escape of blood into the surrounding tissues. Veins.—The veins receive the blood after it passes through the capillaries and conduct it to the heart. To assist the blood in its ascent, their walls are fur- nished, as a rule, with great numbers of valves. These valves are arranged in pairs, and consist of crescentic folds of the tunica inlima (p. 73), so disposed as to present their free edges toward the larger or cardiac end of the vein. The valves are most numerous in the superficial veins of the extremities. They are absent in the smallest and the largest veins, in the sinuses, in all the veins in and about bones, the umbili- cal vein, the portal vein, the hepatic, renal, and uterine veins, and in the ovarian or spermatic vein. Dr. J. H. Brinton and Mr. Eivington, however, have de- monstrated the presence of a valve at the junction of the right spermatic and the renal veins. The veins are more numerous than the arteries. While the larger arteries, such as the carotid, the subclavian, the common iliac, the femoral, and the hypogastric, as well as the larger visceral trunks, have one accompanying vein, the majority of the arteries next in size have two veins connected by occasional transverse veins, the whole tending to form a coarse network whose longest segments are parallel with the artery. The superficial veins follow the course of the superficial nerves. In most instances where an artery and a vein are superimposed, the vein is the more superficial of the two. Hence-v^ins are apt to be, compressed by aneurismal tumors.—Veins exhibit- a ° tendency to the formation of plexuses; as afTout the foramen magnum, the intervertebral canals, and in or about the bloodvessel glands. 1 J. Zielonko, Vircliow's Archiv., 1874, Ixi. ii. 267. The mechanical value of veins, by which term is meant the use of the vessels when full of blood, in their relations to adjacent structures, is very great. A vis- cus or other structure surrounded by a venous plexus, as a pelvic organ, or the cerebrum, is protected as by a cushion from shock or injurious contact, at the same time that the temperature is maintained. The relation of venous trunks to neighboring parts is of value in studying their action after wounds or other lesions. The compression of the surrounding tissues by the escape of blood from a deep vein in the limb assists in arresting bleeding. Hence such venous hemorrhage is apt to be localized, and does not induce tension of the parts. Such compression would be less decided in the axilla and neck than in. the thigh and forearm, while in the visceral cavities it would probably be entirely absent. The surrounding tissues can, however, in no wise arrest arterial hem- orrhage. Thus if a large artery be wounded in its course through a limb, the collection of blood is large, and the general tumefaction great. Pollock^ proposes by this fact to distinguish venous from arterial rup- ture. The point where an artery divides or a vein re- ceives a tributary is of interest. In the case of an artery an aneurism is liable to be located at the point where a twig is given off, and an embolus is apt to project into the lumen of a vein at the point where a venule is received. Veins may be invaded by malignant disease. The internal jugular vein has become involved by a growth of soft cancer extending from the primary mass in the interior of the skull. In an instance recorded in connection with ligation of the common carotid, Lisfranc detected a tumor behind the angle of the jaw,^ which proved to be of this character. Analo- gous processes occurring in the venas cavae, the femoral, and even in the azygos vein have been recorded. THE HEAET. General Remarhs.—The heart is a complex muscu- lar apparatus designed for the propulsion of the blood. It is a symmetrical structure, and pi'esents on either side of a common septum a pair of communicating cav- ities or chambers. The cavity which first receives the blood and sends it to the second is called the auricle ; that which receives the blood from the auricle and sends it out of the heart is called the ventricle. The 1 St. George's Hospital Rep., 186(), 247. 2 Quoted by G. W. Norris, Am. Jourii. Nat. Sci., 1874, 14.