THE VEINS OF THE NECK. 427 =>.OC^^<X>-: The superior thyroid vein is in association with the artery of the same name. Below it is placed a smaller vein called the middle thyroid. The great vas- cularity of the thyroid body determines a number of venous trunks in and about it, which tend to follow the course of the arteries of the same region. The veins, passing upward from the thyroid body may be considered as tributaries to the superior thyroid vein, and those passing downward as tributaries to the in- ferior thyroid. The superior thyroid veins proper are two in number, one on each side of the superior thy- roid artery. Answering to the anastomosis of the superior thyroid arteries, at the upper border of the isthmus of the thyroid body, is a transverse ve.n which connects the two superior thyroid veins. Lying in the pretracheal space, extending thence to the left innominate vein, and in a sense parallel to the inferior thyroid artery, is the inferior thyroid vein. This vein is often independent of a second inferior thyroid vein which joins the internal jugular at or near the level of the inferior border of the thyroid body. Eemarks.—For the entrance of air into veins, see Internal Jugular Vein. An incision across the inferior thyroid vein, whose walls, being imbedded in inflamed tissue, could not collapse, has caused sudden death by the entrance of air. Parise,' in attempting to seize the divided in- ferior thyroid vein during tracheotomy, lifted the superficial wall only, tlius permitting air to enter the vein with a fatal result. In connection with this it may be said that inci- sions in the neighborhood of the large veins of the neck should always be made upon the director, and, before dividing a large vein, two ligatures should be applied, the division being made between them.—All the superficial veins of the neck become distended in prolonged expiration, or when breathing is suspended. In the acts of singing and coughing they are especially prominent. The Internal Jugular Vein. This important ves- sel extends from the jugular foramen to the base of the neck, where it joins the subclavian vein, the two uniting to form tlie innominate vein. As the largest vein of the neck, it receives by far the greater portion of the venous blood of the head. It inclines slightly forward and downward toward the median line, and, as it descends, becomes more sujDcr- ficial. The vein is abruptly swollen at its origin to constitute the hulh or yulf, and remains about the • Archives Gen^rales de MMeciue, 1880, 571. same size until it reaches a point opposite the larynx, when it attains its greatest width after the reception of the veins from the face and the pharynx. It is slightly contracted just before it empties into the innominate vein, and is provided at this point, as a rule, with a double valve, Avhich is situated upon its outer wall. The relations of the vein are as follows: At its upper part, it lies to the outer side of the Eectus Capitis Lateralis muscle, behind or close to the outer side of the internal carotid artery. Along the com- mon carotid artery, the vein lies to the outer side, the pneumogastric nerve lying between them. Behind the vessel, at the base of the neck, lies the thyroid axis. The vein receives the pharyngeal, the common facial, the superior thyroid, the occipital, and often the lingual veins. \ariations The internal jugular vein receives some inconstant branches at its origin. Thus tiie inferior petrosal sinus sometimes ends in this vessel instead of in the lateral sinus. The premature closure of tlie suture between tlie occipital and temporal bones may determine tiie absence of the internal jugular vein of that side. C. "Weigert' dis- sected a subject which presented the above-named anomaly. Remakes.—For clinical purposes the internal jugu- lar vein is conveniently divided into two portions: the one, extending from the base of the skull to the level of the larynx ; the other, extending from the level of the larynx to the termination of the vein.— The fact that all large veins are of diminished calibre during inspiration, and of increased calibre during expiration, is worthy of more than a passing notice in connection with the internal jugular, since this is the largest of the superficial veins of the body. During expiration the vessel may be said to overlap the com- mon carotid artery, and is conspicuously seen m the course of the more important operations upon the neck. But during inspiration, the walls of the vessel recede from the surface, and are in less danger of being lacerated or cut. In marked effusion into the pleural sac, the veins of the neck on the corresponding side are, according to Sibson,^ swollen even during inspiration. Tlie danger of sudden death from a wound of the vessel is imminent, since air may be drawn within the vein and carried to the heart, and, by means of the ])ulinonary artery, to the lungs. A wound at the basal third of the neck is more danger- ous than one at any other point, from the fact that the lips tend tu remain apart during inspiration.—The • Virchow's Arcliiv, Bd. 84, 184; also Mr. Chieii, Journ. of Anat. and Phys., ii. 222. 2 Medical Anatomy, col. 12.