THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, 4:U THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. General Considerations. The Lymphatic System embraces an assemblage of structures designed to accommodate a colorless liquid containing corpuscles, termed lympli (see p. 90). The following structures will be separately de- scribed :— Lymphatic Vessels. Lymphatic Glands. Lymph Spaces and Lacuna. Lymph-Interstices or Juice-Canals. The larger hjm.jjhatic vessels are distributed through- out the body in association with the bloodvessels and nerves, while the smaller ones form coarse networks in the regions occupied by the capillaries of the blood- vessel system. The lymph-canals of the mesentery, from the fact that they convey the chyle from the small intestine to the thoracic duct, are sometimes called the chylous vessels or lacteals. In the intervals between the absorption of chyle, these vessels are filled with lymph. The lymphatic vessels are more numerous in some parts of the body than in others. Thus, they are sparsely distributed on the outer sides of limbs, but are abundantly present upon the inner sides, and also at the lines of junction of the limbs with the trunk. They favor the tracts occupied by the arteries and veins, and are best developed in the thoracic and abdominal cavities. They are often disposed in a superficial and a deep set. Tlie lymphatic vessels are furnished for the most part with great numbers of valves, which are arranged after the manner of the valves of the veins. Nodule- like swellings of each lymph-vessel answer to the positions at which the valves are located. In many instances the valves are so numerous as to give to the vessel the appearance of a string of beads. Since the valves both of the lymphatic vessels and of the systemic veins are directed toward the heart, the lines of inflammatory invasion in both sets of vessels pass from the peripheral toward the cardiac extremities. When the lymphatic vessels are ob- structed, they may become enlarged to an extent un- known to the veins. The ly7nphatic glands are round or elliptical flat solid bodies developed about the walls of the lymph-vessels and traversed by minute lymph-canals. The lymph- vessels approaching the gland are said to be afferent, and those leaving the gland efferent.—The afferent ves- sels divide into two or more branches before enterine a gland ; the efferent, while fewer in number than the afferent, are often of larger size. A group of lymph- atic glands with their associated vessels is called a plexus. It follows that, in a system of lymphatic glands with their plexuses, a group of efferent ves- sels of a distally placed gland may be the afferent vessels of the next proximal group. Lymphatic glands are more numerous in the thorax and in the abdomen than in the head and the neck; they are sparsely distributed in the limbs and at the regions of the groin and the axilla, and are absent within the brain-case. Lymphatic glands are, as a rule, so disposed as to exert, in their normal condition, no pressure upon adjacent parts. In the limbs, the more deeply seated glands lie along the course of the arte- ries, and the more superficial glands along the course of the veins. Diseased action very rarely, if ever, originates in the lymphatic glands. As a result of secondarv causes, especially from transmitted irritative influ- ences, the glands frequently become the seat of hy- perplasia, which will often persist after the original irritation has ceased to exist. In illustration of this tendency it may be said that in syphilis the lymph- atic glands of the groin remain engorged long after the chancre has disappeared. By lyraph-spaces and lynipjh-lacunse are meant those irregularly shaped spaces of varying size which are lodged about important viscera or around the larger bloodvessels and nerves of the head and trunk. In the former instance they constitute the great serous chambers, namely, the pericardium, the pleura^, the peri- toneum, the tunica vaginalis testis, and the arachnoid sac. In the latter instance they form the perivascular sheaths of the arteries of the pia mater, and the peri- neural sheaths of the optic, auditory, and other nerves. The lymphatic fluid, notably in the lymph-spaces, has considerable mechanical use. The brain may be said to be floated in part within the sub-arachnoid lymph-space, and the dangers arising from pressure