THE HEAET 412 BLOODVESSELS. AND THE SX>0^0<X:— A Venule. A small vein. It may be either a radicle or an anastomotic branch. A Tributaky. Any vein received into another. A Sinus. Any dilatation of a large vein receiving tributaries. The best illustrations are the sinuses of the dura mater, and the coronary sinus of the heart. A Lacuna. A widened avenue of communication between an artery and a vein, which talves the place of a capillary network. Fig. 84. HEMIAZYGOS INFERIOR CAVA INTERNAL MAMMARY INTERCOSTAL SUPERIOR CAVA EPIGASTRIC DlAnRAMMATIC KEPRE3ENTATION OF THE VEIXS OF THE TRUNK. The Development of the Greater Veins. In order to explain the development of the larger veins and their disposition in the body, some account is necessary of the circulation of the blood in the embryo. When the foetus is in intimate relation with the yolk-sac, the circulation of the blood is said to be vitelline^ and to be composed of the omphalo-mesenteric arteries and veins with the intervening network. When the allantois is in contact with the uterine wall, the circulation is said to be placental^ and to con- sist of the hypogastric arteries, of the umbilical vein, and of the intervening capillaries or lacunte. (See ac- count of the Foetal Circulation.) When the lungs are functionally active, the circu- lation is said to be tfrreslrial^ or that of the adult, and to be carried on by the arteries and veins of the body as described without qualification. An actively developing organ requires numerous or large bloodvessels. Keduction in the size of the organ, or diminution in its activity, allows corre- sponding changes to take place in its bloodvessels. Should the organ disappear, the vessels will become obliterated. The manner in which the arterial sys- tem of the adult is evolved from the system of the cervical arches in the embryo has been described elsewhere (p. 316). It remains to show in what direction the venous system is changed during devel- opment. The disposition of the larger venous trunks is deter- mined by two active processes: one of these repre- sents the growth of the brain; the other, the growth of the nutritive appendages, by which term are meant the organs, temporary or permanent, which secure food-material to the develojDing organism. The brain of the young embryo is developed ante- riorly to a greater degree than it is posteriorly. The venous blood flowing from it tends to escape at a point in advance of the posterior jugular foramen of the adult; namely, from an opening in front of the temporal bone. Tlie trunk which is formed for its reception receives the name of the primitive jugular vein, and carries the greater portion of the venous blood from the brain-case until the development of the organ is completed, when its place is taken by' the internal jugular vein. The trunks of the internal maxillary and the external jugular vein of the adult are supposed to be survivals of the primitive jugular vein. The two primitive jugular veins descend the neck and enter the thorax, where they unite with the cardi- nal veins, the short horizontal trunk resulting from this union forming the ducts of Cuvier (canals of Cuvier), which empty into the single auricle of the heart. A small transverse vein (cross-branch) unites