452 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. >OO^C>oo mesentery, to force the chyle back through the lymph-spaces of the peritoneum or central tendon of the Diaphragm, and thence into the cavity of the peritoneum. Under these circumstances the superfi- cial lymphatic vessels at the umbilicus may be dis- tended. The following interesting case of probable rupture of the thoracic duct within the chest is re- ported by Quincke A man, aged fifty, was run over by a wagon, and incurred fracture of the seventh and ninth ribs on the right side. Chylous empyema followed, while the lymphatic vessels of the right side of the trunk and of the thigh were dilated. At the autopsy, the thoracic duct at the base of the neck was found obliterated by a clot, while in the chest the course of the duct was lost in the products of inflammation about the right pleural sac. In some cases of morbid growth in the testis, the lymphatic vessels passing thence to the abdomen have been found enormously enlarged.^ In a case reported by Prof. D. Hayes Agnew,^ the thoracic duct was found compressed by a cancerous growth originating in the pancreas. In rare instances the thoracic duct is found greatly enlarged and contorted without apparent cause. V. The Lymphatics of the Thoracic Cavity. The Lymphatics of the Thoracic Cavity comprise the following :—- The intercostals, which accompany the intercostal veins. They are derived from the lateral abdominal and thoracic walls, the pleura, the Diaphragm, the dorsal muscles, and the vertebral column, and are a.ssociated with the intercostal glands, which vary from sixteen to twenty in number, and lie on either side of the spine in the neighborhood of the heads of the ribs. The posterior mediastinal lymph-vessels, which arise from the posterior wall of the pericardium, the oesophagus, and the walls of the posterior medi- astinum. The glands are from eight to twelve in number. Their efferent vessels on the right side ' Deutsche Arcliiv fiir kliu. Medecin, 1875, ii. 121. 2 For case and elaborate figure of dilatation of the thoracic duct, see Gr. Breschet, loc. cit., 286, plate 3. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Phila. 1858, i. 8. empty into the thoracic duct, but on the left join the bronchial glands. Quain states that in the oesophagus the lymphatics lie in a single layer, internal to the muscular layer. The internal mammary lymphatics, so called from th eir relation to the internal mammary veins, origi- nate from the abdominal wall in the epigastric region, and receive the vessels from the upper surface of the liver in part, and from adjacent parts of the inter- costal spaces. From six to eight sternal glands lie behind the sternum. The lymphatics from the pericardium, and in part from the great vessels and, the thymus, pass into a group of glands, ten to twelve in number, lying at the base of the pericardium, and at the origin of the aorta. These, together with the internal mammary lymphatics, join the right thoracic duct on the right side; while those of the left join the left thoracic duct. The pulmonary lymphatics are superficial and deep. They unite at the root of the lung, and enter, for the most part, the bronchial glands, which are from ten to fifteen in number on each side. The largest of these occupy the interval between the right and left bronchus; the remainder are lodged chiefly in the angles of divergence of the smaller tubes. The vessels on the left side empty into the thoracic duct, and those of the right side join those of the posterior mediastinum in entering the right tho- racic duct. Remarks.—The bronchial lymphatic glands may, when engorged, compress the bronchial tubes at their origin, or the trachea immediately above. Golding Bird^ reports a case in which death was attributed to such pressure. An enlarged bronchial gland may be associated with disease in the oesophagus, as occurred in a case reported by O. Ward,^ in which the oesophagus was dilated opposite the bifurcation of the trachea, at which point a longitudinal ulcer was seen one and a half inches long, communicating with an enlarged and suppurating bronch'al gland, which filled up the in- terval between the bronchial tubes. In another case, ' London Medical Gazette, 1843, N. S. i. 218 ; also Amer. Journ. Med. Sci. 1843, vi. 209. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., ii. 208. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXVIIL Fig. 1. The veins and lymphatics of tlie upper extremity. Fig. 2. The veins and lymphatics of the fool and tiie leg. Fig. 3. Tlie veins and lymphatics of the upper portion of the leg, the thigh, and the external genitals.