362 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS, . ooO^OC>o- . rior belly of the Digastric muscle will serve as guides to the position of the vessel at the bottom of the wound. Upon the occiput the artery can be reached by an incision two inches long, extending backward from tlie position of the mastoid process. Tlie artery becomes superficial along this line, and can be found lying beneath the aponeurotic fibi-es which extend from the insertion of tlie Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. At a deeper point between the Splenius and tlie Complexus muscles the artery is more difficult to secure. In the absence of a more definite guide, its pulsation against the occipital bone will serve to indicate its position. THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. The Posterior Auricular artery arises from the external carotid, nearly opposite the apex of the styloid process. It at first rests upon the latter structure, and then, penetrating the parotid gland, it becomes superficial between the auricle and the mas- toid process. It ascends the side of the head between these structures, supplying the auricle, and anasto- mosing by its terminal branches with the temporal and occipital arteries. The branches of the artery are— (a) Stylo-mastoid. (h) Auricular. (a) The stylo-mastoid branch enters the foramen of the same name to reach the tympanum. It anas- tomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and supplies the chamber of the tympanum and the tympanic membrane. Twigs supply the mastoid cells. (h) The auricular branches are commonly two in number, an anterior to supply the auricle, and a pos- terior to anastomose with the occipital and temporal arteries, and to give branches to the skin over the mastoid process. Variations The posterior auricular may give off the transverse facial, send a large branch to the occiput, and an encranial branch to the dura mater through the stylo- mastoid foramen. THE TEMPORAL ARTERY. The Temporal artery arises behind the neck of the inferior maxilla, or between it and the auricle. It ascends vertically in the retromaxillary space, is sur- rounded by the lobules of the deep portion of the parotid gland, and, passing over the zygomatic arch to the region of the temple, lies between the skin and the'superficial fascia. At a point about an inch above the zygoma it divides into two terminal branches, the anterior and posterior temporal arteries. The branches of the temporal are— {a) Glandular. (li) Muscular, (c) Auricular. {d) Transverse Facial, (e) Middle Temporal. (/) Anterior Temporal. {(j) Posterior Temporal. («) The glandular branches comprise several small twigs for the parotid gland. {h) The muscular branches are two or three small branches for the Masseter muscle. (c) The awicular hvauches supply the anterior por- tion of the auricle. ((/) The transverse facial branch passes directly forward within the substance of the parotid gland, over the parotid duct, or between it and the zygoma and Masseter muscle. It aids in supplying the super- ficies of the face (including the Orbicularis Palpebra- rum, Zygomatici, and Levator Anguli Oris muscles), and anastomoses with the facial, buccal, and infra- orbital branches of the internal maxillary arteries. (e) The middle temporal branch pierces the deep temporal fascia to give branches to the Temporal muscle. It often sends an anterior (orbital) branch to the Orbicularis Palpebrarum muscle. (/) The anterior teviporal branch, larger and more tortuous than the posterior, passes obliquely forward and upward over the deep temporal fascia, supplying branches to the anterior portion of the superficies of the temporal region. It anastomoses with the facial, frontal, and posterior temporal arteries. [g) The posterior iemjjoral, smaller and straighter than the anterior, passes upward toward the vertex of the skull. It anastomoses witli the occipital, the posterior auricular, and the anterior temporal. Variations The temporal artery in part interchanges with the internal maxillary. It sends an occasional small encranial branch to join tlie great meningeal artery. The transverse facial may infrequently be of increased size ; no- tably in connection with imperfect development of the facial. Under the name of the zygomatico-orhitalis, a branch lias been described which occasionally arises from the main trunk of the temporal immediately after it passes over the zygomatic arch. It passes forward toward the ui)per margin of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the lachrymal, frontal, and anterior temporal arteries.—The temporal artery is very tortuous in aged persons. Arteriotomy The jiractice of opening the temporal artery to relieve congested conditions in the temporal region and orbit is well sustained on anatomical grounds. It has been seen that the anastomoses with branches of the internal max- illary and ophthalmic artery are decided. The blood supply