387 interosseous space. It supplies the dorsum of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. (A) The dorsalis indicis 'is a small branch which supplies the dorsum of the index finger, and sends branches to the Abductor Pollicis. ({) The arteria "princA'ps pollicis lies between the First Dorsal Interosseous and the deep head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis or the Adductor Pollicis. It passes thence along the ulnar border of the thumb to the insertion of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, where it anastomoses with the dorsalis pollicis, and is distrib- uted to the side, front, and back of the thumb. {j) The radialis indicis descends between the Ab- ductor Pollicis and the First Dorsal Interosseous mus- cle. It passes along the radial border of the index finger. Its terminal branches anastomose with the vessel on the ulnar border of the finger. The entire arterial supply of the thumb and tlie index finger is remarkable for the variety displayed in the arrange- ment of the vessels, which present for a common feature an origin from the radial artery immediately prior to its transit from the dorsum to the palm of the hand. The above description is the one followed essentially by the English, and by Luschka among the German writers. The last three arteries occasionally arise from a common trunk, according to French writers. Henle describes the arteria princeps pollicis and the l adialis indicis as one trunk. The deep palmar arch is the result of the union between the continuation of the radial artery in the palm and the communicating branch of the ulnar. The curve of the arch is convex distally, and rests upon the second, third, fourth, and fifth metacarpal bones, directly below their proximal extremities, aud itpon the Palmar Interosseous muscles. It is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles, and in part by the muscles of the ball of the thumb and those of the fifth finger. It is in intimate relation with the Adductor Pollicis. The branches of the deep palmar arch are as fol- lows :— (a) Ascending (recurrent). {h) Palmar interosseous. (c) Perforating. (a) The small ascendiiKj branches are six in num- ber. Tliey pass upward from the concavitv of the arch to supply the anterior aspect of the carpus and inosculate with the terminal branches of the anterior carpal arteries. (/>) The palmar iytterosseons branches, usually three in number, pass downward from the convexity of the arch upon the corresponding muscles of the same name, and anastomose with the digital branches of the superficial arch, at the level of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation. Tliey send small branches to the interosseous muscles, to the periosteum of the metacarpal bones, to the Adductor Pollicis and Lum- brical muscles, and to the web of the fingers. (c) The perforating arteries, generally three in number, pass between the pruxinuxl ends of the three median interosseous spaces, to reach the dorsum of the hand, where they anastomose with the dorsal interosseous arteries. Variations The radial artery, when of " high origin," may give off' the subscapular and other branches normally derived from the axillaiy and brachial arteries. At the elbow it is afiparently modified liy the position of the slip from the tendon of the Biceps muscle. It may be contorted near the slip, or may pierce it; or it may curve abrujitly forward as it passes from the level of the Supinatoi- Ihevis to that of the Pronator Radii Teres. It may send otf at the same place an aberrant muscular twig; or a superficial branch may pass distally on the deep fascia in com[)any with the median vein. It may yield the interosseous artery. When the radial is absent, or when it terminates at a point proximal to the wrist, its place may be supplied by the nor- mally constituted interosseous artery. The superficialis voliE may be rudimentary, and may not contribute to the formation of the superficial palmar arch. The radial may end in the integument at the wrist, the ulnar taking its place in forming the palmar arches. Perhaps the most important of the variations relate to the peculiarities of the radial pidse. The pulse is not of neces- sity absent when the radial artery is absent, tor the place of that vessel can be taken by an unusually well-developed superficialis volaj of " high origin." The radial artery may, soon after its origin, wind round the radius and descend the back of the foi-earm, when the superficialis vola; may yield '■'■the radial pulse." The abnormal vessel is always smaller than the normal one. It is evident that, should this anomaly be found in both forearms, and should the radial pulsation be relied upon, very erroneous impressions would be received by the observer as to the condition of the circu- lation. In the rare instances in which the normal radial artery is accompanied by the superficialis voIer, the anomaly of a double radial pidse is presented. Under the name of the median artery is described an aberrant branch of the radial artery that follows the course of the median nerve to the palm, where it may join the super- ficial palmar arch, or may terminate by direct anastomosis with the ulnar artery Instead of piercing the first, the radial artery may pierce the second inter-melacarpal space—The recurrent branch may be larger than usual, and its anasto- mosis with the superior profunda lie so marked ps to sug- gest the hypothesis that an obstiuction had existed in the