THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 403 z>0<>^000 opened flie scrotum, cleared out tlie clot, and tied a branch of the superficial epigastric artery. The patient recovered. The branches of the femoral artery are— (a) Superficial Epigastric. (b) Circumflex Iliac. (c) External Pudic. (J) Muscular Branches, (e) Profunda Femoris. (/) Anastomotica Magna. (a) The superficial qyir/astric artery is small, but constant. It arises from the front of the trunk, from half an inch to an inch below Poupart's ligament. It gives small branches to the inguinal glands, and passes directly upward, piercing the fascia lata, and ascending the abdominal walls in the superficial fascia as far as the umbilicus, where it divides into two branches, an internal and an external, both of which join branches of the internal mammary and deep epi- gastric arteries. (i) Tlie circumflex iliac, the smallest of the branches, arises from the outer part of the main trunk, passes outward and slightly upward across the Psoas and Iliacus muscles, to which it gives branches parallel to Poupart's ligament throughout its entire length. At the anterior superior spinous process it pierces the fascia lata, and divides into two branches. (c) The external jmdic avievles a.VQ two in number, a superficial and a deep. They arise from the upper and inner part of the main trunk, and, as the name expresses, supply the parts about the superficies of the external organs of generation. The superficial extends through the coarse cellular adipose tissue of the groin, obliquely upward and inward, crosses the external abdominal ring, and gives branches to the lymphatic glands, and reaching the pubis (in the male it cro.^se3 the spermatic cord) it sends a branch to the skin of the penis and scrotum of the male, and to the labium major of the female. The deep branch takes its origin a short distance below the superficial beneath the femoral aponeurosis. It lies between this structure and the Pectineus muscle, and crosses the femoral vein on its way inward to pierce the fascia lata on the inner side of the thigh, in front of the Adductor Longus muscle. It crosses the sper- matic cord and supplies the scrotum in the male and the labium major iu the female, and sends downward a perineal branch. The artery anastomoses with the obturator artery, with the superficial perineal of the internal pudic, and with the artery of the same name of the o|:)posite side. It is sometimes a branch of the profunda. {d) The muscular Iranches are small and inconstant; they supply the muscles about the femoral artery, particularly the Sartorius and Vastus Internus. (e) The profunda femoris (deep femoral artery), the largest branch of tbe femoral, is often of equal calibre with it. It is the main nutrient artery of the thigh, since the femoral is in the main an artery of transit to supply the leg and foot. The deep femoral artery arises from the outer side of, or directly be- hind, the femoral, halfway between the pubis and the lesser trochanter, about one-and-a-half to two inches below Poupart's ligament. At first the vessel is curved slightly outward in front of the Iliacus, thence passes over the Vastus Internus muscle and descends the limb, lying parallel with the femoral artery, but soon passes behind it and sinks between the Adductor Longus and Adductor Magnus muscles, and is lost in the muscles of the thigh. A. H. Young' describes an instance of absence of the profunda. Its function was performed by branches arising from the femoral after it had pierced the Ad- ductor Magnus. The deep femoral yields the following branches:— (1) The External Circumflex. (2) The Internal Circumflex. (3) The Perforating. (1) The external circumflex artery arises from the outer side of the curved portion of the femoral vessel, passes outward between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve in front of the Psoas muscle, to which it gives a small branch, thence between the Vastus Internus and Rectus muscles, and divides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascendmg passes through the interval between the Iliacus and Gluteus Medius muscles to supply the Tensor Vaginte Femoris, Gluteus Medius, and Gluteus Minimus. It communicates with the circum- flex iliac artery. The transverse passes outward over the Crureus, pierces the Vastus Externus, and, wind- ing around the great trochanter, pierces the insertion of the Gluteus Maximus, to anastomose with the in- ternal circumflex and the superior perforating arteries, as well as with gluteal and sciatic branches of the in- ternal iliac. It gives a branch to the capsule of the hip-joint. The descending, the largest of the three branches, supplies the Quadriceps extensor muscle. It is directed downward between the Rectus and Cru- reus, and between the Vastus Externus and Crureus it divides into several branches which supply the Quadriceps muscle as far as the lower part of the Joiirn. Anat. and Phys., xiii. 1879, 154.