366 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. OOO^OOo . complicated by the proximity of the lower jaw, and the sub- maxillary region. It lies on the slips of origin of the Longus Colli muscle, and on the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrce. Behind it are the superior cervical ganglion, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogasti-ie nerve. Near its origin the artery is covered by the inner margin of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle, the Flatysma- Myoides muscle, and fascia. These relations are the same as those of the common carotid. It is soon removed from the surface by important structures crossing it obliquely to or from tlie submaxillary region ; the occipital and the posterior auricular arteries passing outward, while the hypo-glossal and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, the Digastric, the Stylo- Hyoid, tiie Stylo-Glossus, and tiie Stylo-Pliaryngeus muscles pass inward. The artery lies near the lateral wall of the pharynx above the outer side of tlie tonsil. The ascending pharyngeal artery lies as a rule beneath it and to the inner side. The external carotid vessel is usually placed on its inner side with the Stylo-Glossus and tlie Stylo-Pharyngeus muscles, and with a portion of the parotid gland. The internal carotid artery is on a [)lane more superficial than the external, and it may be in front of the latter. Slight inward deflection of the internal carotid will place the trunks of these two vessels at an acute angle. In the course of opei'ations upon the neck the two trunks have been from this cause occasionally confounded. By separating the sus- pected vessel from its surroundings for a siiort distance, the many-branched external carotid will enable the operator easily to distinguish it from the branchless internal carotid. The internal carotid artery has on either side a filament of the sympathetic nerve derived from the superior cervical ganglion ; the two filaments unite with others ovei; the artery to constitute the carotid plexus which enters the carotid canal with the artery. Within the cavernous sinus the artery lies to the inner side, and is covered by a layer of the dura mater which passes a short distance within the cai'otid canal. Tiie third, fourth, and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve, lie to its outer side. Remarks.—The internal carotid artery in the 7ieck is occasionally tortuous just before entering the carotid canal, or, as the result of obstruction in the cerebral circulation at and after middle age, the in- ternal carotid artery may undergo dilatation. The dilated portion is usuall}' about three-fourths of an inch in length, and invariably involves the first part of the vessel, and sometimes the common carotid at tlie point of division, the remaining portion of the vessel having a normal appearance. Since it is not found in infancy, the dilatation may be assumed to be an acquired condition. The relations which exist between the degrees of tortuosity, or dilatation or division of the internal carotid in the neck, should alwaj^s be studied in con- nection with the bloodvessel supply of the thyroid body. Observers have generally been of the opinion that the thyroid body served as a diverticulum to the current of blood ascending the neck to the head. A connection could probably be established between the calibre of the vessel before entering the carotid canal and the condition of the thyroid bod}^, since anomalies of this body are often associated with ir- regularity of the common carotid and vertebral arteries. It has been estimated by Luschka that the sum of the transverse sections of the thyroid arteries equals the sectional area of the internal carotid artery of the same side, so that through the four arteries sup- plying the thyroid body nearly as much blood passes as goes to supply the brain through the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vessel may divide into two terminal branches within the cavernous sinus, but these rarely corre- spond to an equal number of openings in the dura mater. Some of the most important relations of the inter- nal carotid artery in the neck are with the pharynx. It has been seen that the vessel lies directly to the outer side of the tonsil. Incautious lancing of this body has been knoAvn to open the internal carotid, as is narrated by Beclard.^ Similar lesions have fol- lowed upon wounds from fragments of pipes, etc. Sloughing of the lymphatic gland beneath and be- hind the inferior maxilla has also been known to cause hemorrhage from the upper portion of the trunk. Mr. Jas. Nicholls^ met with this lesion in a girl fourteen years of age, convalescent from scarlet fever. Notwithstanding the depth at which the internal carotid artery lies, it may be exposed along its entire length by lacerated wounds of the upper part of the neck. This statement receives confirmation from a case recorded by Dr. A. Twitch ell.^ A young man, aged twenty, was wounded by the wadding of a pistol discharge. The wound involved the parotid gland, the Temporal, Masseter, and Pterygoid muscles, and, be- sides fracturing the superior maxilla, severed the ex- ternal carotid arterj'- and penetrated the larynx. The internal carotid artery Avas exposed from near the bifurcation of the common trunk to the point where it curved to enter the canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The vessel ulcerated. The com- mon carotid was ligated and the patient recovered. The relations of the internal carotid artery in the head, and particularly at the base of the skull, as ' Blaiiiiin. Anatomie Topographique, 89. 2 St Cxeorge's Hosp. Rep., iv. 1869, 211. ' N. Y. Journ. Med. 1857, 13, paper by Jas. R. Wood.