THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 388 =OOg§OO.i — brachial artery for a sufficient length of time to establish a collateral circulation. THE ULNAE ARTERY. The Ulnar Artery, the larger of the two divisions of the brachial, is curved a little obliquely downward and outward toward the inner side of tbe forearm, through its upper third; it is then directed vertically- downward to terminate in the palmar arch. Tlie artery is divided for convenience into three portions: (1) As it lies in the forearm. (2) As it lies at the wrist. (3) As it lies in the band. (1) The ulnar artery in the forearm. The vessel at its origin is covered by the flexor muscles which arise from the epitrochlea, except the Elexor Carpi IJlnaris. It here lies beneath the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum and upon the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, the tendons of the Brachialis Anticus and Biceps muscles, and is separated from the median nerve which lies to its radial side by the deep head of the Pronator Radii Teres. As it descends the forearm it is covered by the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris until it reaches the junction of the upper and middle thirds, Avhere it becomes superficial, and lies in a depression between the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Behind it lies the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. The ulnar nerve, which lies far to the inner side above, gradually approaches the artery, and, frotn the mid- dle of the forearm, lies closely to its ulnar side and continues with it into the palm. (2) The ulnar artertj at the wrist. At the wrist the artery passes in front of the annular ligament, and lies to the radial side of the pisiform bone, which, in a measure, protects it. In front of the artery lies a thin layer of fibrous tissue, extending from the annular ligament inward to the palmar fascia. (3) Tlie ulnar artery in the palm. "Within the palm the ulnar artery divides into two branches: (a) the superficialis volse, the continuation of the main course of the artery, which passes outward between the Palmaris Brevis and the muscles of the little finger, and beneath the Palmaris Longus, to anasto- mose with the superficial volar of the radial artery; and (b) the communicating branch which reaches the deeper structures of the palm, to the radial side of the muscles of the little finger or between them. The branches of the ulnar artery include the fol- lowing :— (a) Anterior Ulnar Recurrent. (li) Posterior Ulnar Recurrent, j (c) Common Interosseous. {d) Muscular branches. A. In the forearm. -J B. At the wrist. C. In the hand. \ {e) Posterior Ulnar Carpal. (/) Anterior Ulnar Carpal. {y) Deep or Communicating. {a) The anterior ulnar recurrent artery arises from the ulnar at the upper part, passes obliquely down- ward and inward to reach the Brachialis Anticus muscle, upon which it ascends to reach the front of the epitrochlea, where it inosculates with the anas- tomotica of the brachial. It is at first covered by the Pronator Radii Tei'es, and later lies in the groove between this muscle and the Brachialis Anticus, and sends branches of supply to both muscles as well as to the Flexor Carpi Radialis and the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. {li) The posterior ulnar recurrent., larger than the preceding, and often found arising from the same trunk with it, passes inward on the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. It curves upward behind the epitrochlea, where it inosculates with the anastomotica and the inferior profunda. This vessel is at first covered by the flexor muscles arising from the epitrochlea, and at the median side of the elbow it passes between the two heads of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, at which point it lies in front of the ulnar nerve, and sends twigs to the origin of the muscles arising from the epitrochlea, to the ulnar nerve, and to the skin. (c) The common ' interosseous artei'y, the largest of the ulnar branches, usually arises from the posterior surface of the main vessel about an inch below the tuberosity of the radius. It is exposed in dissection by separating the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum from the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. The artery, with an accompanying vein, lies deep in the interosseous space. It descends for about an inch upon the inter- osseous membrane, and divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior iyiterosseous branch continues down the forearm upon the interosseous membrane, between the Flexor Profundus Digitorum and the Flexor Longus Pollicis, in order to reach the proximal border ■ of the Pronator Quadratus, behind which it passes, and then pierces the lower portion of the interos- seous membrane, to anastomose with the terminal branches of the posterior interosseous branch and to ^ supply the dorsum of the carpus. It here joins the descending branches of the posterior ulnar carpal branch. The most important branches of the ante- rior interosseous are \hQ j)erforating, which pierce the interosseous membrane to yield twigs to the deep- seated muscles of the back of the forearm; the