418 THE HEART AND. HE BLOODVESSELS. and the conjunctiva cbeinosed. The patient died about the seventh day. A somewhat similar case, recorded by Mr. T. H. Sylvester/ is interesting from the fact that the frontal veins deter^nined the extent of the inflamed tract. A puncture of the lip excited the phlebitis, which extended to a small vein at the outer side of the nose, thence to the inner canthus, and from that point along the frontal vein to the scalp, which became extensively infiltrated with pus. The case terminated fatally at the end of five weeks. The relations existing between the venous blood of the face and that of the brain-case are rendei'ed evident by the fact that the state of the circulation of the external nose is sometimes an index of the condition of the vessels of the brain. The Temporal Vein (posterior facial) originates in the region of the temple, by branches answering to the position of the anterior and the posterior temporal arteries; the anterior branch anastomosing with the frontal, and the posterior with the occipital and pos- terior auricular veins. The vein descends over the root of the zygoma and passes through the parotid gland, as far as the angle of the lower jaw, where it terminates in the external jugular vein. Just before its termination, it sends forward a large branch (the communicating branch) which joins the temporo- facial. Quain describes the main trunk as dividing, one branch going to the facial, the other to the ex- ternal jugular vein. The temporal vein receives the following tributa- ries: The middle temporal^ which originates in the Temporal muscle, and pierces the temporal fascia just above the zygoma, to reach the temporal vein ; sometimes the middle temporal joins the deep tem- poral veins, which are tributaries of the internal maxillary; the anterior auricular vein, from the external ear; the parotid branches from the parotid gland; and the transverse facial^ which accompanies the artery of the same name. The most important tributary, however, is the internal maxillary vein. Remarks.—Plexiform na^vus, formed by branches of the temporal vein in the parotid gland, is some- times recognized in the living subject. It is always 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., xxiv. 1841, 36, fig. a serious condition, not only because of the difficulties attending an operation for its removal, but because of the pressure often exerted upon the pharynx and associated parts. Mr. Gascoyon' records a case of this disease in which death by suffocation ensued. The minute vein found lying along the parotid duct is a good guide to that structure, since it is con- stantly seen in dissection. The temporo-facial vein lies near the angle of the jaw and thus is of import- ance in studying the relations of the cervical lobule of the parotid gland. The middle temporal vein is of relatively large calibre, and is in direct continuity with the supra- orbital vein. This circumstance, in connection with its method of termination through the temporal apon- eurosis, renders it liable in inflammation of the eye- lids, particularly of the upper lid, to become engorged. Hence the sensation of fulness about the brow in oph- thalmia, and the indication for local depletion at the temple in some phases of this disease. Billroth^ describes an example of a congenital plexiform " neurofibromatous" tumor of the "upper eyelid and temple." The patient, a young man about eighteen years old, occupation that of a waiter, ex- hibited an obtuse swelling of the left temple, which extended thence to the upper eyelid, completely clos- ing and distorting the palpebral fissure. When the lid was elevated by the hand, the vision was normal, and the motions of the ball were perfect. The swell- ing was not abruptly defined, but involved to a slight degree the fat of the orbit and of the temporal fossa. The morbid growth was associated with a small point of defective ossification in the left parietal bone. The tumor was successfully removed, and did not recur. Here, in a congenital growth extending along the course of the middle temporal vein (although this fact is not mentioned by the recorder), is an instance of an abnormal process depending for its interpreta- tion upon a knowledge of anatomy. The Internal Maxillary vein joins the main trunk of the temporal vein about midway between the zygo- matic arch and the angle of the jaw. This vessel re- > Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., xi. 1860, 267. 2 Laiigenbeck's Archiv fiir klinische Chirurgie, ]869, 232. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXL The external veins of the head and neck.