THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 399 OOO^OOo In the third stage the branches of the internal pudic are— (1) Inferior IlEemorrhoidah (2) Superficial Perineal. (8) Transverse Perineal. (1) The inferior hsemorrhoidal artery pierces the obturator fascia, and is directed across the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa to the lower part of the rectum. It supplies the Levator Ani and the skin about the anus. The vessel may be divided in lithotomy by a too free prolongation backward of the first incision. The artery is often duplicated. (2) The superfirJaVperineal artery pierces the obtu- rator fascia, and is directed forward toward the uro- genital portion of the perineum. It becomes super- ficial at the Transverse Perineal muscle, which it crosses to be received between the Ischio-Cavernosus and Bulbo-Cavernosus muscles. It supplies these muscles, and is finally lost on the posterior aspect of the scrotum. (3) The transverse perineal artery is a small vessel which pierces the obturator fascia, and passes directly inward along the posterior border of the muscle of the same name. It is necessarily divided in litho- tomy. In the fourth stage the branches are— (1) Artery of the bulb. (2) Deep artery of the penis. (3) Dorsal artery of the penis. (1) The artery of the lulb is a short but relatively stout branch, which enters between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, near their posterior border, and is received within the bulb of the urethra. It sends a branch to Cowper's gland. (2) The deep artery of the penis. This passes between the Ischio-Cavernosus and the Bulbo-Cav- ernosus muscles, to enter the cavernous body to its inner side. (3) The dorsal artery of the penis pierces the sub- pubic fascia and the suspensory ligament of the penis, and passes along the dorsal groove of the penis, in com- pany with the artery of the opposite side. It anasto- moses at the glans penis with its fellow, and with the preceding vessel. It supplies the fibrous investment of the cavernous body, the skin, and the glans penis. Hyrtl has seen it arise from the external pudic. Variations—The internal pmlic artery may not liave an independent origin from the internal iliac, but may arise from a trunk in common with the obturator. The artery may be entirely pelvic, when it will send branches to the uro- genital portion of the perineum. The dorsal artery of the penis in this event will reach its destination by passing forward over the prostate body. The artery may remain pelvic, as far as the main distribution of the vessel is con- cerned, but may send the superficial perineal outward. This branch escapes through the great sciatic foramen as the main vessel normally does, but passes forward to supply the uro- genital region from the cutaneous aspect. It is apt to run midway between the anus and the tuberosity of the ischium, and is in danger of being divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy The artery may be almost entirely external, when it terminates in the bulbous portion of the spongy body In rare examples the vessel may be for the most part directed toward the posterior aspect of the thigh. In the two preced- ing variations, the perineal branches are commonly supplied by a branch separate from the internal pudic at the third stage, called by Quain the accessory pudic. The dorsal artery, the artery of the bulb, and the pelvic branches may come severally from the obturator artery. The vessels last named may, in rare instances, come from the femoral. In tiie female the internal pudic is .so far modified as to yield the superficial perineal to the labia majora, the artery of the bulb to the labia minora, and the dorsal artery of the penis to the clitoris. The latter vessel also supplies the lower part of the vagina. (d) The uterine arteries are exceedingly tortuous. Tliey are received between the folds of the broad ligament, and yield an ovarian branch, a branch to the Fallopian tube, and a third to the round ligament. These branches are exceeding tortuous, and anasto- mose with the ovarian artery of the abdominal aorta, which thus is less intimately associated with the ovary than the spermatic artery is with the testis. During pregnancy, and probably in morbid conditions, the distribution of the ovarian artery is enormously in- creased at the body and the fundus, while the uterine branch of the internal iliac is retained chiefly at the neck of the uterus. (e) The vayinal artery represents the inferior vesi- cal in the male. It sends a few twigs to the bladder and to the rectum. (/) The sciatic artery is situated in front of the Pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus. After send- ing some branches to the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa, it escapes at the lower border of the great sciatic foramen, and supplies the outward rotators of the thigh and the Gluteus Maxiinus ; it also sends a small artery {comes nervi ischiadici) along the sciatic nerve. The cocx^geal artery is the name given to a small branch wnich pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and is distributed to the parts behind the coccyx. ((/) The gluteal artery is the largest branch of the internal iliac. It passes backward, outward, and downward over the Pyriformis to the upper