THE HEART. 349 ^>oogoo<, are seen ; one of these joins the fourth vascular arch and becomes aortic, a second joins the fifth and be- comes pulmonic, the third joins the fourth vascular arch and becomes the ductus arteriosus. Analogue.—Reptilian heart, in which the cleavage of the truncus communis into three parts is constant; two of these join the right and left aortic fourth vas- cular arches; the third joins the fifth.' The heart may retain its primitive position near the head. Thus it has been found united to the tongue between the ununited halves of the lower jaw. The high position of the heart is a piscine characteristic. The hearty in defective formation of the Diax)hragm^ may he lod<jed in the abdomen, where it rests upon the liver, in which position it recalls the normal rela- tion exhibited in reptiles. IRREGULARITIES IN" THE AORTA, PULMONARY ARTERY, AND SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The irregularities of the great vessels conform to the following types. They are fifteen in number, and may be briefly described as follows:— Persistence of the fourth pair of vascular arches, and of loth aortic roots (fig. 1, Plate LXII.).—Three or four cases of this malformation have been recorded. The aorta arches to both sides, the union of the right and left arches forming the descending aorta. In these cases the anterior of the two divisions is the true left aorta; for it is situated in front of the trachea and oesophagus, and from it the left carotid and sub- clavian arteries arise. Analogue.—Reptilian type, particularly the variety seen in turtles. Persistence of loth aortic roots, and of the fourth right vascular arch. Entire or partial atrophy of the fourth left arch.—In these varieties the left subclavian artery arises low down, and represents the left aortic root, and passes between the (^esophagus and the spine. Since the left ductus arteriosus is connected with the left fourth vascular arch, it is found that this canal is liable to be modified. It is either patulous, atrophied, or absent. The innominate artery is also absent. Such a fcetus would in all probability have a right ductus arteriosus extending between the fourth and fifth vascular arches. When the atrophy of the left arch is partial, a left innominate artery is present, the left subclavian of course arisino- from it. ' This case is reported hv Wrisborg (Gottingeiische Aiizeigen, 1778). It is rejected, by Tunier (loc. cit.) as being imperfectly recorded. Since its exi^laiiatiou coincides -with that of tlie rep- tilian heart it has been retained as above. Atrophy of the fourth left vascular arch letiueen the origins of the common carotid and subclavian arteries. Persistence of fifth left arch and aortic root (fig. 5, Plate LXIL).—In such rare instances the ascending and descending aortte are detached, while the left subclavian arises from the lower aortic trunk. The descending aorta receives its blood through the pul- monary artery and patulous ductus arteriosus. Atrophy of the fourth left vascular arch leyond the ori- gin of the left sulcldvian. Persistence of the fifth left arch and left aortic root (fig. 2, Plate LXIL).—The aorta ascends and turns to the left so as to form its arch, from which the right innominate, left carotid, and subcla- vian arteries arise. Below the origin of the left sub- clavian the aorta is contracted, the exact position of the contraction varying in different instances. The left aortic root thus forms a "pouch-like" projection from the aortic stem. The ductus arteriosus retains its fcetal proportions, or may contract to a fibrous cord. In the rare event of the left arch being entirely dis- associated with the descending aorta, the ductus arteriosus remains patulous, and supplies the preced- ing vessel from the pulmonary artery, as shown in the preceding section. Transference of the left suhclavian artery at its origin from the fourth to the fifth vascular arch,—The fourth vascular arch is here perfect, but the left subclavian docs not arise from it, but appears to be derived from the ductus arteriosus. The blood from the pulmonary artery and the ascending aorta enters the ductus arte- riosus, and passes thence to the left subclavian artery. Atrophy of the fourth right vascular arch, lut persist- ence of the right aortic root (fig. 3, Plate LXIL).—The right subclavian ordinarily arises from the junction of the transverse with the descending thoracic aorta. It passes obliquely upward and to the right, in front of the bodies of the upper dorsal vertebra?, and behind the trachea and oesophagus (very rarely between these tubes) to the root of the neck on the right side. The innominate is of course absent, the right carotid arising separately from the arch. Persistence of the fifth p>air of vascular arches.—-A single instance is recorded in which the pulmonary artery terminated in part in the right subclavian artery close to its origin from the innominate. Atrophy of the fifth pair of vascular arches.—Oblite- ration of the ductus arteriosus is often due to constric- tion of the pulmonary orifice. Persistence of the primitive aortic septum.—^The two primitive aortse may not entirely coalesce, leaving a longitudinal septum between the two halves. Rarely the aorta presents a septum dividing it