E BLOODVESSELS. 340 THEHEAETANDT The theory concerning the action of the auriculo- ventricular valves as just given differs from the one ordinarily taught, which may in contradistinction from it be called the theory of Valentine. This theory is given by Quain as follows: "During the contraction of the ventricles, the segments of the valves are applied to the openings leading from the auricles and prevent the blood from rushing back into those cavities. Being retained by the diordx tendineee, the expanded flaps of the valves resist the pressure of the blood, which would otherwise force them back through the auricular orifice; the papil- lary muscles, shortening as the cavity of the ventricle itself is contracted during its systole, are supposed thus to prevent the valves from yielding too much toward the auricle, which might have been the case had the cliord'ce tendinew been longer, or fixed directly into the wall of the ventricle." The theory of Parchappe is sustained by vivisec- tion, while that of Valentine is based upon the analogy derived from the action of the semilunar valves. The study of the heart will include the following heads:— The Pericardium. The Endocardium. The Interior of the Heart. The External Form and Position of the Heart. The Structure of the Heart. Development of the Heart and Great Vessels. Malformations of the Heart and Irregularities of the Great Vessels. Remarks. THE PERICARDIUM. The pericardium is a closed fibrous sac of a bluish- white color and lodged between the pleural sacs. As the name expresses, the pericardium surrounds the heart and incloses in part the vessels that arise from its base. It answers in general outline to the shape of the heart, and is fixed above to the great vessels, and below to the Diaphragm, while it is covered by the mediastinal pleura at the sides. The pericardium exfends from the level of the base of the ensiform cartilage to the middle of the manubrium, but lacks about eight lines of reaching the epi-sternal notcli. Dr. J. B. Roberts' found the base to answer to a line drawn from a point just above the lower edge of the end of the sixth rib to the junction of the ensiform cartilage and the Paracentesis of the Pericardium, 1880, 42. gladiolus. Transversely, at the level of the fourth inter- costal space, it extends two inches and nine lines to the left of the median line, and to the right it extends two inches and three lines, and in consequence passes a shorter distance beyond tlie right margin of the sternum than the left. Sibson found the superficial surface or region of the pericardium to extend from the fourth to the sixth costal cartilage, and from the centre of the sternum to within one incli of the nipple. The anterior wall of the sac is somewhat higher than the jiosterior, and reaches to the anterior wall of the aortic arch. The posterior wall reaches to the place of division of the pulmonary artery. In front the pericardium is in contact with the anterior medi- astinum, behind with the structures within the pos- terior mediastinum. The pericardium lies in direct apposition with the tendinous centre of the Diaphragm and a portion of the fibres of the left leaflet. To the former it is firmly and to the latter moderately adherent. "When the Diaphragm descends, it stretches, lengthens, and widens the pericardium, according to Sibson, and thus lowers the heart, and, through the medium of the pericardium, exerts a direct strain upon the great vessels. Dr. W. Forbes^ entertains the opinion that the Diaphragm does not descend in contraction, owing to the attachment existing between it and the peri- cardium, an attachment which is strengthened by lateral bands of fibrous tissue passing along the sides of the pericardium to the apex of the chest and thence to the cervical fascia. The pleural sacs tend to cover the pericardium in front with the exception of a narrow slip extending along the left edge of the sternum. The pericardium is composed of two layers, an outer, the fibrous layer (fibrous pericardium), and an inner layer (serous pericardium). The outer layer is a stout, resisting membrane. It is continuous above with the fibrous layer of the aorta, the superior cava, the pulmonary veins, and the divisions of the pulmon- ary artery. It can be also traced, as above stated, to the middle layer of the deep cervical fascia, and, according to some authorities, to the first rib by an expansion (costo-pericardial ligament) originally de- signed for covering the thymus gland. These attach- ments are described by Mr. John AVood^ as constitu- ting means by which the descent of the Diaphragm is prevented from exerting undue strain on the arch of the aorta, and thus indirectly aiding the aortic arch in maintaining its position. 1 Amer. Jonrn. Med. Sci., 1880, vol. 80, 88. 2 Jouni. of Aiiat. and Phys., iii. 8, 1868.