339 THE HEAET opening of communication is called the auriculo- ventricular orifice.—The auricle and ventricle lying to the right of the septum receive venous blood from the body and send it by the pulmonary artery to the lungs; hence these portions are together termed the right or venous heart.—The auricle and ventricle to the left of the septum receive the oxygenized blood trom the lungs and send it to the body by the aorta (fig. 2, Plate LVIII.), and the two together are spoken of as the left or arterial heart. The circulation of blood from the right ventricle to the left auricle is carried on by means of the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary capillaries, and the pulmonary veins, and is termed the lesser or jmhnonic circulation. The circulation from the left ventricle to the right auricle, bv means of the arteries and veins of the body, ex- cepting those of the lungs, is called the greater or systemic circulation. Each auricle is divided into its sinus or lody, and the auricular ajipendage; the latter is a hollow pro- jection of the wall forward, and is furnished with muscular fibres. Each ventricle is divided into a cavity and a conns, the latter being the narrowed portion of the interior of the cliamber placed between the semilunar valve and that segment of the auriculo-ventricular valve nearest the septum. The interior of the auricles is smooth, except within the auricular appendages, where raised muscular bands called miisculi pectinati are seen. The interior of the ventricle is much roughened by the raised fleshy bands called columnse carnese. The Action of the Auricles and Ventricles.—The two auricles are receptacles of blood, and it is their func- tion to send the fluid to the ventricles below. This requires but little force; in fact the blood/a^/s into the ventricle by the disastole of that chamber, the weak muscular walls of the auricles exerting only a secondary and supplemental force thereto. The ven- tricles, on the other hand, are compelled to force blood over large surfaces against gravity through vessels of progressively narrowing diameters, and may be compared to a pair of pumps acting synchro- nously. The Valves of the Heart and their Actions.—On each side of the heart the chambers are separated from one another by valves, as are the ventricles from the arteries passing from them. The former are called from their position the auriculo-ventricular valves, and the latter from their shape the semilunar. The semilunar valves are simple in construction. Each valve consists of three crescentic membranous festoons, or segments, whose free borders are di- rected to the centre of the vessel, and whose fixed semicircular base-lines are continuous with the wall. Each festoon forms with the vessel-wall a cup, the base of which is fixed, and which is open above. In the centre of each segment is a small nodule called the corpus Arantii.—The arterial orifice is opened by the systolic current. When the festoons are thrown back, and are in contact with the vessel-wall, the cups are obliterated. The orifice is closed by the three cups becoming filled with the blood (the tendency of which is to flow back into the ventricle after having been driven thence by the systole) and being forced towards one another. The auriculo-ventricular valves differ from the semilunar in having a continuous membranous ring or short tube surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifice. From this ring a number of segments (two on the left, three to four in the right ventricle) hang vertically downward, which are controlled not only bj the current of blood as in the case of the semilunar valve, but by the delicate muscles derived from the ventricular wall. These muscles are called the Mus- culiPapillares, and the slender tendons extending from them to the segments, the chordae tendinew. Both the muscles and their tendons are of varying size, and some of the chordae appear to arise from the general muscular wall without union to any special muscular fasciculus or papilla. The manner of the opening and closing of the auri- culo-ventricular orifice by these valves differs from that of the semilunar valves, since the blood is not thrown into the ventricle as much as dropped in by the active downward withdrawal of the segments through the agency of the Musculi Papillares and their tendons. The closure of the orifice results, according to Onimus, from the vermicular contraction of the fibres of the ventricle moving up toward the base of the ventricle from the apex, and bringing in con- tact the down-drawn segments of the valve ; or, ac- cording to Chauvcau and Faivre, from the fact that the cone-like figure defined by the opposed sides of the valves is converted into a hollow piston or plunging cone, between the minute interstices of which the blood is finable to make a passage by which it may flow back into the auricle, and is consequently forced through the orifice of the pulmonary artery on the right side and of the aorta on the left.^ 1 This mpthod of describing the action of the auriculo-ventricular valves originated with Parchappe in 1824, and has been accepted by many responsible teachers. For an extended account see Kiiss' Physiology.