CLINICAL TABLE OF THE L Y M P H - S TR E A M S. =>oc>^ooo 445 against the arterie« of the base of the brain are thereby in a measure averted. (See Membranes of the Brain.) The spinal cord is aided in resisting concussion and in sustaining a central position in the vertebral canal by a similar arrangement. Perivascular spaces must in like manner facilitate the dilatation and contrac- tion of the vessels, and aid in resisting injurious compression from adjacent parts. Lymph spaces are thought to convey the lymph from the tissues formerly described as without lymphatics. Among these may be mentioned the central nervous system, the eyeball, the labyrinth of the ear, and the placenta and its membranes. The perineural l^'mph-space about the optic nerve communicates freely with the subarachnoid lymph- space. Disease of the eye associated with central lesion, especially with pressure upon the base of the brain, interferes with the flow of the lymph from the orbit to the interior of the skull, thus causino- second- ary lesions in the eye which are easily recognized by the ophthalmologist.' The lympli-interstices or juice-canals are the begin- nings of the lymphatic system. They serve to dis- tribute a nutritive fluid in and among the ultimate elements of the tissues. In common parlance, a tissue is said to be vascular only when it is occupied by blood capillaries. In a more exact sense, all tissues are vascular, since the juice-canals can be demon- strated penetrating them. In some tissues, such as those of the cornea, and the epithelial structures generally, no blood-capillaries exist, and in some others, as cartilage, there are few or none. Such structures are sustained entirely by the lymph flow- ing; through the iuice-canals. The beginnings of the lymphatic vessels are better defined in the walls of the small intestine than in those localities where tiiey lead from large and irregular lymph-spaces. The lymph is propelled forward by the movement of muscular and other masses adjacent to the spaces and vessels as well as by the muscular fibres in the walls of the larger trunks. The act is aided in some animals, as batrachians and birds, by muscular cham- bers (lymphatic hearts) moving rliythmically. Remakks.—Diseases in which dilatation and ob- struction of the lymphatic vessels occur, are either local, and are the effects limited to the afferent vessels of a single group of glands, or they are general and ' W. F. Norris, Trans. Amer. Ophthalmolog. Soc. 1874, 163 ; and Phila. Med. Times, 1879, ix. 565. For detailed accounts of the large lymph-.spaces and lacunse, see tlie organs about which they are lodged. involve the entire lymphatic system. The diseases of the latter group are apt to be associated with morbid action of the ajipendages of the bloodvessel system. The colorless corpuscles of the blood are increased in number, the heart is hypertrophied, and the disposition to cancerous and tubercular disease pronounced. The lymphatic system has important clinical rela- tions with the spleen, the tonsil, and the adenoid bodies of the base of the tongue and the roof of the pharynx. Together with other ductless glands, these structures assist in adding white blood-corpuscles to the blood-stream. They are most active at the period between the disappearance of the thymus body and the completion of the medullary spaces of the long bones. This period practically includes infancy and adolescence. The practitioner notes that during this time the tonsils, the adenoid bodies of the phai-ynx, and the lymphatic glands of the neck and chest are more frequently enlarged than at any subsequent period.—Strumous, cancerous, and syphilitic disease are all prone to cause engorgement and hypertrophy of the lymphatic glands. Dr. Stephen Smith' calls attention to a danger attending the use of Esmarch's bandage in cases where septic matter exists in the tissues. He reports a case of fatal diffuse cellulitis which was supposed to have had its origin in the enforced transit of pec- cant matter upward along the larger vessels from the lymph-spaces lodged with the area which had been compressed by the bandage. For clinical purposes, the following table may prove of use in tracing the source of any inflammation, dilatation, or other change in the character of the normal lymphatic vessels or glands. A CLINICAL TABLE OF THE LYMPH-STEEAMS. Tliose of the right side of the head. Those of the right side of the neck. Those of the right side of the upper extremity. Those of the right thoracic wall and, in part, of the liver. Those of the right lung. Those of the right side of the heart. Lymph-streams pour- ing into the venous i stream at the right subclavian vein. .Archives of Clin. Surg. 1877, ii. 70.