424 THEHEARTAND HE BLOODVESSELS. wliicli joins the lateral sinus. The relation which these veins bear to those about the foramen magnum is worthy of mention. Luschka has pointed out that it is possible for the veins surrounding the anterior condyloid foramen to press upon the hypoglossal nerve. Remarks on the Excranial Veins.—The veins of the brain and its membranes have varying rela- tions to the arteries. With the exception of the larger veins of the pia mater, no set of veins accom- panying the arteries can be said to exist. The tendency is for all the encranial venous blood to be collected at the base of the brain, and thence to flow backward and escape from the head at the poste- rior lacerated foramen at the commencements of the internal jugular veins. Many less important points of exit exist, such as the foramen magnum, where the basilar vein and the circlet of veins about the foramen magnum join the vertebral or the posterior pharyngeal veins; the spinous foramen; the various small foramina at the base of the skull, without dis- tinctive names; and numerous irregular openings at the side of the skull about the squama, or near the lines of union of the squama with the adjacent bones. In addition to these, it is seen that the blood from some of the radicles of the ophthalmic vein is con- ducted away from the orbit by means of the veins accompanying the internal maxillary artery. The blood of the anterior and middle portions of the skull contents tends to empty into the cavernous sinuses; that of the posterior portion—including the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the cerebral peduncles—into the lateral sinuses. Free anastomoses occur between the two great sets. Luschka describes the opening defined by the ante- rior border of the tentorium and the base of the skull as the incisura teniorii or the superior occipital foramen, and suggests that it may, under some con- ditions, exert pressure upon the return flow of blood from the middle of the cerebrum, and thereby induce dropsical effusion in the ventricles in the same man- ner that pressure on the portal vein may induce ascites. In the aged the sinuses tend to enlarge, and the spaces about the Pacchionian bodies to widen, as they contribute to form the meningeal veins or the branches which join the superior longitudinal sinus. At the base of the skull, the lateral sinuses, and the internal jugular veins at their origins in the same class of subjects, are apt to be dilated, and the entire system of veins around the basilar process of the occi- pital bone and atlo-occipital articulation to be in like manner enlarged. Relief from encranial venous pressure may be effected by the blood finding exit from the skull as follows : In the occipital region, through the internal jugular vein and the mastoid vein ; in the frontal region, through the ophthalmic vein, and the vein in the foramen ovale; at the basal region, through the petrosal sinuses and the posterior condyloid vein; and at the vertex, through the diploic vein and the minute veins penetrating the outer table of the skull to join those of the scalp. The anastomotic branches between the two inter- nal carotid arteries and the branches of the basilar artery having been noted, it is of interest to detect an anastomotic trunk uniting the middle cerebral with the posterior cerebral vein, which thus permits the passage of venous blood by means of the anterior basilar vein into the sinuses about the foi'amen mag- num. From the above statements it is evident that it is possible for the venous blood to escape from the brain by other channel^ than the internal jugular veins. It the occlusion of these main channels were slowly affected, the veins at the back of the pharynx and the beginning of the vertebral canal, together with the internal maxillary veins, could relieve the contents of the orbit, together with the anterior portion of the cerebrum, of much of their superfluous blood. The cavernous sinus may be secondarily involved by extension of inflammation along the line of the ophthalmic vein. Such involvement is of grave im- port, since it is soon followed by stasis in the ante- rior and middle cerebral veins emptying into the sinus. If the communication of the middle cerebral vein with the petrosal sinuses, or the anastomosis of the middle cerebral with the posterior cerebral vein, be not suffi- cient to deflect the cerebral venous blood to the internal jugular vein, the cerebral stasis soon ends in inflamma- EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXIL Fig. L Veins of diploe. Fif. 2. Sinuses of tlie dura macer seen in a sagittal section of the skull.