exist with a chancre. In cases of neglected chancre, 3 F. Lente, New York .four, of Med., 1S50, 169 THE LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN. — OOO^OOO-— 449 five in number, and surround the artery of the same name.—The c?ee^j lymphatics are relatively few. Many of them end iu the popliteal glands. The lymphatics of the hypogastric region drain the region in which they are located, and anastomose with the epigastric lymphatics. They terminate in the superficial lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the inner side of the thigh and the gluteal region pass into the pelvis through the openings by which the obturator and sciatic arteries escape. They joni the vessels situated about the internal iliac artery. The lymphatic vessels of the external genitals form a superficial and a deep set The superficial set con- sists of a group of three vessels, one on either side and one on the dorsum of the penis. In the female, analogous vessels are found upon the clitoris, pass- ing thence upward through the mons veneris. The superficial vessels are received by the inguinal lym- phatics. The deep vessels pass into the pelvis along the course of the internal iliac artery. The lym- phatics from the scrotum and the labia inajora pass upward and outward along the course of the external pudic arteries. The superficial lymphatic glonds vary from six to twelve in number, and are divided into an oblique and a vertical set The glands of the oblique set are situated along the line of Poupart's ligament. The vertical set are arranged about the terminal portion of the long saphenous vein The position of the saphenous opening is occupied by a gland, which sends branches of communication downward through the opening to join the deep lymphatics. The deep lymphatic glands are from two to three in number, and are located upon the femoral artery and vein. A small gland is sometimes found on the interos- seous membrane at about the middle of the leg. Remarks.—The application of a knowledge of the Ivmphatics of the lower extremity emljraces the fol- lowing considerations — (a) The lymphatic vessels may be inflamed with- out involvement of the veins, when the course of some of the mam vessels can be distinctly traced under the skin. When chronically inflamed, and obstruction exists at the nearest lymphatic gland, the vessels may become thickened, dilated, and tortu- ous. The lymphati-3 vessels of the sheath of the penis arc, perhaps, more frequently involved in dis- eased action than those of any other portion of the skin surface. Inflamed lymphatic vessels often co- 57 associated with an indurated condition of the lym- phatic glands of the groin, they may even form bulla- like swellings which sometimes rupture and permit the lymph to escape externally. Rarely dilatation of the lymphatic vessels occurs without apparent cause. (h) The lymphatic vessels and the peri-vascular lymph-spaces are involved in elephantiasis. (c) The lymphatic ves.sels may, from causes imper- fectly understood, become filled with chylous fluid. In a case reported by Petters,^ remarkable dilatation of the lymphatics existed in the right groin and in the abdomen, in a patient the subject of valvular heart disease. The glands were converted into cyst- like cavities filled with a yellow fluid. Rosary-like dilatations, similar to those seen at the elbow, occur infrequently below the groin. T. Carr Jackson^ describes a case of dilatation of the femoral lymphatics, which occurred in a lad of seventeen. The vessels burst externally. (J) The Ij'-mphatic glands in the popliteal space may be confounded with bursal sacs communicating with the knee-joint. The glands can be distinguished from such sacs by the fact that they are the more deeply situated, and are nearer the median line. They may, when enlarged, give the impression that the popliteal artery is the seat of an aneurismal swelling. The inguinal lymphatic glands are the common seat of diseased action dependent upon the trans- mission of the virus of syphilis, or of any other irrita- tion wliose point of entrance is through the external genitals. They frequently suppurate or excite sup- }Hirative cellulitis in the parts aVjout them. Acute inflammatorv engorgement of one of them has been known to induce fatal peritonitis by direct continuity through the lymphatic vessels of the abdominal wall.^ IV. The Lymphatics of the AbdOiMen. The Lymphatics of the Abdomen include— The Lymphatics of the Viscera and of the Abdo- minal Walls. The Thoracic Duct. The Lymphatics of the Vi.scera and of the Abdomi- nal Walls are contributory to the thoracic duct in great part, and are arranged in groups as follows:— ' Prag. Vierteljahrsschi-ift, 1861, Ixxii liiicliHr, cxv. 183. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud. 1866, xvii. 287. also Schmidt's Jahr-