THE SUPERIOE VENA CAVA. —^ ooC^fCiO^ 415 Mauy minor variations of tlie veins of the limbs are due to the same general causes as those affecting the accompanying arteries. The regions of the joints, and the regions of junction of the limbs with the trunk, are favorite localities for venous as well as for arterial variations. Those veins which are early formed, and are not subject to change afterward, present comparatively few variations; such, for example, are the vertebral and intercostal veins. In those, on the other hand, such as the cervical veins, which depend upon the differing rates of development of the various parts of the brain and face; or in those in the abdomen where gross changes in visceral development are being effected, variations are of common occurrence. Owing to the free anastomosis between the minor vessels of the venous system, collateral circulations are established with relative ease in the veins, even after the occlusion of the larger trunks. The veins generally accompany the arteries of the same name. Each arterial twig is usually accom- panied by a single vein. The veins of muscles ex- hibit irregularities of calibre, which, however, abruptly disappear as the veins emerge from the muscle. In passing through fibrous rings or bands they enlarge below and become narrow above them. When veUc'B comites are present about an artery, it has been found, as a result of Verueuil's researches,' that the larger of the two veins is alone furnished with valves, and that the collateral vein joins the main vessel above the position of the valves by small transverse veins. Verneuil proposes to apply the term segment of security to the space between any two sets of valves; and he believes that the collateral and transverse veins are able to relieve a given seg- ment of security of excess of blood, and to carry it forward to the heart, or to pass it to the adjoining cardiac segment of security.^ THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The Superior or Descending Vena Cava extends from the termination of the two innominate veins to the right auricle. It is a large trunk measuring from two to three inches in length, and is directed down- ward, nearly vertically, or with a slight curvature to the left side. It lies behind the right border of the sternum, and extends from the first right costal cartilage to the middle of the second intercostal space, or to the third rib. It is embraced at its lower third by the pericardium, the serous lining of which is in ' TiuU. la Soo. Anatomique, t. xxxvi. 18(n, '268. 2 For aitditioiial I'l-inarks on Vi ius see p. 338. relation with its front and sides. It lies in front of the trachea and the root of the right lung, having the aorta to its left, and the right lung to its right side. The two innominates in rare instances pass directly down- ward to tlie right auricle. This is the normal an-angenient in some animals, as the monotremes, marsupials, bats, most rodents, and some insectivores. Under rare conditions the riglit [udmonic veins empty into tlie superior vena cava near its termination in tiie light auricle.' Relations In addition to the relations given above, the superior vena cava has liie right pleura and lung, and tlie right phrenic nerve to its right side, and the ascending por- tion of the aorta to its left. The right azygos vein, a por- tion of the trachea, tlie right pneumogastric nerve, and a few lymphatic glands lie behind. Tlie Variations of the superior vena cava are best ex- plained by reference to tlie retention of parts of the ducts of Cuvier.^ It lias been known to receive one of the pul- monary veins. In rare cases, where it has been doubled, the azygos vein commonly joins the rigiit vein, whicli is the true cava, the left being continued to tlie left auricle. Remarks.—Enlarged lymphatic glands may press upon the superior cava, but not with sufficient force to obliterate its lumen. Such pressure may so retard the downward flow of the blood as to render the face oedemat(ms, especially the eyelids, and to render the complexion livid. If the pressure is sufficiently great, the whole of the return bhxid is compelled to seek a new channel. The dilated right vena azygos in some degree supplies this, joining, as it does, the lumbo-vertebral plexus and the internal mammary and deep epigastric veins. The enlargement of the last-mentioned vessels is at times a conspicuous sign during life of pressure upon the superior cava. The right vena azygos and its tributaries may be found much enlarged, but the ter- minal portion of the vein may be impervious. The blood from the azygos vein may reach the right auricle by means of a vessel joining the superior cava at its upper part, and by another which may jiass downward through the aortic opening and unite with the inferior vena cava. T. Henry Green^ reports in detail the effects of constriction of the superior vena cava in a man forty-four years of age. The vessel was found to be completely impervious for about one-and-a-half inch from the auricle. Beyond this point its dia- meter was about one-sixth of an inch, and its walls were apparently thickened. A dense mass of adven- titious new growth embraced the vessel, and was > W. Gruber, Virchow's Arcliiv, Bd. 68, 284, fig. ^ See p. 412 ; also Kranse in Henle's Anat. s Trans. Patli. Sor. L(jiidon. 1876, 118.