426 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. The External Jugular Vein arises from the tem- poral vein at the lower part of the parotid region, and at once receives an important accession from the posterior auricular vein. The vein passes perpen- dicularly down the neck, crossing the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoideus muscle, pierces the deep fascia at the base of the neck to the outer side of the muscle, and ends in the subclavian vein, a short distance from the internal jugular. Sometimes it joins the latter vessel, or it may enter at the point of junction of the two vessels. AVhen the external jugular is duplicate the more deeply seated trunk receives the name of the posterior external jugular vein.^ A valve is usually found at the mouth of the main vein. Two inconstant veins join the outer side of the external jugular near its mouth, namely, the trans- versalis colli and the suprascapular veins. In foetal life the blood escapes from the brain-case between the tympanic bone and the squama in front. This arrangement persists in some quadrupeds, such as the dog and some ruminants. According to Luschka,^ there is found at times in the adult a dis- tinct vein passing out through the petroso squamosal suture. Remarks.—The external jugular vein was formerly selected for phlebotomy in cervical and facial con- gestions. Hoffman^ reports a case of fatal concealed hemorrhage arising from the external jugular vein in a child of five years who after scarlet fever suffered from a cervical abscess. Variations The intimate relation existing between the anterior extremity and the structures of the neck, so often suggested by the arrangements of the muscles, nerves, and arteries of the shoulder, is further sustained by occasional peculiar dispositions of the external jugular vein. This ves- sel may receive tlie cephaHc veins either above or below the clavicle ; or the external jugular vein may pass over the cla- vicle and empty into tlie subclavian vein. It may receive a branch passing upward from the skin over the Pectoralis Major. As already noted, the mastoid vein sometimes joins the external jugular, and at other limes it joins the occipital vein. The Anterior Jugular Vein is very inconstant. As a rule it is formed by radicles from the supra-liyoid space, and by anastomotic branches from the facial and external jugular veins. It passes down the neck in front of the larynx and trachea a little to the outer side of the median line. It lies parallel to the vein of the same name on the opposite side of the ' W. Graber, Virchow's Archiv, Bd. 54, 1872, 188. * Zeit. fiir rationale Medeciu, 1859. 3 Lond. and Edin. Month. Jouru. Med. Sci., 1844, b32. neck, being connected with it by a transverse vein^ (transverse branch, great transverse vein); hence the name anterior jugular plexus sometimes given to the pre-laryngeal and pre-tracheal veins. Passing out- ward at the base of the neck, behind the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoideus muscle, the anterior jugular vein empties either into the external jugular or into the subclavian vein. When the transver.«alis colH and the suprascapular veins do not join the external jugular, they are, as a rule, tributary to the anterior jugular vein. The communication of the anterior jugular with the facial veins is rare in man, but is the rule in mammals. Rathke shows that the facial vein re- ceives the lingual in mammals.^ The normal junction, in man, of the ranine vein with the facial, is sugges- tive of the close relations which exist between the facial and the lingual veins. In the region of those veins usually uniting to form the anterior jugular, is occasionally found extending deep in the median line a superficial median jugular vein. Above, it receives the superior thyroid veins at the upper border of the isthmivi, taking the place of tlie usual small trunk; and below, the inferior thyroid veins; finally, it empties into the transverse vein. It is not of necessity a compensative trunk for the superficial anterior jugular vein; for the two may be present together.^ The remaining veins of the neck lie beneath the deep fascia. The variations of the anterior jugular vein are numerous. The two veins may not unite at any point below the hyoid bone; they may unite at the base of the neck in a single trunk. They may be represented by a single vein extend- ing along the median line. The two veins may be united at the base of the neck by a transverse vein. The trunks, while normally disposed, may not lie in front of the larynx and trachea so much as at the side, and may, indeed, lie within the depression in advance of the Sterno - Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. The vein may be formed by the union of the facial and temporal veins, the trunk subsequently dividing into two branches over the clavicle, the one empty- ing into the subclavian vein, and the other into the external scapular.* 1 This transverse vein should not be confounded with the trans- verse vein uniting the primitive jugular veins in the embryo (see p. 412). To distinguish between them the latter might be called the fcetal transverse vein. The older English writers sometimes call the subclavian veins the transverse veins. 2 For an admirable representation of the veins of the neck in the rabbit see Paul Schneider, Topog. Anat. des Vorderhals beim Kaninchen, etc. Berlin, 1868, Taf. 1. 3 Dr. L. S. Pitcher, Annals of Anat. and Surgery, 1881, 158. * W. Gruber, Virchow's Archiv, Bd. 54, 1872, 188.