THE CARDIAC VEINS. -XX^^OCx^ 4-il of idiopathic inflammation, occlusion may be caused by calcification of tlie vein. A projecting portion of such deposit will serve as the exciting cause for the formation of a clot.—A thrombus may extend from the umbilical into the portal vein. All the hepatic branches of the portal vein may be obliterated. Such a condition may ensue upon cancerous infiltra- tion of one of the abdominal organs, under which circumstances it is reasonable to assume that the hepatic branches of the vein have been plugged by emboli detached from the seat of diseased action.^ The extraneous sources of occlusion of the branches of the portal vein passing througli the liver embrace, besides pressure, as from tumors, the causes which con- tract the parencliyma; so that all forms of atrophy and interstitial hyperplasia may be accepted as factors in occluding the portal branches, giving rise to stag- nation of the blood-stream and to the consequent establishment of a collateral circulation. The formation of hepatic abscess dependent upon dysentery or upon other acute inflammatory process of high grade is probably determined by the plug- ging of the hepatic branches of the portal vein with thrombi. (2) In the study of the collateral circulation^ it is necessary to remember that the portal vein does not return all its blood through the liver. Even should the ductus venosus be no longer patulous, a few unimportant branches about the cardiac orifice of the stomach anastomose with the inferior oeso- phageal and the inferior diaphragmatic veins.^ Oc- casionally a few small vessels will pass directly to the inferior vena cava without entering the liver. Three cases have been recorded in which none of the portal blood entered the liver, but passed directly into the cava. — Schift' and Sappey show that a small vein, formed on the anterior abdominal wall by union of the epigastric and other veins, ascends parallel with the remains of the umbilical vein, and, deriving blood from the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum, joins the portal vein near its termi- nation. Luschka found that this vein aft'ects more particularly the division of the portal vein going to the left lobe of the liver. In cirrhosis of the liver, the portal blood is returned in part by the cutaneous veins of the abdomen.—When the liver is abnormally adherent to the Diaphragm, the diaphrag- matic veins may carry some of the portal blood to the azygos vein. In cases of enlargement of the ' For an admirable r^suriu' of the symptoms of portal phlebitis, see W. C. Roberts. New York Jourii. of Med., 1849, vol. ii. 318. 2 Retzius, Allegemein. Med. Zeituiig., Feb. 1834, 21. 5U azygos vein, it would be of great interest to observe the changes effected in the diaphragmatic and oesoph- ageal veins in regard to their supplementary action as carriers of portal blood. (3) The lesions of the portal vein are infrequent. The following interesting case, recorded by Lambron,^ in relation to this subject, may be given. In a man sixtv- nine years of age, a fish-bone had penetrated the head of the pancreas from the stomach, and had entered the anterior wall of the superior mesenteric vein ob- liquely from above downward and from before back- ward. It passed across the interior of the vessel, and was found lodged in its posterior thickened wall. The mesenteric vein at this point was filled with a grayish thrombus, which was continued into the portal vein and its hepatic branches, and was for the most part firm. The portal vein was narrowed, and its walls were thickened. Mr. Markhain^ records a case in which hepatic ab- scess opened into the portal vein by ulceration. The opening was about an inch in length. Laceration of the veins of the rectum may occur in two situations,—one beneath the mucous membrane, and tlie other between the muscular coats of the bowel. Laceration of the submucous veins, when situated near or at the Sphincter Ani, forms small circumscribed haematomata which by the practi- tioner are commonly designated external hiemorrho/Js. A similar lesion of the intermuscular veins above the region of the Sphincter Ani causes diffuse clots to form in the walls of the rectum, which induce second- ary degenerative changes in its coats, and predispose the rectum to various phases of diseased action, and even to rupture. E. Qudnu^ wrote an elaborate essay on the rare lesion last named, accompanied by an original observation and th'' study of seven recorded cases. THE CARDIAC VEINS, The Cardiac Veins, or the veins of the heart, re- ceive blood from the walls of the heart, and convey it to the right auricle. They are without valves for the most part; near the mouth of the larger vessels one or two small unpaired valves may be seen, They are three in number, as follows:^ Great Cardiac, or Coronary, Posterior Cardiac. Anterior Cardiac. 1 Gazette Med. de I'aris, 1842, G20. 2 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., iv. 1854, ICS. 3 Rev. de Chir., Mar. 1882, literature; see also abstract, N. Y. Med. .lourn., 1882, vol. xxxvi. 55(1.