( 335 ) THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. GENEEAL CONSIDERATIONS. The heart and bloodvessels compose the blood- vessel system. This system embraces all the organs, tubes, or channels through which the blood flows, as well as the various appendages to the bloodvesseLs. The heart is a hollow muscular organ pertaining to both the arterial and venous systems. It is a duplex pump, each half of which is a modified bloodvessel. The bloodvessels proper are divided into the arteries, veins, and capillaries; each of these groups forming in turn a separate system. The bloodvessels are otherwise divided into two systems: the pulmonic, or the system of vessels by which blood is carried to and from the lungs for the purposes of respiration; and the systemic, that by which blood is carried to and fro through the body. The term "circulation" is more frequently employed in this sense than "system." Thus we speak of the "pulmonic circulation," the "systemic circulation," and the " foetal circulation." Cajyillaries.—Capillaries are networks of minute vessels, in the meshes of which are arranged the ele- ments of the tissues. The capillary vessels in their simplest form are composed only of the lining mem- brane of the larger vessels. They are thin and cellu- lar, and here and there openings appear between the cells, which constitute the so-called stomata. A ten- dency exists for the white blood-corpuscles to escape through these openings into the extra-vascular tissue- interspaces. This act is called diapetlesis, and plays an important part in the nutritive processes. The transition from a capillary vessel to either a vein or an artery is gradual, the simple cellular tube taking on the several coats of the more complex structures. The capillaries of the face, the vault of the cranium. the tongue, the skin, the joints, the plantar and the palmar regions exhibit some structural peculiarities, and have been designated by M. Pean the arterio- venous system.' The arteries and veins do not always communicate by a capillary network. In some portions of the body, as in the fingers and toes, the elbow, the knee, and, in a less degree, in the skin of the face, at the lips, nose, eyelids, and ears, as well as in the mucous membrane of the nasal septum, the two sets of vessels join directly one with the other. Capillary vessels form loops or meshes of various shapes and sizes. They are rhomboidal in nerve-tissue and looped in cartilage as it joins the end of the long bones, etc. Bete MiraliJe.—The plan of a capillary network may be repeated on a large scale, so as to form a coarse network, or the separate arterial and venous stems may form a network of vessels. Such local expressions constitute the different forms of rete mirahile. Examples are seen in the pia mater, and the choroid plexuses of the brain. Erectile tissue is characterized by the possession of rete mirahile in which the blood-canals are varicose, and appended in great part to the venous system. In typical expressions of erectile tissue, as in the penis, the arteries are small, are supported by septae, and do not contribute to a capillary network. Under certain conditions of the nerves and muscles of the part, the venous spaces, ordinarily containing but little blood, hold relatively enormous quantities, and thus cause the organ to enlarge, or, to use the more common word in use, to become erected. Other ex- amples of erectile tissue are seen in the nipple and the mucous membrane covering the turbinated bones. 1 Sacquet, Bull, de I'Acad. Med. 1856, 144-