FCETAL CIECULATION. 443 quantity of blood only being swept away into the current toward the foramen ovale. Thence it passes through the pulmonary artery to the ductus arteriosus^ which lies in such a position as to be in the axial line of the main trunk of the pulmonary artery, and to cause the blood to be deflected along the descend- ing aorta. The descending aorta divides into the right and left common iliac arteries, and, arising from the anterior aspects of the internal iliac arteries, are the large liypo'jastric arteries—one on either side of the body.^ Through these the venous blood from the foetus is returned to the placenta. Each ascends the anterior wall of the abdomen by the side of the bladder, and escapes at the umbilicus, after passing which orifice the two hypogastric arteries^ become the umbilical arteries and twist together around the um- bilical vein, to form with this vessel the vessels of the umbilical cord. The umbilical arteries present a number of annu- lose constrictions, with intervening sinus-like expan- sions. In some examples the constriction between a pair of expansions is of a diameter admitting a small bristle only.^ Changes af(er liirtU.—The ductus arteriosus begins to close immediately after air has been received into the lung. By the third or fourth day, the flow of blood is materially interrupted, and by the eighth or tenth is entirely stopped. Within three weeks the canal is absolutely impervious. The foramen ovale is usually closed by the seventh or tenth day. It is not always so completely obliterated as is the ductus arteri- osus, since a small persistent valvular opening can often be demonstrated even in the adult. The vascular con- nection between the iliac arteiies and the umbilicus is obliterated from the second to the fifth day. According to authorities collected by Dr. S. Smith,* the umbilical vein is patulous for two or three weeks after birth, and canals have been traced in it even at the sixth week. The position of the hypogastric arteries can be detected in the adult subject by means of two con- 1 The hypogastric arteries, as described by some writers, arise from the common iliac arteries. 2 In Plate LXIIL, the words "umbilical ai-tery" liave unfor- tunately been engraved alongside of the hypogastric. 3 J. C. Ewart, Journ. Anat. and Phys., 1878, 229 ; also Berger (Archiv. de Phys., 1872, 551). 4 N. Y. Jouru. of Med., 1855, xv. 73. verging folds of peritoneum, which start from the sides of the fundus of the bladder, to meet at the umbilicus. Between these is a median fold which indicates the site of the former uraclius. Eemarks.—The foramen ovale is patulous, it is thought, in one in every five or six subjects. There need be no mixture of blood in either auricle from this cause, owing to the obliquity of the orifice to the plane of the fossa ovalis; though the opening may permit the over-distended right auiicle to pour blood into the left. The post-natal closure of both the foramen ovale and the ductus arteriosus is generally thought to be due to the effect upon the heart and the adjacent vessels of the blood returned from the lungs to the heart, aided by the action of muscular fibres derived from the fasciculi in the walls of the left auricle. To these Dr. W. S. Forbes^ would add, in the instance of closure of the ductus arteriosus, the traction exerted by the descent of the Diaphragm upon the fibrous bands extending from the tendinous centre of this muscle to the aortic arch. In newly-born infants, ligation of the umbilical vein, instead of producing a firm thrombus and obliterating the vessel, sometimes produces a soft puriform throm- bus which extends into the ijortal vein.^ Cirrhosis of the liver often leads to a peculiar dila- tation of the superficial veins about the umbilicus. This may give a dusky coloration to the integument at that point, or it may advance so far as to produce a varicose condition of the larger veins. In the latter variety it has been supposed that the umbilical vein has reopened, and that the circuit between the deep epigastric and the umbilical vein, usually characteristic of the foetal circulation, is relieving the portal system. Sappey believes that the true explanation of such a condition of the superficial veins lies in the tact that a small vein accompanying the ligamentum teres becomes enlarged, the remnant of the umbilical vein remaining unchanged. By umbilical hernia is meant a protrusion of some of the abdominal contents through an opening in the relaxed structures at the umbilicus or through the abdominal parietes in its immediate neighborhood. ' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., 1880, Ixxx. 88. 2 Francis Delafield, a Iland-Book of Post-mortem Examinations, etc., 1872, 188.