404 THE HEART AND TPIE BLOODVESSELS. thigh, and unites with branches which supply the joint. This branch is often greatly enlarged in cases of pop- liteal aneurism, and in amputations of the thigh it often requires a ligature. (2) The internal circumflex^ larger than the external, arises from the inner side of the main trunk. It soon passes to the inner side of the tendon of the Psoas muscle, and winds between the Pectineus and the head of the femur to gain the space in front of the Obturator Externus muscle, where it divides into two branches, an ascending and a transverse branch. The ascending branch. Opposite the Obturator Internus it sends a branch upward which supplies that muscle, the Gracilis and the upper portion of the adductors. It anastomoses with the Obturator In- ternus. A twig ascends in front of the Quadratus Femoris muscle to reach the digital fossa, and sends branches to neighboring muscles. It anastomoses with the sciatic, gluteal, and external circumflex arteries. The articular. This is often a separate vessel, but may be a branch of the foregoing. It enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid foramen, and supplies the cushion of fat and the ligamentum teres. A twig from the obturator artery frequently takes the place of this branch, or the vessel nrny be the result of the union of twigs from both. The capsular branches joining the articular in addition supply the perios- teum of the neck of the femur, and, according to Sappey, extend along the synovial membrane to the head of the femur. The transverse branch pierces the adductor group at the space between the Adductor Magnus and Quadratus Femoris muscles, to gain the posterior aspect of the thigh, where its lower branches supply the upper portion of the Quadriceps, the Semi-Ten- dinosus, the Semi-Membranosus, and the lower part of the Gluteus Maximus, as well as the sciatic nerve. The periosteum of the great trochanter and the pos- terior surface of the neck of the femur also receive twigs from the same vessel. The vessel has a general course which recalls that of tlie posterior circumflex artery of the superior extremity. Cru veilliier asserts tliat it has been ruptured in upward disloca- tions of the hip. In intra-capsnlar fracture it is from the vessels wliich supply the synovial membrane of the hip-joint tiiut tlie detached head derives its nourishment. The vessel freely anastomoses with the terminal branches of the gluteal, the sciatic, and the pudic, and with the transverse branches of the external circumflex and superior perforating arteries. These facts are of importance to remember in connection with establish- ing a collateral circulation after ligation of the in- ternal iliac or femoral arteries above the origin of the profunda femoris. (3) The perforating arteries are usually three in number. Each pierces the Adductor Magnus muscle near its tendinous attachment. These arteries supply the adductor and the posterior flexor muscles, and anastomose one with another. The second is remark- able for furnishing the nutrient artery of the femur. The fourth supplies the short head of the Biceps and other hamstring muscles, and communicates with branches of the popliteal artery; it is sometimes called the terminal arter}?- of the profunda. (/) The anasloviotica magna is a small branch which arises from the femoral just as that vessel pierces the Adductor Magnus to become popliteal. It is directed downward, resting upon the Adductor Magnus, and between it and the Vastus Internus, to the region of the internal condyle, where it divides into two branches, a superficial and a deep. The superficial passes along the tendinous cord of the Adductor Magnus in company with the long saphe- nous nerve, beneath the Sartorius, to the skin, and divides into two branches, one of which anastomoses in front of the patella with the superior articular artery; the other anastomoses with the articular branch of the recurrent tibial artery. The deep part of the vessel crosses the femur between the fibres of the Vastus Internus, gives branches to the knee-joint, and forms an arch above the articulating surface by union with the superior external articular artery. Scarpa^s triangle is a topographical region upon the anterior aspect of the thigh, and is of importance in connection with the position of the femoral artery. The base of the triangle corresponds to Poupart's liga- ment ; the median side of the triangle is formed by the Adductor Longus; and thelateral side by theSartorius. The floor of the space defined by the triangle is occu- pied by the conjoined tendon of the Psoas Magnus and the Iliacus Internus, the Adductor Brevis, the Adduc- tor Magnus, on either side of the foregoing, and the Adductor Longus. The floor is crossed in the middle from end to end by the femoral artery, the femoral vein, and the anterior crural nerve and V^ranches. The space is covered in by the fascia, the superficial and deep lymphatic glands of the thigh, and the skin. The relations of the femoral artery are naturally embraced in part with those of Scarpa's triangle, and are shown in the following plan. In the region lying between Poupart's ligament and