THE HEAET AND T 336 HE BLOODVESSELS. Many if not all forms of nsevus and arterio-venous aneurism are defects in the disposition of the capil- lary system. They may occur in any part of the body, and may even be developed in the stump of an amputated limb. Mr. Adams^ has recorded an ex- ample of extraordinary enlargement of all the blood- vessels of the lower extremity. Death occurred from hemorrhage. Arteries.—Some degree of propulsion as well as the conduction of the blood is included in the functions of the arteries. Owing to the elastic character of the walls these vessels can be stretched without injury far beyond the position they assume when at rest. They also aid in protecting the lai'ger viscera, as well as in sustaining important organs in position. The heart is held in place by the aorta; the kidney, in part by the renal arteries and the aorta; and the jejunum and ileum, by the mesenteric vessels. Arteries frequently lie in large spaces between sets of muscles; i. e., between the flexors and the exten- sors, the extensors and the adductors, etc. They also often lie between the superficial and the deep muscles of the same set. These lines are proba- bly predetermined by nerve trunks, since even the recurrent arteries about the joints are apt to follow the track of a nerve in their ascent. Thus the radial recurrent artery runs back along the track of the musculo-spiral nerve, and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery, along that of the ulnar nerve. The main arteries of a limb lie in company with its main veins, and are inclosed in the same sheath. The size of a given artery is proportionate to the amount of work done in the part to which it is dis- tributed. The glands, with the exception of the testis, have very large bloodvessels as compared with the muscles and the bones. The brain is one of the most vascular of organs. The size of the renal and the mesenteric arteries as compared with the parts within which they are distributed is enormous. The bloodvessel-glands, such as the spleen and the thy- roid body, also receive relatively large volumes of blood. The ultimate arrangement of the bloodvessels varies according to the nature of the organ within which they lie. In the limbs the arteries are arbor- escent and form few large anastomoses. In the brain they are tortuous and the larger trunks anastomose freely, while many of the smaller terminal ones end in brush-like expansions without anastomosing. Such arteries are said to be penicillated. Again, two por- tions of the brain, as the cerebrum and the cerebellum, may differ in this regard. Arteries are tortuous in passing through mobile regions, such as the face; or toward the spleen, an organ subject to great changes in size. The arteries and veins of the skull often lie in spaces between ossific centres. Such spaces between imperfectly developed bones are apt to contain small bloodvessels in transit, which by their presence pre- vent the completion of the ossifying process. T. W. Nunn' believes that the arteries of the ex- tremities preserve a uniform arrangement, and that their irregularities or varieties of distribution are in definite relation with this general plan. He thus calls the profunda femoris a sefjmentary artery, since it is designed to nourish that segment of the limb lying between the hip and the knee. The superior and inferior profunda of the upper arm, the interosseous artery of the forearm, and the peroneal arterjr are in like manner segmentary arteries to their respec- tive regioTis of the extremities. It will be observed that all these vessels arise from the main vessel at a considerable angle, and rapidly divide into numerous branches. The term trans-seymentory he restricts to the main vessel traversing a segment of a limb, but giving few or no branches thereto. Such, for example, are the femoral, posterior tibial, radial, and ulnar arteries. Anastnniotic or covivi'iinicatiiig arteries are those which have no special direction, but form with the corresponding vessel or vessels acute or obtuse an- gles. They unite the segmentary arteries, the seg- mentary with the trans-segmentary, the traus-segmen- tary arteries, or the different parts of the same trunk. The anterior tibial is called a composite artery, since it combines the characteristics of a segmentary and of a trans-segmentary vessel, and at the same time furnishes an anastomotic branch. Applying the plan to the arte- ries of the foot, he believes the internal plantar artery to represent an abortive trans segmentary vessel, and the external plantar a segmentary trunk. The for- mer gives off" few branches, while the latter divides into numerous muscular branches, like those of the segmentary arteries elsewhere. In the same way he describes the external iliac artery as a main vessel of transit, hence resembling a trans-segmentary vessel from the trunk, while the internal iliac coming from it at a large angle is the artery of supply to the iliac re- gion and is hence analogous to a segmentary vessel of the lower extremity. He gives a hypothetical reason 1 Med. Times and Gazette, 1857, vol. xiv. 511. ' Jourii. de I'Aiiat. et de la Phys., 1874, 7.