382 AND THE BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET &<^0^00-: the first intercostal space, where it gives branches to the upper portion of the thoracic wall, it passes to the Pectoral muscles, between which it gives oS branches to supply more particularly the Pectoralis Minor. It also supplies the skin and the mammary gland, and anastomoses with the intercostal and inter- nal mammary arteries. (5) The acromial thoracic artery is larger than the preceding, and arises from the first portion of the axillary between the Pectoralis Minor and the costo- coracoid membrane. It at once divides into two branches, a descending and an acromial branch. The descending/ is lodged within the groove between the Deltoid muscle and the Pectoralis Major, where it is in company with the cephalic vein, and anastomoses with the anterior circumflex artery. Most of its branches pass to the Deltoid muscle. The acromial, the larger of the two branches, passes outward along the lower border of the clavicle, cross- ing the coracoid process and the coraco-acromial membrane to reach the acromion process, in the neigh- borhood of which its terminal branches are distri- buted to the Deltoid and Supra-Spinatus muscles and to the articular tissues in the region of the shoulder. It anastomoses with the transverse scapular artery. In addition to the above the artery sends branches to the Serratus Magnus and Subclavius muscles. In some subjects branches pass to the Pectoralis Major on its deep surface, and perforate the sternal margin of the muscle to supply the skin. (c) The lo7i(j thoracic artery arises from the first division of the axillary, directly below, though some- times behind, the Pectoralis Minor. It passes ob- liquely inward down the side of the chest between the Pectoralis Major and the anterior border of the Serratus Magnus muscle as far as the sixth inter- costal space. It supplies the Pectoralis Major, the Serratus Magnus, the corresponding Intercostal mus- cle, the mammary gland, and the skin. The poste- rior branches anastomose with the intercostal and subscapular arteries. (d) The thoracica alaris is a small inconstant vessel distributed to the lymphatic glands and fat of the axilla. It is often a branch of the acromial thoracic. (e) The subscapular artery answers in position nearly to the inferior border of the Subscapularis muscle. It is the largest of the branches of the axillary. It arises from the third portion of that vessel close to the lower edge of the Subscapularis muscle. Having .the musculo-spiral nerveon the median side, it descends toward the axillary border of the scapula, Avhere it divides into two branches, a descending and a dorsal or scapular branch. The descending branch is a con- tinuation of the arter}^ which passes along the axil- lary border of the scapula, in company with the sub- scapular nerve, between the Serratus Magnus and the Latissimus Dorsi, and is distributed chiefly to these muscles, and to the Subscapularis and the Teres Major, at the same time sending branches to the skin. It anastomoses with the terminal portion of the dorsal branch. The dorsal or scapular branch, as a rule larger than the preceding, arises from the main vessel at the upper portion of the axillary border of the space between the Teres muscles, where it forms a slight groove in the bone a short distance below the long head of the Triceps. As it lies be- neath the Teres Minor, on its waj'' to the dorsum of the scapula, it divides into branches for the Infra- spinatus and Teres Minor muscles. It anastomoses with the posterior and superior scapular arteries. (/) The 'posterior circumflex arises from the poste- rior surface of the trunk, opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis, and close to the preceding artery. It passes through the quadrangular space defined by the humerus within, the long head of the Triceps with- out, the Subscapularis and Teres Minor muscles above, and the Teres Major and Latissimus Dorsi below. It winds around the posterior aspect of the surgical neck of the humerus to reach the under surface of the Deltoid muscle, to which it sends numerous branches. Several small branches are given off to the shoulder- joint, the Latissimus Dorsi, and the Triceps before the artery reaches its destination. It anastomoses with the descending branch of the acromial-thoracic and subscapular arteries. ((7) The anterior circumflex, much smaller than the posterior, arises at about the same level with it on the anterior surface of the trunk. It passes outward and forward, and winds around the anterior surface of the region of the surgical neck of the humerus, beneath the Coraco-Brachialis muscle, and the short head of the Biceps, to reach the bicipital groove where it often terminates. It may cross this groove to reach the median border of the Deltoid, within which it is distributed to anastomose with the poste- rior circumflex artery. It sends a short descending branch to the periosteum of the bicipital groove, and a longer one which may ascend as high as the cap- sular ligament and the synovial membranes, to which, in this event, it sends branches, while the remainder of the artery, anastomosing with a branch of the acromial-thoracic, is lost in the head of the humerus. The artery supplies in addition the Subscapularis and those muscles arising from the coracoid process.