865 THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. (0 The Vidian branch enters the canal of the same name to supply the npper part of the pharynx, the orifice of the Eustachian tube, and tlie Levator Palati muscles. It anastomoses with the ascending pharyn- geal and stylo-mastoid arteries. (m) The pteryyo-ixdatine branch is often a brancb of the spheno-palatine. It enters the canal of the same name to supply the sphenoial cells and adjacent portion of the pharynx near the posterior nares. {n) The nasal or S2'>heno-palatine branch is the ter- minal branch of the internal maxillary artery. It enters the nasal chamber by the spheno-palatine fora- men. The main brandies supply the septum of the nose, the maxillary sinus, and the turbinated bones, and anastomose anteriorly with the terminal branches of the posterior palatine artery. Remarks Clieselden narrates a case of fatal liemor- rhage in excision of tlie tonsil, attributed to the division of a branch of the internal maxillary artery.' The artery was divided by Shuli'' in attempting a division of the fifth nerve for neuralgia. The accident necessitated the ligation of the internal carotid artery. Death fi'om septictemia ensued at the end of the fourth month. An aneurism of the artery may form a tumor in the region of the temple. A case is on record of this affection occurring in a young woman. A knife was thrust into the swelling by the medical attendant, mIio mistook it for an abscess.^— A. C. Castle^ has recorded an example of an aneurism of the descending jjalatine branch. Forming a conspicuous swelling on the hard palate, the tumor was incautiously opened, when a quantity of blood escaped sufficient to fill at once the moutli ami throat of the patient. After plugging the wound with cork, the hemorrhage was permanently controlled. Variations.—The brandies of the artery, viewed as a M'hole, interchange in part with the facial, the lingua!, the ophtlialmic, and the temporal arteries The encranial branches are often in excess, and may interchange with the internal carotid artery of the same side; partial parallelism exists between the varieties of the veins and arteries about the temi)oral bone. See an account of the connection be- tween the development of the brain and the disposition of the primitive venous trunks of the embryo under descriptions of the Veins. THE. ASCENDIXG PIIATIVNGEAL ARTERY. This small vessel arises from the external carotid near the origin of the internal carotid. It ascends toward the base of the skull between the internal surface of the Internal Pterygoid muscle and the 1 Portal, Anat. Med. ih'. 183. 2 Rosenthal's Aiiatomie, ii. 209. 3 Arcliives Ggiievalcs de M6decine, xvii. 593. * Lancet, 1850, vol. ii. 15. posterior wall of the-pharynx. After supplying these structures and the deep lympliatic glands it anasto moses with the descending cervical artery. It also yields small inconstant branches to the superior cer- vical sympathetic ganglion, and to the dura mater through the anterior condyloid foramen. Remarks W. M. Baker' records a case of a'f'emale who fell to the ground while holding a tobacco-pipe in her mouth. Some swelling of the tlu'oat followed. On the fourth day a hemorriiage occurred through the mouth, which recurred the following day, death taking jjlace the same evening. At the post-mortem examination a wound was found in the side of the oro-pharynx, and it was concluded that the bleeding had taken [dace from the opening made in the ascending phar- yngeal artery at tlie time of the fall. The internal carotid artery was uninjured. Tlie furious bleeding which sometimes occurs after the removal of an enlarged tonsil by the knife is sup[)0sed to arise from tiie terminal twigs of the ascending pharyngeal artery, or from a free arterio-veiious anastomosis of excep- tional cliaracter. Variations The ascending pharyngeal may interchange with branches from the facial, the lingual, and the occipital arteries. It may penetrate the base of the skull, and supply the walls of the cavernous sinus. THE INTERNAL CAROTID. The Internal Carotid Artery (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXIIL; figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXIV.) is the axial con- tinuation of the common carotid. Together with its branches it supplies the brain, the orbit, the region of the forehead, and in part the nasal chamber and the external nose. It begins on the level of the upper border of the thyroid body, and ascends the neck nearly vertically, with a slight curve, to the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it enters the carotid canal. Directly after its entrance the artery is directed abruptly forward and inward, to become again vertical as it escapes from the inner end of the carotid canal over the tissue occupying the foramen lacerum medium. It is now received within the cavernous sinus, and lies in the groove on the outer side of the body of the sphenoid bone. For the third time it assumes a vertical position, and pierces the dura mater near the anterior clinoid process behind the optic foramen, there to divide into its branches. The arterv thus has five windings or curves. To these Portal adds a sixth, where the vessel lies over the foramen lacerum medium. Relations—The internal carotid artery fakes its origin at a point where the cervical relationships are becoming ' Si. Bartliolomew's Hosp. Rep. 1&7(3; 1G3.