Fig. 2. The arterial supply of the stomach, spleen, and the | greater curvature upward. 392 THE HE A ET AND operatioD of amputation at the hip. It is effected with relative ease in the voung and emaciated as compared with the aged or obese. In emaciated individuals the normal pulsations of the abdominal aorta are so easily detected in palpa- tion of the abdominal parietes as to lead the incau- tious to mistake them for the pulsations of an aortic aneurism. Ligation of the Abdominal Aorta.—This vessel can he reached best by the metiiod pursued by James.' . An incision six inches in length is made, extending from the end of the tenth rib of the left side to a point one inch to the median side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The abdominal muscles are taken up severally upon a grooved director and divided. Tiie transversalis fascia being reached and divided, the hand is passed between it and tlie perito- neum, and gently passed inward to the aorta. The sym- pathetic nerves about it must be carefully separated witii the tip of the finger, and the needle passed with a full knowledge of the position of the injei-ior vena cava to the right of the vessel. The aorla has been ligated eight times, and in every instance without success in saving life. Mon- teiro, in 1842, ligated the abdominal aorta, the patient sur- viving ten days; in the remaining cases the patients lived from twelve hours to one to two days. The collateral circulation is established, when this vessel is ligated in dogs, through the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries. In Murray's' case of the ligation of the aorta in man, the patient died in twenty-three hours. An anastomosing vessel between the inferior mesenteric and the left internal iliac arteiy carried the injecting size which was thrown into the aorta above the ligated point. No otiier channel of communication between the trunk and the lower limbs was detected. The branches of the abdominal aorta are both sym- metrical and asymmetrical. The Symmetrical Branches include— (a) Inferior Phrenic. (h) Lumbar. (c) Eenal. {d) Supra-Renal. {e) Spermatic. (/) Ovarian. («) The inferior phrenic arteries, two in number, generally arise by a single trunk (although they I Med.-Chir. Trans., xvi. 1. 2 Lond. Med. Gaz., 1834 HE BLOODVESSELS. may arise separately) from the abdominal aorta, just below the aortic orifice of the Diaphragm. Each vessel passes upward, outward, and forward. The right inferior phrenic lies between the right cms of the Diaphragm, which is behind it, and the inferior vena cava, which is in front, wliile the left separates the left crns of the Diaphragm from the oesophagus. The vessel finally reaches the Diaphragm, to the under surface of which its branches are for the greater part confined. The two arteries anastomose behind the corcliform tendon. Each vessel divides into an ante- rior and an external branch. The anterior branch passes toward the front of the Diaphragm, where it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mam- mary artery. The external branch pa.sses outward, and anastomoses with the lower intercostal arteries. Branches are also disti'ibuted as follows: A descend- ing branch to the supra-renal capsule; an cesophayeal branch ; and a small twig which passes to the coronary ligament of the liver. Henle describes small brauciics which perforate the Dia- phragm to supply tlie pericardium. Small brandies also pass to the spleen, to the pancreas, and to the wall of the vena cava. (//) The lumbar arteries are from four to five in number, and are arranged after the manner of the intercostals. Each vessel arises from near the poste- rior surface of the abdominal aorta, passes outward across the lumbar vertebras, and divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. The piosterior branch represents the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery. Like this, it passes between a pair of transverse processes toward the back, and sends a branch through the intervertebral foramen to supply the spinal cord, the membranes, and the bony surfaces of the vertebral canal. The terminal twigs of the posterior branches are lost in the structures of the loins. The anterior branch corresponds to the artery of the same name in the intercostal series. The upper ves^ sels are crossed by the tendinous arches from which the Psoas muscle arises. Each vessel pierces the Quadratus Lumborum muscle, and is distributed to the abdominal muscles. It anastomoses with the EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXVII. Fig. \. The spleen, seen from its median surface. I adjacent parts. The stomach is represented with the