AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 372 THE HEAET The right subclavian artery arises from the termi- nation of the innominate artery, opposite the right sterno-clavicular junction, at a point commonly answering in position to the interval between the two heads of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. It curves outward over the superior thoracic aperture and the apex of the lung, between the Scalenus Anti- cus and Scalenus Medius muscles, to terminate at the lower margin of the first rib. The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, passing upward from a much deeper point than the right, but, from the position of the Scalenus Anticus muscle, it pursues a course to the left, similar to that which the right artery pursues to the right. It follows, from what has been said, that the second and third parts of both subclavian arteries are alike, while the first parts are different, and demand sepa- rate descriptions of their relations. The First Part of the Subclavian Artery: Relations of the First Part of the Right Sntjclavian Arteri/.—In front of this portion lie the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper portion of the sterno-clavicular articu- lation, the Platysma Myoides, the clavicular attachments of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle, with the Stylo-Hyoid and Stylo-Thyroid muscles, the deep cervical fascia, the termi- nations of the internal jugular and the vertebral veins, and the superior and middle cardiac nerves, as well as the pneu- mogastric and phrenic. Very rarely the pneumogastric nerve may etTect a plexiform arrangement of its filaments about the vessel. Beiiind lie the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Sometimes the phrenic nerve lies also beliind the vessel. To the lateral side is tiie mediastinal pleura,' wiiich sepa- rates it from tiie lung. The vessel is surrounded by cellular tissue, and by a great number of lymphatic glands, together with a few loops formed by the great sym[)athetic nerve. Sometimes the subclavian vein lies close beneath the clavicle. In the living subject the pulsation of the vessel can be detected a little above the clavicle, and to the outer side of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. Pressure downward and inward against the pulsating point will compress the vessel against the first rib. Ligation of the First Part of the Right Subclavian Artery.—An incision beginning just above the upper margin of the sternum is prolonged outward to the distance of three inches. It is met by a second, two inches in length, corre- sponding to the median margin of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid clinical writers give the clavicle as the lateral limit of the vessel. The axillary artery in this interpretation would extend iipward as far as the clavicle. 1 Cases of aneurism of the subclavian artery have been reported in which there occurred fatal hemorrhage into tlie pleural cavity. Pleuritis is one of the dangers attending ligation of the first por- tion of the vessel. muscle. The latter structure being exposed,itisfreely divided in its sternal portion, and partially divided in the clavicular. The anterior jugular vein is now seen, and is carefully held to one side. The Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Thyroid mus- cles are next successively taken upon the grooved directors, and divided. By tearing through the connective tissue over the position of the sheath of the great vessels, the direction of the common carotid artery is ascertained, the sheath opened, the internal jugular vein held to the outer side, and, the ai'tery being used as a guide, the finger is carried along it to the origin of the vessel from the innominate ai'tery. The trunk of the subclavian is felt to the outer side of the carotid, and is carefully exposed. The immediate relations of pneu- mogastric and cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerves over the artery, the recurrent laryngeal passing behind it, the phrenic nerve passing downward obliquely over the Scalenus Anticus, must be borne in mind in passing the needle round the vessel from below upward. The pleura lies beneath and to the outer side of the artery, and is in direct contact therewith. Tiie formula of the collateral circtilation, after ligation of the subclavian artery at its first part, is as follows:— „, .T . /Transversalis ColliX i r, , , ThyroKl axis ) + Subscapular. or /Transversalis CoUi\ i \ Sui:)ra-scapular / ~1 Tliyroid axis ( Subscapular ( Intercostal. Relations of the First Part of the Left Subclavian Artery.—Tiie first part of the left subclavian is more deeply situated, and is longer, than the corresponding portion of the rio-ht. It lies upon the si('e of the vertebral column, from the third to the first dorsal vertebra. Upon reaching tiie base of the neck, it arches over the first rib to pass bcliind the Scalenus Anticus muscle, where it ends in the second portion of the artery. The relations diifer in the thoracic and cervical parts as follows :— Tiie Thoracic Portion Tlie vessel is nearly vertical, with a slight inclination outward. In front are the left inno- minate vein, a portion of the left lung, and, for a sliort distance, a part of the oesophagus. Behind lie the Longus Colli muscle, the inferior cervical ganglion of tlie sympa- thetic, and the beginning of the thoracic duct. To its outer side, and in direct contact with it, is tiie pleura. To the inner side and inclining to the front are the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves; to tlie inner side, still on a plane ante- rior to the artery, are the trachea and tlie left carotid artery ; to the inner side, and on the same plane as the artery, are the thoracic duct, tiie left cardiac nerve, and the (Esophagus. Tlie Cervical Portion.—At the base of the neck the artery is crossed obliquely by the phrenic nerve, and at an angle by the subclavian vein. The internal jugular vein lies in front. Behind is the thoracic duct. In tlie neck tlie left subclavian artery lies on a somewhat deeper plane than that of the right, and crosses the first rib somewliat i'urtlier from tiie sternal end.