THE EN CRANIAL VEINS. »oo^oo« 419 turns blood from the zygomatic and pterygoid regions, as well as from the deeper structures of the face and the interior of the brain-case. It corresponds in its general features to the internal maxillary artery, and receives branches in front from the infraorbital re- gion, the nasal chamber and upper teeth, the inferior dental canal and the lower teeth, as well as from the Buccinator, Masseter, and Pterygoid muscles. From behind it receives the deep tem'poral branches of the deep veins of the temporal fossa, the middle meningeal vein from the interior of the brain-case, and the deep auricular vein from the external meatus. The internal maxillary vein is remarkable for the formation of plexuses of small veins. One of these is situated at the anastomosis of the infraorbital with the facial vein ; another lies in the pterygoid region. A similar arrangement of parts is seen about the infe- rior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve, from its point of escape at the oval foramen to its division into the lingual and inferior dental branches. The plexus last named joins the cavernous sinus through the oval foramen. Variations The internal maxillary vein at timi's is re- ceived by tlie tempoi-o-maxillary vein. Tlie temporal and the internal maxillary veins may unite to form the temporo- maxillary vein, which is thus seen to be a different vessel from the temporo-maxillary as described by some English writers. The meningeal branch and the trunk of the internal max- illary vein is an instance of survival of the large primitive jugular vein of the embryo, and the homologue of that per- manent vessel in the lower animals, which is relied upon to convey the greater portion of the blood from the brain and its membranes to the veins of the neck. An explanation is tlius offered of the otherwise exceptional fact tliat a vein, the greater part of which is derived from the face, receives a tributary from cranial structures so remote from it. Remarks.—The lateral portion of the pterygoid plexus receives its blood from some tributaries of the internal maxillary artery, from the cheek, and from the veins about the neck of the inferior maxilla. The remaining portions receive branches from the deep temporal veins, as well as from the intracranial veins escaping from adjacent foramina. An extension of this plexus lies along the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and anastomoses with the veins of the pharyngeal plexus. E. ZuckerkandP believes that the pterygoid plexus of veins is capable of compress- ing the tube and considerably narrowing its lumen. The motion of the lower jaw, he believes, facilitates the act by which these veins become distended: It ^ Monatschrift f. Olirenheilkundie 49, 1876. is probable that in this arrangement of parts an ex- planation can be found for the fact that the dulness of hearing, often found in edentulous persons, is rem- edied by the insertion of sets of artificial teeth. The Temporal-Maxillary Vein (common facial) lies upon the neck, although for convenience it is retained among the veins of the head. It is formed by the union of the facial vein and the large communicating branch from the termination of the temporal. It extends downward and outward nearl}^ in the line of the facial vein, and empties into the internal jugular vein. The Posterior Auricular Vein arises behind the ear, where it anastomoses with the temporal vein in front and with the occipital vein behind. It joins the external jugular, and sometimes receives a communi- cating branch from the mastoid vein. The Occipital Vein, as its name implies, is situ- ated at the occiput. It descends obliquely outward and downward, accompanied by the occipital artery, to terminate in the internal jugular vein. Occasion- ally it ends in the external jugular. It anastomoses freely with the posterior auricular and temporal veins and with the vein of the opposite side. The Lingual Vein arises from the side and base of the tongue. It often joins the facial, and through that vessel its blood reaches the internal jugular. As already mentioned, it may join with the pharyngeal, or with the external jugular vein. The tributaries of the lingual vein, seen in the living subject when the mouth is open and the tip of the tongue is elevated, are called tlie sublingual veins. The Pharyngeal Vein derives its blood from the pharynx. It may open into the superior thyroid or lingual. The pharyngeal vein, carrying the return blood from the soft palate, lies along the course of the ascending pharyngeal artery. It receives some tribu- taries from the venules passing through the spinous and oval foramina, and empties into the external jug- ular at the lower end of the parotid gland. II. The Encranial Veins. The Encranial Veins include the following:— I. Those of the Pia Mater. IT. Those of the Dura Mater (Sinuses). III. Diploic and Meningeal Veins. IV. Veins tributary to the Encranial Veins from Organs or Surfaces outside the Brain-Case.