THE HEART. 347 c><><>^0<><:^ segments and the chordae tendinese of each valve to arise from the inner layer of the wall of the ventricle, and to contain muscular fibres in common with those of the papillary muscles to which they were attached. This description is in harmony with the account of the action of these valves given on p. 339, and ac- counts for the occasional presence in the adult of muscalar fibres in the segments of the valves.^ as well as for the anomaly of the direct insertion of Musculi Papillares upon the segments, instead of the normal indirect insertion through the medium of the chordae. —The semilunar valves appear to be developed from the endothelium. The development of the great vessels as they arise from the base of the heart occurs in a definite order, in the description of which the language of Prof. Turner, in his epitome of Eathlcs' researches on the subject, will be employed (fig. 4, Plate LXIL). "At an early period of embryonic life,"' says this writer, "the vascular system consists of the following parts: a short trunk, proceeding from the heart (trimcus communis arteriosus); of two longer trunks situated in the visceral chamber, under the vertebral column, which run parallel to each other, and subse- quently converge, so as to coalesce and form a single vessel [trunk of the aoria). Passing between the truncus communis and the trunk of the aorta, on each side is a series of arch-shaped vessels (vascular arches\ which are situated in the wall of the visceral chamber. These arches consist of five pairs, thougli it is very doubtful whether they all exist at the same time. It is by the junction of these dift'erent arches with each other, under the vertebral column, that the parallel vessels are formed which subsequently unite to form the trunk of the aorta. The trunk of the aorta is thus to be regarded as a secondary vessel, for which the parallel trunks serve as two special roots (jjrimi- tive aortic roots). The mode of development from this simpler typical arrangement into the condition met with in the fully formed animal is due to meta- morphoses taking place in these vessels in certain given directions. Some of the changes are progres- sive, and produce an increase in the size and impor- tance of certain of the vascular arches, and the trunks to and from which they proceed. Others, again, are retrogressive; the development and growth of the vessels is either not commensurate with the develop- ment and growth of the individual, or atrophy, to a greater or less extent, takes place, so that portions of them disappear." A scheme, such as is embraced in this account, will 1 See p. 345. be employed in the next section in describing the most striking irregularities of the large vessels. MALFORMATIONS OF THE HEART AND IRREGULARITIES OF THE GREAT VESSELS. The following epitome of this difficult subject is abridged mainly from the elaborate writings of Prof. Wm. Turner,! rjy ^ Peacock,^ and Dr. ISTorman Chevers.^ The language of the first-named author has been largely retained. For further information the student is referred to these memoirs. A. Sab- batier^ and W. Krause^ may also be consulted. MALFORMATIONS OF THE HEART. Fourteen types of malformation of the heart have been described. A brief account of these is here given, together with the analogues from the lower animals whicli most nearly approach them in character. Heart consistiny of a single auricle and veyitricle, together with the ductus communis arteriosus.—^\iq single vessel is mainly aortic, a pulmonary branch being evident. Two pulmonary veins empty into the descending vena cava or auricle. It is caused by arrest of development at a period prior to the appear- ance of septa. This type is the analogue of the piscine heart, from which it differs in the absence of multiple valves in the truncus. The vascular arches are in such cases appropriated in a normal manner, hence the return blood from the aerating organ cannot empty into the aorta as in the fish, but must enter the single auricle or the descending vena cava. Heart with ])ermanent foram.en ovale.—This mal- formation is caused by contraction or obliteration of the pulmonic orifice after the completion of the ven- tricular septum. The blood from the superior cava, not being transmitted through the right side of the heart, regurgitates into the right auricle, and is de- flected through the foramen ovale, which is thus pre- vented from closing. Analogue.—The heart of the seal, which, however, does not possess a contracted pulmonary artery. Heart having a patulous ductus arteriosus ivith im- perfect ventricular septum.—This deformity is the result of the contraction either of the pulmonary artery, or of the right auriculo-ventricular orifice, occurring at a period before the completion of the 1 Brit, and For. Merl.-Chir. Rev., 1862, 173. 461. 2 Malformations of the Heart, London, 2il ed. 1866. » London Med. Gaz., 1846-1848. Annal. des Sciences Nat., xix., 1874, 31. ^ Henle's Anatomie, iii., 1st ab. 203.