THE PLANTAR ARTERIES. OOO^OOo 409 tlie ulnar arteries. Tlie nutrient branch may arise from the anterior tibial. The plantar arch may be absent. The peroneal artery is subject to relatively frequent variations. It may arise from the popliteal. It may inter- change with both the posterior and the anterior tibial arte- ries in whole or in part. When the peroneal artery is absent, the posterior tibial artery yields the tibial nutrient artery. It may yield no branches until near its termination. THE PLANTAR ARTERIES. The Plantar Arteries constitute the terminal branches of the posterior tibial. They are two in number, as follows—■ (a) Internal Plantar. (/)) External Plantar. (a) The internal plantar artery, the swialler of the two, extends along the inner side of the foot in the groove between the Abductor Pollicis and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum muscles. It is variable in its dis- position, but as a rule divides into two branches, one of which extends along the upper border of the Ab- ductor Pollicis, and is lost along the inner border of the great toe, where it joins the inner division of the first digital artery; Avhile the other branch passes for- ward to join the first digital artery at its junction with the first perforating branch frotn the dorsal artery of the fi^ot. The internal plantar artery sends minute branches to the muscles along the inner border of the foot and to the tarsal bones and ligaments, and several cutaneous branches to the sole of the foot, as well as anastomos- ing branches which join the internal malleolar and the tarsal arteries. [b) The external plantar artery arises from the pos- terior tibial, between the calcaneum and the Abductor Pollicis, under the annular ligament. It is directed outward and forward beneath the Flexor Brevis Digitorum and Accessorius to the septum between the former muscle and the Abductor Minimi Digiti. It here lies deep, and is deflected directly forward between these two muscles as far as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, where it is curved inward be- tween the flexors of the toes and the Lumbricales to enter into the plantar arch. The external plantar sends off small calcaneal branches which cross the calcaneum at its under sur- face to supply adjacent parts and the integument, and numerous stnall muscular branches to supply the muscles along the outer border of the foot. Some of these anastomose with the tarsal arteries. A digital branch passes beneath the Abductor Minimi Digiti to the outer border of the fifth metatarsal bone. 52 According to Power, the artery as it turns inward lies in a triangular space, bounded in front by the Transversalis Pedis, behind and to the inner side by the Abductor Minimi Digiti, and to the outer side by the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. The interosseous muscles lie ab(jve it, and the common flexor tendons beneath it. The external plantar nerve crosses to the inner side of the vessel. plantar arch is formed by the junction of the continuation of the external plantar artery with the first interosseous branch of the dorsalis pedis. It increases slightly in size from without inward. It passes over the bases of the metatarsal bones and tendons of adjacent muscles. The plantar arch yields four digital arteries which occupy the inter- osseous spaces. Each of the three outer digital arteries, as it reaches the metatarso-phalangeal arti- culation, constantly divides into two branches which supply the opposed surfaces of the corresponding toes. The first digital artery is much larger than the re- maining three. It commonly divides into three branches: the one extends along the inner margin of the great toe, where it is often joined by the terminal twig of the internal plantar; the second supplies the outer margin of the great toe; while the third extends along; the inner margin of the second toe. In addition to the above, the plantar arch sends small branches backward, which supply the under surface of the tarsus and the associated ligaments; and three small branches upward, which perforate the interosseous spaces between the heads of the Dor- sal Interosseous muscles, and anastomose with the dorsal arteries. Remarks.—The fact mentioned on page 20i, that injuries of the median portion of the foot are, as a rule, of a graver nature than those of the lateral por- tion, can be explained in part by the small amount of blood which the median portion receives. THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The Anterior Tibial Artery constitutes the ante- rior terminal division of the popliteal artery. It passes between the two upper slips of origin of the Tibialis Posticus muscle, and pierces the inter- osseous space just above the interosseous membrane to gain the anterior tibial region. It descends the leg, passing downward and a little inward to lie in front of the ankle-joint beneath the annular liga- ment, at the lower border of which it terminates in the dorsalis pedis. The vessel is at first deep-seated, and rests upon the interosseous membrane with the Tibialis Anticus muscle to the inner side, and the