HE BLOODVESSELS. 370 THE HEART AND r —oo-o An embolus entering tlie internal carotid is nat- urally carried toward the middle cerebral, since this trunk is the larger of the two as well as a direct upward continuation of the carotid stem. A detailed Account of the Minute Branches of the Middle Cerebral Artery.—Tliese are among the most numerous of the arteries penetrating the brain sub- stance, and, by reason of grave braia-lesions being frequently associated with them, are of great impor- tance in the study of practical medicine. In common with other arteries of their kind they are isolated from one another even to the ultimate twigs of a single vessel. Thus the effects of their lesions will be often strictly limited. Immediately after the origin of the main trunk from the internal carotid a number of minute branches pass at right angles through the anterior perforated space to supply the basal ganglia, but more particu- larly the striated bodies. These vessels are arranged in three groups, as follows:—■ 1st. A group composed of those twigs which sujiply the ventricular aspect of the striated body through the caudate nucleus. They are called the internal lenticulo- striated or internal arteries. 2d. A group composed of branches passing upward into the outer portion of the lenticular nucleus, near the external capsule, the claustrum, and the island of Eeil. These traverse the base of the corona radiata, and end in the head of the caudate nucleus, and are called the lateral (external) arteries of the striated body, or the external lenticulo-striated arteries. 8d. A group of branches resembling the preceding in their general direction, but supplying the posterior part of the lenticular nucleus, the anterior part of the optic thalamus, and the contiguous internal capsule. These are named the lenticulo-optic branches. Hemorrhage from the first group will lacerate the caudate nucleus and the adjacent medullary substance of the anterior cerebral lobe. Perforation of the lateral ventricle may also occur. This occurrence is rare, a result in part due to the fact that the caudate nucleus has a variable blood-supply to which the an- terior cerebral often contributes.—Hemorrhage from the second group, as it lies to the outer side of the lenticular nucleus, will destroy the external capsule and the claustrum, and by pressure inward will lacerate the lenticular nucleus and internal cap- sule.—In hemorrhage above the lenticular nucleus in the corona, a large clot commonly forms in the medullary substance, while the caudate nucleus and the anterior portion of the optic thalamus are bulged forward till they encroach upon the space of the 5000—. lateral ventricle; or the clot may even protrude througli the caudate nucleus into the cavity of the ventricle.—Hemorrhage from the third group will involve the tail of the caudate nucleus, and the an- terior part of the optic thalamus, or the posterior part of the lenticular nucleus, in connection with the foregoing. The blood may flow thence downward within the substauce of the crus. The cerebral hemispheres above the basal ganglia are, according to the researches of Duret, supplied by both medullary and cortical vessels. The medullary vessels are fewer in number than the cortical, but are larger, and give off numerous collateral branches. Their terminal branches reach the cortex. The cortical vessels represent the final distribution of the bloodvessel supply of the pia mater. They supply the claustrum, forming delicate networks of capil- laries. Both sets are penicillated. The arterial supply to the cerebrum, especially at its anterior and lateral portions, as derived from the branches of the internal carotid, is without impor- tant or constant anastomosis; thus, the peripheral surfaces of the two hemispheres are isolated, and the different portions of the same hemispheres im- perfectly united. These facts are of great value in studying the results of hemorrhage or embolus in the ultimate distribution of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. {'j) The posterior communicating artery. The poste- rior communicating artery lies to the outer side of the pituitary body, and completes the circle of Willis laterally by joining the posterior cerebral. To the inner side of this vessel is seen the posterior choroid which is distributed to the pineal gland and the choroid plexus. The artery may be so inconsiderable in size that it can have little influence in establishing free inosculation. In this way, according to Charcot,^ may be explained the instances of softening of an en- tire central hemisphere when the terminal portion of the internal carotid is obliterated by a clot. Minute branches are sent to the optic chiasm, the tuber cinereum, the mammillary bodies, and the optic thalamus. One of these, known as the anterior inter- nal artery of the optic thalamus, passes upward to the thalamus within the third ventricle through the tuber cinereum. A second branch, the posterior internal, is often a branch of the posterior cerebral. It enters the thalamus on the ventricular aspect through the posterior perforated space. ' Le(;oiis sur les Local, dans les Maladies du Cervean, 1876, 50.