357 THE SYSTEMIC AETEKIES. =-OO^OOC parts. A second .ayer of fascia over the Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Tliyroid muscles is next divided, when the sheath of the vessels is exposed. Upon the sheath the descendens noni branch of the liypoglossal is ordinarily seen. Carefully avoiding this nerve, the sheath is opened by making a small puncture, and the ligating needle is passed from without in- ward. The internal jugular vein lying to the outside need not be seen. In some individuals it is seen expanding in inspiration, and collapsing in expiration. The pneumogastric nerve lies beneath the artery. The sympathetic nerve lies still deeper behind the sheath. The proximity of these im- portant structures should make the operator careful in tiie manipulation of the needle in encircling the artery. Collateral Circulation.—Dr. Valentine Mott,' in the dis- section of the head and neck of a man, three months and a half after ligation of the right common carotid artery, found the distribution of the collateral vessels as follows :— The riglit subclavian artery was enlarged to the size of the innominate. The thyroid axis gave oti' four branches—the inferior thyroid, the deep cervical, the transversalis colli, and the supra-scapular. The first two of these were greatly enlarged. The ascending cervical was i-emarkable for being three times its normal size. It formed numerous anasto- moses with the vertebral, and divided into many small branches at the upper part of the neck, and united with the descending cervical branch of the occipital artery. The left carotid was also greatly enlarged, as were all the branches arising therefrom—especially the facial and temporal vessels. Much of the blood from the left carotid passed over to sup- ply the tissues on the right side of the head and neck. Ligation of the common carotid artery is not infre- quently succeeded by hemiplegia. Lefort,'^ in analyzing 241 cases, found cerebral lesions to follow in 75. According to Duret,^ such consequences are due either to an embolus de- tached from a clot above the ligated point, or to complete absence of a collateral circulation. Both the anterior and posterior communicating arteries may be mere threads, or the vessels of one side may be in all their proportions smaller than those of the opposite side. If the trunk carrying the larger volume of blood be ligated, the otiier is not sufRciently capacious to nourish the brain. Extensive atheroma of the arteries of the base of the brain may induce the same lack of nutrition, but the more important source of cerebral anaemia lies in the absence of anastomosis between the arteries of the two sides, as well as between arteries of the same side. THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The External Carotid artery (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXIII.) is the median of the two terminal branches of the common carotid artery. It arises opposite the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, and ascends ' Medical and Surgical Register, 1818-20, 49, fig. * Bull, de la Soc. do Chir. iv. See also Gr. W. Norris's Contri- butions to Practical Surgery, p. 256. 3 Archiv. de la Pliys. 1874, 66. the neck between the pharynx and the prevertebral muscles as far as the neck of the lower jaw, where it ends in the internal maxillary and the temporal arteries. It supplies the larynx, the pharynx, the tongue, the facial region, the temples, the external and the middle ear, the occiput, and tlie dura mater. It consists of two portions, that below the parotid gland, or the superficial, and that within the parotid gland, or the deep-seated. Relations.—At its origin the su2icrjicial portion is covered by the skin, the Platysma Myoides, and the cervical fascia. It lies to the inner side of the internal carotid artery, while behind it lies the superior laryngeal nerve. A little higher up the same relations are maintained, with the addition that the Digastric and Stylo-Hyoid muscles are placed supei-jicialhj to the artery. The posterior belly of the Digastric tlius becomes the best guide to the artery. The deep portion of the artery is embraced by tiie cervical lobe of the parotid gland during the remainder of its course. The external carotid artery ordinarily possesses no accom- panying vein. When, however, the internal maxillary vein joins the deep instead of the superficial jugulars, the artery retains the vein in a superficial relation. Variations.— The tendency is for the branches of this artery to unite at or near their origin. The superior thyroid and the lingual may unite, or both of these may join witli the facial, or the facial and the lingual may form a common trunk, while the superior thyroid remains in its usual rela- tion or arises from the common carotid. These tendencies permit the origin of many branches to be sought witii suc- cess in the first or superficial portion of the artery, the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle being a guide to them all. The main trunk of the vessel arising from tiiis cluster of branches may pursue the rest of the course without any branches near its terminal ones. In other instances—indeed, those commonly given as the rule—the branches are given off' at somewhat regular inter- vals along its course. The artery may divide into two branches at the angle of the lower jaw, wliich branches reunite behind the neck of the same bone to form the tem- poral.^ Rarely the internal maxillary pierces the Internal Pterygoid muscle, and thence enters the spheno-maxillary fossa. It may pass between the Digastric and the Stylo- Ilyoid muscles. Ligation of the External Carotid Artery To ligate the vessel below the Digastric, an incision sliould be made along tlie neck midway between the angle of tlie inferior maxilla and tlie Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle to the thyroid cartilage. The Platysma Myoides muscle and the deep fascia must be next divided. The facial and tiie superior thyroid veins and an occasional lymphatic gland may then come into view. The artery is crossed by the posterior belly of tiie Diagstric, and by ' Jaessel, Archiv fiir Anat. und Entwickelungsgescliichte, 1878.