THE POSTERIOE TIBIAL ARTERY. 407 inches in length is made along the tendon of the Semi- membranosus muscle, as it forms the median boundary of the popliteal space. The superficial fascia being divided, the underlying Adductor Magnus is drawn inward. The pop- liteal nerve lies close to the m.uscle, and should be carefully isolated and drawn outward. The artery and vein are now exposed lying togetlier, the vein inclining to the- outer side of the artery. The needle should, therefore,, be passed from without inward. Ligation of the loiver portion. A longitudinal incision three inches in lengtli, beginning at the bend of the knee, is made in tlie middle line of the space between the heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle. The superficial fascia being divided, the short saphenous vein and nerve are seen and carefully drawn to one side. Separating the two heads of the Gastrocnemius with the handle of the scalpel, the vessels and nerve are seen lying at the bottom of the wound. The vein and nerve are either both drawn inward, or they are separated, the nerve being drawn inward and the vein outward. The vein lies nearly over the artery, inclining somewhat to the outer side. Tlie collateral circulation , after ligation of the popliteal artery, may be not unlike the plan observed by Gruber' in tlie body of an old man. The main vessel was obliterated in the popliteal space, its remains lying in the inner f)op- liteal sulcus. The volume of blood was carried by the gastrocnemial artery, which was enormously enlarged. The posterior tibial artery was derived from anastomosing branches from the preceding, and was efficient. Variations.—When the femoral artery is absent, or does not reach the ham, the popliteal^ artery is a continuation of the ischiatic. The artery in this event lies superficially to the vein. It may be shorter than usual, the division into the terminal branches taking place at the upper part of the Popliteus. Or the artery may be longer than usual, and divide at the middle of the leg. A stout branch (short saphenous) may accompany the short saphenous vein, and, winding round the external malleolus, reach the foot to anastomose with the tarsal arteries. An accessory slip of the Gastrocnemius muscle may pass between the popliteal artery and vein. THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The Posterior Tibial Artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal artery. Be- ginning at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, the artery descends the leg a little obliquely down- ward and outward, but soon becomes vertical, and lies at first upon the Tibialis Posticus, and afterward upon the Flexor Longus Digitorum. It passes behind the internal malleolus and terminates beneath the origin of the Abductor Pollicis, by dividing into two branches the internal and external plantar arteries. ' Virohow's Arcliiv, 1875, 262, figs. The vessel ends at the middle of a line drawn from the tip of the internal malleolus to the middle of the heel, an important fact to remember in shaping the flap in Syme's operation. The branches of the posterior tibial are— (a) Muscular. {!>) Peroneal. (fl) The muscular branches as a rule are small. They are distributed for the most part to the deep and superficial muscles. Those to the Soleus are larger than those to other parts, save at the lower portion of the artery. Just before the origin of the plantar arteries a small branch is given off to the internal malleolus, and another to the inside of the calcaneum, to anastomose with the posterior peroneal and internal malleolar arteries respectively. {h) The peroTzm? artery is the largest of the branches of the posterior tibial. It arises from the artery about one inch below the Popliteus tnuscle, at the origin of the Tibialis Posticus muscle, and about three inches below the level of the head of the fibula. It passes down- ward and slightly outward to reach the inner side of the fibula, along which it descends, either between the Flexor Longus Pollicis and the Tibialis Posticus, or within the substance of the former muscle. Toward the lower portion of the leg it passes beneath the pero- neal muscles, crosses the tibio-fibular articulation, and descends behind the outer malleolus and the tendo- Achillis to supply the outer surface of the calcaneum, the adjacent fat, and the origin of the Abductor Minimi Digiti and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum. The peroneal arterj' below the origin of the anterior peroneal is described by some authors under the name of the posterior 'peroneal. The branches of th§ peroncf^l are—■ (1) Anterior Peroneal, (2) Transverse. (3) Nutrient, (4) Muscular. (1) The anterior peroneal is very variable in size. As a rule it arises about two inches above the ankle- joint under cover of the Peroneus Tertius. It pierces the interosseous membrane, supplies the ankle-joint, and anastomoses with the anterior tibial artery, and, in front, with the tarsal arteries. (2) The transverse artery is a small branch arising from the peroneal a short distance above the anterior peroneal. It passes across the interosseous membrane to anastomose with the posterior tibial. (3) The nutrient artery enters its appropriate fora- men upon the posterior aspect of the tibia below the