THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 890 incision is made, the fingers be forced markedly backward, and so retaine.d during the ditferent stei)s of the operation. Tills causes the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris muscle to retreat in- ward and backward, so that the artery, which in the normal position of the parts is partly concealed by the muscle, is transferred to a more anterior plane at the same time that the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, on which the artery lies, is greatly raised The artery at the wrist may be displaced anteriorly by an enlarged bursa. The collateral circulation, after ligation, is established thus:— T, , TTi L \ Recurrent Radial and Recurrent Inter- Recurrent Ulnar artery-[- ^^^^^^^^ j^^^^^..^^. p^.^f^„^^ Anastomotica. Vai'iations The ulnar artery may have a " high origin," when it may be one of the subdivisions of the brachial, or, in its absence, of the axillary; but its development as an aberrant branch, from the brachial or long thoracic, is a more common variation. When thus aberrant, it runs superficially to the forearm to supply the region of the nor- mally disposed vessel, and tends to follow the course of the superficial veins and nerves. It may thus run in a sheath with the basilic vein and the internal cutaneous nerve. Or it may lie behind the epitrochlea of the humerus in company with the ulnar nerve The most important variety of any branch of the ulnar occurs in the common interosseous artery. The common interosseous is never a branch of the ulnar when this vessel has a high origin, but is often the continuation of the brachial artery The brachial may end in three vessels instead of two, the third vessel in ail in- stances being the common interosseous.—The median artery may go to the palm .and take the place of the ulnar and the radial branches. It may unite these branches or aid in forming the superficial palmar arch. A number of five- fingered quadrupeds retain these manal terminations of this artery. The median artery may lie superficial to the me- dian nerve at the side of the tendon of the Palmaris Longus. —The recurrent branches are subject to many unimportant variations. For the most pai't these consist of slight devia- tions of the vessels as they—in association with the branclies of the inferior profunda and the anastomotica—form a coarse network behind and at the sides of the elbow-joint. Some writers apply the term rete to this kind of anastomo- sis.—A transverse branch may unite the ulnar with the radial artery at the lower third of the forearm The superficial palmar arch may be absent, or may be smaller than usual, or it may, by its size or du|)lication, measurably take the place of the deep arch. The digital arteries, while varying in origin from the palmai' arches and the arteries of the metacarpus, are singularly constant in their positions at the sides of the fingers. THE DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. The Thoracic Aorta is that portion of the aorta lying between the aortic arch and the Diaphragm. At first lying to the left side of the third dorsal vertebra, it soon inclines toward the front of the vertebral column, and, at the aortic orifice of the Diaphragm, lies directly in the median line. In front is the root of the left Inng, and at the upper portion is the oeso- phagus. Behind are the vertebral column and the small azygos vein. To the right side lie the oeso- phagus, the thoracic duct, and the great azygos vein. Towards its termination, the oesophagus, and the left pleura and corresponding lung, lie a little to the left side of the aorta. The aorta presents a curve answer- ing to that of the vertebral column, and is slightly convex to the right side. The branches of the descending thoracic aorta are— (a) Pericardial. {J)) Bronchial, (c) CEsophageal. {d) Mediastinal, (e) Intercostal. (a) The pericardial arteries are several minute branches which are distributed, as the name indi- cates, to the pericardium. (b) The Ironchial branches are the nutrient vessels of the lungs. They are from two to three in number, and arise from the anterior aspect of the aorta. The right bronchial artery may arise, not from the de- scending aorta, but from either the first intercostal, the internal mammary, or the inferior thyroid, or, some- times, by a common trunk with the upper left bron- chial artery. The left bronchial arteries are usually two in number, the upper arising from the beginning of the thoracic aorta. The arteries are directed to the posterior surface of the bronchial tubes, and accom- pany them to their terminal subdivisions. (c) The oesophageal arteries embrace from three to six minute vessels. They anastomose above with the inferior thyroid, and below with the ascending branches from the phrenic and gastric arteries. (cZ) The mediastinal branches arise from the front EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXVI. The abdominal aorta and its branches, the common iliac arteries, and the inferior vena cava.