THE ULNAE AETERY, o-OO^OOO 389 artery for the median nerve, wtich accompanies the fibres of the median nerve as far as the palm; the muscular branches which supply the Flexor Longus Pollicis, the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, and the Pro- nator Quadratus; the nutrient arteries for the shafts of the ulna and occasionally the radius; and an anas- lomosiny branch that descends beneath the Pronator Quadratus, and, after supplying the parts in front of the carpus, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branches of both the radial and the ulnar arteries. The posterior interosseous artery, often the larger of the two branches of the common interosseous, passes backward betw^een the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous ligament. As it enters the posterior aspect of the forearm, it is received between the lower border of the Supinator Brevis and the Ex- tensor Carpi Ulnaris. It descends below the super- ficial and the deep layer of muscles to the lower part of the forearm, where it joins the posterior division of the anterior interosseous artery. The posterior inter- osseous artery gives off an ascending branch, the in- terosseous recurrent, which lies upon the Supinator Brevis as far as the head of the radius, and after- ward upon the Anconeus to the epicondyle, where it anastomoses with the radial recurrent artery. It gives branches to the muscles in the neighborhood of the elbow-joint and to the skin. (cZ) Muscular branches. The muscular branches supply chiefly the muscles of the forepart of the fore- arm. The perforating branches, when not branches of the anterior interosseous, arise directly from the ulnar artery. (e) The iwsterior ulnar carpal arises from the ulnar artery, about an inch and a half above the pisiform bone, and winds backward between the ulna and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris to reach the back of the wrist, where it terminates in branches which anastomose with the posterior radial carpal artery to form the posterior carpal arcli.—The 'second and third interos- seous arteries, according to Quain, are derived from this arch. They descend upon the fourth and fifth interosseous spaces, and receive the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. They also send minute branches along the fifth metacarpal bone. (/) The anterior ulnar carpal is a small twig which arises opposite the lower border of the Pronator Quadratus, and anastomoses with the branches of the anterior radial carpal artery. {(j) The deep or communicative branch, the terminal branch of the artery, passes between the pisiform bone and the unciform process of the unciform bone, and thence between the Abductor Minimi Digiti and the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, and turns forward to join the radial artery. This union completes the deep) palmar arch. The Superficial Palmar Arch. The superficial pal- mar arch is the result of union between the continua- tion of the trunk of the ulnar artery across the palm, under the name of the superficial palmar artery, and the superficialis volte of the radial. It lies beneath the palmar aponeurosis and above the flexor tendons and the digital branches of the median nei've. The branches of the supei'ficial palmar arch are called the digital arteries. The diyital arteries are generally four in number; they arise from the convexity of the deep palmar arch. Each artery divides at the web of the 'finger to supply the lateral borders of the adjacent fingers, so that the digital artery toward the radial border of the hand supplies the ulnar border of the index and the radial border of the middle finger. The next in order supplies the ulnar border of the middle finger, and the radial border of the ring finger; while the next supplies the ulnar border of the ring, and the radial border of*the little finger. The digital artery on the ulnar border of the hand is an exception to this rule. It does not bifurcate, but terminates only on the ulnar border of the little fincrer. Sometimes this vessel is a branch of the ulnar at a higher point than the palmar arch. According to some autiioriiies, minute vessels arise from the concavity of the superficial palmar arcii, and are directed backward. The bifurcation of the digital artery ordinarily takes place at a point midway between each interdigital space and the more anterior of the two transverse p.almar folds. The Li(jaiion of the Ulnar Artery.—The ulnar artery can be reached at its upper portion by cutting across the super- ficial Hexor mass. By many surgeons it is deemed best to secure the brachial in case of any necessity for arresting hemori'hage at this portion of tiie ulnar artery. At its lower ])ortion tlie vessel is more accessible, and can be exposed by making an incision through the skin and fascice, one-and- a-half inch long, in the depression between tlie Flexor Sublimis Digitorum and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris muscles, and by drawing the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris to the irmer side. The ulnar nerve lies to tiie ulnar side of the arterj'. Should the above-named intermuscular depression be obliterated by the swollen condition of the limb, tiie [losition of the pisiform bone will serve the purpose of guiding tlie operator to the vessel. Thus an incision, one-and-a-half inch in length, may be made extending upward along aline drawn from this bone. In order to make the ulnar artery in the forearm more superficial, Malgaigne' recommends that, before the first ' Revue Med.-Chir., torn. ii. 160.