THE POKTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. coO^CXC^o The inferior cava is infrequently the seat of direct lesion. It may be raptured by external violence, and more frequently as it lies in the hepatic groove than elsewhere. From the proximity of the vessel to the right Psoas muscle, it is not surprising that the fatal issue in advanced stages of psoas abscess may be precipitated by ulceration in the walk of the vessel. Butcher^ mentions this result as having occurred in a girl aged six years, who suffered from psoas abscess of the right side. It is evident that a similar condition would be unlikely to occur on the left side. In a child aged twelve years, rupture of the infe- rior cava was caused by a wagon passing over the body. The rupture was small. Blood was found in the retro-peritoneal space, but none in the abdominal cavity.^ THE PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. The Portal System of Veins (fig. 3, Plate LXXIIT.) includes— I. The Portal Vein (before it is received within the Liver) and the Tributaries of the Vein. II. The Subdivisions of the Portal Vein within the Liver (see account of the Liver). I. The Portal Vein, before it is received within the liver, conveys blood from the alimentary canal and related appendages below the Diaphragm, as well as from the spleen. The main branches or tributaries are as follows:— Superior Mesenteric. Inferior Mesenteric. Gastric. Splenic. Cystic. The superior and inferior mesenteric veins accom- pany the arteries of the same name. The trunk of the superior mesenteric vein ascends, with a slight inclination to the right side, between the duodenum and the pancreas.—The inferior mesenteric vein anas- tomoses freely below with the superior hasmorrhoidal veins, and through these with the subcutaneous veins at the anus. The main trunk is formed at the sigmoid flexure, and usually lies in a falciform fold of perito- neum, which extends from the duodenum to the jeju- num, and terminates in the trunk of the portal vein, near the point of entrance of the splenic vein. Luschka describes this vein as a tributary of the splenic vein. ' Essays and Reports on Operative and Consi;rvative Surgery, Dul.lin, 1865. - Wharton, DuVi. Quart. Journ., xlix. 1870, ,501. The inferior mesenteric vein lies in front of the renal vessels, and, at its termination, behind the pancreas. The gastric veins are two in number: the coronary vein, which extends from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach; and the right yastro-epiploic vein, which is associated with the artery of the same name. The splenic vein derives its blood from the spleen, in part from the cardiac end of the stomach through the veins accompanying the vasa brevia and the left gastro-epiploic vein, and from the pancreatic veins. The splenic vein crosses the superior mesenteric artery at its origin, and as it lies between the spleen and the left end of the pancreas is in association with the splenic artery, being invested with the same fold of peritoneum. Clinical writers have occasionally ap- plied the term "splenic cord"'to this fold and-its contents. In hypertrophy of the spleen, and in tumors of the pancreas, the "splenic cord" mav be compressed, the artery contorted, and stasis of the return blood from the spleen induced.^ The splenic vein joins the superior mesenteric vein at a right angle, being less curved than the splenic artery, below which it lies. Earely, it is doubled near its end. The vessel lies immediately behind the pancreas, and is parallel with its axis. Luschka describes a 'pancreatico-duodenal vein which, deriving blood from the pancreas and the greater part of the duodenum, passes along the concavity of the duode- num, and either empties into the main trunk inde- pendently, or joins the superior mesenteric vein. In mammals, it generally opens into the main trunk at the transverse fissure. To the above tributaries of the portal vein may be added a small vessel, the cystic vein, coming from the gall-bladder. The main trunk of the portal vein measures about three inches in length, and extends somewhat ob- liquely upward to the right, from the head of the pancreas to the transverse fissure of the liver, which it enters. Immediately prior to its termination, it expands slightly, constituting the siims of the portal vein. Within the liver the vein breaks up into numerous branches, which are lost within the paren- chyma (see Liver). The vessel lies between the two layers of the lesser omentum, at its right border. It lies behind the pancreas, and behind and between the hepatic artery and the common bile-duct, the latter being to the ' See, in connection with this, Aled. Times and riaz., 1S.';9, 18.