THE VEINS OF THE NECK. 425 ^>OC'^Cx>-: tion, and death ensues. Erysipelas of the face, facial carbuncle, necrosis of the superior maxilla,' syphilitic ozoena,^ and traumatic lesions of the face, orbit and nasal chambers may thus prove fatal. Basic pressure of an}'- kind may induce stasis in the cavernous sinus, one of the most noticeable of the effects of which is venous congestion of the orbital contents. The ophthalmoscope under such conditions detects congestion of the retina and infiltrations in and about the point of entrance of the optic nerve (optic disk). The condition of the cavernous sinus and of the cerebral membranes can in this way be determined during life. A clot in the cavernous sinus will of course be apt to press against the nerves passing through or in the walls of the sinus, and paralysis of the parts supplied bv one or more of them may ensue. It is stated, on the authority of Seseman' that compression of the cavernous sinus is not followed by any considerable venous stasis of the retina as long as the anastomosis of the facial with the ophthalmic vein remains per- meable. The infer/or j^etrosal siiws may he looked upon as an important anastomotic sinus between the posterior and the anterior tract of the venous return. The longitudinal sinus may be the seat of inflam- mation* and embolus.* From the fact that the depres- sions in the skull corresponding to the sites of the Pac- chionian bodies may be in intimate relation with the walls of the sinus, great care is enjoined upon surgeons to avoid the median line in all operations upon the skull-cap. A case* came under the observation of Dr. Wm. Hunt, of Philadelphia, in which, consequent upon fracture of the vertex of the skull, a spicule of bone had perforated the longitudinal sinus. Upon elevat- ing the fragment of skull from which the spicule pro- jected, an enormous quantity of venous blood welled from the wound. The hemorrhage after some diffi- culty was checked by suturing the edges of the dura mater on either side of the wound, and by the careful adjustment of compresses. The patient lived a fort- night, when he died of the general effects of fracture of the skull. The lateral sinuses, receiving as they do important tributaries from the longitudinal and inferior petrosal sinuses, are capable, when diseased, of involving the entire encephalic circulation. The most direct flow 1 A. Poland, Med. Times and Gaz., 18G9, 383. 2 H. Weber, Med.-Chir. Trans., xliii. 177. ' Arcliiv fiir Ophthal., xii. * Hammond, Diseases of the Nervous System, s Delafield's Pathological Anatomy, 44. 54 into them is that of the blood derived from the poste- rior lobes of the cerebrum and from the cerebellum. Inflammation of this sinus is of more frequent occur- rence than in any of the sinuses of the dura mater. Its most frequent cause is inflammation and necrosis of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone (q. v.) in children. Fracture of the base of the skull may extend into the lateral sinus — the blood escaping outward into the chamber of the tymxpanum, and thence by rupture of the tympanic membrane into the external meatus, or inward by the Eustachian tube to the pharynx. According to Prescott Hewett,' the latter event may take place even when there is a rup- ture of the tympanic membrane. In connection with this, Mr. Hewett uses the following language: " A discoloration of the integument of the lateral parts of the neck appearing subsequent to an injury of the head may serve as a guide to the diagnosis of a fracture of the base. The blood oozing from the fractured skull gradu- ally infiltrates the cellular tissue of the neck, and thus ultimately reaches the skin, which becomes discolored, as if bruised. And a sudden puffiness in the occipital region, with discoloration of the skin, some hours after a severe injury of tins part of the head, mav also be of use in the diagnosis of fracture at the base. The large venous sinuses connected with the occipital bone may be torn across in such a lesion, and thus give rise to an extravasation of blood, which, gradu- ally oozing through the line of fracture, may ulti- mately show itself in the superficial parts, and thus reveal the nature of the injury." Hemorrhage may occur from both the petrosal and lateral sinuses, as a result of caries of the temporal bone. Cases of rupture of the lateral sinus unac- companied by fracture have been reported.^ As much as ten ounces of blood may escape through a lesion of this character. Fracture of the skull accompanied by depression over the region of the lateral sinuses has been known to end fatally by hemorrhage consequent upon at- tempts to raise the fragments into position. II. The A'eixs of the Neck. The Veins of the Neck are— External Jugular, Anterior Jugular. Internal Jagular. Vertebral.^ ^ Unrecorded. 1 Holmes's Syst. of Surg., vol. ii. 129. ed. 1861. 2 Surgery, Sir Chas. Bell. See also Lond. Med. Gaz. 1847, 31. ' Described on p. 415. iv. N. S.,