45i THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. The pituitary body will be described in counection with the base of the Cerebrum, the adenoid bodies of the pharynx with the Pharynx, and the adenoid bodies of the intestines with the Intestines. THE THYROID BODY. The Thyroid Body is a sjnnmetrical structure situated in the front of the neck, between the thy- roid cartilage and the first six tracheal rings. It presents two lateral lobes connected at their lower portions by an isthmus. Each lateral portion is about two inches long and nine lines wide, and is prolonged above into a conical point, but is thick and rounded below. The general figure, the result of the union of the two halves and the isthmus, is thus widely notched at its upper border, but nearly straight at its lower. The body is convex in front, and con- cave behind. Its general surface is smooth. The isthmus is six lines in breadth by six lines in depth, and usually lies over the second and third tracheal rings. The thyroid body is composed of a dense stroma of a dusky red color, through which are interspersed numbers of rounded spaces, each measuring one-eiglit- hundred-and-fil\ieth of an inch in diameter, lined with epithelium, and filled with a clear fluid.' It receives its blood from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries which gain its peripliery. Its nerves are branches of the sympathetic system, and accompany the arteries within the body of the gland. Tlie varieties in the shape of the thyro'd are nume- rous. Thus the extremities may be absent; or the body may be represented by one-half only. The isth- mus may be.absent, when two separate thyroid bodies will exist. A process (pyramid of Lalouette) occa- sionally extends upward from one of the isolated bodies to the hyoid bone. According to Cruveilliier, the pyramid may reach to the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, only or simply to the middle of the thyroid cartilage. In some cases it arises from the median surface of either of the lateral lobes, notably that of the left side. Sometimes a small muscle, the Levator Anguli Thyro!de:fi, occupies the place of this process. Accessory thyroid bodies are rarely found in the neck, and may be mistaken for the lymphatic glands. They are placed at the sides of and behind the oeso- phagus. When large, they may excite difficulty in ' For bibliography of the thyroid body, see A. C. Cole, Studies in Microscopical Science, 1882, i. No. 25, p. 18.3., breathing and swallowing, and may even be a cause of death.' Henle describes the following ligaments in connec- tion with the thyroid gland: (1) Slips of fibrous tissue extending to it from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. (2) Slips connecting the gland with the trachea; these are to be seen opposite the second tracheal ring. (3) A median ligament extending from the anterior surface of the thyroid and cricoid carti- lages to the posterior surface of the gland. For account of bloodvessel supply, see p. 366. Development.—The thyroid body arises from the hypoblast, first as a diverticulum of the alimentary canal; it afterward exists separately. Remarks.—The vesicles of the thyroid body be- come enormously enlarged in bronchocele. In ad- vanced age, the thyroid body may become the seat of calcification. For extirpation of the thyroid body, see p. 378. For compression of internal jugular vein by the thyroid body, see p. 428. Hyrtl mentions a case in which the gland had been destroyed by suppuration. Suicides have in- flicted fatal wounds by opening the vessels which supply it. THE IXTERCAROTIC BODY. The Intercarolic body lies behind the common carotid artery, where this vessel divides into the external and internal carotid branches. Variable in size and form, it is commonly oval, and measures about two lines in length by one line in width. At times two rounded masses occupy its place, and less commonly four or five. It is of a yellowish-red color, and yields a parenchyma composed of rounded nerve- cells, fat, and connective tissue. Notwithstanding its small size, the intercarotic body is supplied by several distinct, relatively large vessels arising from the com- mon carotid artery, and it is abundantly supplied by branches of the sympathetic nerve.^ THE THYMUS BODY. The Thymus Body or gland is peculiar to the fcetus and the period of childhood and adolescence. It is best developed about the second year. It gradu- ally disappears after this time, and at puberty has dwindled away to a mere trace. It will be here de- ' Madelung, Archiv fiir klinische Chirurg., xxiv. 71. 2 The intercarotic body was discovered by C. S. Anderscli in 1797; for an extended account, witli figure and literature, see Luschka, Hals, 423.