THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 354 ant features from the rest of the vesseL It is im- bedded in the body of the heart, being surrounded by the various walls, cavities, and vessels. The right ven- tricle and the auricular appendage of the right auricle are in front of the aorta, the pulmonary artery is on its right side, the right auricle and the vena cava are on its right, and the left auricle and the right branch of the pulmonary artery are behind it. Its outer cover- ing is the inelastic, inextensile serous lining of the peri- cardium. Hence, when this portion of the aorta is the seat of aneurism, rupture occurs either into the peri- cardial sac, or into one of the chambers of the heart. Sibsou^ has concluded, from the study of many cases, that this aneurism ruptured in 80 per cent, of all cases; in 45 per cent, of this proportion the sac opened into the pericardium, in 13.5 per cent, into the pulmo- nary artery, in 8.5 per cent, into the right auricle, in 6 per cent, into the right ventricle, and in 6 per cent, into the left ventricle. The aorta beyond the limit of the pericardium is less liable to rupture under aneurismal distension. The vessel is relatively mobile through its ascending and transverse portions, and varies slightly in position in accordance with the movements of respiration. Thus, the descent of the aorta during inspiration "is much greater than that of the upper portion of the de- scending aorta. The play of the transverse is less than that of the ascending, and greater than that of the descending aorta. During inspiration the ascending aorta is somewhat straightened as well as lowered, and the curve of the arch is rendered more acute."* The explanation of these facts is simple. The aorta, as it approaches the vertebral column, becomes more fixed, and in the descending portion, from the arch downward, is held immobile by the intercostal arteries. For the same reasons the pain of an aneu- rism will be greater when the fixed portion of the aorta is affected. Implication of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves will excite cough and aphonia in thoracic aneurism, and epigastric or general abdominal pain if the lesion be seated in the abdominal region. Pressure over the spinal nerves as thev pass out through the intervertebral foramina Avill excite radi- ating pain, which will be limited by the distribution of the groups of nerves actually compressed. Thus, an aneurism at the beginning of the descending aorta will cause intercostal pain; one further down in the thorax, pain in the parietes of the abdomen; while in the lumbar region, the branches of the lumbar ' Medical Anatomy. 2 Sibson, loe. cit. plexus being compressed, pain will be complained of in the groin and inner part of the thigh. Aneurism of the ascending aorta is apt to be asso- ciated with disease of the heart (the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves being largely interested), and angina pectoris to prove a prominent symptom.— Aneurism of the arch^ and of the great vessels arising from it, would create aphonia and harsh breathing by pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerves.—Aneu- o-ism of the descending portion, in addition to the fixed pain already mentioned, would excite attacks of dyspnoea, palpitation, and angina by pressure on the branches of the spinal nerves going to the cardiac plexuses and to the Diaphragm. The termination of aortic aneurism by rupture of the sac leads to hemorrhage into the numerous ad- jacent structures. Thus, in the ascending aorta, Sib- son found in 57 instances that the sac opened into the pericardium 22 times, externally 8, descending vena cava 5, right lung 5, pulmonary artery 4, left pleura 4, right bronchus 3, left lung 2, right pleura 2, trachea 1, right auricle 1. The most common lo- calities of infiltration from rupture of the descending aorta are the following, named in the order of their frequency : pleura, left bronchus, right lung, left lung, abdomen, retro-peritoneal space, peritoneal cavity, mesentery, left pleura, duodenum, and right pleura. Pressure from an aneurismal tumor may involve any of the adjacent parts; thus, the pulmonary artery may be occluded as well as the oesophagus. The bodies of the vertebraa may be extensively eroded. In the abdomen, the kidneys may be displaced to the side or the front of the sac, or obstruction of the colon may occur. In a case of complete obliteration of the aorta at the ductus arteriosus, recorded by Sydney Jones,^ the collateral circulation was established by the internal mammary arteries anastomosing with the musculo- phrenics, and the branches accompanying the phrenic nerves, as well as with the deep epigastric arteries. The superior intercostal arteries anastomosed with the first aortic intercostal. The last-named vessel joined with a branch of the inferior thyroid artery, ■ and the posterior branch of the aortic intercostal Avith the transversalis colli. The aorta, when ruptured by injury from without, presents a free and unobstructed opening instead of the small one commonly seen in the bursting of an aneurism.^ ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., viii., 1857, 161. 2 Sibson, loc. cit., col. 53.