DOMESTIC COOKERY. 212 let it boil quickly till it will jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. To preserve Green Apricots. Lay vine or apricot-leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves ; then fill with spring-water and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, and in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it; putthepan at a proper distancefrom thefire till the apri- cots green, but on no account boil or crack; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup, for two or three days; then pour off as much of it as will be neces- sary, and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very close; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Be- tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. To dry Apricots in half. Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weigh- ing them after; put them in a dish ; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently ; as each piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a china-bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in