DOMESTIC COOKEEY. 91 wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scaldedto keep for the stuffing, .Repeat this wiping every day ; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the in- side ; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept as long as possible; if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. To Toast Hare. After it is skinned let it be extremely well washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water; and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm will remove it; especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce; the gravy in the dish. For stuffing, use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. For the manner of trussing a hare, see plate IX. To Jug an old ITare. After cleaning and skinning, cut it up : and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, leather, or strong paper: and put it into a saucepan of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keep the water boiling five hours. 'When it is to be served, boil