VEGETABLES. 175 wliat hangs about it, with a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender ; and when going to serve, add two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Another way.—Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted; then put it into the dish and lay fried sausages on it. Mushrooms. The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasion- ed by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases the under part gradually opens, and shews a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark-brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so etrong) as the right sort. To stew Mushrooms. The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Hub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and