271 POULTRY-YARD. nests. "Wormwood and rue should be planted plenti- fully about their houses : boil some of the former and sprinkle it about the floor ; which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the rising sun: and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go in; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; which would prevent the small beasts of prey from committing ravages, and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket of wool till the others come forth. The day after they are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread, and small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength feed them with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour; and give them clean water twice a-day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks; and be sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it; -and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction, macerates it; and this is facilitated by small stones, which are generally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well washed with a decoction of wild lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or tak- ing filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is the symptom Pull the scale off with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable, so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, which nobody but one in his situa-