x'.v DIRECTIONS TOR CARVING. firm and tlie best. Take off a piece quite down to the bone, in the direction a, b, c, d, putting in the spoon at a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, which lies underneath the back- bone and lines it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker-co- loured than the body of the fish itself; this may be got by passing a knife or spoon underneath in the direction d, f. About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of the jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw-bones, and the parts within the head. Some are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which likewise may be got by putting a spoon into the mouth. Edge-bone of Beef.—Cut off a slice an inch thick all the length from a to b, (See Plate No 1.) and then help. The soft fat, which resembles marrow, lies at the back of the bone, below c; the firm fat must be cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. It is proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. The skewer that keeps the meat properly together when boiling, is here shown at a. This should be drawn out before it is served up ; or, if it is necessary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one. Calf’s-Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if properly managed. Cut slices from a to 6, (See Plate No. 1.) letting the knife go close to the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat sweetbread, which you should help a slice of from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye ; which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jaw-bone be taken off, there will be found some fine lean. Under the head is the pa- late, which is reckoned a nicety ; the lady of the house should be ac- quainted with all things that are thought so, that she may distribute them among her guests. Shoulder of Mutton.—This is a very good joint, and by many preferred to the leg, it being very full of gravy if properly roasted and produces many nice bits. The figure represents it as laid with