254 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Excellent Cowslip Wine. To every gallon of water, weigh three pounds of lump* BUgar ; boil the quantity half an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor ferment in the tub thirty-six hours; then into the cask put for every gallon the peel of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Seville orange, and one gallon of cowslip-pips, then pour on them the liquor. It must be carefully stirred every day for a week; then to every five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the cask be close stopped, and stand only six weeks before you bottle off. Observe to use the best corks. Elder Wine. To every quart of berries put 2 quarts of water; boil half an hour, run the liquor and break the fruit through a hair-sieve; then to every quart of juice, put three quarters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest; Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, ginger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper warmth into the bar- rel, with toast and yeast to work, which there is more difficulty to make it do than most other liquors. When it ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be in a warm place to make it work. White Elder Wine, very much like Erontiniao. Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of water, and two whites of eggs well beaten: then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder- flowers from the tree that bears white berries; don’t keep them on the fire. When near cold, stir it, and put in six spoonfuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well into the liquor; stir it every day; put six pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle in six months. When well kept, this wine will pass for Frontiniac. Clary Wine. Boil 15 gallons of water with 45 pounds of sugar ;