POULTRY. 80 them into boiling water: let them boil a minute or two to plump : take them out, and dry them well; then put them boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white-wine vine- gar, with white pepper, and allspice, sliced ginger and • nutmeg, and two or three bay-leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will do them; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. Instead of larding,put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeons in jelly. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled; or boil a calf s or neat’s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boil- ing it with the whites oftwo eggs; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be perfectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. The same, a beautiful dish.—Pick two very nice pigeons: and make them look as well as possible by singing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown; and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill ot each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half-fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hang to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the