in a conductor of i ohm resistance. the internal resistance is diminished just as if the plates of a single cell had been enlarged as many times as there are cells in the battery. In such a case, any one of the coupled-together positive poles, and any one of the coupled-together negative poles, will serve as the positive and negative pole of the battery. When desired, the cells may be united "in surface" into groups of so many cells, the electro- motive force will then be multiplied by the number of groups, while the internal resistance will be diminished in proportion to the number of cells in each group. Thus, a battery of 30 cells may either be arranged entirely "in series," entirely "in surface," or into groups, say into two groups of fifteen cells each, into three groups of ten each, and so on. The current strength (<:) of a cell or battery, according to Ohm's law, varies directly with the total electro-motive force (E), and inversely with the total resistance [internal (?>), and external (er)], and is usually expressed thus — E c = er -)- ir When the electro-motive force is multiplied, say, 10 times, by coupling together lo cells in series, the internal resistance, which belongs to each cell, is also multiplied to the same extent ; but when the external resistance to be encountered by the current is very much greater than the internal resistance of the cell, this increased internal resistance may be neglected in comparison to the gain in electro- motive force attained by multiplying the cells in series. Hence, in passing currents of Electricity through the human body, where the "external" resistance is enormous, the cells of a battery must be multiplied in number and arranged in series. On the other hand, when external resistance is comparatively slight, as in electrolysis of aneurisms, or of vascular tumours, or in the galvano-cautery wire, advantage is gained by diminishing the internal resistance ; and this, as we have seen, is to be attained by increasing the size of the plates of the cells, or arranging the cells of a battery into groups, where like poles are united. Hence, for ordinary surgical electrolysis opera- tions, or galvano-cautery work, as well as tor the incandescent lamp of the cystoscope, a few large cells, or a few large groups of small cells, are what are needed. For electrolysis of uterine fibroid tumours by Apostoli's method, great electro-motive force, and conse- quently a large number of cells, in series, are needed. In order to compare the strength of various currents, certain stan- dards have been agreed upon by electricians. These are expressed as Volts, Ohms, Amperes, and Milliamperes. A Volt is the unit of electro-motive force. The electro-mOlive force of a single Daniell's cell is about I volt. An Ohm is the unit of resistance to electric currents. It is the resistance of a column of mercury about I metre long and I square millimetre in section. An Ampfere, the unit of current, is that which i volt produces