THE URINE. 255 Their bi-concave character is very soon lost by imbibition in most urines In some cases ihev are found shrunken. Where there is a doubt! they may be recognised by "the extreme tensity of their outhne, the absence of visible cell-contents, and especially ol a nucleus, and their feeble refractive power" [Roberts). Their colour also soon disappears. , . , , , While in an acid urine both pus cells and blood-corpuscles remain visible for several days, in an alkaline urine they are rapidly dissolved and disappear. (5) Spermatozoa are easily recognised by their characteristic tadpole appearance. They are physiologically preserit in the urine after connection or a nocturnal emission, but in certain cases, as the result of masturbation or excessive intercourse—more rarely, how- ever, than is popularly believed—they may be seen after straining at stool or at the end of micturition. The whitish fluid passed in many of the cases of so-called spermatorrhoea has been lound to be more often prostatic than seminal. Con'.rary to the statement of many quacks who practise upon the bad consciences ol their dupes, spermatozoa are \ery easily recognised in urine, even after it has begun to decompose, and are little liable to be confused with any- thing else. (6) Micro-Organisms in urine are frequently found, and may be divided into three groups: {a.) Those which get access to the urine after it has left the body—torulte, sarcina, and various forms of bacteria, {b.) Those which have gained access to the urine alter it has left the kidney, but while still within the body—/.<?.. those associated with ammoniacal decomposition, {c.) Those which are excreted as foreign matter by the kidney from the blood. In this group are numerous forms, frequently micrococci, associated with septic conditions and various zymotic diseases. (7) Parasites—Of these the one most likely to prove of surgical interest is the ovum of the bilharzia hsematobia, associated with hasmaturia, of three kinds. (a.) A few drops of blood at the end of micturition. When the parasite lodges in the prostatic part of the urethra (most frequent). (i.) Whole of urine bloody. Parasite in bladder (or higher in urinary tract). (c.) Blood always flowing. Parasite low down in urethra. (8) Foreign Particles vAi\<:!a. have gained access to the urine after it has been passed, such are particles of flax, cotton, hair, wool, wood, or feathers, the source of which it is easy to trace. Collection and Examination of Urine from each Ureter.—The most serviceable instrument for this purpose is the separator of Luys(Figs. 190 and 191), which, from its simplicity and efficiency, replaces the more difficult procedures of catheterisation of the ureters. The separator has the " B^niqu6 " curve. It consists of a central stem fitted with a sliding rod and chain in its concavity, over which a rubber covering is slipped, A. On turning a screw in the handle, B, the chain is put on the stretch, and so raises the rubber in the form of a crescentic partition, C. To each side of the rod a some-