APPENDIX. 3" [For convenience in tying on the paper, it is advisable to use a pudding basin with a rim at the top.] Beef-Tea Pudding, steamed (inexpensive). Required— 2 tablespoonsful of fine bread crumbs. I gill of hot beef tea. I egg. Pour the beef-tea over the bread crumbs, mix thoroughly, add the e<^<^ well beaten and the seasoning. Pour into a buttered basm, and sfeam for 20 minutes. See directions in beef-tea custard. Beef-Tea Pudding, baJsed (inexpensive). Required— 3 tablespoonsful fine bread crumbs. A piece of butter about the size of an egg. 1 gill hot beef tea. 2 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. Pour the hot beef-tea over the bread crumbs and the butter, beat with a fork till the butter is melted, then add the 2 yolks; whip the 2 whites to a stiff froth, stir them lightly into the mbcture; pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in the oven for 10 minutes. Port Wine Jelly. Required— 2 wine glasses of port wine. i teacupful of warm water. I oz. of isinglass. 3 ozs. of white sugar candy. 01, of pounded gum arabic. Put all these ingredients into a jar. Place the jar in a saucepan, with cold water reaching half-way up the jar. Cover and let the water simmer for about 6 or 8 hours, adding more as it evaporates. Stir the contents of the jar from time to time; when they are all mbced and quite dissolved, pour the jelly into saucers and allow to become cold. Portable Jelly. Required- 2 ozs. gum arabic. 2 ozs. isinglass. 2 ozs. of white sugar candy. i nutmeg, gi-ated. I pint of port wine. Put all into a jar standing in a saucepan of cold water, and stir the contents of the jar until all are mixed and dissolved. Pour upon a plate and, when cold, cut into lozenges and preserve in a tin box. [Milk may be used instead of port wine, but the lozenges will not keep so well] Orange Jelly. Required— 6 oranges. 1 lemon. 1 oz. gelatine or isinglass. 3 gills of water. 4 ozs. of sugar. Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon and add, with the water, to the gelatine and sugar in a clean china-lined saucepan. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain through a. hair sieve of piece of muslin, and pour into a mould previously dipped in cold water. Let stand 12 hours to become quite cold. Turn on to a clean dish, and serve with, or without, whipped cream.