307 APPENDIX. quite hot, rub all the bars on either side with suet, so as to prevent the fish from sticking. Wash well, and dry the fish; rub it with oil, pepper, and salt. Place the fish on the gfridiron, and turn it constantly for from 5 to 9 minutes, according to its thickness. Serve hot. [A more delicate way is to wrap the fish in an oiled paper before putting it on the gridiron. This way requires great care to prevent the paper from becoming charred, and to cook the fish thoroughly.] Fried Fisi. Required- Flour. Bread crumbs. I egg. Fish (sole or haddock). Place on the fire an iron saucepan three-quarters filled with clarified fat or dripping, to become hot while the fish is being prepared. Remove the skin and bone from the fish, and cut it into pieces about 2 inches square. Wash and dry the fish, then dip it into flour to absorb all moisture, next cover the fish with the egg (yolk and white well beaten together), then toss the fish in bread crumbs. It is advisable to have the bread crvunbs in a paper, as then the fish may be tossed without being handled. Try if the fat is hot enough by throwing in a tiny piece of bread. If the bread becomes brown at once the fat is ready. The fish may be fried for about 3 minutes, but too many pieces must not be put in at once or the fat will be cooled. On no account put the fish in before the fat is ready, or it will become a greasy sodden mess, instead of a crisp brown appetising morsel. Lift the fish from the fat on to a piece of porous paper to absorb all grease, and serve hot on a folded napkin or fish-paper. meats. Lamb Chop (for a Convalescent). Required— 1 lamb chop from the loin. Very smaU piece of butter. White pepper and salt. 2 tablespoonsful of cream. (Yt of a teaspoonful of each). Trim the chop neatly, and lay it upon a well-buttered, enamelled dish that win stand the fire. Sprinkle over the chop the pepper and salt, lay on the top a very small piece of butter, and place the dish in a moderately hot oven and cook for about 7 minutes, then baste and turn the chop. Cook for 5 minutes more. Lift the chop on to a hot dish, add the cream to the dripping in the enamelled dish. Place the enamelled dish over the fire, and stir the sauce briskly until it boils and thickens. Pour the sauce over the chop, and serve very hot. Chop—Grilled, Toasted, or Fried. Required— I nice chop, cut and neatly trimmed. T0 Grill,—Make ready a good clear fire, have a gridiron perfectly clean and very hot, rub both sides of it in every part with mutton fat, and put it over the fire. Lay the chop upon it, and cook for from 7 to 10 mmutes, turning constantly, counting slowly i, 2, 3, 4 between e^h turn. This will allow the chop to be nicely browned on the out- side, and juicy inside. Serve at once on a very hot dish.