A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 244 In some cases an intractable eczema is caused by it on the parts near the meatus urinarius (in both sexes); in other cases it is associ- ated with numerous boils or carbuncles, and sometimes with gangrene. More recently sugar in urine has been found temporarily present in many acute inflammations, and may be considered an indica- tion of commencing suppuration, so as to help in the diagnosis of obscure cases. Temporary glycosuria has often been observed after inhalation of chloroform, and is of no importance. {4) Blood in the urine—hsematuria—often of the greatest import- ance in surgical diagnosis, may be due to lesions of, or inflammation at, any part of the urinary tract, from the kidney to the orifice of the urethra. When blood gets immediate access to the urethra, it may be passed independently of any urine, or be mingled with the first few ounces of it only, the rest being clear. Such a relation would be seen in a. partial rupture of the urethra (if complete, there would be no subsequent flow of urine) ; in rupture of the vas deferens through muscular strain (Hilton); or in the course of severe gonorrhoea. Vesical haemorrhage is mostly seen at the end of micturition ; while in renal haemorrhage the blood, unless in very large quantity, is uniformly mixed with the urine and darkened in colour. From the colour, an idea may be gained as to the source of the blood; because the longer it has been mingled with the urine, the more will it be changed, and vice versd. Bright-coloured blood in an acid urine must, therefore, have come from the urethra, or from the bladder or kidneys just before it was passed ; while darkened blood pigment will have been shed from the kidneys or ureters, or from the bladder some time before being passed. Clots from the ureter, urethra, or pelvis of the kidney, when floated out in a basin of clean water (Hilton), will resemble casts of those parts, or of calculi which caused the bleeding (in the latter case particles from the calculus may adhere to the clot), while from the bladder they will be irregular. Blood in minutest quan- tity can be detected with the microscope by its corpuscles, when no change in the colour of the urine can be traced. Following an injury to the loi?t, or a strain, hsematuria may indi- cate one or other ol the following renal conditions (A/ort is) :— (a.) Contusion of the kidney. (b.) Congestion of the kidney, similar to that produced by turpen- tine or cantharides, following the injury, or owing to the displace- ment of a previously encysted calculus. (c.) Congestion due to an embolus, or thrombus, the result or accompaniment of the injury. (d.) Kidney uninjured at first, but secondary inflammation Spread- ing to it from surrounding damaged tissues; here hematuria appears late. . . (e.) Shaking of the kidney. This may cause hsematuna in some persons without, but generally indicates, a renal calculus. Other sources of renal hxmorrhage are calculi, new growths, tubercular or putrefactive pyelitis. In addition, hematuria, apart