278 APPENDIX. A. Ambulant Treatment of Fractures. This method, extensively used in Germany and America, enables a patient to use a recently broken leg in walking, by transferring the "bearing" to a point above the seat of fracture. Although many apply the "ambulant" dressing at once, we prefer to wait until the swelling has subsided. Massage, in the form known as "effleurage," will greatly hasten this, and in two or three days the parts will be ready for the ambulant splint. During the interval the injured limb must, of course, be steadied with a "box," " Cline," " Maclntyre," or any other splint which the surgeon may be accustomed to use. Required—[l) Plaster of Paris bandages (see p. 217). (2) *A pad of cotton wool, \% to 2 ins. thick, to fit under the sole of the foot. (3) Flannel or domet bandages, some spare cotton wool and gauze. (4) A pail of water, and old sheeting or mackintosh cloth to protect the bedclothes. Two assistants are required in order to hold the leg in position. Some think that the foot should be steadied with the fingers of the assistant, some prefer to apply pieces of gauze, one to lift the heel, one to produce extension. These are afterwards included in the bandage. The surgeon begins by fixing the pad of cotton wool to the foot with a domet bandage ; in so doing he may with advantage fill up the hollow below the malleoli with cotton wool, so that the plaster bandage cannot carry the malleoli upwards when the patient is walking. The domet bandage is then carried evenly up the limb, and extends a little beyond where the plaster of Paris is expected to come. This bandage is to act as padding ; some apply the plaster of Paris next the skin, and some put on a thin layer of wool; the flannel or domet bandage, however, seems to us preferable to either of these methods. When the limb has thus been prepared for the plaster of Paris bandages they are placed in a pail of water, one or two at a time. Each must be laid vertically—with one end of the roll at the bottom, and the other towards the surface to allow