42 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. in a large vessel, the risk lest the sealing mass—even when fully formed—should not have a consistence strong enough to resist the pressure of the blood-stream. Some surgeons have recently urged a return to a method which was advocated, but given up prior to the introduction of antiseptics— namely, the application of the ligature—so as to obliterate the lumen of the vessel without rupturing its coats. For vessels of the size of the femoral artery and under, this method is not called for, as the usual method is perfectly safe under antiseptic precautions, and easier to apply. For larger vessels, there is room for difference of opinion. Burrell of Boston, for instance, ligatured the innominate artery with silk with two ligatures placed half an inch from one another. The proximal one was drawn tight and the coats of the vessel gave way under it, the distal ligature, although not drawn so tight, yet caused some rupture of the coats. The patient lived to the 104th day and died of heart failure. The proximal ligature had cut its way through the coat of the artery without causing hsemorrhage, and was found inside the restored lumen. The distal ligature had led to complete obliteration. The wound had remained aseptic. Ballance and Edmunds, after discussing the merits of the various ligature materials available for large vessels, conclude thus: "The choice then must fall on ox peritoneum, kangaroo tendon, or boiled floss silk; and failing these, on boiled Chinese twist, chromic catgut, or silk worm-gut." They strongly recommend the use of what they have called a " stay knot" (Fig. 6). This consists in a double thread Fig. 6.—" Stay Knot" (after Ballance and Edmunds). passed round the artery ; each portion is tied separately in the first stage of a reef knot, then the two ends on either side are taken together and treated as one, to complete the reef knot. When External Styptics are used, the mechanical agent is probably either (i) a firmer than natural clot induced directly by the hot iron, caustic, or chemical agent, or indirectly by the altered state of the surrounding tissues ; (2) an occlusion of the mouths of the vessels by shrivelling and spasm either of the surrounding parts, of the vessels themselves, or of bolh. When internal styptics are used, either the coagulability of the blood is increased, or a condition