TRUSSES AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. 267 and foot-joint not do, that a natural one does? Next, what may it be expected to do? A. minute's reflection will make it plain that no artificial joint can imitate active muscular contraction—, forcible extension of the foot as in rising on the toes, and that the active balapcing lateral movements of the foot can never be replaced if the natural mechanism be lost. What can an artificial foot and ankle then do ? It can imitate the appearance and some of the movements of the original, and permit of a more or less halting gait. Marey in his analysis of the human step in walking, has shown that the trajectory I i Fig. 195.—Analysis of the Step in Walking.—CC, Trajectory of the Hip ; G G', Trajectory of the Knee (after Marey). of the knee of the supporting leg is nearly in a straight line—i.e., that the knee joint neither rises nor falls as the leg passes from the position directed obliquely backward (as the heel comes down), through the vertical, to that sloping obliquely forwards as the toe leaves the ground (Fig. 195). Owing to the active muscular changes at the ankle-joint, this is attained with a longer stride than would be otherwise possible. Without such an actively changing ankle and foot, the stride must be less, but the same straight-line-trajectory of the knee can be obtained by ensuring that the leg from the knee downwards rolls forward on a sole, curved in the arc of a circle whose centre is at the knee-joint, and whose radius is equal to the distance between the knee and the sole of the boot. This produces the same effect as if the knee were the axle of a wheel and the sole of the foot part of the circumference. This curve of sole is practically that empirically advocated by Count Beaufort in his cheap limbs for the working classes. The effect of this close imitation of nature explains why it is that, in amputations below the knee, the gait of the patient with a Beaufort limb is so good, equal to, if not better than, that attained by a patient with the most expensive limb ever made. While this form of curved sole gives