THE URINE, 241 in chylous urine or fatty embolus, to the effect of copaiba or cubebs taken internally, to excessive mucus, or. most frequently, to pus. In an alkaline urine, turbidity may be caused by earthy phosphates, but it generally indicates decomposition. A ropy deposit of altered pus and mucus, and an ammoniacal smell will be present in the latter case. (6) The Reaction of Urine in health is generally acid, due to acid phosphates and urates. After food has been absorbed, the reaction becomes more or less alkaline as it leaves the kidney, although after mingling with the acid urine in the bladder, it may never be actually alkaline when passed from the urethra. The secondary effect of a meal, especially of animal food, is to increase the acidity of the urine. It has been pointed out that the acidity of the urine varies inversely with the secretion of the gastric juice. When there is much acid in the stomach, a less quantity is excreted by the kidneys, and vice versd. Urine may be permanently alkaline (i) in patients when in an anaemic and depressed state. (2) From the internal use of alkalies (caustic and carbonated) and alkaline salts ot acetic, tartaric, citric, malic, and lactic acids. (3) From ammoniacal decomposition where, through the agency of micro-organisms, urea unites with water to form carbonate of ammonia. The reaction of urine often throws great light upon clinical symptoms. An unduly acid condition seems chiefly to excite the mucous membrane of the urinary tract, and over-stimulate its nervous and muscular activity; producing symptoms very like those of calculus in the kidney or bladder. In some cases it may be the cause of small quantities of blood and pus in the urine, which still further complicates the diagnosis. An alkaline condition, from any of the above causes except the last (decomposition) seems to have no effect on the urinary passages, and is not liable to form any calculus. On the other hand, urine alkaline from ammoniacal decomposition is a strong irritant of the mucous lining of the whole urinary tract, sooner or later inflames it, and tends to deposit phosphatic salts. An important relation has been traced by Lister between the state of the mucous membrane and the action of micro-organisms. If the former be healthy, the urine seems ab!e to withstand the action of micro-organisms even when implanted wiihin the bladder; but if it be already irritated or inflamed, the fermentative process is easily started, and, once begun, it still further destroys the resisting power of the mucous lining, and decomposition goes on unchecked. In most cases, contamination of urine by micro-organisms is pro- duced by the use of dirty catheters, the risk of contamination being greatest in those cases where instrumentation is most required—i.e., in stricture, prostatic enlargement or paralysed bladder, or when a calculu.s is present. Besides the irritating effect of decomposing urine, the tendency to deposit ammonio-magnesium phosphate adds greatly to the patient's danger; a previously existing calculus will be 16