A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 240 doubtful fluids contain urine or not. Urine alkaline from decom- position smells of ammonia, while, when alkaline from fixed alkali It has a sweetish aromatic odour like that of the fresh urine of the' horse or ox " {Roberts). Blood or bloody discharges, when decom- posing, give it a stale offensive odour; turpentine, one like that of sweet violets; while copaiba, cubebs, and sandalwood oil, communi- cate their own peculiar odour which is easily recognised. (4) The Colour of Healthy Urine varies from a pale straw tint to a full amber-yellow in different individuals, and is generally darker in the morning than at other times ; the colour is deepened when the total quantity of urine is diminished while the solids are unchanged or increased, as in feverish or rapidly-wasting conditions, after muscular exercise or severe sweating. Pale urine occurs when the iluid part of the urine is relatively increased, as after much fluid has been drunk ; following a hysterical paroxysm ; also in diabetes and chronic forms of Bright's disease. A pinkish-red pigment is found in the urine of patients when feverish, and when suffering from severe organic disease—especially of the liver; it has a strong affinity for uric acid and urates, and gives them their familiar brick-red colour. A black pigment—melanin—sometimes only a chromogen, or pigment-forming substance, accompanies sometimes melanotic tumours. Indican, also chiefly a chromogen, when in excessive amount darkens the urine. Such excess is found in such con- ditions as obstruction of bowels, diarrhoea, peritonitis, and cancer of abdominal viscera. Blood Pigment,-when first added to urine, colours it red. Should the reaction be acid, the haemoglobin is soon split up and the acid hasmatin gives a dark or smoky tint to the urine ; in a urine alkaline from fixed alkali the colour is said to be unchanged. In ammoniacal decomposition of urine it is soon changed with the formation of alkaline haematin. Bile Figments in the blood are excreted by the kidney, and give a dark yellowish or greenish hue to the urine, which froths easily and shows a corresponding tint on the bubbles. As bile pigments can be detected in the urine both before and after any recognisable changes in the colour of the skin, their presence may be of great service in detecting or tracing obstructive jaundice, as from gall stones or pressure on the bile ducts. Certain Drugs and Dyes, when taken into the system, colour the urine ; thus carbolic acid, salol, sulpho-carbolate of soda, creasote, resorcin, or naphthalin, produce an olive green or brown colour ; santonin, or chrysophanic acid, yellowish-brown ; sulphonal, dark red ; antipyrin, clear blood-red ; beetroot and prickly pear, red ; methyl blue, blue ; logwood, reddish, &c. (S) Urine is normally quite transparent. In an acid urine, an opacity which only appears after cooling will be due to excess of urates, while an opacity seen at first may be due to oil-globules, as