MASS Alia., with the pulp of the fingers from the wrist, as in percussing the chest, or by knocking, as at the door, with the knuckles. "Thrusting" is poking up the deeper parts with the tips of the extended fingers, knuckles, or closed fist. " Hacking is striking the muscles xvith the ulnar edge of the opened hand or fingers, according as more or less force is required. It is used m dealing with the lar<^er groups of muscles, and with deep nerves (i-ig. 137)- Under this head may also be included "shakings" of various parts, and ' • \abrations," or more rapid and finer '' shakings. Both are methods of producing mechanical stimulation. (3) "Pinching" is a grasping of the soft parts, either with the tips of the thumb and fingers, or with the pulp of the same, applied specially to muscles and groups of muscles. A series of pinches following one an- other along the muscles in a centripetal direction is said to force onwards the venous blood and lymph. This may result to a certain ex- tent. Those who insist most, however, on the neces- sity for anatomical know- ledge in the masseur, seem to forget that to a certain extent in all muscles, and very markedly so in some, the blood-vessels enter the muscles at certain central points from which they after- wards radiate. We would, therefore, believe that the chief value of this manipula- tion is the mechanical dis- turbance produced. A modification of pinching consists in "squeezing' the tissues between the ball of the thumb and the tips of the fingers, after the fashion of what schoolboys term a " Horse bite "—one of their numerous forms of mild torture. {b.) Labile Movements comprise stroking, rubbing, and kneading. (I) Centripetal stroking or " milking," when applied to the veins and lymphatics, is known as " effleurage." This increases the circulation, and aids absorption. It precedes and follows most other movements to clear out the main trunks and prepare for their being filled, and afterwards to sweep away accumulations within them.* It is carried out either with the flat of the hand or with the edges of the spread-out forefinger and thumb, followed up with the palm of the hand. Muscles and groups of muscles are to be so treated as well as the subcutaneous textures. * Grant, Edin. Med. Journal, Aug., 1887. Figs. 138 and 139.—" Pinching."