ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 21 are brought into contact with the injured tissues, and inflammation and fever ensue. This is entirely due to the growth and develop- ment in the wound-secretions of micro-organisms, which, abounding more or less in the atmosphere, are deposited everywhere. Thess germs vary in number, virulence, and vitality—many of them, more especially those associated with putrefactive changes, thrive in dead or dying tissue, aided by moisture and heat, conditions which they find in wounds. It is against such organisms coming directly from without that the surgeon battles. A second series of microbes, not only attack wounds from without, but gain entrance to the system through the alimentary, respiratory, and other tracts. Many of these give rise to special diseases, such as tubercle, and the like. Sometimes they retain their vitality in the tissues and the blood-stream for a considerable time, and only give direct evidence of their presence by congregating and multiplying at spots where there has been some local injury sustained, or where some local weakness exists. It is in this way that we explain the micro-organismal formation of acute abscess. Since inflammation and blood-poisoning, ensuing on the receipt of a wound, is thus caused, it follows that all successful wound-treat- ment is based upon a recognition of the germ-theory, and should be conducted entirely on the antiseptic principles of Lister. This implies that our object is not so much to treat the wound itself, as its surroundings. We exclude microbes from our wounds by effecting their destruction externally, or, if they have gained a footing, we destroy them within the wound by the use of local anti- septics, and by strengthening and aiding the tissue, we render it an unfitting soil for germs. Antiseptic Methods and Materials.—While the principles of antiseptic or aseptic treatment laid down by Lister remain established, the methods and materials vary greatly in the hands of different surgeons. It is obvious that the utmost care is required in thorough disinfection of everything that comes in contact with the wound, and that constant vigilance must be exercised lest reinfection from touching septic surfaces occur. Thus the end of a ligature may touch the coat of an assistant just before use, and so lead to an implantation sepsis; or the surgeon may inadvertently brush back his hair, and so with unclean hand plant mischief in the wound. Such errors easily arise, hence it is advisable to rinse the hands repeatedly during an operation in some active antiseptic lotion. Custom speedily makes the observance of antiseptic detail a reflex action, but when a wound goes wrong, the surgeon generally finds that he or his assistants have been at fault. The question of atmospheric contamination arises. This is certainly liable to happen in badly constructed and foul operating theatres, more especially if they are also utilised as demonstration and lecture rooms. It was to obviate aerial contamination that the carbolic spray was introduced. This has now been replaced by gentle irrigation with the less irritating antiseptics, although many surgeons, rejoicing in the pure atmosphere of well-regulated operation chambers, dispense