273 PLASTER- CASTING. Casting in Gelatine and Glycerine is done as follows :— (1) Preparation 0/the Material.—Take of "No. i" gelatine (this is like strong clear glue), say 6 ozs. (by weight), soak, it till quite soft and swollen, afterwards dry it slowly until just pliable. As it has now the minimum of water necessary, melt it in a water bath, and add 6 ozs. (measure) of clear glycerine (not necessarily purified). When the two are thoroughly mixed, the material is ready. To render it opacjue, add, while it is still hot and therefore fluid, small quantities of a thick paint made by rubbing up oxide of zinc in glycerine. . When a skin colour is wanted, a little vermilion is required to give a warm life-like hue. Should tumours or other objects be cast, the prevailing colour can be given with water-colour as required (tubes of moist water-colour sold at 2d. each will be found convenient). Several pounds of this mixture may be made at once. A cook is a good ally to have for the purpose. (2) Preparation of the Mould.—From the part to be cast, a mould in plaster of Paris must be taken in the ordinary way. It will be found best to limit the casts to those whose moulds can be removed from the organ or living body in one piece. When both sides are moulded at ^nce,, the gelatine cast is by no means easy to extract from the mould. After the mould has been removed from the body the cast may be taken from it at once, provided that the cast be taken out as soon as it is cool, i.e., in about 2 hours. If it be left longer the gelatine mixture becomes softened by the moisture of the plaster mould. Where a cast of a path- ological specimen has to be coloured from nature however, the sooner the colouring is done the better. The mould if not required at once should be slowly dried, soaked in alum solution, and dried again before being put away. Wten thus dried and hardened any number of casts may afterwards be taken from it without further preparation. The gelatine mixture cast then does not come off quite so easily as when the mould is moist but prolonged contact does no harm. It will be found convenient to bank up the mould with clay before pouring in the heated mixture. (3) Making the Cast.—Melt the gelatine and glycerine previously prepared, and pour it into the banked up mould, being careful to roll the melted mixture backwards and forwards well over the face of the mould, so as to get rid of air bells. As the heated substance tends at first to run into the hollows and leave the raised parts of the mould with a very thin coating, the operator must keep ladling up from the hoUovt's, and as the substance cools, it will become suflSciently tenacious to remain on the upper part. (4) Making a Plaster Bed for the Cast.—WtiA^ the cast is still in position in the mould, its reverse side must be covered with lint or wool, and this in turn covered with plaster of Paris, either pure or mixed with cotton wadding, oakum, lint, wood-wool, &c. This must be made to fit into the hollows and elevations of the back of the cast, and when set it is to be removed so as to be dried. The cast, when cold, can be easily drawn, or rather peeled, out of the mould, and it will be found to b^ an elastic cast of what is wanted. When placed upon its plaster of Paris backing, it will preserve the shape which it had while in the mould. '5) To Paint the Cast as required.—water-colours when a dry surface is to be imitated, oil-colours when the surface has to appear moist. The water-colour may require several coats. Finally, arrange an edging of black velveteen or Other material to hide the irregular margins and give a finish. ^.B.—'Vae: advantages of this method of casting are its likeness in . - ■ ■ . '18