which nearly encircle the foot in the one case and extend to the tip of the malleoli in the other. With sticking-plaster and a bandage the leg and foot can then be made secure to the splint after it has been padded with wool or leather (/ones). ic ) (Jawfc-t;':; OT^/Zwrf of cutting lateral pasteboard splmts for the ankle is both simple and economical of material. It may be described as follows:—Take a rectangular piece of mill-board,* which measures in length from the knee (above or below as required) to the middle of the sole of the heel, and half the circumference ___ of the foot at the instep, more; and in breadth is equal to the circumference of 1 the leg at the ankle. Along the middle of | I— this, lay a line which extends to within jjg.—Pattem for paste- half the circumference of the foot from the board .splints for foot, ends ; and from the extremities of this line, draw others at right angles to it, each running in an opposite direction to the other. The pattern of the two splints will now be complete isee Fig. 159). With a penknife make cuts in the board along the lines, and, by bending, break off the two pieces, which can be softened and applied in the usual way. [d.) When the toot has to be fixed while room is left for dressings at the ankle, a wire-splint should be made to fit the calf of the leg, and support the bones of the leg well. To this a foot-piece is attached, but bulging laterally or posteriorly to give room for dressings at the ankle. The foot is rixed to the foot-piece by figure-of-eight turns passing under the heel, which has been previously well-padded. The leg can be easily secured to the leg-piece by turns of a bandage. [e.) In Esmarclis iron "stirrup-splint," the leg-part fits on to the front of the leg, and the connecting rod of strong iron arches over the dorsum of the foot to the sole-piece (Fig. 160). (/.) Volkman's anterior wooden splint is similar in principle (Fig. 161). Macintyre's splint (see Fig. 120) may also be used for some cases. ^4) The Shoulder-joint can only be completely controlled when the whole arm with the hand is fixed. The simplest way is to put * Gamgee advised the use of that which had not been finally pressed. Fig. 160.—Esmarch's stirrup- splint. Fig. 161.—Volkman's anterior wooden splint.