2l8 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (Sayre's " dinner pad," is a folded towel placed temporarily over the abdomen to make room in the jacket for expansion after a meal ; it has been found unnecessary by many surgeons.) The inner semet chosen should consist of thick flannel, fitting closely to the skin without wrinkles, reaching from the axilla to the trochanters ; it is supported by tapes over the shoulders, and is fastened below by tapes tied over a perineal pad. Over this a second semet may be fitted, but still better a piece of woven webbing (procurable from Turnbull & Wilson, Edinburgh), which extends from the axilla to the knees, and is thus long enough to be doubled back over the outside of the jacket when it is finished. The advantage of a double semet has been already pointed out (p. 217). Instead of buying a woven flannel semet, and cutting off the sleeves, it is often more convenient to make one of thick soft flannel. This can be easily done by drawing the flannel round the body and " basting" it together in front. It should be sufficiently wide to extend from the trochanters to the shoulders, and should be snicked under the arms and well drawn up. How to put on the Jacket—The Suspension Apparatus.—When the semet and the padding have been adapted, the patient must be partially suspended while the plaster is being applied. Sayre urges surgeons to notice that the sus- pension is to be only partial—up to the point at which the patient feels comfortable, and no further. This generally means raising the heels slightly off the ground, while the toes touch it (Fig. 164). The suspending apparatus recommended by him consists of a " curved iron cross-beam, to which is attached an adjustable head-and- chin collar with straps, and also two axillarj' bands.* To a hook in the centre of the bar is fixed a pulley, the other end of which is secured either to a hook in the ceiling, or to the top of an iron tripod about 10 feet in Fig. 164.—Application jjejo-j^t" jLkf Ka/z^r Sayri). When by this or similar means the patient has been carefully suspended, the rolled plaster bandages must be applied as follows:—Each bandage as required is placed end uppermost in a basin containing water enough to cover it. As soon as the air-bells have ceased to rise, the bandage must be taken out, and gently squeezed to remove any superfluous water, it is then " applied round the smallest part of the body, and is carried around and around the tnmk downwards » Dr. J. Taylor advises that these should be made rigid—pieces of curved and well-padded iron tubing would serve the purpose well.