6o A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. dilation. To check this form of bleeding, the wound should be exposed, and the amount of bleeding noted. .Sometimes cold or hot antiseptic injections will suffice. If not, the wound must be opened up, and the clots removed. Should this fail, the bleeding point or points must be found, and secured with a ligature. Where no single point can be seen, and if the above measures have failed, reactionaiy oozing must be treated like secondary capillary oozing. General oozing may be expected in haemophilic patients, and in parts congested either from previous inflammation or from undue prolongation of the "bloodless" method. CHAPTER VII. ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE [Continued). Contents.—Treatment of Bleeding from Special Parts.—Bone; Fibrous Textures ; Deep Cavities—From the Nose ; Rectum ; after Lithotomy ; from Varicose Veins ; the Prostate ; the Bladder ; the Kidney; the Mouth; the Tonsil; the Palmar Arch ;—Hsemophilia— Digital Compression of the Main Arteries—Transfusion—[a.) Of Water or Saline Solution—) Of Blood. Bleeding from Special Parts. The various rules which are given for stopping bleeding after particular operations, are based—not on any difference in the pro- cesses of healing of vessels in different parts—but upon the differences in their position, and therefore in their accessibility, in the nature of the surrounding tissues, and in the functions of the part in which they lie. As a general rule, when there are no large vessels involved, the use of sterile gauze compresses soaked in adrenalin may be commended. (a.) Bleeding frojii bone may be troublesome, because the vessels have less muscle than usual in their walls, and, besides, cannot easily contract on account of their hard surroundings. Moreover, the hard, dense surrounding bone prevents the application of a liga- ture. If the vessel be a fairly large one, such as the inferior dental, a wooden plug should be pushed into its canal for a few minutes. In most cases, firm plugging of a cavity is sufficient, and acts well, because the surrounding parts are so resistant. The best plug is a long narrow strip of lint or gauze impregnated with iodoform, bicyanide of mercury, or other antiseptic, tucked in upon itself into the cavity. The end or ends must be left out for convenience in withdrawing. It is not generally necessary to leave the plugs in for more than twenty-four hours. Horsley's paste (see Appendix) is often useful during operations. (l>.) Bleeding from firm fibrous textures resembles that from bone. Such textures are the firm subcutaneous tissues of the scalp, or con- nective tissue in any other part of the body matted by chronic