A.VT/SEPTJCS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 39 fluid into the superficial parts of the skin, that the epidermis is raised up bv it Frequently thev are caused bv mechanical irritation, such as the friction of the feet in walking, or of the hands in rowmg ; but they may also be formed by superficial burns, or from the application of blistering tioids, or as the result of severe bruises, or in fractures. They are frequent in erysipelas and are seldom absent in inflammatory gangrene. Their treatment will vary with their cause. Blistered feet may be prevented by avoiding the too sudden beginning of long walks ; by hardening the skin by bathing it in solutions of alum or of chromic acid. 10 per cent.; by using well-fitting thick-soled boots; wearing woollen socks, and by smearing their surface with thin layers of soap, shaved off with a pen-knife, and laid on the inside of the stocking before starting for a long walk. \Mien blisters have formed, they should be pricked with a needle and the part protected from further irritation, if not by rest, by covering the part with protective soap plaster, or, if nothing else be available, a thin layer of soap. Bhstered toes may be wrapped with lint or oilsilk ; but care must be taken to prevent such wrappings from working loose, and so causing more irritation than before. Blistered hands must be treated in a similar way. Should any bhster have suppurated or be much inflamed, the epidermis over it must be clipped away, and a moist antiseptic (such as 1-40 carbolic) dressing applied. Small blisters from burns or from blistering fluids should be snipped, and covered with boracic or zinc ointment (see also Burns, P- 31)- The blisters of bruises or of erysipelas should be snipped, if large ; dusted with powdered boracic acid, and covered with absorbent cotton-wool. In gangrene, the blisters are forgotten in the seriousness of their cause. CHAPTER VI. ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. Contents.—General Principles of the Arrest of Hoemorrhage — ' Xatural" and ".Artificial" Arrest—A. Primary Hsemorrhage —Temporary Closure of Bleeding Vessels by the Tourniquet, Elastic Bandage, or Elastic Band— " Bloodless" Method of Operating—Various Applications of the Tourniquet—Permanent Closure of Divided Vessels by (i) Ligatures; (2) Torsion; (3) Acuoressure; (4) Pressure; (5) Use of Heat and Cold, Cautery. .Stypics, &c. — B. Secondary Hsemorrhage — C. Eeactionary Hsemorrtiage. General Principles of the Arrest of Haemorrhage. Although it is not within the scope of the present work to discuss points of surgical pathology, still a reference to the phenomena that have been traced in the closure of divided bloodvessels will greatly help us to understand the various means which surgeons