84 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Foreign Body in the Pharynx.—An obstruction by a piece of meat is generally remedied by withdrawing it, or pushing it down with the finger. Sometimes a hard body lodged in the oesophagus (below the larynx) may interfere with respiration, by pressing forwards into the unprotected part of the trachea. These rarer cases will require special treatment. (e.) Foreign Body in the (Esophagus.—Many foreign bodies, even of large size, when swallowed pass down to the stomach, and are discharged per anum. They may stick in the oesophagus, however, and either cause difficulty in swallowing, or involve risk by ulcerating through the oesophagus into the aorta or air-passages. Sometimes they lodge in pouches of the mucous membrane, and remain for a long time undetected. If inspection of the fauces and examination with the finger reveal nothing, a probang may be passed down the oesophagus. CEsophageal forceps should be of two kinds, with a lateral grasp, and with an antero-posterior grasp. If a foreign body be felt in the upper half of the passage, long forceps may be tried, to grasp and remove it. Where there is doubt as to the position of a metallic foreign body the X-ray screen should be used. Should this endeavour fail, oesophagotomy will be indicated. For Fish-bones and other irregular bodies, the umbrella-probang is useful (Fig. 32). This, while closed, is passed beyond the intruder, and then, when opened, is withdra\vn. Frequently it brings with it the foreign body entangled in its meshes. For Coins, the coin-catcher (Fig. 33) is useful—a gag must be <^—= Fig. 33.—The Coin-catcher. used to keep open the jaws. The coin-catcher being passed, is then carefully withdrawn. If the coin comes too, the operator must be ready to guide it past the epiglottis with his left forefinger. It is apt to slip off the coin-catcher at this point, and either stick at the epiglottis or be swaUowed again. Artificial Respiration may be necessary after the obstrucUon to the breathing has been removed in any of the above cases. In asphyxia, generally, for several minutes after breathing has ceased the heart continues to beat. So long as it does so, the prospec s of restoraUon by artificial respiration are good. When the heart s action however, as well as the movements of respiration, ha^ s'oPP^'^' chances are very small. Although Milne Murray has shown by expen- ment that in animals animation may be restored by artificial resp^ation after both pulse and breathing have ceased, c inical experience proves That the prospects of recovery under similar circumstances are by no means so good. Many methods of artificial respiration have been proposed the object in all, however, is to alternately increase and diminish the