APPENDIX. Drinks. Coffee (inexpensive). Required— 1 tablespoonful of coffee. K cupful hot milk. 1 cupful of boiling water. The °-ood quality of the coffee will very much depend upon the way in which it is made, and upon the fresh and thorough roastmg of the berry Good coffee should always leave a coloured stickmess round the cup, and should never be boiled, but made with boiling water, and served very hot. . A simple and plain method to make coffee is m a jug. Heat the jug and dry it, put in the coffee and pour the boiling water over it. Cover tightly and allow to stand on the hob, or by the side of the fire, for 5 minutes. Pour a little coffee into a cup and back into the jug. Repeat this, cover again, and leave for lo minutes to become clear. Serve with hot milk. iNoie.—\-a cooking milk, watch it constantly, and remove from fire just before it boils.] Tea (inexpensive).—Have a kettle of fresh water, and infuse the tea directly it boils. The long boiling of the water causes the tea to have a fiat insipid taste. Make the teapot very hot, and dry it thoroughly. Allow I teaspoonful of tea for each person, and i teaspoonful over (this is allowing 2 cups of tea for each). Pour on the boiling water, let the tea stand covered from 3 to 5 minutes, never longer. Pour off the tea into a fresh hot teapot or jug. On no account allow the tea to remain longer on the leaves, or it will become bitter. A Cup Of Chocolate. Required— 2 ozs. of chocolate. % pint milk. I egg. Sugar to taste. Put the chocolate into a saucepan with the milk, and, when hot, work with a spoon into a smooth paste free from lumps. Stir over the fire and boil for 5 minutes. Beat the yolk and white of the egg to a stiff froth, and strain into a jug, strain on to this the chocolate, and beat with a whisk for 5 minutes, or until the chocolate is quite frothy. [A small teacupful is sufficient to give at a time with a Uttle sponge- cake or finger biscuit.] Cocoa (inexpensive). Required— 2 ozs. of cocoa nibs or flakes. 3 pints cold water. Put the cocoa into a very clean saucepan with the water, and simmer, •a,nth the lid on, by the side of the fire for S or 6 hours. Strain. Add 54 cup of milk to }4 cup of cocoa. [Cocoa nibs are cheaper and purer than many of the prepared powders.] Barley Water (inexpensive). Required— 2 ozs. of pearl barley. K lemon. I oz. of loaf sugar. i quart of water. Wash the barley, put it into a clean saucepan, with i pint of cold water, allow to boil for 5 minutes, throw away the water and wash the barley again. Return the barley to the saucepan with a quart of cold water, the sugar, and thin yellow rind of the lemon. Simmer for about