A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 164 free drainage that is afforded when the mucous surface as well as the skin is wounded. The amount of damage is often veiled by swelling, which generally comes on with much rapidity; hence the sooner the patient is seen and his injuries recognised and treated, the better. Diagnosis is favoured by the examination which can be made from the nasal and oral cavities, as well as by external manipulation. [a.) Fracture of the Nasal Bones results from great violence. The fragments must be raised from within by a probe, and the septum restored if need be with dressing forceps, as nasal plugs do no good. The patient must be cautioned not to finger the parts, nor to blow his nose violently for a week. If retention is difficult, it is better to give an anassthetic, and skewer the elevated broken bridge with a stout steel pin. (b.) Fracture of the Upper Jaw.—When the upper jaw is broken, the alveolar margin is usually interfered with, and loose teeth require attention. None should be removed unless they are broken, or their alveoli hopelessly destroyed. Otherwise, they should be replaced, the bone modelled into shape, and the lower jaw bound to the upper by means of a split bandage (Fig. 121); the Fig. 121.—A, Four-tailed Bandage for Fracture of the Jaws; X, Aperture for the Chin. opposing teeth act as spHnts. The patient is enjoined absolute quiet, and fed with slops by means of a tube carried from the mouth behind the last molar, or through a dental gap, or from the nose. As a general rule, injuries of the face implicating the malar bone and jaw are severe and complicated with laceration of the soft parts, but are generally hopeful. Every fragment should be retained and sutured, coagula removed, the parts purified, dusted with iodoform, and treated as special circumstances require. _ (c ) Fracture of the Lower Jaw.—When a patient has sustained a violent blow on the lower jaw, and he is bleeding from the gums with loosening of teeth, care should be taken not to overlook the