288 APPENDIX. In all cases where putrid discharges have to be soaked up, masses of absorbent wool should be used instead of sponges. How to Fill a Water-bed —This should be done after it has been laid on the bed. The water must be warm, and should only about half fill the water-bed. To avoid the disagreeable rumbling, so often noticed when the water-bed is moved in any way, we must get rid of the air as follows :—After the water-bed has been filled, lift up the part to which the filler is attached, either by tilting the bedstead or by lifting the water-bed with the hands. Now partially roll up the other end of the water-bed ; as this is done the air will be pressed out, and when there seems no more to come, screw on the cap and let the water-bed return to its place. About once a month a little water should be added to the water-bed. Directions for Using a Catheter when the Patient can pass it himself.—Required—K bottle of 1-2000 corrosive sublimate or bin- iodide of mercury lotion ; carbolic oil 1-30, or eucalyptus oil 1-20; a clean glass syringe, holding 3 or 4 ozs. ; a scalded bowl or dish ; boric lint; long paper envelopes ; soap and water, and clean towel. (1) Arrange the apparatus in a convenient way. (2) Wash the hands well with soap and water, then with the lotion. (3) Syringe lotion through the catheter, and let it lie in the lotion. (4) Wash the orifice of the urethra and glans penis with a piece of the lint dipped in the lotion. (5) Remove the catheter from the lotion, shake off superfluous fluid, and after smearing it with the lubricant insert it along the urethra into the bladder. (6) After withdrawing the catheter, wash it well with soap and water, and run first water then lotion through it. Dip it in the lotion, then wrap it in a clean piece of boric lint, and lay it in an envelope till required. It is a good plan to order about 4 ozs. of the lubricant, along with an empty ounce bottle of long shape. The smaller bottle only is used for lubricating, and its contents are thrown away and renewed at least once a week. A red rubber catheter should be employed if possible, as it can be boiled. This should be done at least once a week as an e.>£tra precau- tion. Gum elastic catheters are spoiled by boiling. Lubricant of Oscar Krauss for Urethral Instruments:— Gum tragacanth, 2 grs. 50. Glycerine 10 granmies. Carbolic lotion, 3 per cent 90 ,,