A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 232 fh."i^i7'" ■T'^'* ""^^ °^er the knee, bent up at tne foot, and provided with one or more hooks for suspension. Figs. i8i, 182.—Gooch's Splint and Wire, ready for Watson's splint. When the operation for excision has been completed and the dressing applied, the limb is wrapped in wool or boracic lint, and laid on the splint. A layer of plaster bandage is then applied, and after the wire has been placed in position, successive layers are added until sufiBcient thickness is attained. While most surgeons immobilise the limb in a fixed apparatus at the operation, others wait until the wound has partly healed before so doing, and meanwhile steady the parts in a box-spHnt (see p. 156). (3) After Excision of the Ankle, some form of interrupted splint must be employed (see Figs. 160, 161). A Macintyre splint may also be used with advantage (Fig. 120). (4) After Excision of the Shoulder, no splint is required, the arm being bandaged to the side with the hand laid across the opposite breast. (5) After Excision of the Elbow, it is usual to lay the arm on a pillow, and to steady it midway between pronation and supination. Some advocate a form of interrupted splint, while others put on a light extension. Passive movements should be omitted for from ten to fourteen days, or more, after the operation, and should then be slow and gentle—one such movement being sufficient at each dressing. Any movement which excites inflammation or causes bleeding wdll increase the danger of after-stiffness. Later on Professor Chiene advocates drawing up the arm to the head during the day, by causing the patient to wear an elastic bandage, while at night extension with weight and pulley gradually draws it down again. (6) After Excision of the Wrist, the hand and fore-arm should be laid on a splint with a prominent pad under the palm ; for the first two or three days the fingers may be confined, but after that they and the thumb should be left free, while the hand and fore-ann are steadied on the splint. D. Various Forms of Fixed Apparatus. In the sections on Joint-fixation, we have described Sayre's plaster jacket, F. Jordan's laminated plaster method applicable to the spine