TREATMENT OF PATIENTS AFTER OPERATION. 9 ulministered per anum instead of by the mouth. From 3 to 8 oz. may bo injected at a time. If this is done slowly and at intervals of an hour or two, thirst can be completely obviated. After flatus has been passed, as it usually is twenty or twenty-four hours after opera- tion, the diet is gradually improved, beginning with milk and water: Nutrient enemata may sometimes be required, should tendency to vomiting continue (see p. 11). Unless specially contra-indicated by the state of the intestine, distention of the bowel with flatus should be treated by purgatives. Calomel is given, generally in I-grain doses, until 3 or 4 grains are taken, and this is followed by a seidlitz powder or by sulphate of magnesia. If the bowels do not move spontaneously in two hours, an enema should be administered. The whole may be repeated once. .-yter all abdominal operations flatus in the rectum is apt to cause discomfort, because the patient cannot well strain to get rid of it. Anv wide tube occasionally passed gently into the rectum will allow the'flatus to escape, or a special "flatus tube" may be employed. {(i.) Operations on the Genito-Urinary Tract.—The chief point to be attended to in the after-treatment of patients whose genito-urinary tract has been operated upon, is to diminish the acidity of the urine and lessen the work of the kidney by keeping down the albuminoid element in the food. A diet, consisting chiefly of milk and starchy foods, is best for this purpose. When the kidney has been injured, the bowels must be kept open. Foetid urine may be improved by the free administration by the mouth of boracic acid oz. sat. solution ever)' three hours), salol (15 grs. twice or thrice a day), helmitol, quinine, sandalwood oil or copaiba, and, best of all, urotropin, as well as by the injection of weak antiseptics into the bladder. Washing out the Bladder is often of great service when the urine is purulent, and the mucous membrane unhealthy. Some surgeons use a double-way catheter. With this instrument, fluid is injected Viy one of the channels, while it flows out by the other; but, as by this method the mucous membrane is not distended and its folds exposed to the fluid, we prefer the ordinary single-way catheter. The fluids at first used must be wami (80° to 100° F.) and unirri- lating antiseptics—e.g., 1-4000 corrosive sublimate lotion, half strength boracic lotion, or 1-2000 carbolic acid; quinine 2-3 grains per ounce, with I min. dilute sulphuric acid per grain; nitrate of silver |^ to I grain to 51, or ^ per cent, formalin solution. The quantity of fluid injected must depend on the state of the patient's bladder—such as can be borne without much inconvenience. The meatus and glans penis must first be cleansed with an anti- septic lotion. When the urethra or bladder is irritable, cocaine or eucain (2 to 5 per cent.) may hie utilised. A catheter (soft for pre- ference) is pa.ssed into the l)ladder, and the urine drawn off. The selected fluid is then injected with a syringe (Higginson's; a ball, or an ordinary piston, syringe), or is allowed by syphon or water-head to flow in from a height of I or 2 feet at most. The catheter may be connected with the syringe with a small piece of rubber tubing, but a finely conical nozzle at the end of the syringe will do instead. The fluid is then allowed to escape, and is probably at first turbid; the