82 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. by observing the movements of the thorax, and noting the amount (if any) of the sucking in of the unsupported portions of the thorax, such as the intercostal spaces, inter- and supra-clavicular notches and upper part of the abdomen, and by determining its relative amount on the two sides. Next, we must localise the seat of obstruction, if present; for should it be below the upper part of the trachea—unless a removable foreign body—surgical interference will be useless. By auscultation and percussion we can make out signs of obstruction or disease in the air-passages within the lung. Inspection through the mouth and examination of the neck will show the condition of the pharynx, and sometimes indicate that of the larynx. Where the larynx itself is involved, the laryngoscope may be needed. Laryngeal obstruction is generally worst in in- spiration, and causes crowing sounds. WTien both the larynx and the parts below are at fault, we must determine which is most to blame, comparing the manifest dyspnoea with the laryngeal and thoracic sounds. An indication may thus be gained, but precision is difficult to attain. Supposing the obstruction to be at the glottis, the treatment will vary with the cause and with the views of the operating surgeon. Some of the more frequent causes of obstruction are :— (a.) Swelling of the Fauces and Glottis.—A% the result of a bum— a child having tried to drink scalding tea for instance. It is difficult to say to what extent the swelling will go in any one case. Efforts should be made to limit it by giving the patient ice to suck, and applying cold continuously to the outside of the throat, and by scarifying the swollen fauces. Tracheotomy should be postponed as long as possible ; but provision for it should always be at hand, as it may be required at a moment's notice. In any case, while dangerous symptoms last, every draught of cold air should be excluded firom the patient, and steam from a bronchitis-kettle constantly plied round him. , , , , t (b.) Croup and Diphtheria.—maybe classed together, lor although well-marked examples of each are distinct from one another, many cases are very doubtful. The points of distinction are considered to be the following viz., that croup is a local inflam- mation and swelling of the larynx, with spasm of the glottis. It kills with dyspnoea alone. When the local obstruction is removed, improvement is rapid. Diphtheria, on the other hand, is (in the later stages at least) as much a general as a loca disease. It is recognised to be due to a specific organism (Loefler s bacillus) which tends specially to grow on the mucous membranes of the fauces, larvnx, and trachea, and causes the formation of a false membrane like wet wash leather. This, when removed, often leaves a raw surface, but not always. Formerly, cases with merely membrane were considered as membranous croup, and those with sloughs, as diphtheria, but no such distinction is now drawn. The organism, besides causing obstruction to respiration by its local action sets free virulent ptomaine poisons which are absorbed ; hence, in bad cases, it causes a general poisoning and depression for which local symptoms