POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. 275 CHAPTER XXVIII. POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. Contents.—Preliminaries—Special Examination: the Head—Neck and Thorax—Heart and Lungs—Abdomen—Spinal Cord. The practitioner may be called upon to make a post-mortem examination, either in private or in a mortuary. In private practice it is well to be provided with a plentiful supply of newspapers, a couple of old sponges, mackintosh, cotton wadding, twine, and one or two jars, in addition to the usual case of instruments. One or two stoppered bottles, containing a saturated solution of corrosive subli- mate, are required to receive portions of tissues for microseopic examination, and one filled with Muller's fluid for nerve and brain preparations. Preliminaries.—It is always advisable to have an assistant to take notes as the examination proceeds, more especially in medico- legal cases. Should viscera or portions of structures be removed in such cases, they ought to be conveyed in sealed cases. The body should be lifted from the coffin, and laid on a long table. The grave- clothes should be most carefully removed, and laid aside in due order, and the pins with which they were secured retained in position for re-insertion. The general appearance and state of nutrition, rigor mortis, and hypostatic congestion should be noted, and the length of the body and its thoracic circumference ascertained. Local peculiarities, such as oedema, birth marks, deformities, cicat- rices, wounds, and the condition of the pupils should be described. Newspapers are now to be packed under and around the body. The part on which interest chiefly centres should be first examined. Special Ezaminatlon—The Head.—To reflect the scalp, the knife should be entered deeply behind the ear with the back directed towards the bone and the edge towards the skin. It is now firmly pressed against the skull-cap, and carried across the vertex to the opposite point. The two flaps thus formed are to be thrown well dpvim, detachment being effected by means of the handle of the knife, aided by a few touches with the blade. The pericranium and attachments of the temporal muscles are now divided by sweeping the scalpel around the skull, about three-quarters of an inch above the upper angle of the orbit, and half-an-inch above the occipital protuberance behind. The saw is more easily managed if the table be low. It is advisable either to stand on the left side of the cadaver, and grasp the frontal flap with the left hand, or to stand on the right side, and steady the head with the left hand wrapped in a towel. The saw is now carried, at the marked out level, lightly through the outer table, except at the temporal ridges and occipital bone, where the entire thickness of the skull-cap should be divided, care bemg taken not to injure the dura mater or the brain. The chisel may now be inserted and detachment completed by means of a few smart strokes