A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 96 Treatment.—Emetics—or, better, washing out the stomach with the stomach-pump. Preserve the contents of the stomach for after- examination. Rouse the patient by douching the head, slapping with wet towels, tapping on the forehead, faradic current; and, unless he seems too weak, force him to walk about. Have relays of assistants, two at a time, to drag him about. Stimulate him by hot coffee. Murrell advises a pint of hot coffee per rectum. Permanganate of potassium has been found to o.xidise and so neutralise the active properties of morphia when brought in direct contact with it. It is, therefore, a valuable local antidote in opium- and morphia-poisoning; but its value by hypodermic injection is considered very doubtful. After the contents of the stomach have been removed, a weak solution of permanganate of potassium should be used to wash out the cavity, and this washing out is to be repeated every half hour, because the morphia circulating in the blood is secreted into the stomach. The drug may also be given by the mouth, in 15 grain doses, and twice or thrice repeated. Give atropine, of grain subcutaneously, repeated in a quarter of an hour. Some advocate J to ^ grain, repeated in two hours. Patient may be allowed to sleep, when the tendency to intense stupor has passed off. (2) Alcohol.—Acute—When an excessive dose of strong alcohol is taken, or when raw spirits are given to children, the drug acts as a rapid poison, and sometimes kills on the spot. If this does not happen, the patient becomes more or less collapsed ; pupils are dilated—often contracted ; muscles relaxed. The patient is helpless, becoming soon comatose. If left in this state, he may rapidly sink. Treatment. —Wash out contents of stomach, or give emetics ; stimulate by warmth, and hot coffee per rectum, and rouse by means similar to those recommended for opium-poisoning. (3) Hydrocyanic (Prussia) Acid, and cyanide of potassium, used in photography, produce similar symptoms. Their effect is extremely rapid—from I to 2 grains of the pure hydrocyanic acid have proved fatal, and larger doses are certain. In doses insufficient to kill at once, the poison produces insensibility, pallor and swelling of the face, slow laboured respiration; eyes are fixed and glazed; the body becomes rigid—often convulsed. Treatment.—U there is time, (i) emetics, and stomach-pump; (2) cold affusion to the head, and stimulants; (3) chlorine, by the mouth, in the form of weak solutions of hypochlorite of sodium or lime, or inhaled as gas, which is formed by pouring dilute acetic or hydrochloric acid on either of the above salts ; (4) mix 10 grs. sulphate of iron with 5i tincture of iron and 5i of water ; when this has been taken, give 20 grs. carbonate of potassium in Ji of water. This renders insoluble no min. B. P. acid \Squire). (4) Oxalic Acid causes symptoms like those of an irritant poison. 7V«a^wtf»/.—Neutralise with lime in the form of chalk, whiting, or plaster. Avoid soda, potash, or ammonia. Give demulcents; treat collapse, and clear out bowels with castor-oil.