PLASTER-CASTING. 271 If the right state of the plaster has been chosen, the track of the thread should remain open. Should the plaster be too sof It will fall in on the thread's track; should U be too frm, it wil crack and break rather than let the thread come through. Do riot touch the mould otherwise until it has set. By cautiously inserting a knile into the track of the thread at various parts, the top U^e mould may be lifted off, and the hand withdrawn from the lower ^'^The foot is a little more difficult to manage. Two threads must be taken whose tracks overlap, and the ends of each thread must be drawn out only until it meets the track of the other. One loop ot thread passes below the sole and up the leg over the malleoli, the anas beinc^ held at first above and parallel with the axis of the leg. 1 he othe? parallel with the long axis of the foot passes round the back of the heel, and coming round the sides of the foot at its most prominent part, crosses in front of the great toe, where the ends hancT forward. Having covered the foot with plaster, the caster must heap up the plaster on the ankle and lower part of the leg while it is soft enough to mould itself to the skin, yet firm enough not to run down when placed in position. The threads are to be drawn out as before—in this case from above, and from the front until their tracks cross, below the malleoli. The two pieces of the mould thus mapped out are, one covering the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot, and the other covering the back of the leg and sole of the foot. (3) Makmg the Coj/.—The chief points requinng attention are, how to prevent the cast from sticking to the mould, and how to obviate air bubbles in the cast. Freshly-made plaster, if poured into a mould which has not been specially prepared, will assuredly stick to it. The simplest and best way to prepare the mould is to soak it in water for an hour or two before it is needed. To test for sufficient soaking, watch, after the mould is taken from the basin, whether water remains on the plaster, or dries in. If the latter, the pores of the plaster are evidently not yet filled with water, and further soaking is needed. If the mould be quite soaked, the fresh plaster wiU lie in the most perfect contact with every detail of its surface without uniting to it. In addition to thorough wetting, the surface may be painted over with olive oil or be dashed over with soap-suds, and then again with pure water (olive oil painted over the surface of a dry mould is almost at once sucked in and becomes useless, unless by many repeated coats the plaster is filled with it. Boiled linseed oil after two or three coats will form a varnish on the surface, but it is apt to impair the sharpness of the cast, unless care is taken to limit the amoimt). The only way to prevent air bubbles from forming between the mould and the cast is to pour the plaster slowly and by instalments into the mould, and to keep constantly shaking and turning the mould round and round all the time. .Sometimes it is an advantage to pour the fluid plaster into and out of the mould once or twice, in addition to turning it round and round. If plaster be poured in