14 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. chair, which permits this, is to be condemned. The patient should lie on his back, with the head comfortably supported on the pillow, and all clothing encircling the neck and chest should be loosened. The upper extremities should be perfectly free, but the feet and ankles may be secured to the foot of the table. About a dram or two of chloroform is now to be sprinkled over the towel; the patient is told to breathe easily and close his eyes, and the towel is gradually raised in front of the face. If the patient feel uneasy, or if he should complain of chok- ing, the towel should be withheld for a moment till a full inspiration of pure air has been taken. If there be an accumulation of sahva in the mouth, he is asked to spit into a towel. Quiet should always be maintained, since the sense of hearing is sharpened by chloroform, and since the period of excitement which ushers in chloroform-narcosis is often increased by external agencies. Should the patient become greatly excited, it is not advisable to struggle against him. On the contrary, he should be allowed to grasp the hands of an assistant, who will follow and guide his movements. Securing the patient to the table before he is "under," or other restraint of any kind only provokes resistance. In some people, more especially in drunkards, the stage of excite- ment is often prolonged ; and as the patient struggles and holds his breath, the veins become conjested and turgid, and a species of tetanic spasm sets in, during which the respiratory muscles are apt to become fixed. Under such circumstances, the towel should be removed until the congestion has passed off, and the patient once more breathes with regularity, when the administration may be resumed again with safety. As soon as the patient rests quietly, and no longer responds to pinching, his limbs lying limp and motionless, the conjunctival reflex may be tested by raising the upper eyehd with one finger, and very gently touching the globe with the other. If the patient does not wink, the chloroform should be at once withdrawn, the patient is "under," and the operator may begin. Throughout the whole administration the breathing must be carefully observed. This may be done by hearing and by holding a couple of fingers or the) hand in front of the nose or mouth to feel the respiration. Note that the chest may heave although no air is entering the lungs ; hence the necessity for feeling the breath with the hand over the mouth. At short intervals more chloroform should be given, as signs of returning sensibility are recognised, such as conjunctival reflex. The cornea should not be fingered too much, lest its sensibility become impaired, and the delicacy of this test be lost. It sometimes happens (as, for example, in children) that the conjunctiva is of little use as a guide, in which case the local sensibility and muscular relaxation will serve instead. When the patient is "under," the pupil is contracted ; it dilates as he recovers, but we must bear in mind that also during profound and dangerous anassthesia it rapidly becomes widely dilated. Dangers and Cautions 1—Certain troubles and dangers are apt to embarrass the chloroformist. These are, firstly, respirator)'—the sudden, or gradual stoppage of breathing; secondly, cardiac— syncope, or complete cardiac failure.