CHAPTER XIX. MASSAGE. Coiitents.-UtiHty of Massage-Physiological effects P^of "^ed t)y H- Objects aimed at in the use of Massage-Movements employed ^T-StabUe" (Pressing, Hacking, Thrusting, Tapping, P>nching) -i) ■■LabUe" (Stroking. Kneading, Rubbing^Time to be occupied at each fining-The E_^eurage.P^irusag^^^^ sequence-Surgical conditions in which Massage will be beneficial- Caution. ALTHOUGH the term "massage" has been objected to, as now meaning more than merely "kneading," still it is a convenien word to express those manipulations of muscles, joints, and other parts, which are often so very useful as a means of treatment. It seems right in a work of this sort to explain the methods employed, and indicate generally their applications to surgical disease, for there can be no doubt that "massage is mvaluab e in certain cases, and no well-educated surgeon or physician should be ignorant of its general principles. ^. , , ^, „ .t,,^ Many are deterred from studying the subject by the assertion that no one can learn it without special personal instruction. Schreiber, however, in his eminently scientific Manual of Treatment by Massage, =ays as to this, that " the necessary knowledge and skill can very weU be mastered without an instructor, if, with each manipulation, the final end, namely, the physiological effect, be kept strictly in view Physiological Effects.—What, then, are these physiological effects I. Soothing and gentle stimulation of cutaneous nerves by stroking the skin. . . , . 2 Encouraging venous and lymphatic circulation by stroking tow'ards the heart. The vessels reached will depend on the part and on the depth of pressure. Following from this, there results increased activity of the circulation of the part so treated, i.e., dilated arteries and capillaries, and a more rapid current of blood, and, m consequence, increased waimth, more active nutrition, and the removal of effused material. Muscles after massage have their electrical conductivity as well as theu" voluntary motor power greatly increased, and they recover from exhaustion much more rapidly than when left to themselves. 3. Mechanical stimulation of the tissues, leading, probably, to molecular changes, and resulting in increased activity of circulation and of metabolism. The tissues most usually affected besides the blood-vessels are the muscles, nerves, and in pathological conditions, inflammatory exudations. There is no reason why gland-tissues might not be affected in a similar way.