265 T/CUSSJSS AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. B. Artificial Limbs. The subject is important, not only because certain stumps are said to be better suited than others for artificial limbs, but also because a surgeon should at least be able to advise his patients as to the form of artificial limb available for their particular case and circumstances. We shall accordingly consider the following heads :— (1) The " bearing" points in the lower limb after amputation. (2) The sites for amputation in the upper and lower limbs most suitable for the adaptation of artificial substitutes. (3) The nature and mechanism of artificial limbs. (4) General hints on the use of artificial limbs. (i) "Bearing" Points—After Amputation.—As might have been expected, the best "bearing" points are the natural ones; at the heel first, then that on the bent knee. Thus, in a favour- able case, after Hey's or Chopart's amputation (and there is no reason why, as a general rule, cases should not be favourable), the patient walks on the heel, and on what remains of the sole, without trouble. Also, in amputation just below the knee, the joint may be kept bent, and the patient can then generally bear his full weight upon it, although with the risk of developing a "housemaid's knee." After these come amputations in which the skin of the heel and that of the front of the knee, respectively, are folded over the sawn surface of the corresponding articular end of the adjacent bone. Thus, in most, but not in all, of Syme's amputations, the full weight can be borne on the face of the stump. In a Garden's or a Gritti's a certain but variable amount of the weight only can be borne. Next in order of "bearing" power would come amputations through the same articular ends of the femur or tibia, but where the covering skin had, from the nature of the case, to be taken from the lateral or flexor aspects of the limb. When the shaft, instead of the (lower) articular end of the femur or tibia, is sawn through, little, if any, bearing can ever be taken on the resulting stump, however favourable in other respects the amputation may be. Fortunately, however, the instrument-maker has other points of bearing to depend on besides the face or end of the stump. Beloiv the knee a considerable part, if not the whole, of the patient's weight can often be borne on the upper ends of the tibia and fibula. Above the knee a considerable proportion can be borne on the muscles of the thigh by means of a lacing shield, and there are few cases ■where, if need be, the whole weight cannot be borne on the tuber-ischii and trochanter, by the adjustment of a padded ring like that used for Thomas's knee-splint (p. 210). The lower in the limb the bearing can be taken, the greater the advantage to the patient in walking. The instrument-maker requires to adapt his points of bearing to the particular case, sometimes distributing the weight over several parts, sometimes confining it to one.