72 A SURGICAL handbook: surface of skin should be chosen ; this should be wetted. The interior of the cupping glass should then be well heated (to expel the air), either by holding it over a spirit lamp, or by throwing a piece of lighted paper into it. In the latter case, the paper should be extinguished by clapping the glass against the skin ; in the former case the glass should be withdrawn from the flame, and immediately pressed into its place on the skin. A vacuum is produced inside the glass, and the skin, deeply congested, rises up into it. (b) For wet cupping, a set of cupping knives are needed; these consist of lo or 12 sharp blades, working in a half circle through slits in a metal plate fixed to a frame. The distance to which the blades project beyond the plate can be regulated by a screw. The blades are first brought through their course against a spring, and are held there by a catch, "full cock." When a button is pressed, they spring back at once, sweeping over the slits to the depth already regulated, and, of course, make corresponding cuts in whatever comes in their way. The depth of the wound must vary with the patient's skin. It should be just through the skin, but not into the subcutaneous fat, lest pellets of fat should block the cuts, and stop the needed bleeding. Having adjusted the depth of the knives, and having placed the instrument at "full cock," the surgeon first dry-cups the desired place; then pressing the brass plate against the skin, he discharges the knife- blades, and immediately applies the exhausted cupping glass again, which will now rapidly fill with blood. It must be emptied, and re- applied as often as required. The wound, after having been cleaned, should be dressed with dry boracic lint, or absorbent wool. A simple form of artificial leech can be extemporised by using a test tube as an exhauster after having scratched the skin with a bistoury. (3) By Venesection. — This may be practised from the median basihc vein. A fillet is placed on the upper arm, to retard venous return, and an oblique puncture is then to be made through the skin, into the vein, with a sharp-pointed bistoury, or lancet. Blood will now flow freely. If it becomes sluggish, the patient should work the hand and fingers vigorously. From 8 to 20 ounces may be withdrawn at a sitting. In special cases, any distended vein may be selected. A dry pad fixed over the wounded vein is all that is needed to stop the blood, after the fillet has been removed. Counter-irritation may be applied by blisters, by cautery, or by other means. (1) By Blisters.—K fly-blister of the desired size is applied to the ?kin, and left on for 6 to 8 hours ; or blistering-fluid is painted on the part until it becomes white. The blister which rises is then snipped, and the raw part dressed with zinc ointment, oil-silk, or wet boracic lint. (2) By Cautery—[a) The button cautery.—This is heated in the gas or spirit lamp, as indicated in Fig. 30, until the forefinger feels uncom- fortable ; and is then rapidly tapped over the skin at various places, so as to leave a reddened spot behind it each time. (/J) When the actual cautery is applied, a red-hot iron, or the thcrmo-cautery, is needed, and an anesthetic is indicated. The skin should be first cleansed. The