hand he grasps the left fore-arm of the other bearer, No. 2, who at the same time uses his left hand to take hold of the nght fore-arm of No. I.' The patient is placed on the seat thus formed, and steadying himself as well as he can with his arms (as in the four- handed seat), he is still further supported by the free right hand of No. 2, placed behind him, and grasping the back of the coat of No. I. , a Two-handed Seat (Fig. 130).—The bearers havmg placed them- selves as before, kneel on the knee which is to the front (nght of No. I, and left of No. 2), and placing their hands beneath the patient's arm-pits, raise him into a half-sitting posture against their other knees. They now pass their front arms beneath his thighs, and locking the fingers to- gether with the palms upper- most, form a support for him. Their other hands are now made into a back-support, each grasping the other wrist. Rising together, they lift the patient, and proceed to carry him off. The great secret of all these seats is for the bearers to press strongly together, by so doing the ease of carrying is greatly increased. 2. Oti a Blanket, Hug, or strofig Sheet.—Two bearers on each side are required; the blanket having been spread out below the patient, its side edges are rolled on themselves, close up to his body. The con- tiguous hands of the bearers on each side grasp the rolled blanket about opposite the patient's loins, while with their other hands they seize it, opposite his shoulders and knees respectively. They can now easOy lift him. If he be unable to support his own head another person must attend to this, or the blanket must be seized higher up. A stiff rod or pole, if rolled into the edge of the blanket, increases the facility of lifting. 3. On a Stretcher.—Where a regular stretcher is not available, a substitute is easily made. If a shutter or a board is not to be had, a short ladder, wooden gate, or part of a fence, does very well. If two stout poles can be found, it will not be difficult to supply the necessary material to stretch between them. Ordinary ropes, or those made from twisted hay or other material, may be laced across from side to side, or holes may be made in the ends of sacks and the poles pushed through. Or again, cloth, sacking, &c., may be nailed to the poles. Coats may be used by turning the sleeves inside out, and buttoning the front of the coat over the poles. Two or three ordinary coats are required for this purpose. If an ulster be available, it will be still better. If a transverse bar to keep the Fig. 130.—Two-handed Seat.