A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. io8 Local anaesthesia by freezing or by injection of cocaine is ad- visable (p. i8). /« the tise of the Aspirator the following points must be attended to:— [a.) That, to ensure a clear passage, immediately before and aftei use, the whole apparatus is run through with boiled water; and that, before use, the needles and canulse are boiled or steeped in 1-20 car- bolic lotion for ten or fifteen minutes. Take care also that the place of puncture, and operator's fingers, are thoroughly cleansed and purified. [b.) That the exhausting and not the filling end of the syringe is attached to the bottle, when preparing it for use. (The exhausting nozzle is generally lateral.) (c.) That the connection between the exhausted bottle and the canula in the abscess or other cavity is not opened until the needle or trochar is withdrawn, and its own stopcock closed. (d.) That on withdrawing the canula, the point where it has entered the skin is closed by having had previously laid upon it a piece of wool saturated in collodion. Note.—Th& patient should be recumbent. A stimulant should be at hand when the aspirator is used. (8) Air in Veins by the aspiration of the chest is a possible complication of operations on the neck and axilla, when the mouths of wounded veins remain open. The danger is due to the air getting churned up in the right auricle and ventricle, and obstruct- ing the pulmonary circulation, thus causing dyspnoea and, if in sufficient quantity, death. A minute quantity of air in the veins is harmless. The surgeon may be always warned of the accident by the peculiar sucking sound produced. Treatment consists in instantly putting a wet sponge over the wound, squeezing the chest to expel air already entered, and on cautiously removing the sponge to secure the open mouth of the ▼ein (Treves). j , x • (9) Circumcision, if for tight prepuce m children (or adults) is performed as follows:—WTien the child is ansesthetised, put a tight band round the penis and seize the exact ortjice of the prepuce with catch forceps, and draw it away from the glans. Grasp the tissues in front of the glans with a pair if dressing forceps, and with a knife or scissors cut off the ring of skin which lies in front of the forceps. The outer layer of skin will now retract—the inner layer (sometimes called mucous membrane) next the glans must now be carefully separated with a probe from the glans and turned back so as to expose it. This layer will probably require to be slit up at the uiraer side (opposite the fnenum) and may be trimmed with scissors. The surgeon having thus seen that the glans is thoroughly exposed as far as the corona, looks for and ties any cut vessels that he can see then stitches with catgut the outer and the reflected^ portions of the prepuce, and applies a dressing of collodion or Friar s balsam and wool before allowing the blood to return. UTien this dressing is removed at the end of a week, the part is generally healed. Circumwsion in adults may sometimes be required in consequence