274 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. appearance and texture to flesh, and the great number of copies which may be taken from the same first mould. The disadvantages are, the possibiHty that it will not keep really good for more than eight or ten years, and the greater time required to make a cast in this than in plaster of Paris. Price.—The cost of the materials amounts to about is. 6d. per lb. of the mixture. Clay which remains always moist and ready for use may be made by mixing powdered pipe-clay with glycerine instead of with water. It should be kept in a damp place. Casting A natomical or Pathological Specimens in Papier-machd. —The ■moulds are of plaster of Paris, and the objects must be such that each mould can be lifted off from it in one piece. The interior of the mould must be well smeared with vaseline, tallow, or other greasy substance to which paste will not stick. The casts are made either of cellulose or of tough absorbent paper, such as "drying" paper. Cellulose very suitable for the purpose is sold as a surgical dressing (Robinson's cellulose dressing). This material is worked up into a thick pulp with strong flour or starch paste. The pulp is then pressed with the fingers or a spoon into the well-greased mould. When the sm-face of the mould has been uniformly covered with a layer of cellulose pulp about j of an inch thick, strips of absorbent paper moistened with starch paste are laid over the cellulose pulp, till there are several layers of paper. The last layer should consist of mushn or " butter cloth " moistened with the starch paste. If paper be employed throughout, a piece of Robinson's (Liverpool) " Robosal" blotting-paper is laid on a flat plate, and the paste is rubbed into it on both sides till the paper is limp and soft. While the softened paper is still lying flat on the plate, scraps are torn from it, so as to leave their edges frayed and thin. If necessary the paper can be torn into thin films where finer surface markings are to be cast. Beginning at the margin of the mould on one side, the operator lays on a piece of the torn softened paper, and presses it with his finger or a stiff brush firmly into the irregularities of the mould. Overlapping this, he puts on another piece, and another, and so on until the whole of the mould is covered, being careful to avoid wrinkling the soft paper. Over the first layer a second is laid, and sometimes a third. For small casts this will suflRce, but for larger casts an additional layer of " rope" brown paper or of muslin, soaked in paste as before is to be applied in the same way. It is advisable to put on all the desired layers at once, so that in drying they may shrink uniformly. It is also important to let the paper stick to the margms of the mould bv leaving them ungreased. This insures a good shape, men all the reouired layers have been put on, the cast is dried. Slow drying in free air and warmth is preferable, and takes from twenty-four to forty-eight hours but quicker drying in a slow oven may be used if need be. When the cast is dry, the inside is painted over with a coat of spirit varnish ; he paper is then cut from the mould at the margins, and the cast w-iU be found to have shrunk away slightly from the surface and thus to be loose With care it can then be worked out from the crevnceS and corners The rough edges are next trimmed with scissors and bound w° h blue paper. A thin layer of size is then laid over the cast. As Toon as this is dry the necessary painting can be carried out. Oil cotours should be used, mixed with turpentine if a dry surface is ^yanted, or mTxed wkh plenty of megilp and afterwards varnished if a moist sur- fec^ s tn be imitated. The time required for making each cast is about the same with papier-mach(5 as with other materials.