ON BANDAGING. 8 sole, ascend on the inner side, cross the dorsum, and so back to the internal malleolus. This is repeated until such time as we reach the ankle, when, as we now meet a simple cylinder, two or three spirals are available. The bandage once more shows by its tendency to stray that we are at the cone of the calf, and again reverses are employed. To finish the bandage, a figure-of-eight turn is made around the upper part ol the calf, and the tail of the bandage is fixed at the last reverse by means of a pin inserted parallel to its margins (Fig. 41, D). A\ e may here observe that the simple spiral is used in the case of " cylinders, the reverse when covering cones, and the figure-of-eighi at the basal junction of cones. Typical Cases—(^.) How to Bandage the Hand.—Just as we bandaged the lower e.xtremity, so may we bandage the upper. The arm should be extended and prone, so that the palmar aspect of the hand occupies a position similar to the plantar of the foot. Small oblong pads of dry cotton wool (preferably charged with some non- imtating antiseptic) are laid between the fingers so that the skin secretions may be absorbed. It is of cardinal importance that the skin-surfaces should always be kept apart, or else chafing will cer- tainly ensue. The hand now corresponds to the foot. The forefinger „ „ great toe. The little finger ,, „ little toe. The wrist ,, „ ankle. The thumb „ „ heel. The mitial figure-of-eight turn for fixation is made by laying the tail of the bandage under the second phalanx of the forefinger, loopmg round the wrist, descending to the terminal phalanx of the little finger, and so on in every respect just as we bandaged the foot. As the heel was left exposed, so also do we leave the thumb free. In bandaging the left limbs, our man- ipulations are chiefly carried out with the right hand; but in the case of the right limb the left hand is employed, a task which, at first somewhat awkward to accomplish, becomes easy with practice Cautions!—It is of the utmost importance that there should never be any constriction of the limb. The bandage should exert uniform pressure with ease and comfort to the patient. It is necessary to increase the tension somewhat with the circumference of the limb In any case, the condition of the exposed digits affords a sure guide 42.—Bandaging the Hand. b. Reversing. a. Fixing ;