vertebra the risk is greater, because of the importance of the corresponding part of the spinal cord, should it become involved ; and because of the probability of the ligaments which keep the odontoid process in position becoming softened—in which case, at any moment, instant death may be caused by the compression of the cord against the odontoid process, as the head is dislocated forwards. It is generally considered safe, when disease in this part of the spinal column has been diagnosed, to recommend at first rest in the horizontal (supine) position, the head being steadied as above, whether extension also be deemed necessary or not. Afterwards, lome efficient head- and neck-splint, such as will be presently described, should be used. Benefit of Artificial Supports for Spinal Disease.—It is well to recognise that there are four possible ways in which supports may act beneficially while the patient is going about. (1) By preventing movements. This seems to be one of the most important, because it must necessarily involve (2) Prevention of fuitlier displacement, and so the saving of the affected parts from continuously foUowed-up pressure. It is moreover possible (3) To relieve the anterior parts of the vertebral bodies from pressure by bracing back the spine, and causing the weight to be transmitted through the articular processes and through the posterior parts of the bodies ( Walsham). (4) Relieving the affected part from pressure altogether. In the dorsal and lumbar regions this has been attempted by trying to transmit the weight from the axilla to the pelvis by means of crutches. In the neck also Sayre has attempted the same thing by his " Jury-mast" (Figs. 167 and 168), which takes its fi.\ed point on the thoracic plaster-jacket, and then arching over the head partly suspends it. Fleming's india- rubber air-bags (Fig. 169) also partly transmit the weight of the head to the shoulders, without its passing through the spine. Still, the value of iDOth of such forms of apparatus is probably as much from '.heir steady- ing power as from the support they give. In the cervical, and still more m the regions of the spinal column below it, any apparatus which really took all the weight off the vertebrae would be unbearable. 1. Methods for ensuring Rigidity and Support to the Spine Plaster Jackets.—Most surgeons agree that when the patient is able to go about, rigidity and support of the affected part of the spine are what are most needed. The kinds of rigid support most easily made and applied are those made of plaster of Paris and those formed of bar iron with appropriate straps. Many different modifications of Sayre's original plaster-jacket have been suggested. We may, however, group them all together as either vertical (Sayre's), or as the horizontal methods in which the supposed dangers of suspension are obviated by applying the splint while the patient is in the recumbent position. Of the latter we shall only describe Furneaux Jordan's and Davy's methods. {a.) Anszvers to Objections urged against Plaster Jackets.—Before taking up any method, however, it may be well to consider some ob- jections which have been urged against the use of plaster jackets :—