as Eunsen's for hospital work, or large Grenet cells, or of a similar number of groups of smaller cells. Duncan generally uses from 40 to So milliamperes of current, but since he advises the operator to be guided by the touch as the process proceeds rather than by the amount of current passing, he does not consider the galvanometer of any use except perhaps for sacculated aneurisms, where palpation is more difScult. The needles should be insulated with vulcanite to witliin a short distance of their point, depending on the size of the nasvus, and both should be thrust into the tumour or aneurism. Although the positive-pole needle, if made of steel, will be attacked by the acids which it sets free, the resulting salts are non-poisonous, and the needle can be easily re-sharpened. However, gold or platinum can be used for the positive needle, if so desired. Mode of Procedure, say for a nfevus, cirsoid aneurism, or goitre. The patient, especially if a child, is to be anssthetised. The skin over and round the nzevus is first cleansed and purified. The needles, unattached to the battery as yet, are then thrust through the skin an inch or two from the iisevus, and are pushed subcutaneously into its substance, so that at the first sitting the deeper parts are chiefly attacked. As soon as the needles are placed in position they are connected with the battery, and the process begins. Soon a soft coagulum and crepitation from bubbles of hydrogen gas are perceptible round the negative-pole needle, while a firm hard coagulum is felt to form more slowly round the positive-pole needle. The latter is allowed to remain for the most part in one place, while the negative needle is moved from place to place as the desired effect is produced in each. During these subcutaneous alterations in position, the non-insulated part of the needle must not be allowed to reach the aperture in the skin. An entire coagulation to about the size of a walnut is sufiicient for any single sitting. Care should be taken to prevent the cauterising effect from penetrating the skin to the surface. From twenty to thirty minutes is sufficient for one sitting. To obviate bleeding from the needle-punctures, the current should be maintained while they are being slowly withdrawn, so that a coagulum may block their track. Either needle, as soon as its non-insulated part reaches the skin, should be entirely withdrawn, and its aperture at once covered with collodion and wool. The other needle having been withdrawn and its aperture similarly dealt with, the whole of the surface of the part electrolysed should be covered with cotton wool and collodion, and be left alone for a fortnight or three weeks. For the Galvano-Cautery platinwn wire point or loop, a battery like that for electrolysis is required. Platinum is selected because It can be heated and cooled again any number of times without becoming oxidised, and because its fusing-point is so high. A current too strong to pass easily is sent through the wire, and heats It m proportion to the resistance which the wire, in virtue of small cross-section, offers. With either loop or point, a non- conducting handle is supplied, provided with a trigger which