A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. themselves, but the former, only appreciated by experience, are apt to be unheeded until the time for their possible remedy has gone. Under the head of "emergency" cases we wish, therefore, to allude briefly to the diagnosis and treatment of cases involving both classes of danger. (i) Retention of Urine, almost invariably found in men. If recent, causes great pain and feeling of distention, and demands relief by the patient's symptoms no less than by the dangers which threaten him. After a time, however, the spasms subside, while the bladder goes on dilating. In some cases, the obstruction may by this time have subsided, and then the chief s>'mptom will be that of constant dribbling from an over distended and almost completely paralysed bladder. If unrelieved, the pressure, aided by ulceration behind a stricture, may cause a rupture of the urethra, and extravasation of urine into the perinasum, or, with only a slight blow on the abdomen, a still more serious pelvic, or abdominal extravasation from a rupture of the bladder. Sometimes suppression of urine, and uraemia poisoning may occur, from backward pressure upon the kidneys, or there may be a long standing after-paralysis of the bladder. The cause of the retention may be anything that obstructs the canal of the urethra—whether stricture, enlargement of the prostate, inflammation or abscess of the body of the penis, urethral calculus, or spasm of the constrictor. (Retention due to primary paralysis of the bladder is a serious symptom of a more extensive paralysis.) The diagnosis of the retention is made by percussion and palpation just above the pubes, taken together with the previous historj'. The distended bladder can often be made out as a fluctuating tumour, reaching even as far as the umbilicus, and can be felt from the rectum. The diagnosis of the cause of the retention will vary with the conditions which produce it, thus:— {a.) Retention from Stricture of the Urethra. —Here we have generally the history of a gradually diminishing stream with painful and frequent micturition, following sooner or later after gonorrhrea or an injury to the perinasum ; exposure to cold, or a bout of drinking, may determine the complete obstruction. By passing the finger gently along the urethra from the outside, the amount of callous thickening in and around the tube can be recognised. When an urgent case of stricture is brought to hospital, the patient should have a J or ^ gr. morphia suppositor}', and should be made to sit in a warm hip-bath. While sitting in the bath he may some- times be able to pass water. If this fails he should be put to bed before any effort is made to draw olT the water. Treatment. Having gently ascertained the amount of bladder distention, the house-surgeon, after cleansing the meatus and glans penis with an antiseptic lotion, may begin by injecting down to the stricture about two drachms of 5 per cent, solution of cocaine to which an equal quantity of adrenaUn solution (i-iooo) has been added. He then disinfects a medium-sized catheter by syringing with 1-20 carboHc acid, or with boiling water if it be metal; and