293 APPENDIX. range, the steam escaping by the chimney ; but if desired it can be heated by a gas or paraffin flame. When heating the contents of the inner chamber (before and after sterilisation) the cork is left out of the filling hole (i) and the stop-cock (3) is closed. When steam is to be introduced the stop-cock is opened and the fiUing hole plugged with the cork. Should by mischance the stop-cock be closed while the hole is also plugged there will be no exit for the steam in the outer chamber, but the cork will be blown out before the pressure gets very high. In order to hasten the drying of the contents of the steriliser after the steam has been shut off, it is advisable to loosen and slightly raise the lid. A "kettle" or dressing box could be adapted to this form of steriliser, but is not necessary. When used to prepare dressings in a private hospital, or in the patient's house, the steriliser itself can be used as a " kettle," wuth the advantage of keeping everything hot if the hot water be allowed to remain in the outer chamber. For ordinary private work, however, another method is preferaole. Instead of sterilising for each Fig. 20O. —Instrument Steriliser, with Lift-out Tray and Spirit Lamp, to carry in Surgeon's bag. Interior size, 13 x 14 in. operation the articles required for it, sterilise what we may call dressing or operation "imils," and keep them ready, wrapped in packets. These units can be put together in any proportion at a moment's notice. Thus sets of artificial sponges of various kinds, for big or small operations, nail-brushes in pairs, balls or lengths of gauze, operation cloths, aprons, and so on, are laid in the steriliser, each on a piece of strong kitchen paper large enough to wrap it up in securely, everything being, of course, kept open and free to allow of the circulation of the steam. After sterilisation the contents are dried for thirty or forty minutes, and then, with surgically purified hands, the parcels arc wrapped up, and the contents indicated on each with ink. The packages, if sealed with wax, and laid away in a drawer with a clean cloth over them, are quite safe against contamination. By adopting this plan the surgeon not only avoids the trouble of frequent sterilisation, but is able to start for an operation at any moment