ANyESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 17 It may be used with advantage where chloroform is contra- indicated. It should not be employed for children, who always bear chloroform well and safely. It is contra-indicated in cranial surgery, since it congests the brain ; and it is open to similar objections in pulmonary and renal weakness, where it is more or less obnoxious from chilling the lung or irritating the kidneys. There are two methods of giving ether, known respectively as the "Open " and the " Closed" methods. (a.) The " Open" Method.—This resembles the ordinary mode of giving chloroform. The ether is either poured on the hollow apex of a towel rolled into a cone, or on a sponge placed within the towel, and the cone is then held over the patient's nose and mouth. The ether is renewed as required, and care similar to that exercised in the administration of chloroform is carried out. As a rule, the stage of excitement is more pronounced, the face undergoes peculiar vascular changes, and the administration requires to be more continuous than with chloroform. For the open method, Allis' ether-inhaler has certain advantages. It consists of a light metal framework, on which a bandage runs vertically in a zigzag manner, the whole being surrounded by a strong rubber collar. This is placed over the respiratory passages, and the ether dropped con- tinuously on the bandage. [b.) The '■'■Closed'" Method possesses the peculiarity of requiring that the patient should breathe and rebreathe his own expired air, so that partial asphyxia is made use of as an ancesthetic ; less ether is required, and there is not so much chilling of the lungs. It is carried out by means of a special inhaler—Ortiisby's or Clover's being commonly employed. Such inhalers consist of a mask or face-piece, to which is affixed a nibb)er bag, into which and from which the patient breathes. There is an interpolated chamber or sponge for ether, so that the respired air is thus ch^LTged with the anaesthetic. The air-pad of the face-piece should be blown up and soaped, if the patient possess a beard, so that it may securely fit when pressed down firmly on the face. In the case of the Clover's inhaler, the ether-chamber is charged with a measure of ether, and the index turned so that the patient breathes and rebreathes into the rubber balloon. After one or two respirations, the administrator gradually turns the index so that ether is admitted, and by degrees a quarter, half, and, finally, all the air breathed consists of ether vapour, the face-piece being closely pressed down. By means of a valve a little fresh air may be given when necessary, but this is most readily accom- plished by removing the mask. It is noteworthy that, during the administration of ether as contrasted with that of chloroform, the breathing is more noisy and stertorous, there is a copious secretion of saliva, the face is congested or dusky, and, especially during operations on the head, there is freer bleeding. Sickness after anjesthetics, when obstinate, may be treated by giving the patient very hot water to sip, or by the administration of an eighth of a grain of morphia in pill, with perhaps a little cocaine. A sinapism over the stomach often gives rchcf. Troublesome, and even fatal, diarrhcea has sometimes been seen after chloroform in the case of little o