257 THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. CHAPTER XXV. THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. Contents.—Principle and Description of the Syphon and Water-head Apparatus in Surgical Treatment—Various Applications—Douches, Vaginal, Nasal, &c.—Syringing the Ear—Washing out the Stomach and Bladder—Thread-Syphons—Syphon Pump—Adaptable Funnel for Waste Fluids—T)dng in a Catheter. The object of the syphon or other apparatus on the water-head principle in surgical treatment, is to obtain a continuous stream of fluid, and the ways in which they may be utilised are almost endless. Description of the Apparatus.—(i) A Syphon is an inverted U-shaped tube, with one arm longer than the other. Both being filled—if the short arm be placed in a jug of water, with the long end allowed to hang over the edge of the basin, the water will flow out of the end of the longer arm with a force proportionate to the distance between its lower end and the level of the water. An india-rubber tube, 5 or 6 feet in length, will serve all purposes. It should be weighted at one end to keep it under water, and may be provided with a curved metal tube to prevent it from " kinking " as it comes over the edge of the vessel. A thicker piece of rubber tube slipped over it at the bend (Foulis), or a piece of sheet lead wound spirally round it there, will serve the same purpose. If need be, when ready, it may be tied to the handle of the vessel. To start the syphon (a), sink the greater part of the tube below the surface of the \yater, which then, of course, fills it. Compress part of the long arm firmly, and while still holding it tight, bring it quickly over the edge and below the level of the water in the vessel ; now let go, and the water will flow down. Pinch the long arm till the syphon is wanted. (3) Suck the fluid into the tube with a syringe. (2) A modification of this is made by substituting cotton or worsted threads for the tubes. If the thread be wet, one end diuped in a basin or jug and the longer end brought over the edge, fluid will drop from the longer end exactly as if it were a syphon tube. (3) The difference between the "syphon" and the "water-head" principle is, that the latter requires a vessel with an outlet pipe below. Instniment-makers supply special vessels for the purpose, with stop-cocks and gauges. Dr. Foulis has recommended as a cheap substitute a common tin handled mug, into the side 17