A SURGICAL HANDBOOK, ii8 left side, and take a complete circle round the anterior aspect of the waist, travelling towards the mammae, so that the roller confines the tail. Support the left breast gently with one hand, while with the other carry the bandage from below upwards ; with- drawing the hand, the bandage takes its place, and the second loop is completed as the roller travels to the right shoulder, and obliquely over the back to the point from which the ascending loop started. A series of such figures-of-eight may be superimposed as required (Fig. 49). (8) Double Spica of the Mamma, may be compared with the double spica of the groin. The one breast is supported from below upwards, the other from above downwards, just as in the two forms of hernia. Where both mammse are inflamed, separate bandages for each are more useful {Fig. 50). (9) How to Bandage the Head.—The divergent spica is the typical bandage for the head. Owing to the tendency of the figure- of-eight loops to slip on this part of the body, it is important that the initial and concluding turns should be secure, and that all should have a mutual dependence. Three main series of loops, at right angles to each other, are employed, (i) One, horizontal in direction, passing above the level of the ears, grips the cranium firmly (Fig. 51) Fig. 51.—Knotted Bandage of the Head—beginning. Fig. 52.—Formation of Divergent Spica over Anterior Part of Head. between the frontal eminences and superciliary ridges anteriorly, and below the occipital protuberance posteriorly. {2) A second series, coronal, runs from the vertex below the chin, passing behind and sometimes in front of the ears. A third final turn courses over the vertex from behind forwards. At the various crossmgs, pms should be inserted, or all may be basted together with a needle and thread. To cover in the Fore Part of the Head, proceed as follows:— Grasp the loose tail in one hand, and carrj' the roller around the head to form the horizontal turn. Pass the roller beneath the loose end, carry it at right angles to the first turn, and so form the