93 EMERGENCY CASES. unless a very long tube is used, this method, while equally efficient, is safer than the stomach pump, as there is less risk of injurmg the mucous membrane. One great advantage, moreover, is the impossi- bility of its going out of order, as it contains no valves. If desired, it would be easy to attach a T-tube, so as to have a different entrance and exit pipe, as already indicated in the fore- going section on the stomach-pump. General Treatment.—(i) Get rid of as much poison as may still remain unabsorbed in the system. (2) Neutralise it, and diminish its etTects. (3) Give chemical and physiological antidotes, and treat symptoms. ... , . I. For poisons taken by the mouth and not already ejected, give ©dstics t— (1) Sulphate of zinc 20-30 grs. in half a tumbler of warm water. (2) Ipecacuanha in powder, in 15 to 30 gr. doses in warm water, or 5iij to 5vj doses of Vinum Ipecacuanhse. (3) Mustard, a table-spoonful in a tumbler of warm water. (4) Apomorphia, ^ grain hypoderraically ; \ gr. by the mouth (one of the least depressing and most rapid emetics). (5) Sulphate of copper, 10 grs. in warm water (apt to irritate). (6) Tepid water, large draughts of, soapy, greasy, or salt- followed by irritation of the fauces with the finger or a feather. If necessary, any of these emetics may be repeated once or twice. A'.j5.—Corrosive and the more irritant poisons which damage the mucous membrane of the stomach, contra indicate emetics, and still more the use of the stomach-pump. However, they usually cause vomiting by their own action. Narcotics, such as morphia and opium (unless in e.xcessive quantities, when it irritates), make vomiting extremely difficult. Except when contra-indicated as above, wash out the stomach with the stomach-pump in all cases where vomiting cannot be produced, or when any doubt exists as to poison remaining in the stomach after vomiting. II. Neutralise and dilute mineral acids with alkaline carbonates, well diluted in water or milk ; with lime water ; or with chalk, whiting, whitewash, wall plaster, or magnesia (heavy or the heavy carbonate), suspended in milk or water—or with water alone. Neutralise alkalies with acids, such as weak acetic, or mineral acids, lime juice, orange or lemon juice. For both acids and alkalies give demulcents, such as olive oil, milk, thick gruel, white of egg and water or milk, gum and water. III. Treat collapse by stimulants—e.g., alcohol, as brandy or whisky in doses fi-om 5i to 3iv according to circumstances; ammonia (sal-volatile); ether, by mouth or hypodermically {\ to I drachm) ; strong hot coffee (or tea), by mouth or per rectum ; strong beef tea or Liebig's extract ; and by applying warmth by hot bottles, and warm blankets. Give morphine where there is great pain. Special Treatment.—In carrying out the directions as indicated in the Table of Treatment for Special Poisons given below, it will be understood that the following general methods apply to all, unless where statement is made to the contrary.