A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 40 have devised to stop bleeding in wounds, whether it occurs at the moment of injury, or during the after-process of healing. Stated in general terms, every method of arresting Haemorrhage ("natural" or "artificial") involves (i) an immediate blocking of the vessel's mouth, by some mechanical obstruction not involving minute tissue changes; (2) a sealing of the end or ends of the vessel by plastic lymph, becoming afterwards (by a larger prepon- derance of cells and the development of capillary blood-vessels) granulation-tissue; and (3) a process of cicatrisation, by which the ends of the vessel are firmly closed by permanent and fully formed tissue. Although, for convenience of description, these stages are separately described, it must be remembered that they pass insensibly into one another and, so to speak, over-lap. From the moment that the vessel is wounded, and the mechanical obstruction is applied to preserve the patient's life, the vital processes which produce the second stage begin to act, and probably long before the whole mass of granulations has hieen fully developed, parts of it have begim to form the final cicatricial tissue. As the conditions brought about in the two later stages belong to processes which involve active changes in the tissue themselves— processes which, for want of a better word, we may call vital—it is not unnatural to expect that these two stages will be very much alike under all circumstances, and in whatever varied ways the conditions necessary to the first stage may have been brought about. And, indeed, the more accurately the processes involved in the healing of vessels are studied, the more distinctly does this come to be recognised. Leaving aside here the discussion of the many abstruse questions included under the general terms in which the two later stages have been stated, we may return to the first stage, and see how its conditions may be carried out. The '■'■Natural" Arrest of Hemorrhage.—If we confine our attention to Arteries, in the " Natural " arrest of Hemorrhage—J. in the cessation of bleeding which occurs when the parts are simply left to nature—the details of the process vary somewhat according to whether the vessel be cut only partially or entirely across. In the latter case, the artery contracts at the point of division, and at the same time retracts within its sheath in virtue of the state of elastic tension in which it normally lies. The blood, as it spurts from the open mouth of the vessel, deposits itself in the form of blood-clot, partly in the now empty sheath, and partly in the surrounding tissues of the wound. This clot gradually increases, forming layer by layer from the blood as it flows, until, if the vessel be a small one, say, a digital artery, the external plug so formed, in addition to the con- traction of the coat, stops the bleeding. Should the vessel be a large one, say, the femoral, the current of blood will sweep away any clot that forms, and the patient will rapidly bleed to death, unless other aid be at hand to save him. Again, should the vessel be a medium-sized one, say, the radial, although the clot will be swept away at first, the rapid loss of blood will cause fainting, and during the period of enfeebled circulation which exists while the