THE URINE. 237 CHAPTER XXIV. THE URINE. Contents.—Importance of a Knowledge of the State of the Urine in Surgical Cases—A. General Conditions to be Noted—Quantity of Urine, Pain associated with Micturition, Odour, Colour, Tran- sparency, Reactions, and Specific Gravity of Urine. B. Presence of Abnormal Substances In Solution—Albumen; Bile; Sugar; Blood; Pias—Urinary Deposits. C. Examination of the Urine— Preliminary—For Abnormal Substances—For Deposits. Importance of a Knowledge of the State of the Urine in Surgical Cases.—Although the investigation of the Urine is more usually considered as forming a part of the duty of the Physician, yet there can be no doubt whatever that a careful examination of this excretion, and a due appreciation of its various abnormalities, is of the utmost importance to the Surgeon. Apart from the necessity of studying the urine in " surgical" affections of the genito-urinary tract, there are many cases where the state of the kidneys as indicated by the urine may determine the advisability or not of an operation, and may very materially affect its prognosis, if it be undertaken. As a report of the urine is a necessary com- plement to most surgical " cases," a chapter devoted to the investigation of the urine from an especially surgical point of view seems to be called for in the present work. A. General Conditions to be Noted. The general questions involved in the examination of the urine will be briefly discussed before the methods of investigation are given in detail. (i) Quantity of Urine.—This is estimated by collecting and measuring the urine passed in twenty-four hours, and is important— {a.) because deviations from the normal are alone often indications of disease; {b.) because without a knowledge of the quantity, no reliable conclusions can be drawn from a knowledge of the specific gravity. The normal amount of urine for an adult varies from about 35 to about 65 ounces in twenty-four hours—on an average, about 50 ounces. The quantity will vary with that of the fluid drunk and with the extent of its excretion by the skin, lungs, and bowels. These factors must be taken into account before any conclusions as to abnormality can be arrived at, although, of course, an insatiable thirst and appetite are themselves symptoms of Diabetes Mellitus.