264 A SURGICAL handbook: while the patient is in the vertical position, night or day. If he has a cough he should also wear a truss at night, otherwise it may be removed when he lies down, but it must be re-applied before he gets up. The object is to prevent the hernia from ever showing itself again after the treatment by truss has been begun. Many cases of strangulation occur by patients taking off their truss at night and coughing down the rupture, or rising to relieve the bowels without applying the truss. A spare truss should always be kept in readiness, as well as a bathing truss covered with indiarubber. Umbilical hernise must be treated with a spring truss and a flat pad. For Children.—In children, trusses similar to those used for adults are generally indicated. For umbilical herniae the spring may be replaced by a belt. In male infants the form of hernia almost exclusively met with is the inguinal. If the skin will not bear the pressure of a pad with the ordinary spiral truss, a pad of wool kept in place, with the looped (p. 124) or a spica bandage (plain or elastic) will often suffice; or the worsted truss re-advocated by Lund {Hunterian Lectures, 1885) should be employed. A skein of Berlin worsted (Pye recommends "Alloa yarn," or "five-ply or four-ply finger- ing"), 22 inches long, and consisting of twenty threads, is passed round the child's waist (Fig. 194). The end passing round the side opposite from the hernia is held at the seat of the hernia, while the other end is passed through it, and after encircling the thigh is fixed with tapes or a safety-pin to the waist part. Two such trusses may be kept in use, each being washed alternately. Umbilical hernia in infants, when not very bad, is best treated by two strips of plaster crossing at the umbilicus, and drawing the abdominal walls together at that point. The opening may be further supported by a pad formed by wrapping a penny in boric lint, and held in position by the strapping. For irreducible hernia in an)' region, where an operation is not indicated, Bryant recom- mends a hollow metal pad lined with wash- leather, and made to fit exactly by being moulded over a cast of the hernial protrusion. Fig. 194. —Skein of Worsted Truss for Infants.