JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 203 The ends of the body-crescent are to be united by a strap fixed to one side, and buckling or buttoning on to the other. A brace over the shoulder of the sound side supports the splint This brace and the secondary straps to steady it are illustrated in the diagrams (see Figs. 140, 141). For his poorer patients Thomas used a simpler plan. Each end of the uppermost cross-piece terminates in a hole about half an inch in diameter. The middle of a Diece of bandage is passed below the upper cross-piece, where it is attached behind to the upright bar. The ends of the bandage, after having been twisted together for a short distance above the splint, are brought over the patient's shoulders, and are passed through the holes in the upper cross-piece before being tied together. Thus the bandage fulfils the double purpose of keeping the splint up, and fixing together the ends of the cross-piece. The thigh and leg may be either bandaged to the corresponding part of the splint, or be fixed there with shields similar to those described for the knee-splint. Figs. 140, 141, and 143, after Thomas, illustrate the application of the splint. [b.) By Extension.—V<rhe.Yi it is decided to apply Extension, the patient must be kept in bed, lying on a firm mattress. The first thing to do is to see what position the thigh assumes when the patient's pelvis is made to lie even—i.e., when the line joining the two anterior superior spines is at right angles to the axis of the trunk, and when the lumbar region of the spine rests against the bed. Whether the position of the femur be one of flexion and adduction, flexion and abduction, simple flexion, or without defor- mity at all, it is the one in the line of which traction is to be at first made. _ Where there is marked flexion, the lower limb must be raised either on pillows or on an inclined plane. One objection to the inclined plane is the necessity of extending the knee while the thigh is flexed; but inconvenience from this results only when the flexion is great. Where abduction is combined with flexion, the inclined plane lies by the side of the other limb. Where there is adduction, the inclined plane should be arched to allow the sound hmb to pass under it. Should the patient be restless, a long splint may be applied to the sound side. The plan of raising the affected limb on pillows is simple and often effective, but may fail to ensure sufficient steadiness. Having made provision for supporting the leg, the surgeon must next adjust weight and pulley at the proper level. After the foot of the bed has been raised (on blocks, &c.) to allow' the weight of the body to act as a counter-extending force, the pulley must be fixed. Por this purpose an apparatus may either be attached to the bed or be independent and stand separate. In either case it must be movable—not only up and down, but also laterally, as may be required. (a.) In the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, an apparatus, easily