A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. _ Caidery.—T\\e. actual cautery is thus a most powerful styptic as It, when properly applied, shrivels up all the tissues into a hard m^s The greater the heat, the more rapid and the more superficial its effect ; so that if a blunt-edged blade be used white-hot, the vessels bleed nearly as much as if they had been cut across with a sharp knife ; while if a dull-red or black heat be employed, the progress is slower, but the shrivelling and occlusion of vessels complete. Pacquelin's thermo-cautery is used where vascular textures not easily accessible have to be divided (Fig. 26). It is also of service in searing the skin, or otherwise, where the actual cautery is required. In using this instrument, the knife must be heated to redness in the spirit-lamp before the benzoline vapour is blown in, otherwise the knife is only cooled by the cold blast. The galvano-cautery is advocated for cutting through the vascular base of polypoid growths, where direct access to the divided vessels is impossible, as in the removal of a fibrous polypus from the naso- pharynx. From what has been already said, the advantage of using the wire at a dull-red heat will be apparent, but it has been found somewhat difficult in practice to regulate the heat. Cold.—Yxom almost time immemorial, cold has been used to check bleeding, and there is not the slightest doubt that cold does constrict blood-vessels. The effect of prolonged cold in producing pallor of the skin is well-known, and probably was the clue that first led to its application to bleeding. Milne Murray's experiments seem to indicate that the direct application ef cold to bleeding parts induces a constriction at first, which rapidly passes off; but since prolonged cold to the extremities seems undoubtedly to maintain pallor, it is probable that some of the special effects of cold upon the skin depend upon its action through the nervous system. When a lowered temperature is desired, we rely on two methods of obtaining it—ice, for direct and indirect effects, and evaporation, for indirect effects only. The former may be applied in an ice-bag, one third filled with small pieces, or it may be used to cool water which is then circulated in Leiter's tubes, or dripped by irrigation over the part, or, if more convenient, a cloth may be wrung out of it and laid over the part. Should cold injections be required, the ice may be put in the water or lotion. The great physical fact, that evaporation requires heat, and that fluids will abstract the heat they want from surrounding parts, in order to evaporate, is often turned to account when a low temperature is wanted— e.g., a wet cloth laid over the skin, and allowed to evaporate, will chill the part it lies on, hence the risk of wet clothes. If fluids which evaporate more quickly than water be used, the cold will be so much the greater ; hence the use of alcohol and solutions of carbonate of ammonia in evaporating lotions (see Appendix). One of the most volatile of available fluids is ether. When the evaporation of this is hastened by a blast of air, the freezing-point is easily reached. Cold, as a haemostatic, is chiefly recommended for haemorrhage in internal organs at some distance below the surface—such as in suspected haemorrhage from the brain. The cold must be so applied