Ill ON BANDAGING. In using a wnding machine (Fig. 40), care must be taken that the first few turns on the central pin are not very tight, so that when the bandage has been rolled, by grasping it firmly and reversing the handle once or twice, the pin is freed and may readily be withdrawn. few stray threads from the margin to keep it together, and the frayed Machine for Rolling Bandages. To finish off the bandage, a may be wound around the roll edges trimmed. To apply the band- age, select the size required, break the en- circling threads, and liberate the free end or "tail." The com- pact roll is known as the "head," and we may fiirther recognise an anterior and pos- terior surface, an upper and a lower margin. We may now look at the surface which we are about to bandage. Note that it is always curvilinear. It may be resolved into a series of cones, with bases or apices opposed, with here and there perhaps a short cylinder. In the lower limb, for example, we may trace a cone as we pass from the toes to the heel, another from the heel to the ankle; at the ankle, we may meet with a short cylinder, which is continued upwards as a cone, graaually expanding at the calf of the leg ; and so on. Rules for Bandaging.—General rules to guide one in bandaging may be laid down as follows :— -at. (1) Fix the bandage. (2) Bandage from below upwards, and from within outwards, over the fronl of the limb. (3) Use equal pressure throughout. (4) Let each succeeding turn overlap two-thirds of its predecessor. (3) Keep all the margins parallel, and let the crossings and re- verses be in one line, and rather towards the outer aspect of the limb. (o) t,nd by hxing the bandage securely Typical Cases—(a.) How to Bandage the Foot.—Let us exemplify this by covering in the left leg. Stand in front of the patient, who extends his foot. Grasping the roller in the right hand, lay the tail against the ball of the great toe. The bandage must now be earned in a loop around the ankle, and back again o the pomt from which it started (Fig. 41, A). Therefore, let ySu ""J '^"^ '1°''"'" °^ '° 'he outer malleolus, behind the an.le to the mner malleolus, across the dorsum and he first turn to the ball of the little toe, and beneath the sole to the great toe, thus making a double loop or figure-of-eight