A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 8o When the parts are severely bruised and crushed, the impossibility of saving them will be evident. In others, however, the matter may be difficult to settle. Caures for anxiety are, the absence of pulsation in the main vessels below the seat of injury, or of capillary circulation, illustrated by pressing and relaxing any vascular part; extensive stripping off, or undermining of the skin, great comminution of the bones, and a pulpy bruised state of the muscles, even though the skin seem fairly natural. The elasticity and pliability of the skin will permit of an almost complete pounding and crushing of the deeper textures, without external marks being visible, at least at first. However, the vitality of the skin may be so injured by stretching and bruising, that it will aftenvards die, although at first it looks only a little pale or livid. The patient's con- stitution will also have to be considered. With a vigorous patient, especially if below middle life, efforts to save a limb may be made, which it would be unwise to attempt with a broken-down or elderly patient. (7) Injuries of the Eye.—(a.) Foreipt bodies on the surface must be removed from the conjunctiva at once. If loose, and not im- mediately apparent, they will be found beneath the upper lid, which should be everted as follows :— Direct the patient to look down to the ground ; lay hold of the margin of the upper lid (or of the eyelashes), and draw it down, and away from the globe; then, placing a blunt pencil, or the flat handle of a pocket-knile upon the upper part of the upper lid to steady it, rapidly fold the lid upwards, and it will become everted. If, while it is held thus everted, the patient looks down, the upper angle of the conjunctiva can be easily explored, and any foreign particle picked oflf or wiped away. , ■, , • Should a small particle of stone or metal have lodged in the surface of the cornea, constituting a "fire," it must be very care- fully removed with a spud, the cornea having previously been rendered insensible with a few drops of cocaine (4 per cent.) The greatest care must be taken to avoid unnecessary injury to the corneal epithelium in this process. . , . ib ) Where the eye has been ait, any escape of the vitreous humour is serious. One of the immediate risks in cuts of the eye-ball is a prolapse of the iris ; therefore, if the cut should be at the centre, the pupil must be dilated with atropia; whilst, if it be at the margin, it must be contracted with eserine. A dry pad and bandage must then be applied on the closed eyelid. It is not usually necessary to do anything further at the time, unless the corneal cut should gape very widely, when it may be drawn together with a fine stitch. (8) Lodging of Needles beneath the Skin.-This is a common accident, and often causes greater anxiety to the patient than the slight risk involved can account for. If the needle cannot be either seen or felt by the surgeon, no operation should be undertaken until the Rontgen rays have been called into play to reveal its exact locality. In a suitable case, begin by rendering the part bloodless, then anaesthetic, either by freezing with ether or injecting cocaine Next incise the skin over the foreign body, and use the end of the dissecting forceps as a probe, first to detect, and then to remove