26o A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. There is much advantage in interposing a bottle in the course of the tube leading from the bladder to the Y-tube. By its use the urine is collected separately, and not mixed with water, as it must otherwise be. A large-necked bottle is fitted with a rubber stopper, into which are inserted two pieces of short glass tubing. The rubber tubing leading from the bladder is cut, and each cut end is attached to one of the tubes in the stopper of the bottle. When the con- nection has been made the bottle is placed on a stand by the ^'^Apparatus for Carrying-off Waste Fluids.—It is often a great convenience when any cavity is being washed out to catch the- returning fluids and carry them directly away by a tube into a pail on the floor. As the shape of the parts to which the receiving vessel may be applied varies in different cases, an adaptable carrying- off funnel can be easily made as follows :— Take about 4 feet of copper wire (plain or, preferably, tinned), guage No. 10—i.e., about )/% inch thick—bend the middle part into a circle about 10 inches in diameter, and twist the ends together to form a handle. Now draw a circle on a piece of paper with a radtus which is equal to the diameter of the wire ring; cut a quadrant out of the circle, and we have a pattern for the mackintosh funnel. A piece of mackintosh cloth of this size and shape is then stitched together along the edges cut by the removal of the quadrant. Now fold the wide end of the funnel over the wire and stitch it in position, leaving room for its sliding easily over the wire. In fixing it, see that the stitched part of the wall of the funnel lies under the handle of the wire circle. The funnel has now to be fastened to the exit tube. Slip about an inch of glass or other firm tubing inside a piece of rubber tubing, 3 or 4 feet in length, and }i inch or ji inch in diameter. Place this end of the tubing inside the lower still open end of the mackintosh funnel and tie a piece of string firmly round the whole. The copper wire which stiffens the top of the funnel can be bent with the fingers to any desired shape, but is ngid enough to retain that shape while being firmly pressed agamst the patient's body. When used in aseptic cases, a piece of hnt soaked in antiseptic lotions should be laid over that part of the rim of the funnel which is brought in contact with the patient s skin. The important points of the apparatus are, the degree of pliability ol the wire rim, the relatively large size of the mackintosh funnel, and the slack hold which it has on the rim. Upon these depend the facility with which the rim can be altered to fit accurately agamst any part of the body. ^ , „ Tying a Catheter into the Bladder.—In almost all cases it is for the male bladder that this operation is required. The conditions rendering such a procedure necessary are various -such as to produce "vital" dilatation of a stricture to establish the urethral channel after perin^eal section, or to drain the bladder In the latter case it is not advisable to keep the same catheter in lor more than three or four days at the outside, nor to maintain the