ANAESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 19 tissues, the parts may be rendered bloodless and a rubber tourniquet may be applied where possible. A like result may be gained by the addition of a small amount of adrenalin, which increases and lengthens the analgesia ; hence very weak solutions are now used, such as \ grain cocaine in I oz. normal salt solution, to which 6 in.- of adrenalin chloride (Parks, Davies & Co.) are added. The drug is dissolved in a normal salt solution, and the infiltration endermic method of Schleich speedily dulls the sensibility. The needle is introduced into the skin parallel with its surface, and an etiderinic injection made which, of course, raises a local oedema. From this area, once insensibiUty is attained, the needle may be carried into the outlying skin or deeply into the lower struc- tures, even into the periosteum. We have to avoid vessels. The injections should not be made in inflamed tissues. By this method we not only perform minor operations, such as for epithelioma of the lip, circumcision, lipoma, piles, fissure, and the removal of fingers and toes, but many major operations, such as removal of goitre, radical cure of hernia, and the like. In laparo- tomies the method is pre-eminently successful, and the more so since the peritoneum is insensible to pain. It is advisable, however, after dividing the skin to make a fresh injection into the extra-peri- toneal tissue, since the outer aspect of the peritoneum is very sensitive. Gastrostomy, colostomy, gastro-enterostomy, and other grave opera- tions may thus be performed with little inconvenience to the patient. Injected into the urethra, the cocaine and adrenalin relieve con- gestion, facilitate the passage of catheters, and reduce the difficulties associated with inflamed and tender prostate and stricture. By the injection of suitable drugs into the theca vertebralis, we obtain an analgesia of the lower extremities, pelvis, and trunk, extend- ing even to the axilla. The method is known as lumbar or spinal anassthesia. Bier, of Bonn, to whom we owe the procedure, recom- mends its use in weakly patients when general anaesthesia is contra- indicated. He recommends it specially in the case of old people ; in operations on the rectum, but not for laparotomies. It has been largely used for major operations on the lower extremities, but the method is not yet perfect. Bier regards stovain as the safest agent. The method is as follows, the needle employed and the preliminaries resembling those of the ordinary diagnostic lumbar puncture :— The patient lies on the right side, a pillow supporting the lumbar region, thorax, shoulders, and head, the knees and thighs flexed, and the back carried forward so as to make the spinous processes project and increase the space between the neural arches. At a point in the mid line, corresponding to the highest level of the ihac crests, a little cocaine is injected locally to dull the parts. The special needle, carefully sterilised, is now carried inwards and made to penetrate the fourth lumbar interspace. As it is felt to pass in, the piston of the syringe is withdrawn and cerebro-spinal fluid wells up. If no fluid appear, or should blood be withdrawn, the needle must be removed and re-introduced afresh or at a higher level. The second and third interspace is favoured by many surgeons. A second