86 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. "Instantly turn patient downwards, with a large firm roll of clothing under stomach and chest. Place one of his arms under his forehead, so as to keep his mouth off the ground. Press with all your weight two or three times, for four or five seconds each time, upon patient's back, so that the water is pressed out of lungs and stomach, and drains freely out of mouth. Then, quickly turn patient, face upwards, with roll of clothing under back, just below shoulder-blades, and make the head hang back as low as possible. Place patient's hands above his head. Kneel with patient's hips between your knees, and fix your elbows firmly against your hips. Now—grasping lower part of patient's naked chest—squeeze his two sides together, pressing gradually forward with all your weight, for about three seconds, until your mouth is nearly over mouth of patient; then, with a push, suddenly jerk yourself back. Rest about three seconds; then, begin again, repeating these bellows- blowing movements with perfect regularity so that foul air may be pressed out, and pure air be drawn into lungs, about eight or ten times a minute, for at least one hour, or until patient breathes naturally." Schajer's method is based on careful experiment, and affords a maximum amount of exchange of air to the patient with a minimum expenditure of physical exertion on the part of the operator. It was devised for the restoration of the apparently drowned, but it may be also used for asphyxiated infants, and in other cases requiring artificial respiration. In most cases of danger from respiratory failure during anaesthesia, Sylvester's is a more convenient method, at least at the first alarm. The method "consists in laying the subject in the prone posture, preferably on the ground, with a thick folded garment underneath the chest and epigastrium. The operator puts himself in a position athwart or at the side of the subject, facing his head and kneeling upon one or both knees, and places his hands on each side over the lower part of the back (lowest ribs). He then slowly throws the weight of his body forward to bear upon his own arms, and thus presses upon the thorax of the subject and forces air out of the lungs. This being effected, he gradually relaxes the pressure by bringhig his own body up again to a more erect position, but without moving the hands ; as he does this air is drawn by the removal of pressure from the chest walls, and by their elastic reaction into the lungs. This process is repeated quite regularly and without manifest inter\-als between the movements, not less often than twelve times a minute ; it may be done somewhat more rapidly, but fifteen times a minute would, in any case, be sufficient." Besides artificial respiration, efforts should be made to rouse the system by various forms of stimulation, such as by vapour of aminonia to the nostrils (burning feathers before the nose, hartshorn. Sic); ether or alcohol vapour by the lungs, by subcutaneous or rectal injection ; flipping, pinching, and blistering the skin ; interrupted current to the skin, muscles, or over the heart; friction and hot bottles to the extremities.