2 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Scheme for taking Surgical Cases. .hSn f^^^'^'^M.X be filled in after the case is finished. It should form a brief epitome of the case to catch the eye, statintr the Thk H.°h'"^"^' oP-^^'i^". or special treatment, the result! This Heading is most suitably placed on the outer covering of the finished record, or it may precede the following details with which the account of the case begins:— ° Name-Age-Married or Single-Occupation-Postal Address- Previous Medical Attendant-Date of Admi'ssion-Surgeon in Charge -No of Ward-Hospital-Patient's own Statement^f Complaim f,as distinguished from any previous medical attendant's diagnosis). History of Present Disease or Injury.-To bring out (x) if disease, its time and mode of onset, its supposed cause, and iti progress ; also, the result of any treatment previously employed (2) Jf an injury, the time and exact mode of occurrence conse- quence up to date, and result of treatment employed History of Previous Health—Noting especially any serious illness or accident, any troublesome complaint, especially any mani- festa ion of syphihs, tuberculosis, or rheumatism, or any previous attack of the present disease. Dates should be given, preferably as so many weeks, months, or years before the date of admission, or at the period at which the illnesses or accidents occurred. Social History. —Patient's occupation and surroundings. Habits as to ventilation, exercise, food, alcohol, and tobacco. Family History.—To find out if there be any taint of syphilis, or any tendency to tubercle, gout, rheumatism, or tumour growth, or to weakness in any special organ or system. If patient has had children, state their number; the number living and their condition of health; if any dead, the age at death and cause of death. Condition on Examination.—Date of examination, which should be as soon as possible after admission. Begin by a brief, pointed description or word picture of the patient. Note any con- dition of shock, excitement, coma, intoxication, or other abnormal condition that may have been present on admission, even though it may have passed off; also any special character of the gait, need for support, or mode of lying. I. Affected Pari.—{a.) Subjective—Patient's sensations, as to heat, pain, throbbing, stiffness, or other cause of complaint. (b.) Objective—(i) On inspection, note any change in colour, size, form, contour, position. A cast should be taken, or a sketch in pencil, pen and ink, or water-colour, or a photograph should be here inserted,' where the case admits of such illustration. State abnormalities in size by measurement. (2) On palpation (handling), note the relative temperature; the nature of pulsation; the patient's sensations on handling the part; the consistence, relations, and connections of any swelling; deviations, either as e.vcess or diminution of normal move- ment or power of movement, or as presence of abnormal movement or power of movement, as well as any abnormal sensation, such as grating felt by the person examining; the condition of the neighbouring parts, especially such as muscles in joint disease, or lymphatic glands in tumours or inflammation.