69 SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. (3) Improvement of the cerebral circulation, and diminution of stagnation in the abdominal veins by raising the foot of the patient's bed 12 to iS inches. {4) Concentration of the blood in circulation to vital parts by bandaging the limbs firmly from the extremities towards the trunk. This procedure may be adopted in shock from any cause, but is specially useful where there has been loss of blood. It may be carried out while preparations for saline infusion are being made. The bandages should be removed after a few hours at longest. The abdomen may be supported by a binder or broad bandage at the same time. (5) In severe shock, even when there has been little or no loss of blood, injection of saline fluid with adrenalin, into the rectum, cellular tissue, or into a vein is of the greatest value (see pp. 66, 68). (6) As to stimulants, in very severe cases of shock, it is now con- sidered better to omit altogether alcohol, strychnine, and ether, as by their after effects they seem to do more harm than good. Syncope, or fainting, is treated by increasing the cerebral circu- lation, and stimulating the sensory nerves. In many cases, if the patient be sitting when faintness comes on, much benefit will be derived from bending the trunk and forcing the head well down between the knees. After fainting has occurred, the patient should be laid flat on the back, and all tight clothing on the chest or abdomen relaxed. The face may be slapped with wet towels, and the nostrils stimulated with ammonia-vapour. A stimulant of wine, spirits, ether, or sal-volatile should be given as soon as the patient is able to swallow. "Wound-Fever.—(a.) Pulse-Indications.—In regard to the pulse-records, it may be noted that, to surgeons the frequency is of the highest importance, and a continuously rapid pulse may give warning of evil long before the temperature signals danger. Besides frequency, rhythm is also to be noted. A pulse over 120, with variable regularity, always gives rise to anxiety. Previous to opera- tion, there should be a careful examination made of the state of the circulation. The force of the heart's action, as modifying the choice of an operation or aneesthetic; the condition of the pulse, as indi- cating the presence of atheroma ; aortic regurgitation and the tension associated with kidney-disease, are also well worthy of study. Slowing of the pulse is characteristic of cerebral compression. ib.) Temperature-Indications.—Rise of temperature is a con- dition seen in fever and inflammations. Since the temperature is not so likely to be influenced by emotional and slight causes as the pulse, it furnishes more reliable data ; but there are certain dangerous conditions, which are often not characterised by a rise of temperature. Thus we find that some rapid and violent septic poisonings, peri- tonitis, empyema, and also cerebral abscess may exist without it. Again, very high temperatures have been recorded as the result of injuries in special regions—as, for example, in fracture of the cervical spine (110° F.), haemorrhage into the Pons and Medulla, and in some cases of cranial tumour. These, however, are altogether