TREA TMENT OF PA TJENTS BEFORE OPERA TJON. S The condition of the other systems calls for no special remark. Diagnosis.—Tubercular ostitis leading to tubercular synovitis, which has extended over the cartilages at their margins and has involved the ligaments. Tendency to phthisis at the apex of the left lung. . . ■, J Treatment —On June I2th the knee-jomt was excised under chloroform by Mr. Sawyer. The whole of the synovial membrane was dissected away from above the patella by A. G. Miller's method, and what remained at the back was scraped and paired with scissors. The sawn surfaces of bone were healthy, except at one place on the outside of the tibia in which were tubercular granulations. These were gouged out, and the ends of the tibia and femur were then kept in apposition by means of steel pins driven upwards from below the joint and left projecting there. The usual antiseptic precautions were observed. After the dressing was applied the limb was fixed in a Watson's splint, and was slung after the patient was put to bed. Progress.—The case was dressed on the second day when the drainage tubes were removed, again at the end of a week when the stitches were taken out, and for the third time at the end of three weeks when the wound was found quite healed. At the end of six weeks the pins were removed. A day or two afterwards the limb was encased in plaster of Paris, and the patient sent for three weeks to the convalescent hospital. On her return she was sent to the country for two months, wearing a starch bandage. When this was removed the bones were found to be firmly anchylosed, and the patient went home on October i6th wearing a high-heeled boot. Her general health was much improved. CHAPTER II. ON THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS BEFORE AND AFTER OPERATION. Contents.—I. Treatment before Operation—Constitutional, Local, Special—Success of operation greatly dependent on state of patient's "general health." II. Treatment after Operation—Constitu- tional, Local, Special—(a.) After operations about the Rectum and Anus, on the Genito-Urinary Tract, after Ovariotomy, &c.: (b.) after operations about the Mouth and Jaws—Difficulties in administering food: how to meet them—Nutrient enemata— General hints on nourishment. It would be difficult to over-estimate the importance of this subject. For convenience, we may consider it under the heads of Constitu- tional, Local, and .Special Treatment, before operations, and after them. I. Before Operation.—(i) Constitutional Treatment.—It has long been recognised that the result of operations much depends on the