44 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. roll of cotton bandage, is placed over the main vessel of the limb and over this m turn the lower screw-plate ; when so applied, the pad serves the double purpose of increasing the pressure on the main arterv and preventmg the skm from being nipped up as the tourniquet is tightened, iiometimes the screw and pad are moved to that part of the limb where the screw can be n»ost conveniently reached, leaving the general com- pression of the band to close the artery ; while, at other times, the pad is placed over the artery, but the screw moved away from it, in which case either a second pad or a bandage round the limb must be used to prevent the nipping of the skin. Any of these methods will serve the purpose. Except below the knee, where the first seems best, we prefer the second method. {b.) Elastic Bandage.—For the limbs of children or of thin and emaciated persons, we prefer, what Esmarch recommends, viz., a few turns of a broad elastic bandage, as it controls the vessels with- out risk of injuring their walls, or of bruising nerves and muscles. [c.) Elastic Band.—Esmarch has advocated the use of a strong band of elastic tubing or cord, applied while stretched once or twice round the limb. A diameter of about X inch is used for the thigh, and one or two smaller sizes for the leg and arm and for the fingers respectively. The fastening for the large size is a hook at one end and several links of a chain at the other ; while for the smaller sizes, some clamp, such as Foulis' catch, is generally used. This consists of a double piece of metal tubing, of diameter somewhat less than the elastic, and having a slit in one of the pieces. When the india- rubber is stretched, it can be passed into the slit; and when relaxed, its increased size makes it hold firmly in the tube. Before applica- tion one end of the elastic is held in one part of the tube, while the other end is free. A turn of bandage, to protect the skin, should be applied before the band is put on. To apply the Elastic Band, begin at the end near the catch, and having encircled the limb with the stretched band, hold the ends together with the finger and thumb of the left hand, while the right is passed round the limb for the second pull (Fig. 8). Secure the last turn in the catch. The great advantage of the tourniquet (especially where there are few assistants) is the possibility of easy relaxation and tightening of which it Fig. 8.—Application of Elastic Tourniquet.