ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. 6i inflammation, or that found in a fibrous or fibroid tumour. Here also the mouths of the vessels remain open, and cannot easily be tied, but compression or plugging is effective if the region is accessible. If the bleeding vessel can be reached behind the bleeding point, it may be controlled by the pressure of the pad or compressed by an acupuncture needle, third method. Styptics, and especially the actual cautery, may sometimes be applied to the bleeding point. (c.) In bleeding from deep cavities, besides hot (or cold) and astringent injections, the principle of tamponing may be carried out. This consists essentially in introducing a rigid tube to permit of drainage or maintain patency, and packing round about it. The simplest way to do this is to tie a piece of lint or oil-silk round the deep end of the tube, to form a petticoat, and to distend this with plugs, as has long been practised for bleeding after lithotomy (Fig. 27). Another way is to adapt outside of the tube a distensible india-rubber bag, which can be inflated at will. On this principle depend Trendelenberg's tracheotomy tampon, Buckstone Brown's lithotomy tube, and similar devices suggested for the nostril and rectum. After these general remarks, a few directions may be necessary for special forms of hemorrhage. (i) Bleeding from the nose, or epistaxis, is sometimes extremely troublesome. The patient should stand erect—not stoop—bathe the face and neck with cold water, and sniff air gently through the affected nostril. Raising the arms above the head helps to lessen the circula- tion in the head and neck. Hot injections should next be tried, then swabbing out with adrenalin solution (i-iooo) or some of the milder styptic colloids, plugging the anterior nares afterwards, then plugging also the posterior nares. If this fail, the cavity of the nostril may be packed with a long strip of lint, either soaked in some styptic, or dry. We do not advise the injection of perchloride of iron, as it irritates the mucous membrane so much. Sometimes great benefit results from freely opening the bowels with a large enema or smart purge. To plug the posterior nares, pass a stout silk thread from the nostril round the soft palate and out at the mouth. To the centre of Fig. 27.—Lithotomy Tube, with Plugging.