88 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. hours, followed by headache, vomiting, and stupor, going on to coma, with a slow pulse and deep snoring respiration, and dilatation of the pupil, especially on the side of the injury. In doubtful cases the nature of the fluid drawn off by lumbar puncture may be of service in diagnosis. (14) Cut Throat.—The course to be pursued includes— (a.) Arrest of hemorrhage. \b.) Treatment of injured trachea or oesophagus. By the time cases of cut throat are brought under the surgeon's notice, often either the patient is dead, or bleeding has spontaneously ceased. The first duty of the surgeon will be, however, to look for and stop any bleeding that may exist. Cautiously he must remove blood-clots, and sponge the wound with an antiseptic lotion, secure bleeding points with forceps, and carefully ligature them. Next, he must examine the extent of the wound, and close with catgut stitches any apertures in the air or food-passages, should they have been made. In such cases, he may also approximate the rest of the wound, but without entirely closing it, lest any discharge be pent up and burrow either into the wounded trachea or gullet, or under the fascia of the neck. In cases where the cut has not wounded the trachea or gullet, the chances of septicity are much less, and an attempt should be made to render the wound a-septic, after which it may be closed with sutures. Watch should be kept, however, and on any sign of discharge- accumulation, the wound must be opened up again. The after-management of the wound must be conducted so as to prevent discharge from entering the trachea or oesophagus, or from burrowing under the cervical fascia. The neck should be kept at rest, with the head bent forwards. In cases where the thyro-hyoid membrane has been wounded, there may be great swelling and inflammation about the epiglottis and extending into the larynx. In bad cases, tracheotomy may be required, and, in anticipation of danger, it may sometimes be best to operate at once. Owing to the presence of dysphagia, it may be necessary to feed the patient with a catheter passed into the oesophagus, or nourish him by nutrient enemata till swelhng subside. , .,, , , • r i, In all cases, the constant presence of a skilled attendant is of the greatest importance. Anaemia from loss of blood (p. 65), shock (p. 68), or excitement, must be treated by appropriate remedies. N B —In all suicidal or assault cases, notes of the injury should be taken on the spot, and, if possible, a consultation with a colleague should be obtained.