TA'C/SSES AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. 263 spine as well as one in front. It is also called the " opposite-sided " truss, because its spring passes from the spine round the front of the body on the side opposite to the hernia, and thus crosses the middle line in front to reach the hernia. _ This gives it great security. It is chiefly used for femoral herma, though it may be applied for inguinal hernia also. ^ , , • u The/arf is Ssually circular in shape, fixed to the spring by a ball and socket joint. A perineal strap is generally worn. A double Salmon and Ody truss has a double pad behmd, with ttie spring passing round each side to end in a pad on its own side. It is thus, when double, not an opposite-sided truss. To Measure for a Truss.—It is better to allow the instrument maker to see and measure the patient for himself, but for those who are in the country this is not always possible. Some_ makers measure while the patient is standing, others while he is lying. In any case the hernia should be reduced. The tape should be drawn firmly if the patient is standing, more slackly if he is on his back. Young gives the following directions :—" Place the end of the measuring tape on the opening of the rupture, pass it in a sloping direction upwards to about two inches below the ihac crest, across the back to the corresponding point on the other side, thence xlopino- down again to the starting point. Measure for a double truss the same as for a single—from and to one rupture. Give this measure in inches.'^ In addition the maker must be told the kind of rupture—single or double—and on which side of the body, if single. If an inguinal hernia it may be well to specify whether a bubonocele or a scrotal hernia, as the latter generally requires a stronger spring and larger pad. The sex of the patient should be stated. If the occupation of the patient or other circumstance requires a strong or a light spring this, too, should be noted. One or two sizes of truss should be sent when the patient is in the country. How to Fit on the Truss.—To avoid opening the spring too much in putting it round the body, bring it up from the thighs or slip it on sideways. Reduce the hernia in the horizontal position, put the pad over the hernial opening, and adjust the spring to the pelvis. Now support the pad in its position while helping the patient to stand erect without much exertion. See if the spring is shaped so as to fit the patient, and if the pad is directed so as to control the hernia without much traction on the straps. If not, he should try another truss or get the spring modified by the maker to suit the requirements of the case. The straps may then be adjusted, first the cross-strap, then that for the perinseum, it being borne in mind that if the spring fits properly, the straps do little more than keep it in its place. The patient should then stoop and flex the thighs, to see that movement is not hampered ; and lastly, he must cough and perhaps lift a weight to make sure that the hernia is efficiently retained. Directions for using a Truss.—The truss must always be taken off or put on in the horizontal position, and it should be always worn