107 MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. kept in bed for three or four days after the operation. If a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine is shaken up in the hydrocele sac and allowed to escape, just before the iodine injection, the pain is very much diminished. After this, the swelling gradually diminishes till it disappears. Carbolic acid has been recommended as a substitute for iodine, ind its use is said to have the following advantages over that of iodine—less pain ; more certain cure ; less risk of sloughing ; shorter period of disability from work. About a drachm of the crystals is liquefied by as much glycerine (or water) as is just necessarj' for the purpose. The mode of procedure is the same as when iodine is employed. Many other fluids have been advocated, and their use has been attended by greater or less success. (6) Paracentesis Abdominis may be required for extreme ascitic distention ; the point selected should be in the linea alba 3 or 4 inches above the pubes. The bladder should be empty at the time of the operation. Usually, the patient is supported into the sitting position. To prevent distention of the abdominal veins by the too rapid relief of abdominal pressure, it is well to pass round the abdomen of the patient a broad flannel bandage, which is split in the middle for one end to pass through; the two ends are then dravra upon by an assistant at each side, and the loop round the patient is thus steadily tightened as the fluid escapes. The danger of syncope from too rapid relief of abdominal pressure, applies equally in large psoas or other intra-abdominal abscesses; where either the evacuation should be partial at first, or compen- sating abdominal support should be ensured. A medium-sized trochar and canula should be selected. The surgeon having satisfied himself by percussion that there is no bowel in the way, enters the instrument, and, on withdrawing the trochar, catches the fluid in a vessel held ready to receive it. A very convenient and gradual mode of withdrawing ascitic fluid is by means of a Southey's tube. One of these, with its tube attached, IS inserted into the linea alba, and left there for several hours, until a sufficient escape has taken place. (7) Paracentesis Thoracis may be required tor simple pleuritic effusions, when very large, and persistent, or for those of any size which have turned purulent. As the inspiratory movements of the chest are apt to draw air and with it organisms into the pleural cavity, an ordinary trochar should not be used. For diagnostic purposes a hypodermic needle may be pushed into the pleural cavity, and the syringe filled with the fluid ; but when fluid has to be drawn off in quantity, some form of aspirator must be used, i.e., either with an exhausted bottl'- or with a syphon tube attached. The part of the chest usually selected is about the level of the angle of the scapula in the mid-axillary line. To avoid the inter- costal vessels, the surgeon (where there is room for choice), selects the lower part of the intercostal space.