208 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. such good results and is so simple, two secondary objections may be raised against it:—(i) That it is awkward in appearance. (2) That it does not yield laterally so as to accommodate itself to a side slope. To obviate the first objection, when desired a spring might be arranged so as to flatten down the fore part of the foot when not actually pressed upon, and the second may be met by allowing a slight lateral play in the foot controlled by strong springs. These objects are not necessary, however, and besides increasing expense might introduce a source of weakness into the limb. Whatever else instrument-makers may do to obtain an appearance, they should ensure that the trajectory of the knee is in a straight line as the foot rolls forward. However, an artificial foot which pivots at the ankle, or on the balls of the artificial toes, must make the knee pass through the arc of a circle, and not continue in the desired straight line. A slight amount of lateral play in the foot may be per- mitted if desired. When a stump ends shortly above the level of any joint, the new joint may be in the form of a transverse rod working in a socket <hinge joint). When the stump comes below the level of the new joint, the axis must be made to work on two* " rule " joints, one on either side of the stump. This form of joint is said to be less lasting than the other, but is very often unavoidable. (c.) Artificial Knee. —According to circumstances, a rule or a hinge-joint may be employed ; but, to avoid friction, the bearing must always be taken on the upper of the two pieces forming the joint (see p. 267). When the artificial limb is straightened, the line ot downward strain should pass in front of the axis of the knee-joint, which should then be locked so that it cannot over- extend. This imitation ot nature permits the patient to bear full weight on the straight knee without any fear of its giving way. The knee will bend easily enough as the thigh flexes to lift the leg off" the ground, and the swing forward will again straighten the knee for the next step. In some cases a slight straightening spring is needed. By the artificial tendo Achillis mechanism with appropriate springs, the artificial knee- and ankle-joints are always extended and always flexed together. The latter combination is useful in clearing the ground as the leg is carried forwards for a fresh step, but the double extension makes the lower limb, when supporting, pivot forwards on the fore part of the foot, and this, as we have already seen, is a disadvantage to the gait. For cheap limbs, the knee is kept rigid while the patient walks ; but in most it is made to bend by the relaxation of a spring for convenience when the patient sits down. On these general principles it is not difficult to see how efficient and yet cheap limbs may be constructed, of which the Beaufort limbs may be taken as the type. The old-fashioned bucket and pin legs, and kneeling legs will, it is hoped, soon be replaced by as cheap but more efficient substitutes. (d.) Artificial Arms.—Many expensive patterns are in vogue, but * Like the joint of a foot-rule.