EMERGENCY CASES. 95 Poison. Treatment. Chloroform,. . See ancestheiics. Corrosive Subli- mate, . . I. White of egg, wheat flour or gluten, m water or milk, or milk alone. Followed by emetic. Lead (Acetate), . I. Epsom or Glauber's salts, or weak sul- phuric acid. 2. Milk and white of egg. Opium or Morphia, (See below). Pbosphorus, . i. Special emetic, repeated 3 gr. doses of sulphate of copper (or other emetics). 2. Sulphate of copper, afterwards continued in I grain doses every \ of an hour. 3. Magnesia in demulcent drinks. 4. Avoid oils or fats. Strycimine,. . i. Chloroform—the vapour—or administered internally, or ether. 2. Tannic acid. 3. Chloral, paraldehyd, or nitrite of amyl. 4. Curare (?). 5. Artificial respiration. Tlie more common Poisons.—Having thus discussed briefly the treatment of cases of poisoning generally, we shall now describe in greater detail the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of some of the more common forms met with. (i) Opium (generally taken as laudanum) or Morphia-poisoning, begins with cerebral excitement, and soon passes into giddiness, drowsiness, and stupor, succeeded by perfect insensibility. From this state the patient may at first be roused, but he speedily relapses. Afterwards it becomes impossible to rouse him. Pulse at first small, quick, and irregular; respiration hurried ; skin warm and moist; all other secretions suspended. When coma sets in, breathing is stertorous ; pulse slow and full; pupils at first contracted, towards a fatal termination, dilated. Face placid, pale, and ghastly; eyelids heavy; lips livid. An excessive dose may excite vomiting by its irritant action, otherwise vomiting is not easily produced. In the worst cases muscles are flabby and relaxed ; lower jaw drops; pulse is feeble ; sphincters are relaxed. Diagnoiis is to be made from alcoholism and from apoplexy with contracted pupils—i.e., in the pons varolii {Wilkes). Judge by the history and smell of the breath (though alcohol and opium may have been combined). In many cases, correct diagnosis rnay be impossible, until the stomach-pump reveals the contents ol the stomach.