DISLOCATIONS, SPHAINS, AND BRUISES. 165 possibility of fracture. It is well then to grasp and steady one half of the iaw firmly, and to make forcible movement of the other halt in various directions, as it sometimes happens that the fragments interlock, and there is no evident displacement. When fracture is diacxnosed or well marked, and the fragments readily retained a spHt handkerchief may be applied over a gutta-percha or paste- board chin-cap. After-treatment is similar to that in fracture of the upper iaw. In more difficult cases, interdental gutta-percha or ^-ulcanite splints, with aperture for feeding, can be apphed, with the occasional aid of the dentist. Immediate wiring of the fragments is carried out with much success. Use of Antiseptics.—l-D. all fractures of the facial bones where mucous cavities are involved, marked benefit attends the use ot antiseptic washes. Warm water, having Condy's fluid or bone acid added to it, may be used with a syphon, and frequent irrigation in this fashion gives the patient much comfort and prevents toetor. A continuous purulent discharge denotes a local necrosis of bone, which requires removal as soon as it is loose. CHAPTER XVII. DISLOCATIONS, SPRAINS, AND BRUISES. Contents.—Diagnosis and General Treatment—Special Treatment for Dislocation of the Clavicle—Shoulder—Lower Jaw—Elbow— Wrist-joint —Thumb—Hip-joint — Patella — Knee, Ankle, or Astragalus-Cautions necessary in old-standing Cases—Treatment of Sprains and Bruises. Dislocations—Diagnosis.—It is obvious that the methods adopted to discover the existence of fracture are equally serviceable in the case of dislocation. As fractures are characterised by preternatural mobility at a part of a bone which is normally rigid, so disloca- tions show preternatural fixation of a movable joint, along with an abnormal relation of. certain associated bony structures. Naturally, the exceptions to this generalisation are many; and—more especially when we deal with impacted fractures in the vicinity of joints—there is sometimes a degree of doubt, only to be cleared away by careful observation. General Treatment.—The behaviour of dislocations after reduction varies much. Where the adjacent bone-surfaces embrace each other closely, or are held in apposition by strong muscles or ligaments which remain intact, the tendency to redisplacement is not well marked ; whereas, if the opposing surfaces be small and ihallow, and the uniting ligaments be greatly destroyed, the slightest motion will bring about the dislocation afresh. This is well seen if