APPENDIX. 285 space may help the surgeon to decide in favour 01 trephining. In nieninsitis the fluid drawn oft" by lumbar puncture should be examined by sfiTnino- and culture for micro-organisms, and by staining for the nature of°the cells present. "In health ... the cerebro-spinal fluid contains scarcely any cellular elements, no polynuclear leucocytes, and verv scanty, sma'll mono-nuclear cells or lymphocytes. ... In acute m'icrobic aftections of the meninges, large polynuclear leucocytes are found, whereas in sub-acute or chronic affections, including tubercle, small mono-nuclear lymphocytes occur" [Pun>es Stewart). In meningitis from any cause, the relief from headache and torpor, and even from unconsciousness, which is afforded by drawing off fluid by lumbar puncture is often most striking. ' In tuberculous and many septic cases the relief is only temporary, but in others it is followed by progressive improvement. Method of performing Lumbar Puncture.—The patient, bending the spine forwards as much as possible, so as to open up the space between the laminEe of the lumbar vertebrae, may be either in the sitting or the hnng posture. The skin over the lower lumbar region is thoroughly cleansed first with soap and water, and then with 1-20 carbolic or other antiseptic solution of similar strength. For an adult a hollow needle from 3 to 6 inches in length, and rather thicker than a hypodermic needle, is selected, and boiled. A "serum " needle or large hypodermic needle will suffice for a child. Since the fluid flows out as soon as the cavity is reached, the needle need not be attached to its syringe. The interval selected is usually that between the fourth and fifth lumbar lamina which corresponds with a line drawn between the highest parts of the iliac crests. The spot selected is either exactly between the fourth and fifth spines, or about K an inch on either side of the spines. Iodine painted on the selected spot is a useful guide. Freezing with ethyl chloride or ether is an advantage. The needle, after piercing the skin, is pushed steadily inwards and slightly upwards. Lessened resistance indicates the arrival of the point within the canal, and after the dura mater has been pierced the fluid drops from the needle. How to give an Enema.—Enemata or clysters are used for many purposes:— (ij For Clearing out the Rectum.—For this purpose a large amount of fluid, a pint or more, is required, of warm water, either plain or made more stimulating by the addition of soap-suds, common salt (2 table- spoonfuls per pint), castor oil to i oz.), turpentine (i oz.), sulphate of magnesia (i oz.). Glycerine in small quantity also acts most rapidly and efficiently, and may be employed as an enema (1-2 drachms injected with a small syringe), or as a suppository either of strong glycerine jelly or saturated on a plug of cotton wool about the size of a filbert nut. Some patients, after a soap and water enema, are troubled with an erythematous rash of the skin, which may cause considerable irritation, and last some days. It may cause alarm, but is not serious. (2) For Cleansing the Mucous Membrane, when it is ulcerated or diseased.—For this purpose, although an enema of Condy's fluid or other weak antiseptic solution may be employed, a better way is to