APPENDIX. 286 irrigate the rectum. Two tubes or large-sized catheters should be passed into the rectum—one to carry in the fluid, the other to lead it away. A douche can or Iligginson's syringe may be used. (3) For Nourishing the Paiient.—When the stomach cannot retain food or drink, or where complete rest to the alimentary canal is required, the absorptive power of the rectum must be utilised. As the rectal mucous membrane cannot digest, all nutrient enemata should be pre- digested. Moreover, to ensure retention, the amount at each injection should not exceed 2 ounces. When this form of alimentation is continued for long, the rectum should be cleaned out every second or third day by a large enema of hot water (see also p. 11). When, with intense sickness, great thirst is complained of, frequent 6 ozs. enemata of warm water will give much relief. (4) For Stopping Diarrhoea.—An enema of 6 ozs. of starch, in which J4 drm. of tinctura opii is suspended, will sometimes be successful when the mucous membrane of the lower end of the bowel is involved. In Receiving an Enema, the patient should recline on the left side with a towel or mackintosh below him to catch any drippings. As Symington has pointed out, the lowest portion of the rectum is always firmly closed by the immediate contact of its walls. For from half to three-quarters of an inch, therefore, the injection nozzle, preceded by a well-oiled finger, must be firmly and steadily pushed upwards and slightly forwards, until it gets through this elongated barrier. It is then to be directed' somewhat backwaids. After it has got through the outer barrier, the nozzle can be retained with ease ; but short of this, it will be ejected at once. The same applies to the introduction of sup- positories. Some patients prefer to introduce the enema nozzle them- selves. The form of instrument most frequently used is a Higginson's syringe. With this, by working a ball, a continuous stream can be produced in one direction. A syphon, or funnel with tube attached, would, however, serve the purpose equally well, and be much simpler (p. 254). As soon as the nozzle is in position, the fluid must be slowly and steadily pumped in, or allowed to flow in. How to make Poultices.—Poultices are now much less used than they were. When required, the material chiefly used in hospitals for making them is linseed meal; but oatmeal, starch, bread, bran, &-c., may also be employed. Care must be taken in making poultices that they should turn out neither too dry nor too moist. (i) To make a Poultice of Lijiseed.—Have a kettle of water boiUng, linseed meal, two kitchen bowls (i large, i small), a spatula, old linen, 1 or 2 heated plates. First put some boiling water into the laigcr basin, into this basin place the smaller one, which must have previously been heated by allovi-ing boiling water to stand in it for a minute or two. Put the linseed meal required into the smaller basin, pour in boihng water gradually, and beat with the spatula into a thick paste. Now take one of the heated plates, lay out on it the linen in which the poultice is to be placed, and spread over it quickly with the spatula the mixture from the basin. Dip the spatula into the larger basin of boiling water, otherwise the mixture will stick to it, and not spread freely on the linen. The poultice should be about Yi, inch thick all over,