EMERGENCY CASES. 77 Should the prostate bleed, as it often does freely, the eye of the catheter may be blocked ere it reach the bladder. If this be the case a catheter should be used with a stilette which plugs the '' eye "; or a plug mav be extemporised by winding a few turns of silk round the end ot the stilette To avoid any risk of leaving the plug behmd, one end of the silk should be left attached, and allowed to pass up the catheter beside the stilette. Caution .'—In no cases should greater care be taken to prevent septic mischief from entering the bladder than in those of prostatic enlargement, especially when relieved for the first time after an attack of rerention. The whole of the urinary tract, from the kidneys to the prostate, is ready to inflame, even from the retention and the means necessary to relieve it ; and should septic fermentation once begin, the combination of increased inflammation and septic poison- ing will rapidly carry off the patient. * yc.) Retention from Spasm of the Constrictor, when occurring apart from any stricture, generally results from some irritation to the perineal nerves. After an operation about the anus, or for piles or tistula, it is frequent, and is sometimes caused in children by worms. Similar spasms may also occur in the course of feverish attacks, sometimes traceable to the highly acid, and hence irritating, quality of the urine. Treatment,—Soothing treatment such as an opiate, or perinaeal fomentations, are often sufficient; failing these, the passage of a soft instrument, with gentle, steady pressure when the obstruction is reached, will be required. [d.) Retention from Acute Inflammation of the Prostate.—In these cases, the pain and feverishness of the prostatitis is an earlier and more prominent symptom than the retention. Soft catheters should be used, and if even these cause great irritation, it would be well to relieve by aspiration for several days. The instillation of a few drops of i-iooo solution of adrenalin has been found useful in these cases. Retention from other conditions of the penis, such as urethral abscess, is to be treated on similar lines—by soothing, gentle use of soft instruments, and, if need be, aspiration. U.) Urethral Calculus, if it cannot be made to pass outwards, or seized with forceps and withdrawn, must be cut down upon. The visiting surgeon should, therefore, be sent for; but immediate relief can be given by aspiration. (2) Possible Rupttire of the Urethra.—If a case of fracture or crush of the pelvis, or severe injury to the perinseum, be admitted, the house-surgeon's duty is at once to pass a catheter and draw off the urine. .Should the instrument pass easily and there be no blood, the urethra may be considered safe. Should, however, blood be oozing from the meatus, and the passage of a catheter be impossible, the urethra may be considered to be torn across. Should there be some blood and a rugged feeling as the catheter is being passed, the * See also Appendix, p. 288.