JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 229 or months before the jury-mast is put on. It is applied thus :— The patient reclines on a narrow table and a mattress, with no pillow, pulley-extension with webbing being kept up until the plaster sets. The prepared multiple strip, rolled up at each end, alter being dipped a few minutes in water is unrolled, stretched, and smoothed; its centre is then applied to the forehead, well away from the eyes; the two ends are next carried to the back of '.be neck ; when they cross, one end being carried under the neck nrst, then the other. They are drawn firmly enough to closely embrace the head and back of the neck ; the ends are then brought lorward and cross each other again in front of, or near, the sternal notch, where they are lastly fastened by a plaster jacket laid ready to be put on in the manner I have just described (p. 220). Before the laminated strip is applied, the hair is cut short, and a double strip of flannel, with cotton wool about the ears, is applied by the same method as the plaster strip. Before the strip sets, its upper margin should be partially everted from the angle of the jaw to the sternum, giving thereby much ease to the neck, especially when the jaw is ■a^o^e.A.."—British MedicalJournal, July 15, 1882. With regard to the disputed relative merits of plaster of Paris or poroplastic felt, the latter if well fitted, is neat, light and strong, and is also porous ; but it must be fitted on by a skilled workman, and often requires a model, or cast of the part. The former is much cheaper, nearly as light, equally strong and porous, and perhaps more lasting. Every surgeon or house-surgeon can apply a plaster of Paris jacket for himself. Splint for Steadying the Neck in cases of enlarged cervical glands wounds of the neck, &c. In the Lajicet for 1886 (vol. i.), Treves drew attention to the importtince of giving rest to the neck as a factor in the treatment of such cases. He figured and described a splint, which he had had made by an instrument maker, to limit the movements of the head and neck. The principle is an excellent one, and may be carried out in several ways without the aid of an instrument maker. I. By means of a splint of strong galvan- ised wire. This splint which the surgeon can make for himself is a modification of that recommended by Treves. The wire for adults should be "size 8," for children "size 10" (wire-gauge) in thickness. It should at first be shaped out of one piece, as shown m the diagram (Fig. 179). The length of wire required is measured as follows:— With a piece of string, tape, or bandage, begin at the centre of the forehead and pass round one side to the occiput, thence follow- '•'g- •79- ing the contour of the body to the 7th cervi- cal spine, behind the shoulder to the outer Id of the clavicle, vertically downwards to the waist, and across to e opposite side. This gives the length for one side—double it,