MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. can be turned up and fitted in without trouble. For the index or little finger, either method of operation is the same ; only, as the web is wanting on one side of each finger, the surgeon must, in shaping his flap, cut in to the point to which the web would have reached had it been present—and not short of this, as he is very apt to do. In the case of the little finger the incision may be carried well on the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone, so that the scar may be out of sight in the usual semi-prone position of the hand. The rules for amputating the thumb are the same as those for am- putating any of the fingers. From the usefulness of even small pieces of the thumb, as much of it as possible should always be left. B. Amputation of the Toes.—In the case of the toes, amputa- tion—except in the case of the great toe—is always performed at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. The oval method is also employed here ; but it must be noted that the web is further from its corre- sponding joint in the foot than it is in the hand, and, therefore, the straight part of the incision seems to be longer before the turn is taken towards the web. Any part of the Great Toe may be left with advantage, but if the metatarsal bone be removed, the phalanx is useless, and may as well go too. In amputating at the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe, it is well to carry the inner incision as far as the end of the first phalanx, to en.sure a sufficient covering for the massive head of the metatarsal. (3) In-growing toe-nail is the term given to a condition in which, from the wearing of tight boots, a minute foul irritable ulcer forms beneath the outer margin of the nail of the great toe. There is usually considerable local inflammation, resulting in exuberant granulations which overlap the nail, and the unfortunate sufl^erer is disabled from walking. In treating this painful affection, it is rarely (if ever) necessary to split the nail and remove the offending portion. In place of such a severe procedure, it is only requisite to thoroughly wash the toe with carbolic lotion 1-20, and pack under the nail over the ulcer with a pointed piece of wood two to three long fibres of lint soaked in an antiseptic. Over all secure with thread a layer of moist lint, covered with guttapercha. Renew this dressing daily, paying particular attention to the packing. .After a couple of days, the guttapercha may generally be omitted, and finally, only the packing retained. The patient had better lie up at first in bad cases, and must discard his tight boots. (4) Injection of Spina Bifida with Morton's iodo-glycerine solution.* Requisites.—yLt<Y\\xm-<i\i^A trochar and canula ; small syringe (glass with vulcanite fittings) to fit canula ; iodo-glycerine solution {2 oz.) ; flexile collodion and brush ; probe, lint and cotton wool; a • Iodine, 10 gr5., potass, iodide, 30 grs., glycerine, i ounce.