3° A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. smiluC^-""'^ ''f '^""''^ "'^^ ^« exploring probe. If small shot in great numbers, or a bullet, have loSged, they should withT.?"^ r ' '"'^T '^''^ should he waJhed out WiUi antiseptics. Isolated pellets may be safely left alone 1 he surrounding parts should be thoroughly cleansed and purified, an antiseptic dressing applied, and the whole fixed in a splint /...rK''''''"^^'''°wu' "^J'"' ^^"'"'"^'^ '^e^lt with elsewhere (see Chap. ix.). When these wounds occur in the Mcra^, little can be done except to stop superficial bleeding, remove superficial foreign bodies, apply antiseptic dressing, and keep the patient perfectly quiet, resting chiefly on the injured side. In ihe skull— besides the general principles already laid down, the indications for treatment are mainly those of depressed fractures of the skull (see Chap. IX.). ' _ Some general rules, framed for the examination of gun-shot wound' m military practice, may be mentioned here. {a) Ascertain, if possible, the exact position of the patient at the moment of injury and the direction from which the injury came. Ihis will greatly help diagnosis of the probable injury and the track of the shot. ' (b) Examine the clothes, to see if any parts are wanting, and nence, possibly carried into the wound. {c) Search for bullets by passing the hand lightly over possible seats. Should symptoms of septic inflammation appear in the track of the bullet, free incisions must be made to permit of irrigation and drainage. (2) Lacerated "Wounds owe their dangers to the damage done to the tissues, and to the frequency with which septic matter is rubbed into them. Even with the greatest care and trouble, it is generally impossible to purify them in the ordinary way. Consequently, the immediate dangers and subsequent troubles of sepsis are specially When a lacerated wound is first seen, the surrounding skin should be cleansed and purified, and the wound itself freed from all apparent dirt. Portions of lacerated muscle ingrained with dirt should be snipped off and the skin, if necessary, scraped with a Volkman's spoon. Afterwards, the wound should be scrubbed with 1-20 carbolic, 1-2000 biniodide of mercury, or i-iooo corrosive sublimate lotion. It may then, after bleeding points have been secured, and torn nerves and tendons brought together with catgut stitches, be protected by an antiseptic dressing. In the hand and arm, however, all doubtful cases should be immersed in a bath of warm antiseptic lotioii. Corrosive sublimate lotion 1-4000 answers well, and cases kept in it for several days show no sign of poisoning. When a viru- lent type of sepsis exists, a 10 per cent, solution of ichthyol in water should be used. The fluid is expensive, but it can be re-heated. Carbolic acid about 1-80 or 100, salicylic acid I-300, or boracic acid, saturated, may also be used, but carbolic is too easily absorbed,* * The warning of extensive .ibsorption of carbolic acid will be given by a greenish discoloration of the urine (see p. 21).