294 APPENDIX. —night or day—with ihe sterilised articles ttiat he may require for any particular case. The maker of both is Mr. A. Gilchrist, 22 Nicolson St., Edinburgh. Nurse Ibbotson has a simple plan for bandages or towels used in dressing cases in private houses. She wraps the articles to be sterilised in two cloths or towels, and steams them in a potato steamer for an hour, over the kitchen fire. She then places the whole parcel to dry in the oven with the door not quite closed. When the articles are dry. she removes the outer of the two towels, and keeps the articles wrapped in the inner one till they are needed. Other forms of portable sterilisers for instruments are in the market, such as Fig. 200. The lamp, supports, and instruments required may all be packed within the steriliser together with reels of silk. The pan should be filled with hot water to which carbonate of soda has been added (a tablespoonful to the quart), in this the instruments are boiled for ten or fifteen minutes immediately before use, and are then transferred in the lift-out tray to cold carbolic lotion. If they ai-e carefully cleaned and dried after the operation there is little trouble from rust, and if they be nickel-plated there is none at all. Substitute for Glass Instrument Cases.— With the object of preserving surgical instru- ments from dust, it is now the fashion to keep them in cases made entirely of glass and iron, and furnished with doors which fit air-tight. A simpler and much cheaper plan consists in keeping groups of instruments in separate glass jars. Confectionery jars are the best for the purpose, because they have no neck or constric- tion at the top, and being largely used for their own purpose, are sold very cheaply. The lid fits loosely, and by pasting a layer of cotton wool along the part where it comes against the rim, we can ensure that the junction is practi- cally dust-proof (Fig. 200a). A ground glass stopper, while not more efficient as a pre- ventive against dust, is much more expensive, and not so readily taken out and put in. A number of jars, of various sizes, having been cleaned and provided with the cotton wool fitting, can be sterilised and dried in the steriliser just described, if so desired, although rinsing with 1-20 carbolic and drying before the fire seems sufficient. In these jars the instruments are placed in sets, those required for similar purposes being kept by themselves as far as the size will allow. Big. 200^1.