A SURGICAL handbook: 6 patient s general health, and this may be paraphrased into the efficiency of all the organs under the conditions which follow the operation To secure this, some preliminary treatment may often be called for, either (i) to regulate some system or organ, and improve the blood; or (2) to accustom the patient to the fixture and surroundings which must follow the operation. In many patients a special diet, rest in bed, or particular drugs, may be required to improve digestion, stimulate elimination, relieve congested liver or kidneys, regulate the action of the heart, or improve nutrition. For instance, persons who regularly overload their system with an excess of alcohol, keep up the appearance of health for a long time if they are able to take active exercise. Should they be suddenly laid up, however, from a fractured limb or other cause, their health at once gives way. Symptoms of delirium tremens appear, and wounds are exceedingly apt to develop erysipelas or other septic conditions. In such cases preli- minary treatment by sparing diet, and diminished allowance of alcohol, laxatives, and rest in bed, would go far to lessen these unfortunate tendencies. In other cases, tonics, iron, and cod-liver oil may be required, and so on. Where case records are not systematically taken, at least the heart and lungs should be examined, and the digestive system enquired into, the morning and evening temperature ascertained, and the urine tested. It is better to examine the heart while the patient is resting quietly in the ward, rather than to add to his alarm by sounding the heart just before the anaesthetic is given. The bowels should be well opened by a laxative given on the morning of the day before the operation, and followed by an enema on the evening before operation. This enables the patient to rest quietly on the night preceding the operation, and no food should be allowed for at least four hours before anseslhetics are administered. In women, no operation should be undertaken during, or immedi- ately before, the menstrual period. (2) Local Treatment.—The area of skin which may be covered by dressings should be thoroughly cleansed with soap (preferably green soap) and water. All hairy parts should be shaved. Afterwards (if possible, the night before any operation) a towel soaked in a solution of washing soda in water, I in 4 by bulk, or I in 8 or 10 for a deli- cate skin, should be applied, and covered with a mackintosh. An hour before the operation the part should be again washed, first with green soap and water, then with methylated spirit, and covered with a cloth soaked in 1-2000 corrosive sublimate and mackintosh. (3) Special Treatment.—For operations about the face in men, the directions regarding shaving are especially necessarj', as it is a troublesome delay for the surgeon to have this to do before he can begin the operation itself. In operations on the bladder, rectum, and perinaeiun, besides the previous opening medicine, the lower bowel should be cleared out by an enema, a few hours before the operation. Although this is the nurse's duty, the House-Surgeon must see that it is done. A morphia suppository is often an advantage, an hour or two before the ancesthetic.