A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. i6o Before the splint is applied, the distance of the foot-piece to the knee-bend must be accommodated to the length of the patient's leg, and the necessary angle of the thigh- and knee-parts determined upon. Folded linen sheets, cotton wool, or other padding, must be laid on the trough, and the hollow between the lower end of the leg- trough, and the foot-piece filled up by transverse pieces of bandage. When the leg has been laid upon the splint, the surgeon begins by fixing the foot with turns of bandage, ensuring comfort by plentiful padding on the dorsum, below the heel, and under the sole of the foot. Then, with a roUer-bandage, he fixes the limb to the leg- and thigh-troughs. Some make the patient wear a sock, to the toe of which a tape is fastened ; this being brought over the concave end of the foot-piece is fixed to the button before noticed. General Remarks.—Fractures of the leg are usually united in from four to six weeks. Prior to this period they may be, however, put up in starch or plaster of Paris, and the patient may leave hospital on crutches. Or, again, the ambulant method (p. 278) may be used from the beginning of treatment. Some cedema itching, muscular and joint stiffness are frequently met with after fracture of the bones of the leg, and may be ver)' persistent. There can be no doubt that the careful reduction of the injury and the early use of massage (p. 187) tend to render such complications less, and, more- over, restore the limb sooner to a normal state. In the same maimer the ambulant treatment tends to a more early use of the limb. Before the days of extension, fractures of the femur were frequently treated in the flexed position. Such forms of apparatus as Earle's bed were made use of when there was marked displacement, as occurs after fracture below the lesser trochanter or above the condyles. Bj' means of chloroform and extension, we now get over the muscular spasm, nor is it necessary to divide the tendo Achillis, as has been sometimes recommended to meet the last-mentioned instance. When patients have to travel a distance, and a temporary dressing is made use of, lashing the flexed limbs together to a pillow is often advantageous. CHAPTER XVI. ON FRACTURES—C(7«^z«»W. Contents—D. Fractures of the Spine, Ribs, and Pelvis.—(i) Spinal In- juries—Their Gravity—Immediate Treatment—Attendant Dangers— (2) Broken Ribs—(3) Fractures of the Pelvis—Possible Complications. E. Fractures of the Head and Facial Bones.—(i) Scalp Wounds — (a.) Compound Depressed and Punctured Fractures—"Concussion" and "Compression''—(*.) Fractures of the Baseof theSkull—(2) Frac- tures of the Facial Bones—(<r.) of the Nasal Bones—of the Upper Jaw—(c.) of the Lower Jaw—Use of Antiseptics. D. Fractures of the Spine, Ribs, and Pelvis, (i) Spinal injiiries are extremely grave, as the associated con- cussion, haemorrhage, or sprain, may lead to most serious inflam- matory changes in the cord.