7JiUSS£S AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS (lraina>'e for much more than a lew weeks at a time. For stricture iwelve^'hours, or alter perinseal section loriy-cight hours, is generally long enough. To minimise irritation, a soft instrument (soft rubber or gum- elastic) should be chosen, if it can be passed into the bladder. The instrument, when there is difliculty in passing it, may be inade temporarily rigid by the insertion of a bougie which fits its calibre. After the bladder has been reached, the bougie may be withdrawn. The eye of the catheter should be just within the bladder—i.e., just at the point where urine begins to flow when the instrument is pushed in. Unless means were taken to secure it, the catheter woLild very soon be forced out of the bladder. Moreover, a soft instrument, unless fastened to the penis itself, should be kept rigid with a stilette as far as the bulb of the urethra, otherwise, though fixed beyond the meatus, it is apt to double on itself and come out. Tlie stilette of a gum-elastic catheter, if cut to the requisite length, and wrapped with silk at its upper end, may be made to act as a plug and as a stifiener at the same time. A soft rubber catheter mav be transfixed with a safety-pin, to the ends of which fixing threads may be attached, while to a gum-elastic catheter loops of wire or silk may be made fast for a similar purpose. These fixing threads must in turn be themselves made fast, and many ways of so doing have been advocated. Sir Henry Thompson advises that they should be looped round the penis, and finally tied to a bundle of pubic hairs on each side. This is easily done. Perhaps the simplest and most convenient method is to fix either the threads or the catheter itself to the penis with sticking plaster. CHAPTER XXVI. TRUSSES AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. Contents.—A. Trusses—Various Forms—For Adults—For Children. B. Artificial Limbs—"Bearing" Points after Amputation—Sites for .Amputation most suitable for the adaptation of Artificial Substitutes—Artificial Limbs, their Nature and Mechanism— General Hints. A. Trusses. {a.) For Adults.—A very great number of patterns of truss and of truss-pads have been introduced. A. Trusses.— In dealing with inguinal and femoral hernia, the .sup[X)rt should be given by means of a pad fixed upon a steel spring passing obliquely round the pelvis a little below the iliac crests. No reliance should be placed on pads fastened merely to soft straps. Two forms of steel truss are in common use—(i) The spiral, which may be used for inguinal and femoral hernia;; and (2) the Salmon and Ody, which is chiefly used for femoral hernia. Either may be used for single or double hernia.