A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. lOO and diphtheritic infection is not rarely brought about by direct contact in this manner. The tube should be securely tied in, taking care that the tapes do not obstruct the veins of the neck. A little iodoform should be smeared over the raw surfaces, and in the case of diphtheria suitable anti- septic applications used. The inner tube should now be inserted, and the patient put back to bed. Begin antitoxine treat- ment at once in diph- theria, if it has not already been given (see Appen- dix). After-treatment.— If all has gone well, the condition is now in marked contrast to the previous distress. The breathing becomes so gentle and easy that it is barely perceptible, and quiet sleep comes on. The future of the case depends largely on careful nursing. There should be two nurses to relieve each other. The patient cannot, without danger, be left for a moment alone. Expec- toration must be favoured, and this is to some extent promoted by keeping the atmosphere of the room moist. For this purpose a species of tent may be rigged up around the patient by means of blankets over clothes-screens, and the steam from a couple of bronchitis-kettles carried into it. This should not be overdone; a steam bath is not desired. Uniform temperature of 70 F. should be preserved, all draughts avoided, and good ventilation secured. Over the mouth of the tracheotomy tube a double fold ot hne gauze, wrung out of warm water, should be laid in order to hlier the air, and clots or mucus when ejected should be at once dexterously brushed away by the nurse. At first the inrier tube should be removed and cleansed every twenty minutes, if it is not coughed out during the interval. It should be well cleaned in warm carbolic lotion, anointed with a little glycerine and water, the super- fluous moisture dried off, and re-inserted It is ^="^17%'°,?'?" the lumen with ordinary poultry wing feathers. They should be carefully washed in carbolic lotion or boiled, and have the loose barbs removed, a precaution which is the more necessary when they Fig. 37.—Ordinary Tracheotomy Tube. Tapes tied in.