299 APPENDIX. balls of catgut—different sizes—in a small wide-mouthed bottle, or use several small bottles each containing balls of catgut of the same size. Before the operation begins remove the cork or stopper, placing it on an aseptic surface, and draw out a few inches of each thread of catgut; now pack round them into the mouth of the bottle a plug of cotton-wool, firmly wrung out of some antiseptic lotion. The threads will thus pass through the plug. When catgut is required, the surgeon steadies the plug with his left hand, while he draws at what he wants of any of the threads with his right and cuts it off (Fig. 201). After the operation the plug is thrown away and the stopper replaced. As soon as a ball is finished, another can be put in the bottle from a stock which, of course, will be kept ready. T us, the requirements laid down are fulfilled with no apparatus exxept a bottle, and the operator can help himself to catgut during an operation without contaminating his hands. How to Roll Catgut in Balls.—Take a surgically clean glass rod and tube varying from tV'o 1^ inch in diameter for different thicknesses of catgut. If the catgut is dry, damp it in antiseptic lotion to take off some of its springiness. Keep it lying loose on a plate or in a bowl. Holding the rod in the left hand, fix the end of the thread with the fingers of this hand against the glass (this will be the end which draws Fig. 202. Fig. 203. out). Grasping the thread with the right hand, wind it once or twice round the rod near its free end. Now begins the special method. The thread is wound obliquely round and round the glass rod, each com- plete turn touches the rod twice, and every turn overlaps the previous one (Fig. 202). When a good-sized ball has been formed it is fi.\ed thus;—As the thread passes from below it is steadied with the left thumb halfway up the ball (Fig. 203); it is then fixed there by being looped on itself and drawn tight, and lastly is secured by laying down the end and being whipped in position by two or three turns. The loop is then drawn through and the end cut short. Meanwhile, the first end has remained under the operator's left hand. The ball is now finished, and it has only to be carefully pulled off the rod to be ready. Twisted ligature silk can be easily rolled in the same way, especially v/hen wet. Although the very finest silk can also be put up this way, the balls are soft and collapsible and spools are better. Like most things this process seems more difficult from the description than it is in reality. Let any one try it with a piece of firm twine on a }4-inch diameter rod, and with a little practice it will become quite easy. The winding must not be too tight, else the ball when finished will not slip off the rod.