262 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (1) The Spiral Spring Truss. — The Spring is fashioned from tempered steel. In length it should extend from the pad-plate, which lies on the hernial opening, round the back of the pelvis to nearly the corresponding point on the opposite side. At the hernial end it is rivetted to the pad-plate, and the other end is tapered oflF for a single hernia. In a double hernia there is a plate-pad at each end of the spring. The spring has two curves—one is on the flat, by which it takes a slightly crescentic or scimitar shape ; the other curve adapts the spring to the shape of the pelvis, and near the pad- plate the curve is increased. This, together with the scimitar bend, gives the "spiral" appearance to the spring. The pelvic curve should be not much greater than that of the pelvis, so that the pressure is not strong on the hernial opening so long as there is no protrusion, but the spring should be so firm that if any protrusion occurs it meets with effective resistance. The strength of the spring should vary with the muscular development of the patient and with the size of the hernial opening. As a general rule, the strength of the spring increases with its length— i.e., with the size of pelvis for which it is designed. The spring for a femoral hernia is weaker than for an inguinal hernia. The Pad is fixed to a pad-plate of soft iron, which is secured by two rivets to the end of the spring. The substance of the pad should be unyielding, and may, therefore, be of wood, ivory, vulcanite, or metal. Many makers use cork, and some employ a firmly stuffed bag of horse-hair. With regard to size and shape, the firm part must never press against the pubes under any circumstances, although the soft prolongations of the pad which are sometimes necessary for large scrotal hernise, must necessarily lie against the bone. For a bubonocele the shape of the pad is somewhat pyriform, slightly convex in front, and not so large as to interfere with flexion. For a scrotal hernia (which dilates the external opening), a rat-tail termin- ation of the pad is recommended to help in closing the external opening, but in very bad cases this is not enough—the hernia escapes on the inner side of the pad. For such cases Macready recommends the use of Kingdon's "forked tongued" truss. In this "the pad is carried inwards for a considerable distance and forms a tongue, which is fixed by a thong to the cross-strap near the anterior superior iliac spine of the sound side." The other fork is the downward continuation forming the rat-tail already mentioned. For a femoral hernia the pad is bent more abruptly downwards from the end of the spring than for an inguinal hernia. Macready advises that for large femoral hernise, Aslley Cooper's " thigh belt" should be added. "The thigh belt should contain a triangular extension of the pad downwards, which, when firmly stuffed, dips into the groove which the hernia has made for itself in the thigh, and prevents the escape of the viscera below." Should the hernia escape above the pad, or should there be also an inguinal hernia on the same side, an "inguinal fulness" must be added to the upper part of the pad. (2) The Salmon and Ody Truss (single), has a pad behind at the