266 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (2) Sites for Amputation.—(a.) In the upper limb thtit is no question that above the fingers (seep. 102) the greater the length of the natural parts left—other things being equal—the better for the patient in every way. Artificial parts, more or less efladent, can always be adapted to the stumps. The surgeon's way is, therefore, clear—he must leave as much as he can. (b.) As regards the lower limb there is much greater difference of opinion. Some instrument-makers go so far as to say that a jump is to be made from the ball of the toes to the level of a " Syme" or *' Pirogoflf," and that if 4 inches below the knee cannot be left to allow of a strong control of the artificial limb by the stump, the surgeon should amputate 4 inches above the knee to give room for the mechanism of an artificial knee-joint. From these views we entirely dissent.* After a careful examination of the whole subject, our conclusion is that the surgeon should take "the least sacrifice of parts" as his guide, and amputate as low as the circumstances of the case permit. He should spare as much bone as he can, and he may be satisfied that artificial limbs can be made for the stumps. The longer the limb left, the better the walking power. (3) Artificial Limbs.—We cannot, of course, attempt more here than a discussion of general principles :— (a.) For Partial Amputations of the Foot (Hey's or Chopart's), if during healing of the wound care be taken to bandage the stump well and keep the knee flexed, section of the tendo Achillis is seldom necessary. When the stump has healed, the patient bears his weight on what remains of the sole of the foot. At first there may be aching and weakness as the arch of the foot sinks down. After this has occurred there will be no further trouble, and the only artificial limb required is a stiff soled boot, lacing well above the ankle, and having cork or other stuffing to fill the place of the parts of the foot which have been lost. For a Syme's or Pirogoff's amputation, a cheap and useful, though not ornamental, artificial limb consists of a bucket ending in a rounded leather end, sufficiently long to equalise the two limbs, and taking its bearing either on the face of the stump or at some of the points, before mentioned, above it. When an artificial foot is desired, the axis of movement of the artificial ankle should not be below the level of the stump, as it is usually made, but is more naturally placed slightly above it. Moreover, and what is of greater importance, the face of the stump should rest not on the foot-portion—but on the leg-portion of the artificial limb, which should then be jointed to the foot-part. If this be done, the face of the stump has weight to bear, but has no friction. By the usual method—where the stump rests on the foot-piece—friction on the face of the stump is inevitable, and probably explains why so many otherwise good stumps are comparatively useless for the " bearing " of an artificial limb. (b.) Artificial Ankle- and Foot-Joints.—Of these there are no end. The first point to understand is—What can an artificial ankle- * SteEd. Medical Jourtial March, 1888, and 1889.