125 ON BANDAGING. circle round towards the right, and begin once more at the left side (Fig. 64). Fig. 65.—Forming Loop for Lithotomy Position. A substitute for the clove- hitch. Fig. 66.—Lithotomy Posi- tion — Fixing Hand to Foot. Fig. 67.—Lithotomy Posi- tion—Hand and Foot Fixed. The assistant secures The "Lithotomy" Position.—F©r operations on the perinseum, the well-known "lithotomy" position is the most suitable. The patient, laid on his back and deeply under the influence of an ansesthetic, is pulled down on the table till bis breech just pro- jects beyond it. A clove-hitch (see below) is secured to each wrist, the thighs are flexed on the abdomen, and the legs on the thighs; and now, by seizing the free ends of the clove-hitch, the wrist is brought down to he opposite the external malleolus, and secured to the foot by firm figure-of- eight loops, as in Figs. 66, 67. During the operation, care must be taken to main- tain the pelvis firm and square, with the thighs in the same position on each side, the legs by holding the sole with both hands, the knee resting in the middle. The " Clcme-Hitch" is made as follows:—Grasp the bandage, &c., with the left hand supine and the right prone, as indicated in the figure, now pronate and supinate the two hands respectively (Figs. 68, 69), and slide both loops on to the left hand (Fig. 70). Another plan is to make two successive loops in the same direction, and place one behind the other. (5) 7'he T-Ba7idage is employed for the perinseum. The hori- zontal limb passes around the pelvis ; the vertical limb—single, double, or split—serves to retain rectal dressings, with the advantage that the split tails may come up on each side of the scrotum. (6) The Four-tailed Bandage is used in fracture of the lower jaw. (7) The Many-tailed Bandage (or bandage of Scultetus), consists of a central strip or backbone of bandage, to which some eighteen shorter imbricated strips (Fig. 71) are stitched at right angles. The limb is laid on the bandage so that its axis corresponds with the