A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 98 where a more difficult procedure is required, since here the trachea lies deeper. Indications for Tracheotomy are presented by the increasing dyspnoea of the patient. There is no tiine to delay when there is progressive cyanosis, embarrassed respiration, and Fie. 76.—Durham's Lobster Tail Tracheotomy Tube. The outer tube (A) can be projected and fixed at any distance from the shield by means ol the screw and collar at (B). The inner tube (C) is provided with a jomted tail which enables it to fit the outer tube. sinking-in of the intercostal spaces, false ribs, and root of the neck. Chloroform must be given with great care, and very httle is required. In adults cocaine suits admirably when there is no emergency. It is well to roll the patient (especially if a child) m a towel, so that the arms may be secured by the side. The neck and chest should be bared, the neck laid over a pillow and the head curved back so as to pull the windpipe from out the thorax, and increase its cervical extent. The head must be kept perfectly steady and straight. An accurate knowledge of the landmarks of the neck is essential. Where one cannot make out the pomum Adami, as yo"ng children, the more resisting ring of the cricoid cartilage may be telt, when the trachea is traced from below. • First 5/aF«.-The surgeon, standing on the patient s right side, with the palm of his left hand towards the patient s chin lays his left forefinger on the tip of the thyroid cartilage, while the thumb and middll finger on each side serve to hx the trachea ; and makes an incision prdonged from below his finger, through and fascia exactly in the middle hne, over the thjV''^.'^'^"^y^'J^^.tn few equal distance beyond it. Skin, fat, and 9^'^^'^^rj^^P^^„^^^ twigs of the anterior jugular vein, are thus divided. Bleeding points are secured with forceps. . .T,^,„„„r„i Second -The surgeon now inserts his finger into the wound and feefs the^ cricoid cartilage distinctly. It may be necessary to push aside some fat with the handle of the knife frder to do this. He divides now, with a small transverse cut, the the cricoid, and slips a blunt director underneath it, so that ne ifdps tWs fascia and the isthmus of the thyroid together with a few venous radicles which run into it, fn^m off the trachea. As the trachea in children is rather yielding, ana he fascia and isthmus comparatively strong adherent U i a Ster plan to thrust one bbde of a compression-forceps under the