TRACHEOTOMY. lOI are used to clear the tube in situ, or to stimulate the mucous membrane of the trachea. Every time the patient awakes, he should be fed. Brandy and beef-tea may be given freely, and digitalis in the event of impending cardiac failure. A close watch should be kept on the urine and condition of the chest. At the end of twenty-four hours the tube may be changed, a duplicate being ready. There is usually little difficulty, but it is well to have a director at hand. By pressing the end of the tube on one side of the tracheal wound, that edge is readily depressed, and the aperture rendered patent, and introduction thus facilitated. The tube is again changed at variable intervals of two or three days, according to the nature of the case. It is finally taken out about the fifth or seventh day ; but this again will vary according to circumstances. As soon as the patient can breathe without it, let it be taken out, provided the disease or cause of obstruction has been removed. When spasm develops on its removal, some difficulty may be experienced in getting the patient to use the larynx again for respiration. A new tube should be substituted, with a perforation on its convexity, through which the patient may speak when the finger closes the external opening. He is now encouraged to breathe as well as speak through the normal passages, by blocking the tube with a grooved cork, or by increasing layers of moist muslin, &c. The tube may, of course, be dispensed with entirely, whenever the respiration is perfect. After removal the wound rapidly closes. Emphysema rarely gives rise to trouble. The difficulty due to great swelling of the neck by which the trachea becomes buried, and the tube cannot pass deep enough, is obviated by using Durham's tube. In every case of diphtheria, isolation of the patient, and complete disinfection of every article that quits the room, must be practised. The swabs and cloth used for the tubes should be destroyed, and great vigilance exercised over the attentions of friends and relatives. Should a sudden call for tracheotomy arise from the pressure of a tumour, and one has reason to believe that the obstruction is direct and high in the neck, the "low" operation must be performed. Here again the importance of feeling the trachea, which is often displaced to one side, and also seeing that it is cleared of veins be- fore opening, is to be remembered. In adults, a pair of strong shears, or even bone pliers, may be required to divide ossified cartilage. /ntubation of the Larynx.—The propriety of intubation of the larynx has been again re-introduced. Macewen ol Glasgow has demonstrated how readily the trachea may tolerate the introduction of a gum-elastic tube resembling a No. 12 catheter, and has recorded successful ca-ses {Brit. Med. Journ., 1880). Since then, O'Dwyer of New York has invented laryngeal tubes—an introducer and ex- tractor—for intubation, and a number of authorities have reported gratifying results from the use of his apparatus. The results compare favourably with those gained by tracheotomy for diphtheria in many hospitals, but in private practice, where there can only be a nurse in charge, tracheotomy possesses distinct advantages. Should inluba-