Fifth Lecture.— To be devoted to practical work, when the members of the class will exercise themselves in the arrest of hsemorrhage in various situations, and in the temporary treatment of compound fractures. Sixth Lecture.—A. Short account of respiration, its objects and mechanism. B. Fainting, its causes, symptoms, and treatment — Immediate treatment of those apparently drowned, or suffocated by (i) hanging, (2) poisonous gases, (3) choking—First aid in cases of (i) burns and scalds, (2) bites by animals possibly rabid, (3) tears from machinery, (4) crushed and bruised parts, (5) stabs. C. Show mode of performing artificial respiration (Sylvester's method) and also the temporary featment of fractmed ribs. Seventh Lecture.—To be devoted to practical work, when the members will exercise themselves in performing artificial respiration, and in the arrest of haemorrhage from supposed cases of ruptured varicose veins, stabs, tears from machinery, and g^shot wounds. Eighth Lecture.—A. Short account of the nervous and digestive systems. B. Svmptoms and first treatment of shock or collapse. C. First aid in cases of (i) those stunned by a fall or injury to the head, (2) of convulsions, (3) of epilepsy, (4) of sunstroke, (5) of persons found insensible, (6) of suspected poisoning, (7) of frost-bite, (8) of lime in the eye, (9) of supposed death. Ninth Lecture—for Males only.*—A. Removal of Injured by means of stretchers, special attention being directed to (1) the proper carriage of the stretcher, (2) the manner of placing it, (3) the loading and unloading it, (4) the position of the patient on it, (5) suggestions as to overcoming difficulties on the road, (6) hints as to the conveyance of stretchers by rail or country carts. B. Short account of some of the improvised methods of removing injured persons when no stretchers or regular conveyances are available, as by the two-handed, three-handed, and four-handed seats. C. Give illustrations as to how to prepare and fold up a stretcher. Tenth Lecture—for Males only.*-Stretcher drill in presence of and under direction of Lecturer. • In Ladies' Class, Lectures on Sick Nursing will take the place of these Lectures.