APPENDIX. 281 in distilled water, laid to drain on blotting-paper, end on, and, before mounting, held about ij^ foot above the lamp to dry. A drop of Canada balsam dissolved in xylol serves for mounting. The bacilli of tubercle may be stained after the manner of Gibbes, with whose reagents full instructions are supplied. The following method, a modification of Neelsen's, has also been recommended :— Fuchsine, 2 grammes = 2 per cent. Absolute alcohol, 20 cub. cent., . . = 20 ,, Water, containing 5 per cent, of carbolic acid, 80 cub. cent., . . . . = 80 ,, Place some of the solution in a watch glass over a spirit-lamp, and float the cover-glasses; film downwards, on the stain. Heat gently, till steam rises, for five minutes. Place in 25 per cent, sulphuric acid for one second; transfer to absolute alcohol till decolorised. A contrast stain is now got by placing the cover-glasses in watery solution of methylene blue for half a minute, after which they must be washed in distilled water and mounted. The tubercle bacilli come out pink, and other organisms and structures blue. In order to obtain satisfactory evidence of the presence of tubercle bacilli in the urine, it is best to have a catheter specimen. The catheter should be boiled and lubricated with glycerine, while the meatus should be washed with corrosive lotion and then with sterile water. The urine is then received into a sterile vessel. We thus avoid any external con- tamination, more especially that of the smegma bacillus, an organism which, in appearance and behaviour under staining reagents, so re- sembles the tubercle bacillus that it is not readily differentiated. Gonorrliceal Pus.—The characteristic gonococci are most plentiful during the early acute stage. The film may be examined after staining with methyl blue in the ordinary fashion. Gonococci are distinguished, not only by their appearance, but also by their reaction to staining reagents. Thus, in a case of mixed infection, where other microbes abound, we find that the gonococci become decolorised by the use of Gram's method; and further, if we now treat the preparation with the carbolic fuchsine used for tubercle, only diluted 10 times with water, the gonococci take up this stain, and so present a marked contrast to the other organisms. Diphtlierla.—The Loffler bacillus may be found in quantity on a membrane, and a film preparation is easily made. In many cases, how- ever, a culture is necessary to make a definite diagnosis. Valuable information on this point will be found in the Handbook of the Clinical Research Association, and where practitioners are not in touch with some of the well-known laboratories of the medical schools, they will do well to avail themselves of the services of the Association.* Antitoxins of various kinds have been administered for the purpose of conferring a more or less enduring immunity against certain diseases or of curing them when they have been contracted. The beneficial action of the diphtheria antitoxin is well established. Its use should be begun early. The preparations issued by Haefliger & Co. of Bern (Prof Tavel's), by Schering (Aronson's), and by the British Institute of Preventive Medicine are to be had at most leading dealers, and directions for use are issued along with the drug. The value of the tetanus antitoxin is not so apparent. * Address, i Southwark Street, London Bridge, S.E.