APPENDIX. 279 the air bells to escape as the water sinks in. As it is taken out, the bandac'e is ^txA\y pressed to get rid of the superfluous water, and it is then ready to be applied to the limb, which is now being held in position for the purpose. Experience has shown that the plaster case is especially apt to give way on the sole and at the ankle, and at these places an extra number of turns must be put on. The sole is thickened by bringing the bandage many times backwards and forwards from the toes to the heel, with occasional turns round the foot to keep these in position. When this part has been well begun the bandages should be carried up the leg, taking care to avoid, creases and wrinkles in the deeper parts, and especially just below the knee where the weight is to be borne. As the knee is to be left free to bend, the bandage must either stop short of the back of the knee, or, if carried up there at first, it must be afterwards cut away behind ; the first method is easier and is quite as efficient as the second, although some prefer the latter. The bandages are then laid on layer after layer until it is about nine ply thick all over, and about twelve or fifteen at the ankle and on the sole. The splint must be as tough and light as possible, therefore the various layers should be rubbed in upon one another, but no extra plaster should be added beyond what can be incorporated in the fibres of the gauze. WTien sufficient bandages have been applied, the surgeon should see that everything fits nicely about the knee ; there should especially be no pressure in the popliteal space, and the colour of the toes should be looked to. The splint can be easily moulded with the hands before the plaster sets. It is better not to put any strain on the spHnt till the plaster is not only set but dry. The patient may, therefore, with advantage be put to bed for twenty-four hours, the spHnt being meanwhile exposed to the air. At the end of this time, the patient gets up and begins to walk on the leg now encased in the sphnt. At first, of course, he can only limp and needs support, but before long he can move about with comparative freedom. A cover of felt or leather should be made to protect the case as much as possible from tear and wear. The weight of the apphance, the rigidity of the foot, and the increased length of the limb caused by the foot-pad, all taken together, make some patients despair at first of being able to walk with the splint; but in a few days they get used to the new condition of things, and in about a week they can move about with surprising activity and freedom. The splint is allowed to remain on until the fracture has had time to consolidate. When it is removed, the condition of the limb is carefully examined, and if union has taken place the patient is encouraged to use the leg more and more. The same principles may be carried out in Fracture of the Thigh.