ANAESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 15 cessation of all reflex motion, other than that associated with respiration and circulation. Short of this stage, it is not safe to operate. ^^ hile sensation re- mains shock might readily ensue, and a reflex inhibition of the heart throuo-h the vagus might cause death. If the administration of the drucr be pushed too far, respiratory paralysis arises, and this in us tun? is foUowed by stoppage of the heart, if preventive measures be not at once adopted. Hence, the administration of an anaesthetic involves <^rave responsibilities, requires the undivided and unceasing attention^of the administrator, and should only be carried out by,_or in the presence of, a qualified practitioner. Although the risk which attends the careful administration of chloroform or ether is but small, it is difficult to exaggerate the perilous position of the patient, where due care is not exercised. The student should seize every opportunity of giving anesthetics, as nothing short of actual experience can give him the necessary self-reliance and watchfulness. (i) Chloroform is the more potent and useful of the two drugs. By far the greater number of accidents which occur with it are due to an overdose, to lack of care on the part of the giver. In poisoning from chloroform, it fortunately happens that the respiratory centres are usually involved before the cardiac, and hence embarrassed or shallow breathing—which we can readily obviate—foretells immedi- ate danger, and gives rise to the simple rule—"Watch the breathing."' Very rarely does the heart stop first, or suddenly, without warning. This does, however, happen. It has been associated with operations in the region of the fifth and pudic nerves, when the patient was not deeply under the influence of the drug, with epilepsy, and where special idiosyncrasies may have existed. Chloroform is only contra- indicated in cases of weak, irregular, cardiac action-be the cause of this what it may—fatty heart, anaemia, shock, fear, depression, or old age. Mode of Administering Chloroform.—T\ie: more simple the appa- ratus used by the chloroformist, the better. A small towel, a gag, a pair of common artery forceps (Fig. 19) to pull forward the tongue should occasion arise, together with a hypodermic needle and ether or strychnine for emergencies, constitute his requirements. The drop method has the merit of economy to commend it. A single ply of the corner of a towel or a Skinner's mask is held over the^nose and mouth on which the chloroform is received guttatim. The folded towel possesses the advantage of allowing one to study the face and feel the breathing directly. It should be folded into a square, and about an inch of its margin turned up so as to form a pad or roll, which may be laid against the chin, and kept free from chloroform. The patient's stomach should be empty. It is better for him to have had no food for at least four hours prior to operation. The administration should be conducted on a suitably long narrow table. The head and shoulders of the patient are preferably to be on a lower level than the pelvis and lower ex- tremities, so as to favour a plentiful supply of blood to the cerebral centres. It is dangerous to give a general anaesthetic in bed. Under no circumstances .should the shoulders be raised, and the dentist's