34 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. the evaporation of the water keeps the part cool. The escape of the water, however, tends to make the cloths stick when they are removed from the sore. The eucalyptus in olive oil does very well without the lime water. Picric acid has been much used in France for the treatment of burns, and its value seems to consist in a combination of antiseptic, astringent, and anaesthetic properties. Mr. D'Arcy Power gives the following notes on its use :*— " The solution of picric acid is made by dissolving a drachm and a- half of picric acid in 3 ounces of alcohol, which is then diluted with two pints of distilled water, or more accurately : Picric acid, 5 g. ; alcohol, 80g.; dissolve; add i,ooog. of distilled water. This is a saturated solution of picric acid. '' The clothing over the injured part should be gently removed, and the burnt or scalded portion should be cleaned as thoroughly as possible with a piece of absorbent cotton-wool soaked in the lotion. Blisters should be pricked, and the serum should be allowed to escape, care being taken not to destroy the epithelial surfaces. Strips of sterilised gauze are then soaked in the solution of picric acid, and are so applied as to cover the whole of the injured surface. A thin layer of absorbent cotton wool is put over the gauze, and the dressing is kept in place by a light linen bandage. The moist dressing soon dries, and it may be left in place for three or four days. It must then be changed, the gauze being thoroughly well moistened with the picric acid solution, for it adheres very closely to the skin. The second dressing is applied in exactly the same manner as the first, and it may be left on for a week. '' The great advantages of this method of treatment are: First, that the picric acid seems to deaden the sense of pain ; and, secondly, that it limits the tendency to suppuration, for it coagulates the albuminous exudations, and healing takes place under a scab consisting of epithelial cells hardened by picric acid. A smooth and supple cicatrix remains, which is as much superior to the ordinary scar from a burn as our present surgical scar is superior to that obtained by our predecessors, who allowed their wounds to granulate." He has been thoroughly satis- fied with the use of it, although its staining properties are apt to be inconvenient. .Another method of using it is by means of "Dr. Delpech's ouate picrique, which is prepared as follows :^—Purified cotton-wool is steeped in a saturated solution of picric acid ; the cotton-wool is then dried in a disinfecting stove ; square sections of this cotton-wool, steeped in water, even in cold water, immediately relieves, and in a short time entirely abolishes, pain. Repeated applications of this wool, moistened, cure burns." A supply of this picric wadding would be a useful part of an ambulance outfit in works where burns were common. Much shock is to be expected in extensive burns, especially in children. Prognosis in such cases is grave, and stimulation is indicated from the first. (7) Treatment of Ulcers.—The general indications for the treatment of ulcers are—(a) to purify the surface of the sore, and free it from irritation ; (b) to stimulate the circulation of the part, if ^British Medical Journal, September, 1896.