simple in the extreme. The patient cannot close his mouth or articulate; the glenoid articulation is found to be empty; but the condyle may be felt at the eminentia articularis; the masseter and temporal muscles are tense. The condition may occur on one or both sides. For reduction, the patient sits on a low stool facing the surgeon, who lays his thumb on the last molars of the dislocated jaw, and places his fingers firmly beneath the patient's chin. He then forcibly pushes downwards and backwards with his thumbs, upwards and forwards with his fingers; and as he feels the jaw move, dexterously withdraws his thumbs as reduction is effected. The thumbs may be protected with a napkin. Subsequent retention and treatment are as in simple fracture of the lower jaw. (9) Dislocation of the Hip-joint presents the marked feature of an inverted limb, when the head of the femur has passed backwards or upwards. If it lies forwards and downwards in the obturator foramen, the toes are pointed and the limb abducted and everted. In every case, the leg is so fixed, that attempts to straighten and flex up the knee or hip-joint are always associated with more or less of a rocking motion of the pelvis, which takes place through the lumbar vertebrae—as may be estabhshed if one lays his hand under the back, while he puts his patient through these movements. In direct displacement forwards, the head of the bone is readily felt out of place. The posterior displacements are the more common. Reduction is most readily effected under chloroform. The patient is laid on his back, and as soon as he is deeply "under," the surgeon flexes the leg on the thigh, the thigh on the abdomen. Thus he relaxes the iho-psoas and ilio-femoral band (Y-shaped ligament), and. Fig. 126.—Reduction of Dislocation of Hip. moreover, causes the head to descend and lie rather in relation with the rent in the capsule through which it emerged. He then, grasping the patient's ankle, circumducts the limb outwards and extends, and the head enters its socket. If the dislocation be of the obturator or pubic form, the first part of the procedure is similar, but the surgeon circumducts to the inside. As Prof. Chiene briefly puts it:—Where the head lies to the outside