282 APPENDIX. Streptococcus antitoxin seems to have been useful in certain pyaemic cases, and Watson Cheyne believes he has had excellent results from its employment prior to operations on the throat and mouth where absolute antiseptic precautions were, of course, not possible. It is obvious that it cannot effect any good where the staphylococcus is the noxious agent, and a reliable staphylococcus antitoxin is still a desideratum. The preparations used should be clear, sterile, and procured from a reliable source. There are special hypodermic syringes used for administration, which can be sterilised by boiling before and after use. C Instruments and Appliances for various Operations. Previous to an operation, and preferably the night before, it is well to lay out the necessary instruments and, in addition, others which are likely to be required, should any complications or emergency arise. If the steps of the operation be gone over seriatim, and each instrument selected as it would come into use, there is little chance of any omission. In the following lists, the requirements at the more common major operations have been mentioned; but in order to avoid repetition, the first two lists on Anassthesia and General Requisites have been given separately, and must be added to each of the others. Immediately after iise, the instruments must be carefully cleansed and dried, and again inspected before being put away. I. For Anaesthesia (see page 12).—Chloroform, ether, h}'podermic syringe, strychnine, artery forceps (Fig. 19), towel or inhaler, gag. II. General Requisites.—Forceps—dissecting, dressing, artery, com- pression (as Kocher's, &c.)—aneurism needle, director, retractors and blunt hooks, scissors, needles, silk, catgut, drainage tubes, sponges, syringe, lotions, dressings, bandages, safety-pins, mackintosh, razor to shave with. III. Amputations.—Tourniquets ; amputating knives—these, if to be used for transfixion, should be half as long again as the diameter of the limb to be removed; saws, bone- and lion-forceps, splints; also I. and II. IV. Excisions.—Tourniquets, strong bistouries, periosteum detachers, butcher and ordinary saws ; bone-, lion-, and necrosis-forceps; gouge, sharp spoon, splints ; also I. and II. V. Necrosis.—Tourniquets, probe, bistouries, periosteum detacher, gouge, mallet and chisel, bone- and necrosis-forceps, splints; also I. and II. VI. T7-ephi7iing.— Bistouries, periosteum detacher, trephines, Hey's and Gigli's saws, elevators, gouge-forceps, fine aspirator needle, sinus forceps, tooth-picks ; I. and II. VII. Operations on Jaws and Excision of Tongue.—Tooth forceps, m6uth gag, bistouries, metacarpal saw, bone-forceps, lion-forceps, strong scissors, vulsellum [bradawl and wire]; small sponges, firmly secured to holders, or tied on sticks, are required ; and if a preliminary tracheotomy be employed, or a tube passed into the larynx, the suitable instruments must also be provided ; I. and II. VIII. Tracheotomy (see page 96). IX. Excision of Breast, Ligature oj Vessel, Hernia, and Operations on Rectum and ^/zmj.—Bistouries, and I. and II.; Macewcn's hernia needles.