EMERGENCY CASES. 11> after it has been warmed and lubricated (see Appendix, p. 288), passes it along the urethra to explore its conditiori and find the seat of stricture. In most cases this will be just in front of the triancnilar ligament, but there may be several strictures. Next, a soft instrument, either india-rubber or one of the French black probe-pointed kinds, is to be taken, and an effort made to pass it. Successively smaller numbers must be tried, and should the smallest fail, metal catheters must be used. The instrument should be warmed by friction with a towel or in hot water, and should then be well lubricated. The operator stands on the left side of the bed on which the patient lies, and gently lifting the penis with his left hand, introduces the catheter into the meatus with his right. Supposmg the stricture to be in the common place just in front of the triangular ligament, the operator steadily passes the catheter back to the seat ol stricture. Some do this with the handle of the catheter in the mesial plane, while others keep the handle pointing towards the patient's left. So long as the point of the instrument is directed backwards along the urethra, either method is good. The second is easier, and is generally preferred. The difficulty begins at the place where the urethra changes its direction to reach the opening in the triangular ligament, and continues from that point till the instrument has fairly entered the prostatic urethra. In trying to pass the catheter at the point of difficulty, the surgeon must keep the point of the instrument exactly in the mesial plane. To ensure this, care must be taken that the patient's pelvis is not tilted, and that the handle of the catheter is in the mesial plane. On no account should the handle of the catheter be directly pressed upon, as this will drive the point through the floor of the urethra. The movement is rather a combined one of Hfting the instrument upwards, while, at the same time, canting the handle backwards and downwards towards the patient's feet. By this manoeuvre the point of the instrument is made to follow the curve which the urethra takes below the pubes. The surgeon feels cautiously for the orifice of the stricture at various parts of the obstructed portion of the urethra, and as soon as he thinks he has found it he tries to pass it through in the manner just described. A feeling of pain to the patient, and of the instrument's being grasped by the stricture to the surgeon, are useful indications. Where there is much difficulty, the surgeon should insert his left forefinger—well oiled—into the patient's rectum to help in guiding the point through the membranous urethra. Should the instrument have left the urethra (false passage) the point will be felt to pass between the prostate and the rectum. By the time the point of the catheter has reached the prostatic urethra, the handle will be nearly horizontal, and when it has reached this position it should be gently pressed onwards into the bladder. In proportion as greater com- mand is obtained with rigid instruments, so is there greater risk of their doing harm, especially when of small size. Until the feeling of being grasped is perceptible, the greatest gentleness must be employed, lest the urethra, anterior to the stricture, should be per- forated and a false passage made. Any attempt at withdrawal will be resisted by the grasp of the stricture, and the operator may then