DISLOCATIONS, SPRAINS, AJMU £>Kui^ts.o. i/i of a vertical line drawn through the acetabulum, circumduct oulxcards after flexion ; if it lies to the inside, circumduct inwards. It mav happen that the head travels backwards and forwards between'the obturator foramen and the region of the sciatic notch, in place of entering the acetstbulum, while one attempts reduction. If the surgeon will, however, execute the movements, while he lifts the patient by the leg, as it were, it will be found that the head usually clears the rim of the cotyloid cavity, and becomes replaced. After-treatment consists in tying the patient's legs together in bed, and putting on a pelvic band. If necessary a long sphnt may be used. i j j (10) Dislocations of the Patella are not unfrequently reduced by the patient himself. They are easily recognised, and yield to flexion-movements, combined with rotation and extension. (11) Dislocations of the Knee, Ankle, or Astragalus are commonly compound. Cautions to be observed in old-standing Cases-.—Reduction of old-standing dislocations should not be lightly undertaken, and the whole circumstances of the case must be carefully reviewed. Treatment of Sprains.—If seen immediately after the accident, the injured part should be held for a few minutes under a cold tap ; the limb should then be raised, wrapped in cotton wool, and firmly bandaged, a sphnt being put on to keep the parts at rest. These measures aim at limiting the subcutaneous bleeding. The great pain which often follows a few hours after a bad sprain, especially when not treated at once, will be most relieved by hot fomentations, but as these increase the after-swelling, they should be limited, and as far as possible avoided. The pain which may appear eight or ten hours after the injury, and which may continue for a day or two, is due to inflammation, and is best treated by rest and elastic pressure, and by cold applications—such as an ice-bag, or a bandage or cloth wetted in cold water, or in an evaporating lotion, and exposed to the air. As soon as acute symptoms have subsided, the swelling should be treated by firm elastic pressure and rest, with occasional gentle rubbing in the course of the nerves and lymphatic channels. In most cases, simultaneously with the subsidence of swelling, gentle passive and active movements should begin. It may, how- ever, be necessary for the joint to be supported for some weeks after the injury. The risk of chronic inflammation beginning should always be kept in view, especially in patients of a strumous constitution (see Johtt fixation). In gouty and rheumatic subjects constitutional treatment is required. ^\'here much thickening results after a sprain, the joint as well as the muscles which act over it should be steadily treated by massage (Chap, xix.) Bruises must be treated much in the same way as sprains—by re- straining sui,cutaneous hasmorrhagfe at first, giving rest to the injured tissues, and afterwards promoting absorption. The domestic remedy of a piece of raw meat bandaged over a bruised part is an example of a good means of ensuring cold and pressure. Hence its value.