312 APPENDIX. Bread Jelly (Inexpensive). Required— 2 penny rolls. i pint hot water. 2 ozs. sugar. i stick cinnamon. Cut the rolls into thin slices, and toast or dry them very thoroughly Put them into a basin, with the sugar and cinnamon stick broken ' Pour the hot water over them, cover tightly, and let the basin stand by the side of the fire for 30 minutes. Pass through a hair sieve or coarse muslm mto a mould or small basin. Set aside to become cold, and serve with cream. Chicken JeUy. Required- Legs and wings of a young chicken. teaspoonful of salt. About I pmt cold water. 6 pepper corns. A blade of mace. Remove the skin from the legs and wings of the chicken. Pour boiling water over them, and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Drain and put the meat and bones into a pan with the water; add the mace, salt and pepper corns. Put the lid on the pan. [If liked, a small piece of flavourmg vegetable (uncooked), such as carrot or turnip, may be added.] Bring to the boil, skim well, and let simmer slowly till the meat falls into shreds. Strain through a piece of muslin, and set aside to become cold. Omelets, ice. A Plain Omelet. Required— A piece of butter the size of a small egg. 3 eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. Beat the eggs briskly, add pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter in a small omelet pan over the fire, skim the butter, and pour the beaten eggs into the pan. Hold the handle, and keep the pan revolving over the fire until the omelet mixture looks nearly the consistency of cream; let the pan then rest over the fire for i minute, swiftly slide a broad pliable knife imder one half of the omelet, and fold it over the other half to form an oval shape, trim the edges neatly, and tilt the pan so that the lower side of the omelet may become of a golden brown colour, and it will then be ready. Reverse the pan over a hot omelet dish, and serve the omelet quickly with the brown side uppermost. The omelet should be brown and firm on the outside, but soft and creamy inside when broken. iNote.—'&c most careful to keep the omelet pan clean, and to use it for nothing but omelets.] To Poach an Egg (inexpensive). Required— I egg. 1 slice of toast. Have a shallow pan with boiling water ; to i pint of water allow 1 tea- spoonful of salt and i tablespoonful of vinegar. Break the egg into a cup, and, when the water is boiling very fast, pour the egg into the pan and let it cook gently for 2 minutes ; lift it out, with a perforated slice, on to a piece of nice hot buttered toast, and serve at once.