JOINT-FIXATION AAW FIXED APPARATUS. 233 and elsewhere and the methods of cutting and applying pasteboard or poroplastic splints to the elbow, knee, and ankle. There are, however, additional methods and forms of apparatus, thus :— (i) Plaster of Paris may be used as for the spinal jackets. {a.) Gemral Af-plication.—After cleansing the skin and applying a layer of absorbent cotton-wool, or a bandage of flannel or boracic lint, the part must be wrapped with the open gauze bandage charged with plaster, and soaked in water just before use ; eight or nine plies are needed for an adult, five or six for a child; or successive layers of ordinary bandage and plaster-cream may be laid on thus:—After a layer of bandage, a layer of plaster is smeared on, and so on till i thickness of J to f in. is attained; or layers of jute or absorbent wool may be soaked in the freshly-made plaster, and applied to the part, or be used to strengthen the weak places of any plaster splint. The simplest way to remove these plaster splints is with Gigli's wire saw. A piece of stout string is laid along the bandaged limb before the plaster is applied. When the splint is finished, the ends of the string are drawn backwards and forwards to ensure its being loose. They are then made secure. When the splint has to be removed, the loop of a wire saw is fastened to one of the ends of the string and drawn through, and made to cut from within outwards by a see-saw movement. The position of the string must be regulated so that it does not pass over any convexity on the limb, otherwise the skin will be injured by the saw. The bandage must otherwise be cut with pUers or saw, or the plaster must be softened by pouring a few drops of hydrochloric acid upon it, when it may be cut with a knife. To obviate the difficulty in removal, several methods have been advocated in which the part along the front of the limb is left free of plaster. Neudorfer's plan is one of the simplest. Compresses of linen or of lint (we may add of tow, jute, or wool) are dipped in plaster of Paris of the consistence of cream. These are then placed longitudinally on the hmb, first on the upper, then on the under part. A few turns of a bandage keep them in situ till the plaster is set; to prevent contiguous edges adhering, they are slightly greased, or a slip of greased lint is placed between them. If the pieces were made lateral, with an interval on the front and back, the spHnt when set would thus be in two halves, and could be removed by merely cutting the binding bandage along the front. Instead of mixing the plaster with water before it is incorporated with the lint or tow, dry plaster may be first worked into folds of iint, layers of gauze, absorbent wool, jute, or tow (see F. Jordan's !::minated plaster splint, p. 219), of the required size. These are then to be soaked in water, gently squeezed, and, having been laid on to the part, are to be bandaged into the shape of the limb. {b.) A very simple plaster bandage for the leg and foot may be made as follows:—Make two equal laminated plaster strips of nine layers of gauze each. Length, from dorsum of foot under the sole and up opposite side of leg to above or below knee as required ; breadth, half circumference at ankle, after allowing for padding. See that •he limb is steadily held in the required position by assistants. Now