A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 230 and add a few inches for twisting the neck part and cut off a corre- sponding length of wire. The wire is then to be bent into shape with the hands and a pair of strong pliers as follows:—Find the middle of the wire by balancing it on the forefinger, and put a mark there. Now at a point on each side of this, equal to the distance of the occipital protuberance from the back of the ear, bend the wire back on itself to form the head rest. Twist the two ends together where they meet again opposite the central mark. Continue the twisting for a distance equal to the length of the patient's neck, then bend the ends out separately so as to follow the line of the shoulders, and at the level of the outer ends of the clavicles turn them vertically downwards. At the level of the patient's waist, bend them across towards one another and end by a whipping with cord or wire. At first the splint is made in one plane. It has next to be shaped to fit the patient. The first time this is done a little patience is required, but with ordinary handiness the necessary bending will be easily carried out. The splint is next to be padded by wrapping domet bandage round it, for hospital patients, or more elaborate padding material for private patients. (This padding is not shown in the drawing). Pieces of bandage are fastened to it as follows: —One at either end of the head- J) piece, and one at each of the four corners of the body-piece. When the splint is applied it is fixed to the head by the bandages from the head-piece, while the other bandage ends tie obliquely across the chest—i.e., from one shoulder to cross the front of the chest to the opposite waist end of bandage, and the same on the other side. A jacket or bodice is worn over the splint and helps to keep it firm. It is removed at night. 2. By a piece of poroplastic felt, cut as in the diagram (Fig. I So). The part a is moulded round the back of the occiput, the parts b b are shaped to come over the shoulders, and the part c lies against the back. The felt is padded and fastened with a bandage. This splint, however, is cumbrous and hot. 3. By a high collar or stock of leather or poroplastic felt. This, however, is apt to press against the tender enlarged glands.