JOlNT-FIXAllUiM Aiyjy CHAPTER XXII. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS— Contents —B. Tie Spinal Column—General Treatment—Caution !— Artificial Supports in Spinal Disease-(i) Methods for ensuring Ri<ridity and Support to the Spine - The Plaster-jacket- (a'S Objections to its use considered-(*.) Materials for making the Iacket--{f.) Methods of Application-(2) Methods of ensuring Support in High Dorsal and Cervical Caries—The " Jury-mast — Pneumatic and other Special Collars, &c. B. The Spinal Colmnn. In acute cases, especially where accompanied with considerable pain, patients suffering from disease of the spmal column should be treated in bed, as this is the only way of giving complete rest to the spine. Extension by weight and pulley is often of service. Professor Chiene advises that— r i j i. u v.„ When the lumbar region is affected, the foot of the bed should be raised, and extension plasters applied to both legs. _ v ,j v When the mischief is in the cervical region, extension should be applied to the patient's head, while the same end of the bed is raised to allow the weight of the body to act as a counter-extending force. The patient's head in this case must rest on a low pillow, and be steadied laterally by sand bags. , , ^ When the mid-dorsal region is affected, the bed may be kept horizontal, and extension applied to the patient's legs and head. Extension-plasters may be fixed to the legs in the usual way ; to the head, the apparatus may be fixed to a cap fastened round the forehead and below the occiput, and, if need be, secured below the "^'^Fleming of Glasgow recommends an apparatus for carrying out spinal extension, which Hilliard, Instrument - maker, patented. Attachment to the head is taken from a strap passing below the occiput and above the eyebrows. Just above the ears two side straps lead up from this to an elastic cord fixed to the head of the bed. Instead of drawing on the legs, Mr. Hilliard extends down- wards from the pelvis—from the back of a belt fixed above the crests of the ilium. This method allows of more turning in bed than Professor Chiene's, but increased mobility is a disadvantage. /—When the di.sea.se involves the first two cervical