58 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. preferable for primary hcemorrhages. " As a remote astringent it is valueless" (Stockman). In addition to the above, most of the antiseptic agents in common use, such as solutions of carbolic acid, corrosive sublimate, chloride of zinc, lend to check capillary oozing in proportion to their strength, aided also by the temperature at which they are applied. Peroxide of hydrogen also enjoys some repute. (/') Caustic Agents, especially strong acids, act also as styptics by coagulating the blood and attacking the mouths of the vessels. Of these, nitrate of silver may be selected to stop the bleeding from leech bites, and strong nitric acid is useful for the bleeding which comes from sloughing phagadena, as it checks the disease as well as the bleeding. (g) A hot saturated solution of calcium chloride should be tried. This salt greatly hastens coagulation of the blood, both when mingled with blood and when given internally. Other Means.—Besides local applications, other ways of inducing arrest of haemorrhage are available. The general circulation can be kept quiet by the horizontal position, low diet, abstinence from stimulants or hot fluids, which excite the heart, and freedom from mental excitement; functional rest can be aimed at for the affected part, and certaiti drugs can be administered, which experience has proved to be of service. Ergot, given by the mouth, or injected subcutaneously, seems to act on the vessels of other organs besides those of the uterus, probably by causing spasm of the muscular walls of small arteries. Turpentine, in 3 min. doses, given with mucilage, and repeated every two hours, is certainly of service in bleeding from the lung in phthisis. It might therefore be expected to be of use in wounds of the lung, and probably in other forms of internal haemor- rhage as well. Tincture of hazeline in 5-10 min. doses is also strongly recommended. Wright has drawn attention to the value of calcium chloride in hastening coagulation of the blood, and so acting as a haemostatic. He gives the drug in 15 grain doses, repeated twice or thrice a day. If this dose is kept up, the coagulation, which reaches its maximum of rapidity on the first day, is slower on the second day, and afterwards sinks below the normal rate. Hence two or three doses of the drug will probably be sufficient. He finds it acts very well in hsemophiha in hastening coagulation, and it has proved of much service in bleeding from the lung, kidney, and nose. Its value in choljemia is doubtful. . (B.) Secondary Haemorrhage differs practically from Prnnary Hsemorrhage in this, that the bleeding comes from vessels whose mouths are softened by granulation, and are therefore incapable of holding a ligature, the surface of the wound being also obscured by granulations so that the individual textures cannot be distmguished. This bleeding is almost invariably from a septic and suppurating wound, and may set in at any period while the suppuration is going on. When silk ligatures were used in septic wounds, Secondaiy haemorrhage was most common at the separation of the ligature about the third or fourth day ; but it might appear at any time, if the ulceration extended to the coats of any large vessel. Tl-ie worst