JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 225 must be rough on both sides, else the layer of the jacket on the smooth side will not hold the tin, and the jury-mast will slip up and down. " From two cross-bars at the upper extremity of the curved iron pieces, springs a central steel shaft, carried in a curve over the top of the head, and capable of being elongated at will. To this is attached at its upper extremity a swivel cross-bar with hooks, from which depend straps supporting a head-and-chin collar. This cross- bar must be placed above the curved steel arm, or it will be liable to become detached, owing to the constant traction on the screw by which it is held in place. "The apparatus is thus applied (Fig. 169) :—The patient having been encased in the usual manner in a few thicknesses of plaster- roller, the jury-mast is put on over this, care being taken that the malleable iron strips are bent so as to conform to the surface of the plaster, on each side of the spine, and that the shaft over the head be kept in the same line with the spinous processes. The extremity to which the swivel cross-bar is attached should be over the vertex of the head, so that when the straps are applied the line of traction shall be neither too far forward nor too far back. The perforated tins are carried partially round the body. The apparatus having been thus carefully adjusted, fresh layers of plaster bandage are apphed over it in order to hold the instrument firmly in its place, the assistant being careful to rub the bandage into all the inequalities caused by the instrument. " After the jacket is thoroughly hardened, the chin-piece is to be applied round the patient's neck, so that it supports the chin and occiput comfortably, and the straps attached to it are hooked on to the cross-bar, the degree of traction made upon them being regulated by the feelings of the patient " [Orthopadic Surgery, p. 463). [b.) Walker &> Eusseirs Modification of the " lury-mast."—A modifi- cation of this appliance was introduced by Drs. T. Walker, of Peter- borough, and Frank Russell. Instead of arching a steel rod over the back of the head to carry the cross-bar, they brought up the sides of the head two prongs of a fork from which to take the points for suspension. The lower part of the fork was fixed indirectly to a plaster jacket. The following details have been kindly supplied by Dr. Russell:— The fork is fastened by screws to the chest-piece. The latter is a slightly curved piece of iron, 5 or 6 in. long, % in. broad, and ^ or ^-^ in. thick. Lateral pieces of roughened tin give it greater security in the plaster jacket, and projecting from the from of it are two screws, % in. thick. These, when passed through corresponding slots on the handle of the fork, are fixed there with nuts. The screw should project in. beyond the end of the nut. The fork consists of a flat plate (handle) about 8 in. long, K in. broad, and in. thick, ending above in a fork large enough to pass across the patient's throat, and whose prongs, terminating in hooks turned outwards, reach to a point either above or below, but not opposite to the ear. The prongs of the fork are necessarily bent, at first back- wards and then upwards. Each of the two slots cut in the handle should be about 1% in. long, and should be just wide enough to admit 15