A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 8 as indicative of the state of the digestive system, should be looked at from time to time. The late Mr. Syme's favourite remedy in liver and stomach derangements was a powder of rhubarb (grs. v.) and soda (grs. v.) given once or twice daily before meals for a few days ; to this bismuth may sometimes be added with advan- tage. Where the liver seems sluggish, a bitter infusion, with dilute mineral acid and tincture of nux vomica, is useful. Iron is often indicated by the anaemic state of the patient, and other remedies may be required according to circumstances. (2) Local Treatment.—Tht local treatment involves wound- dressings, which are elsewhere considered (p. 19). (3) Special Treatment.—{a.) In all cases of operation about the anus and rectum, such as for fissure, fistula in ano, or piles, the bowels should remain unopened for about two days, and be opened on the third morning by castor oil or other mild aperient. The free opening of the bowels before the operation, and the low diet after it, generally suffice to keep the bowels from moving of them- selves for some days. When morphia suppositories have been given to soothe pain after the operation, the bowels will be still more bound. It is better not to wait until the bowels move of themselves, because by that time firm faecal masses will have formed. These would be more irritating to the recent wound than the earlier passage of a liquid stool. An enema is necessarily contra-indicated. It should be remembered that operations upon the anus, and in the neighbourhood of the urethra, are apt to cause retention of urine by retiex spasm of the constrictor urethrae. Some surgeons on this account pass a catheter at the end of the operation, and in any case provision must be made for drawing off the water within eight hours of that time, and for repeating the proceeding if need be. (b.) The treatment of the bowels after the relief of a strangu- lated hernia, whether by taxis or by operation, is a matter of dispute. Some surgeons invariably administer opium or morphia, and keep the patient on low diet, to prevent any motion of the bowels for a week or ten days. This is done to insure rest for the injured and probably inflamed bowel, and may in some cases be necessary. Other surgeons act on the principle that if the bowel be inflamed, its peristalsis will be thereby checked, so that unless local pain or general restlessness call for the use of opium, it may be omitted, and the action of the bowels left to nature. The latter seems the more rational plan, and is the one which we advocate. Where it is known that the bowel itself is injured, efforts will, of course, be made to ensure absolute quiet for the injured part, opium or morphia continued for a week or ten days, and the patient fed by nutrient enemata, supplemented only by small quantities of fluid food given by the mouth. (f.) After Ovariotomy, or other intra-peritoneal operation, the general indications are to keep the parts at rest and avoid sickness. It is not, however, necessary to deprive the patient of all fluid. In fact, the more fluid the patient absorbs the less the risk of shock and the suffering from thirst, and the greater the elimination by the ex- cretory organs. Should sickness, however, persist, water may be