APPENDIX, 384 forceps will be found serviceable for most purposes, and fewer will not. These are a straight pair, and a pair with the blades nearly at right angles with the handles, both of which will be required for upper and lower roots, and single-fanged teeth; a pair adapted for the lower molars, and two pairs for the upper molars—one for the right and one for the left sides. Many other forms would be desirable, and may be collected, but these five pairs will be found absolutely necessary. It has been stated that the blades at their extremities should fit that part of the tooth they are intended to grasp. In this way it will be seen that for single-fanged teeth these blades will merely require to be adapted for the oval form presented by a transverse section of such fangs hollowed out, in fact, so as to apply themselves more closely to their surface. For multiple-fanged teeth, the forceps must also be on the same principle, adapted to the form of the surface to which they are to be applied. One pair will be found to answer for the double-fanged molars of the lower jaw ; but for the three-fanged molars of the upper jaw, two pairs will be necessary, as these three fangs are always so placed that two of them are next the cheek and one towards the palate; consequently, the forceps which would fit one side will not at all fit the other. With this number of forceps, properly constructed, almost any case of extraction may be undertaken where forceps can be used at all." How to give a Hypodermic Injection.—To avoid the risk of mis- take, the amount of the drug injected should always be calculated rather than the number of minims of solution. This is necessary, because the same drug is often prescribed for subcutaneous injection in solutions of different strengths. Having determined the quantity of fluid to be injected, the operator either leaves only that amount in the syringe, or, having filled the syringe, adjusts the screw on the piston, when that special form of instrument is used. Next, he raises the needle end of the syringe, taps it to cause air-bells to rise, and gently expels them. Then, with the left forefinger and thumb, he pinches up a fold of skin, and, after dipping the needle into carbolised oil, boldly plunges it through to the loose subcutaneous tissue, into which he slowly and steadily drives the fluid. Finally, laying his left forefinger over the point of entrance, he with- draws the needle, and gently rubs the injected fluid into the surrounding tissue. Before use, an antiseptic lotion should be run through the syringe and needle. After use, the syringe and needle should be washed out with warm water. Then the wire should be inserted into its interior. One or other of two forms of syringe are used—one where the number of minims is marked on the glass barrel of the syringe, the other where an adjustable screw is fitted to the piston rod, so that it may be brought to a stop at any desired point. The measurement markings are in this case made on the piston rod, so that by adjusting the screw any given portion of the fluid may be injected from a full syringe. Lumbar Puncture.—This procedure is employed either for diag- nostic purposes or as a means of treatment. After injuries to the head the presence of blood-stained fluid under abnormally high tension in the lower part of the spinal subarachnoid