186 A iiUKUJCAL HANVBUUK. (2) Friction, "kneading" (/V/rj'«<2^«), or rubbing proper, consists in firm pressure moved over special spots. It is specially applicable to inflammatory thickenings, in and round joints and tendon sheaths, and in the substance of muscle. It may be done with the finger- tips or knuckles: but the pulp of the thumb will be found specially useful. The operator tries to dispel the thickening, as if by his own efforts, although he knows that probably the chief benefit will result from the after-vital changes which he sets up. Time Necessary.—The time to be occupied at each sitting is a matter of opinion. Dr. Grant, writing after a visit to von Mosengeil's Clinique, believed that in Britain the period is generally too much prolonged. His view was " That when once the muscles have been fairly and completely emptied of venous blood, lymph, and waste products, and when once an active afflux of arterial blood has been established, nothing more can be done for the time." In general massage, " every muscle should be subjected to two successive processes of effleurage-pHrissage-effl-eurage" and this should be done by rapid movements in from 10 to 15 minutes. In local massage, about the same time may be occupied, except where inflammatory thickenings have to be got rid of, when a somewhat longer time may be taken. Once a day is generally sufficient. The Commoner Surgical Conditions in which Massage is applicable, are:— (1) Stiff Joints, resulting from prolonged fixation for any reason, or following simple inflammation in and round the joint. (Caution.— The stiffness following sti-ufnous" arthritis is getierally in old, and always in recent cases, best left alone, lest the original mischief should be re-excited.) In these cases, the massage is applied to get rid of inflammatory thickenings, and to stimulate the growth and activity of muscles, which have been atrophied from disuse. Greater benefit results if, before the massage, the joint or limb is subjected to a local bath of hot air or vapour, or to a stream of hot dry sand repeatedly applied. Failing these, hot water may be employed. Progressively increased passive and active movements, and faradisation, are also useful. (2) Inflammatory Thickenings in any accessible part—e.g., round urethral strictures, in callous ulcers, in the testis after orchitis (non- tubercular), after neglected injuries to joints, &c. (3) Rheumatic Contractures and Thickenings, where similar applications are made upon the affected muscles and the skin over them. (4) Recent Effusions, to promote absorption of blood and serum by effleurage. In this lies the great value of massage in sprains and after reduction of dislocation. The effleurage is cautiously applied at first only to the limb on the proximal side of the injury. By the emptying of the veins and lymphatics they more rapidly absorb the effusions from the sprained part and so relieve tension, and permit of early movement. As the tenderness subsides the nutri- tion of the muscles can also be maintained by a deeper massage which reaches their substance, and before long the massage can be Ulli.4U.mV 111* HP