i8o A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. SYLLABUS OF AMBULANCE LECTURES. Pirst Lecture.—A. Introductory remarks, explaining clearly the scope and object of lay help in ambulance work, special attention being drawn to the need for it, as well as the usefulness and simplicity of it. B. Short sketch of the general anatomy ol the human body, including a briet description of the functions of digestion, absorption, circulation, respiration, e.xcretion, secretion, and innervation. C Uses of a bandage—Of the two kinds of bandage, the roller not needed for ambulance work—Description of Esmarch's triangular bandage, pointing out (i) its advantages, (2) method of folding it and fastening it, (3) its application in different ways —Hints as to the "first dressing" of wounds by ambulance pupils. Second Lecture.—A. Short account ol the skeleton, with brief description of the structure and varieties of the joints. B. (l) Fractures—Their varieties, causes, symptoms, and dangers— Their temporary treatment and the apparatus necessary for it. (2) Dislocations—How they difier from fractures, and the first aid in such cases—No necessity for immediate reduction, and the dangers of attempted reduction by non-professional persons. C. Illustrations of the temporary treatment of the following simple fractures—(i) collar bone, (2) upper arm, (3) fore-arm, (4) the hand, (5) thigh, (6) leg, (7) foot, (8) lower jaw. Third Lectxire. — To be devoted to practical work, when the members of the class will exercise themselves in the use of the triangular bandage and the temporary treatment of the different fractures mentioned in the previous lecture. Fourth Lecture.—A. (i) General description of the circulation of the blood, and the mechanism by which it is carried on— {2) Distinction between arterial, venous, and capillary hasmor- rhage— (3) Names of the main arteries of the body, with their situations — (4) Points where arterial circulation may be arrested by pressure—(5) Dangers of hasmorrhage. B. General treatment of haemorrhage:—I. Internal licunorrhage— First aid in cases of (i) bleeding from the nose, (2) spitting ol blood, (3) vomiting of blood. II. External hemorrhage— (1) Application of cold, either by water or exposure to air— (2) Elevation of part—(3) Local pressure—(4) Distant pressure on main artery supplying wound, either by hand or tourniquet —{5) Three kinds of tourniquet: elastic, screw, and improvised. C. Show mode of applying elastic or screw tourniquet, and of making an improvised one —Give illustrations ol arrest of hemorrhage from (i) scalp. (2) neck, (3) armpit, (4) upper arm, (s) fore-arm, (6) hand, (7) thigh, (8) ham, (9) leg, (10) foot —Give illustrations of temporary treatment ol a covifound fracture, with haemorrhage in upper or lower extremity.