65 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE, Digital Compression of the Main Arteries. Common Carotid.—Against the vertebral column, by pressure directed backwards at the level of the sixth cervical transverse process—i.e., about the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Facial.—Against the lower jaw by backward and inward pressure in front of the anterior border of the masseter muscle. To be of any service, both ought to be simultaneously compressed, owing to the free anastomosis round the mouth, &c. Temporal.—Pressure directed inwards just in front of the external auditory meatus. Occipital.—Pressure against the occipital bone midway between the mastoid process and the external occipital protuberance. Subclavian {third part).—Against the first rib by pressure down- wards and backwards, just behind the anterior curve of the clavicle. Axillary [thirdpart).—Against the humerus by pressure directly outwards, at junction of anterior and middle thirds of the axilla. Brachial. —Against the humerus. The pressure must be outwards at the upper part, outwards and backwards about the middle, and backwards at the bend of the elbow, to suit the altering relations of the bone and artery. The artery continues the line of the axillary to the middle of the bend of the elbow. Radial and Ulnar Arteries.—At the wrist, pressure backwards at either side. Abdominal Aorta (see p. 45). External Iliac.—By pressure directly backwards against the brim of the pelvis, midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. TvOTora/.—Pressure must be made at first backwards against the head of the femur, then backwards and outwards in Scarpa's triangle —in Hunter's canal, outwards. When viewed from the inside—i.e., in abduction—the line of the vessel continues that of the external iliac towards the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur: looked at from the front, the line runs towards the inner edge of the patella. The first point mentioned for pressure is the best (see chapter on Extempore Appliances). Anterior Tibial.—M.\d-wd,y between the two malleoli, backwards against the tibia. Dorsal Artery of the Foot.—Downward pressure against the tarsus between the mid-point of the malleoli and the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones. Posterior Tibial.—7oryis^rd and outward pressure against the tibia, a tnumb's-breadth internal to the inner malleolus. Transfusion. The methods of injecting fluid directly into the veins of persons who are greatly reduced by loss of blood or wasting disease, have been, m recent times, revived and much discussed. The obiects to 0