212 has to slide forwards on the condyles of the femur as the two bones come into line. Consequently if this sliding movement is resisted by adhesions, &c., while the straightening process is continued, the posterior part of the tibial articular surface will leave the femur, and the tibia will be forced into a plane parallel with that in which the femur lies, but posterior to it ; as if, in fact, there had been a partial dislocation of the tibia backwards in the straight position. Gradual straightening, preceded by extension in the line of the deformity, would obviate this ; and even with a Thomas splint, the tendency to dislocation would be less if the backward straightening pressure were applied to the femur only. Materials for covering and padding are the same for the knee as for the hip-splint—/.tf., basil leather for covering the splint and for supporting the leg and thigh, and No. i boiler felt for paddmg with. When there is unusually great swelling of the knee, the mner bar may require to be bent inwards, so that it may not press upon the swelling. When the thigh ring cannot pass the knee, owinfT to its being swollen, the ring may be cut or sawn through, opened out, and, after it has been passed over the knee, bent m again with a wrench. Thomas's Knee-splint has been used for fractures and other con- ditions besides those of knee- joint disease. Extension, when required, can be applied to the foot by means of the lower staple (Fig. 154, a). (3) The Ankle- and Tarsal- jolnts. — For the ankle- or tarsal-joints lateral pasteboard or leather splints vviH ensure fixity and compression. The foot must not, however, be put to the ground. [a.) In many cases Knee-splint, with a foot-splint to steady the ankle, will be found useful. He used it constantly for this purpose. (b.) Tlwmas " Crab"-splint for the A nkle. —This consists of a piece of sheet iron bent hol- low (Fig. 158), so as to fit the upper two-thirds of the calf of the leg. " To this is riveted a bar of flat iron 4 x y',,, or such size as will hold the part firmly, and it is bent to approximately follow the outline of the back Fig. 158.- -IhoiiKih " Crab"-splint for the Ankle. of the ankle and heel, and the middle of the sole of the foot" Uon^\ A the level of the ball of the toes and of the pomt of the heel ire fixed cross pieces sufficiently pliable to be bent w.th the fingers, and