■92 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. antimony (with great depression), digitalis, lead, colocynth, colchicum, and phosphorus. Nature of the vomit, z/aw;/.—Bloody and coffee ground in irritant poisons. Black or dark green, luminous in the dark, with odour of garlic, in phosphorus. "Emergency" Apparatus.—Every hospital, and, indeed, every general practitioner should be provided with emergency apparatus and the necessary antidotes and hypodermic remedies, either in solution, or preferably in the form of tabloids, with directions at hand to aid the memory in case of need. The Stomach-pump.—A necessary instrument to have in readi- ness is the stomach-pump, or, preferably, a stomach tube and funnel. There are two kinds of stomach-pump in use — (1) The best kind has an exit-pipe, provided with a branch at right angles to it close to the syringe ; a flute-key arrangement shuts one and opens the other, as required. By alternately opening and ■closing these while the piston is being worked, fluid may be made either to enter or leave the stomach by the oesophageal tube. (2) Another kind has a valve preventing entrance at one opening, and exit at the other ; so that fluid which enters the syringe by one opening always leaves by the other. By means of adjustable nozzles, the stomach-tube may be attached to either, and so fluid pumped «ither in or out of the stomach, as required. To pass the Tube.—Smear the tube with olive oil, vaseline, or glycerine; bend its end nearly to a right angle; make the patient open the mouth, and hold the head well back at first. Pass the tube straight to the fauces, avoiding the tongue as much as possible, and gently push it on, directing the patient to "swallow it." The left forefinger may be used to guide the tube past the epiglottis when there is much coughing and spasm of the constrictors. As soon as the tube is in the oesophagus, the patient's head must be brought forward, and the tube pushed on with a somewhat upward lift. Should the patient's jaws be voluntarily or involuntarily locked, considerable force may be required to force them open. A screw gag is made for the purpose ; but failing this, a screw-driver or similar instrument inserted between the teeth will suffice to make a beginning, wedges of wood or cork can then be introduced to keep the ground •once gained, and the jaws may be forced open more and more until sufficient room is gained to pass the tube. To prevent its being bitten, either side-gags of wood or cork may be kept in place, or a ■centrally-perforated one may be used. ; Syphon Substitute for Stomach-pump.—M\ that is really required is an india-rubber tube, which, when passed into the stomach, is long enough to have its end brought below the level of the stomach, so as to produce syphon action. After the tube is in the stomach, fluid must be poured down through a funnel, by a syringe, or even from the operator's mouth on an emergency (Harvey). When the tube is filled, its outer end must be compressed, and brought lower than the end within the stomach, when the fluid contents of the stomach will flow out, by syphon action. As the exhausting action is gentle,