292 APPENDIX. Appendix F. L Steam Sterillaer« for Dressings and Instruments,—Steam sterilisers, on the pcinciple introduced by Schimmelbusch (-Fig. 197), are managed as follows:—Kill ihe boiler by means of a filler through the tube E, to the level of the arrow mark — x. Place the leaden steam exit pipe in She bucket K, which should be half filled with cold water. Fill the metal boxes (Fig. 198) With the dressings, aprons, and towels required. See that the perforations are open, and place the boxes within the steriliser. Put on the heavy lid and screw it down. Plug the lid with cork and thermometer T, cork the tube E. Light the large gas Bunsen beneath the boiler G. The temperature should be maintained at about 100° C. for one hour. During this time the steam penetrates the dressings thoroughly, -and the steam escapes, condensing, into the bucket. Now extinguish the light, and remove the cork. Let the steam escape, and proceed to remove the lid. This should be done by liartiaUy loosening all the screws S, seriatim, and then freeing thetn completely. The boxes are now lifted out; the perforations closed, and the contents are ready for use. II. Simple Form of Steriliser.—This, which is much cheaper, is quite as efficient, and in some ways more useful than Schimmelbusch's pattern. It consists of an oval tin pot (A) like a fish kettle, measuring Fig. 199.—Cathcart's Steriliser. 16 inches long, by 9 inches wide at its' broadest part, and 10 inches deep. It IS .<;urrounded, except where the lid fits on, by a larger vessel (B) of similar shaoe. an inch of space being left between them, in the outer chamber there are (i) the hole for filling in the water, or letting out the steam when so desired, a cork to plug the hole being chained beside it; (2) an exit tap for emptying out the water; (3) a stop-cock which, when turned on, opens steam communication between the upper part of the outer chamber and the lower part of the inner one half way Slong one side (the pioe which conducts the steam is shown by a dotted line in the diagram); and (4) a water gauge, not shown in the d^gram^ The hd fits firmly and closely into the top. but no attempt is made to make the junction steam-tight. In order to reduce as far as possible the condensation which is apt to occur on the under surface of the ud it is made double with an air space of about K of ^^'^f^^f^^^^^^^^ layers, and over the top is spread a loose cover of non-conducting "^The^size of the apparatus permits of its being placed on any kitchen