A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. CHAPTER I. CASE-TAKING. Contents.—Importance of accurate " Case-taking "—How to record a case—Outline of a systematic plan—Application. There is no part of a Medical Student's training more important than the duty of systematically recording the condition, treatment, and progress of patients, when under Medical or Surgical care. The student's powers of observation are sharpened by this practice, and he learns how to apply these powers thoroughly, because systemati- cally, and thus, eventually, with both rapidity and exactness. It cannot be too strongly urged that a true knowledge of disease, which is the great secret of success in diagnosis and treatment, can only be founded on the careful and accurate study of individual cases. In the Hospital practice of a Medical School, therefore, the objects of case-taking are no less scientific and practical than educa- tional, and the student should begin from the first to form a collection of his notes of personal observations of disease, with the express purpose of continuing the practice throughout the rest of his career. He ought to acquire the art of writing shorthand, which, apart from many other advantages, will enable him to do this work in at least a third of the time and with a sixth of the labour entailed by longhand. (See Appendix.) How to Record, a Case.—Descriptions of cases may be either written into a regular case-book, or they may be first taken on separate sheets of paper, and afterwards bound together. In either way, the cases must be systematically indexed for future reference. Cit^ Appendix.) Outline of a Systematic Plan.—When a student begins to take cases, he should have a Tabulated Scheme before him, as a guide to the questions which he is to ask. This outline, being framed to suit all kinds of cases, will be too full for those in which only one organ or part of the body is affected. Still, it is well to form a habit of systematically examining every important organ or system, and should nothing be wrong, the phrase "health otherwise good," or "other systems normal," will express what is wanted. Upon the due action of every important system depend the health of the individual, his tendency to inflammation, his power of healing, and his resistance to the influence of micro-organisms. It is usual in hospitals to have the case-taking card on a separate slip of paper, so that it may be used conveniently at the bedside. The following scheme embraces what is generally required:—