io6 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. soft clean sponge, Ian, needles, fine silk, and fine silver wire {Morton). Operation.—The child is held face downwards. The surgeon punctures the swelling through sound skin if possible, avoiding the exact middle line and any umbilicated point. He next, if necessary, withdraws some fluid and slowly injects the iodo-glycerine solution (from a few min. to 2 drms., according to size, but usually from ^/j to I drm.) "Then," says Mr. Morton, "the syringe and canula are withdrawn at the same time, while with thumb and index finger of left hand, I grasp the sac at the punctured aperture, and hold the sides of it together, so that an assistant may apply the collodion there, and when that has been successfully done, about a square inch of lint saturated with collodion is placed over the point of puncture" (fine films of cotton wool, might be better). . . . "When the collodion is com- pletely dried and no oozing perceived, generally a piece of lint is laid over the tumour, and some finely-carded cotton wool around it, while the bandage usually worn by infants is so placed as to keep tie pro- tective dressings in position, care being taken not to make the bandage too tight." . „ ,, J. Absolute closure is imperative, hence the wire m readmess. CoUodion must be re-applied if need be. a ^ In three weeks, the question ol re-injection may be considered. (5) Tapping a Hydrocele.—The patient usually stands before the operator, who, for convenience, sits on a chair. The operator begins by recognising by the touch and by the sensations of the patient the position of the testicle, which, though usually behind and below the fluid swelling, may occasionally be found elsewhere. He then grasps the swelling with his left hand, and holding the testicle out ot the way, causes the fluid part to bulge forward between his fingers and his thumb; then, holding the trochar and canula in his right hand, he plunges it straight through the skin into the hydrocele. In so doing he avoids any visible vein, and selects a spot below the middle of the swelling. To avoid the risk of passing between the skin and the hydrocele sac, the plunge is made perpendicular to both, but at a place where the fluid separates the testicle from the sac sufficiently to allow the trochar to enter without injuring the testicle The trochar is then withdrawn, leaving the canula just within the sac, while the surgeon's left hand keeps up steady pressure on its contents. Where no injection of the sac is contemplated, as soon as the fluid has all escaped, the canula is withdrawn, and the aperture covered with collodion. WTien the sac is to be injected, a syringe fitting the canula is charged with Ihe desired fluid, which is then injected after the contents of the sac have escaped. After removing the canula, the injected fluid is left in the sac, and must finally be distributed oyer its intenor by grasping the scrotum at the point of puncture, and rapidly shakmg ' grthe'manT'fluids advocated, i-a drms. of the Edinburgh tincture of iodine has, perhaps, found most favour. In simple cases of hydrocele, this fluid seldom fails to cure. It causes con- siderable pain and swelling, however, so that the patient must be