68 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. it with corrosive or other antiseptic lotion, and then washing it out with hot boiled water. A piece of india-rubber tubing similarly cleansed, S or 6 inches long, should be used to connect it with the nozzle in the vein. While still hot, the syringe should be wrapped in a hot towel, and filled with the blood mixture. The method of tying the nozzle into the vein, and the precautions to be taken against the introduction of air, are the same as have been described for saline infusion. The syringe may be refilled as often as required (Fig. 29). Munchmeyer's method of transfusion has been strongly recom- mended. It consists essentially of injecting into the subcutaneous cellular tissue from one to three pints of the simple saline fluid already mentioned. An aspirator needle is thrust into the sub- cutaneous tissue (between the scapulae for preference). To the needle is attached two or three feet of india-rubber tubing leading down from a funnel. The saline fluid is poured into the funnel and is dispersed in the cellular tissue by gentle massage. A syringe could be substituted for the funnel. All the instruments used should be boiled, or first cleansed with an antiseptic and afterwards washed out with boiled water. It is well to remember that advantage may be taken of the rapid absorption of fluid which takes place in the rectum. Large enemata of warm saline fluid will in many cases serve all the purposes of infusion into a vein or into the cellular tissue. CHAPTER VIII. SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. Contents.—Shock—Symptoms and Treatment—Syncope—Wound- Fever—Pulse and Temperature Indications—Treatment—Inflam- mation—Treatment by Antiseptic Poultices, by Blood-letting and by Counter-irritation. Shock.—Whatever be the cause of the condition—e.z-, extensive crushing of a limb, or especially, of the abdominal viscera, severe burn, loss of blood, great pain, or extensive operation—the symptoms and treatment are similar. The Symptoms are pallor, and moisture of the skin—feeble, fluttering pulse—soft shallow breathing, and great languor. The Treatment may be summed up briefly as follows :— (1) Relief oi immediately severe pain by hypodermic injection of morphia, and removal of any obvious cause of suff"ering. (2) Zealous supply of external -warmth by hot bottles, hot plates, and blankets—administration of hot tea or coffee, Liebig's extract, or gruel.