304 APPENDIX. This broth should, if possible, be made the day before it is required. Cut the mutton into small pieces, take away all fat and skin, put the mutton into a china-lined saucepan, with i pint of water and the salt. Cover with a lid and bring slowly to the boil, and then skim carefully. Simmer for two hours, and skim occasionally. Add the rice (which must previously be well washed in cold water) and pint cold water, and allow the broth to simmer for one hour more. Strain and put aside for twelve hours to become cold. Remove the fat. Heat as required, keeping back the sediment. Serve very hot with a slice of thin dry toast. [The flavour may be varied by the addition of a small carrot, a piece of onion, or a few herbs. The rice or barley may be omitted, and the broth will be perfectly clear.] Fish Soup (inexpensive). Required— 1 haddock (medium sized). i gill milk. I pint cold water. i teaspoonful of com flour. 1 small potato. ,, ,, salt. 1 oz. butter. '% ,, ,, pepper. 2 leeks. Wash the fish thoroughly and remove the scales; cut it into pieces, and put it into a very clean china-lined saucepan, with the cold water and salt. Allow to come to the boil, with the lid off, and skim thoroughly. The perfection of the soup depends greatly upon this first skimming. Add the potato and white part of the leeks thinly sliced. Boil up once, skim well, and cover with a lid, and let the soup simmer slowly for I hour. Pass the fish, &c., through a sieve, keeping back the bones. Return the soup to the pan. Mix the corn flour with the milk, and keep free from lumps; pour into the pan, stir until boiling, and serve the soup very hot. At the end, % teaspoonful of lemon juice and i tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley may be added to vary the flavour. Beef-Tea. Required— I lb. freshly-killed lean beef. I pint cold water, teaspoonful salt. Remove all skin and fat. Cut the. beef into small pieces < dp not chop it or a good deal of the juice will be squeezed out and lost. [A stiU better plan is to scrape or shred the beef, as this breaks it more thoroughly down and allows the water to mi.\ better with it.' This plan takes a long time.] Place the beef, with the water and salt, in a stone jar, with a tightly- fitting lid, and allow to stand for lo m.inutes. This soaking in "cold water and salt will draw out the juices of the meat. Then place the covered jar in a saucepan (with a lid) half full of Hoiling water, and cook thus for 6o minutes. If the water in the saucepan boils away, add more. The reason beef-tea is put into a jar, and not directly mto a saucepan, is to prevent it from boiling, which is considered to diminish its digestibility.