258 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. of which, near the bottom, a stop cock has been soldered. When the vessel is raised, the fluid it contains will flow out by the tube. Modes of Using the Apparatus.—Either a "syphon" or " water-head " apparatus may be used :— (1) Instead of a syringe, for irrigating wounds or abscess cavities, or for washing out the mouth (after operations), the nose ("nasal douche"), the ear ("syringing the ear''), or the vagina ("vaginal douche"). Nasal Douche, though possible with a syrmge, can be best appued with a continuous stream from a syphon or water-head of about a foot's pressure. The per- forated terminal nozzle should be large enough to completely plug the nostril. The patient, who must lean over a basin, should be instructed to keep his mouth open and breathe through it, while he raises the soft palate so as to en- able the fluid entering by the one nostril to flow round the upper part of the pharynx and leave by the other (Fig. 192). Warm 1^ percent., saline solution answers very well, or a weak antiseptic. In Syringing the Ear , .-, the pinna should be drawn steadily upwards and backwards while the stream of warm fluid is directed along the roof of the canal. A funnel fitted to the ear should guide the returmng fluid into a basin. Care must be taken not to force a sUong stream against the membrane, lest it be ruptured. rr ■ . r t (2) When provided with a simple nozzle, as an etfacient iorm ot enema apparatus. , j ,.,\ U) For washing out the Stomach or Bladder (see pp. 9 and 10). The Thread-Syphons are chiefly used to irrigate wounds hy mois- tening a cloth kept over their surface. A bottle containing the irrieating fluid (water or antiseptic lotion) is fixed to a cage over the wound. The amount of irrigating fluid is regulated as above. Below the limb, a mackintosh must be placed to catch superfluous ^°The following application of syphonage will be found to .be of service in withdrawing the urine in cystitis with or without en arged prostate ; after operations for extroversion of the bladder; or after suprapubic cystotomy, to the comfort of the patient and relief of the nursing staff. Besides a douche can, some india-rubber tubing and a pail, we require a screw-clamp, a small glass Y- or T-tube, a Fig. 192.—The Nasal Douche.