28 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. cannot boil the patient or the operator's hands, hence the integument must be purified with antiseptics (p. 24) and then rinsed with sterile salt solution, of which quantities are kept on tap. Sterilised cloths take the place of the more old-fashioned moist antiseptic towels, and the staff array themselves in sterilised aprons, gloves, &c. The instruments, having been boiled for 20 minutes (Appendix), are placed in salt solution or in weak carbolic. Dry sterile swabs are used for sponging and for covering the wound. Over all a mass of sterile cotton wool, sphagnum, or other suitable material is bound to absorb discharge and act as the main dressing. Only a minimum of any antiseptic touches the wound, namely, that contained in the ligatures and the little upon the instruments. Recent advance, especially in the surgery of the abdomen, has been made chiefly under the aseptic method. It is open to question, however, whether the results in general practice are better than those obtained by the present antiseptic method. Sepsis after Operation.—According to the severity of its effects and the local condition of the wound, it will be necessary to remove stitches where there is the least degree of tension, to open up freely, and promote drainage in every way. Daily or more frequent change of dressing will be required. We have to content ourselves with favouring granulation, so that there shall no longer be an absorbing surface. Meanwhile, by the use of cardiac tonics, stimulants, and nourishment, we promote the patient's strength till the poison is thrown off. In streptococcus poisoning, antistreptococcic serum may be of avail (see Appendix). Septic Wounds.—In the case of compound fractures and joint- wounds, where the recesses have been manifestly exposed to septic influences, most thorough and prolonged irrigation must be used. The skin should also be shaved and purified. If the margins of the skin wound are very dirty they may be clipped off with scissors. Where dirt and sand have been ground into cartilage and bone, the bone-pliers and knife may be used to remove the engrained tissues. Do not otherwise remove bone, even although loose. If sepsis be conquered, the weak part will live. Free incisions may be made to avoid tension, and drainage-tubes inserted. Where a sharp end of bone projects, which has been exposed and cannot readily be replaced, it is well to remove it. Wounds which are septic are generally accompanied by pain, fever, inflammation, and unpleasant odour. Strapping. —Strapping is sometimes employed in lieu of stitching, or is put on when the wound shows a tendency to gape after the removal of sutures. Much neater and more serviceable, however, is the use of collodion with unprepared gauze. A strip of gauze should be laid over the wound, and one end of it secured to the skin by painting on the collodion with a brush. When this dries, traction may be exercised, and the skin pulled towards its opposing flap, which is pushed forwards with the fingers, and the other extremity secured in like manner to the skin. The whole extent of the incision may also be fortified by painting with collodion. Kocher combines bismuth with it, and this forms an