MhVOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 103 (B.) Minor Surgical Operations. (i) Removal of the Tonsils.—In adults, who have the sense to keep their mouth open, this operation is a simple one for the surgeon, as well as nearly painless for the patient, especially if a S per cent, solution of cocaine has been previously rubbed well over the fauces ; but where a gag and an anaesthetic are required, the operation is often very troublesome. For adults (a.) the use of the vulsellum, and curved probe-pointed bistoury is still maintained, but for children {b.) the guillotine should be employed instead. [a.) With the Vulsellum. —The curve probe-pointed bistoury must be wrapped with lint to within an inch of the point. The tongue being kept down with a depressor, and the mouth held well open, the surgeon seizes the prominent tonsil with the vulsellum, and gently draws it towards the middle line. He then cuts off a slice with the bistoury. For a right-handed operator the right tonsil is the more difficult to remove. After grasping this tonsil, the operator may change the vulsellum into his left hand, and crossing his hands cut the tonsil with his right, working from below upwards. The left tonsil is seized with the vulsellum held in the surgeon's left hand, and is cut from above downwards with the knife held in the right hand. (b.) With the Guillotine.—When a guillotine is to be used, either Joimstock's or a Physick's instrument, as modified by Morell Mackenzie, may be selected. The latter, from its greater simplicity, is preferable. Mackenzie describes the method of using the guillotine as follows:—"The instrument being ready for use, the hilt is grasped in the right hand, and the aperture in the shank is placed over the tonsil. The surgeon, with the thumb or index finger of the left hand, placed under the patient's jaw, then presses the tonsil inwards, whilst at the same moment with the thumb of his right hand he drives home the blade of his tonsillotome " (Diseases of Throat and Nose, vol. i., p. 12). Usually, after tonsillotomy, the oozing very soon stops. Gargling the throat with cold water is generally enough. When the bleed- ing threatens to be troublesome, the raw surface may be painted with glycerine and tannic acid, or treated in some of the ways mentioned under the heading hcemorrhage (p. 63). (2) Amputation of the Fingers or Toes.—This maybe called for on account of bruising, or, in the case of the fingers, from sloughing following whitlow. A. Amputation of the Fingers.—From the second phalanx onwards to the point, as much should be left as possible, and in most cases the surgeon's only duty will be to trim the parts, and snip off bone that cannot be covered in by the soft tissues. In working-men, the first phalanx may sometimes be left with advantage (though this is contrary to the usual teaching), as it moves