A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 36 aids venous return, and in many cases is alone necessary for a cure. Where such confinement is impossible, support to the limb with a firm domet, or an elastic bandage will sometimes suffice. Bandaging acts probably in several ways—, by supporting the venous walls when they tend to dilate, by aiding lymphatic absorption, and by stimulating the tissues by the mechanical pressure. The constitutional conditions most frequently complicating ulcers are the "strumous" and the tertiary syphilitic. The " strumous " taint is best treated by good food, fresh air, and exercise, with cod-liver oil and iron (iodide or syrup of the phos- phates), and malt extract taken internally. In tertiary syphilis, iodide of potassium (5 to 15 grs. thrice daily), is generally indicated, but in cachectic cases, a treatment more like that for " strumous " patients will be found best. Any other general derangement complicating an ulcer, must, of course, be treated ; thus the liver and bowels may require regulation, or dyspepsia call for special diet. A weak heart must be strengthened, and the system generally braced up. (8) Skin-Grafting.—To further the cicatrisation of large granu- lating surfaces, epithelial grafts may be used. In order to attain good results, it is necessary that the granulating area be healthy and asceptic. The skin from which the grafts are taken should be first purified—that of the thigh or arm is usually selected. The method of Thiersch is carried out as follows:—Local anaesthesia with cocaine and adrenalin (p. 18), or general anaesthesia, should be employed during the cutting of the grafts, as this procedure is very painful. The area to be covered is first rawed with a sharp spoon if it be granulating, or it may have been left bare as the result of the operation or accident which requires treatment. It is then puri- fied with antiseptic lotion, covered with a sheet of protective, and a sponge is bound firmly over all for 15 minutes till all bleeding has ceased. The sponge and protective are ne.xt removed ; the raw surface and the integument which is to supply the grafts are well washed with salt solution to get rid of the antiseptic, and the operation proceeds. A keen razor is entered at right angles to the purified skin of the thigh so that it barely draws blood, and with a rapid sawing motion it is carried parallel to the free surface, shaving off a very thin strip of epithelium equal in length and breadth to the razor blade. This is transferred to and spread out upon the sore, and a series are applied until the entire surface is covered with slightly overlapping sheets of epithelium. To prevent adhesion of the dressing, and to facilitate the escape of serum, aseptic tinfoil or protective is laid on, and over all a couple of layers of moist gauze and a firmly applied mass of corrosive wool. The thigh should be dressed in a similar fashion, minus the tinfoil or protective. The extremely thin layer of skin removed leaves a surface which is bedewed with a slight ooze of blood ; healing takes place with extreme rapidity, and the patient suffers no inconvenience. This operation requires the administration of an anaathetic. The conditions should be aseptic rather than antiseptic, since the least amount of irritation gives the best result.