EXTEMPORAR V APPLIANCES. 179 folded into it to form a pad over the main vessel of the limb. It should never be forgotten that the pressure of a tourniquet, though sometimes necessary, is always more or less injurious, and in five or six hours is likely to damage seriously the tissues below the point where it is applied. (3) The third object, fixation, should be ensured in the limbs by applying an extemporary splint after the bleeding has been stopped and the wound occluded. Rules for Bearers of the Wounded.—The rules given in militar}' works for carrying wounded men on stretchers are :— (1) To place the patient towards the injured side, in a wound of the chest or lower limb. (2) Towards the sound side, if the upper limb be injured. (3) On his back with legs drawn up, if the abdomen be wounded. These indications may also be of service in carrying hospital patients to and from the operating-theatre. The front bearer in carrying a stretcher should be out of step with the rear bearer, to prevent a disagreeable swing. It is better generally to carry the patient feet foremost; but in going on a hill, the patient's head should be towards the top, unless the injury be a fracture of the thigh, in which case the injured limb should be uppermost. Formation of Ambulance Classes. Practitioners in country districts are frequently asked to undertake a course of Ambulance Lectures, and from want of special training in ambulance work are often at a loss to know how to proceed. If they can arrange the matter with their pupils, practitioners in such a position should form a local branch of one or other of the existing Ambulance Associations — e.g., of the St. John Ambulance Association in England, or of the St. Andrew's Ambulance Association in Scotland. If they put themselves in communication with the secretary of either Association, they will be furnished with full instructions " how to form a class," and will be able to get the loan of a Skeleton, a Stretcher, Diagrams, and the other necessary apparatus. should no such formal work be desired, the practitioner cannot do better than take as his basis the Syllabus laid down by one or other of these Associations, and make such modifications as the circumstances ol his case may seem to indicate. The following is the Syllabus of Ambulance Lectures as laid down by the St. Andrew's Ambulance Association:—