ON FRACTURES. 141 Groove. The musculo-spiral nerve may be injured, or involved at a fater date in a mass of callus, thus giving rise to wrist drop from extensor paralysis. Trea'nunt—General.—Reduce by means of extension and local manipulation. Well-padded Gooch-splints should be applied, cut so as to avoid pressure on the prominent internal condyle (Fig. 90). Secure with slip knots. Bandage the forearm to prevent oedema, and let it be carried in a sling, with the elbow free, so that the full effect of extension may be obtained from the weight of the lower fragment (Fig. 91). Many surgeons advocate with reason the appli- cation of a rectangular splint, which commands the elbow, wrist, and fingers, thus ensuring complete rest and fixation. Should this not be employed, the patient must be cautioned against using the fingers or hand in any way. (a.) Fractures at the upper end of the Humerus are rather more difBcult to diagnose than those which occur at a lower level. Fracture at the Surgical Neck is common. It is generally rather oblique. The lower fragment is pulled upwards and inwards to the axilla, while the upper remains unaltered. Deformity and crepitus are marked features. Separation of the upper Epiphysis from the shaft, a diastasis above the level of the surgical neck, is seen in young people up to twenty years of age. Here also the upper fragment remains in situ; the diaphysis is carried upwards and inwards, and its smooth rounded extremity lying in relation to the coracoid process gives rise to an appearance which exactly simulates sub-coracoid dislocation. Dislocation of the shoulder is, however, not frequent in youth ; the glenoid is felt to be occupied, there is no true crepitus; the outline of the shoulder is restored on manipulation only to become again abnormal on removal of support, and so the nature of the lesion is rendered evident. The results of such epiphyseal injuries must be kept in mind, as regards their effect on the growth of the limb and relation to the joint in causing future stiffness. In adults and old people, complete separation at the level of the anatomical neck sometimes takes place. It is generally associated with severe falls on the hand or shoulder, and is characterised by swelling and tenderness or pressure above the tuberosities. The length of the limb undergoes no appreciable change. By fixing the upper fragment and rotating the lower, deep-seated crepitus may be elicited. This symptom is of course absent if the fracture be impacted, and it is better to arrive at a conclusion by eliminating other injuries, and avoiding such rough means of establishing a diagnosis. Somewhat allied injuries—such as splitting of the head of the humerus, detachment of the great tuberosity, &c.—are recognised by noting any broadening of the head and by a careful comparison of both shoulders. Treatmenl.—All the above injuries may be treated on one plan. Set the fracture; lightly pad the axilla; apply an external rectangular »plint with a shoulder-cap, and bandage carefully from below up-