243 THE URINE. B. Presences of Substances in Solution not found in Healthy Urine. (1) Albumen is to be detected by some of the methods to be a'.ierwards described. Although traces are occasionally found in the urine of healthy persons, the presence of albumen is always to be looked on with suspicion, and demands an investigation into its cause. The harmless forms of albuminous urine have been classified as those due to diet, excessive exercise, or special paroxysms {Stewart). Other causes are various—[a] Chronic renal disease. If the urine be paie. of low specific gravity, and normal or deficient in amount—espe- cially, also, if there be a deposit of tube-casts—chronic renal disease must be suspected and reckoned upon. (b) Acute renal inflammation. A scanty, high-coloured urine, with a considerable quantity of albumen—especially if there be also a deposit of blood-corpuscles and tube-casts, as well as general fever and pain in the loins—will point to acute inflammation of the kidney. This condi- tion may come on in the com'se of a case which is under surgical treatment. It may be found in any form of acute blood-poisoning, such as diphtheria, erysipelas, septicaemia, or pyaemia. \c) Congestion of renal veins from mechanical obstruction. (d) Pus, blood, or serum, poiu-ed into the urinary tract from any cause. Even after blood-corpuscles have ceased to leave the vessels, the presence of albumen in the urine may show that serum still escapes. It is often very difficult to calculate how far the albumen in any urine is due to the pus and blood mixed with it, and how far to diseased kidneys. [e] To leucor.-hcEal discharges, or the menstrual flow, which may be followed by albumen in the urine for some days after every other recognisable trace of blood has disappeared. (2) Bile in the urine may be due to obstruction to some of the bile-ducts within, or outside of, the liver. It may be suspected in a greenish-brown coloured urine, with a tinted lasting froth. To distinguish between bile-pigments and those caused by rhubarb or santonin, an alkali may be added, when the former will be changed to a dirty brown, and the latter become a deeper red. It is well to remember that, although the presence of bile in the urine may point to temporary or permanent obstruction of the hepatic or common bile-ducts by gall-stones or otherwise, the absence of bile by no means excludes a blocking of the cystic duct, a filling-up of the t'all-bladder with gall-stones, a former temporary obstruction of the other ducts, or even the permanent lodging of a gall-stone in the common bile-duct, because the gall-stone may act as a ball-valve and only cause obstruction occasionally. In all cases of doubt, the test for bile-pigments to be afterwards given must be applied. (3) Sugar in the urine may be temporarily present in small quan- tities, or be found there as a constant ingredient. In the latter case, it indicates diabetes mellitus, which sometimes has important surgical aspects.