A SURGICAL handbook: 256 what flattened catheter is applied, D. The two catheters and central rod, chain, and rubber are secured by a terminal screw cap, E. Mode of Use.—See that the instrument is in working order. Plunge it into boiling water (no soda) for five minutes. Draw oft the patient's urine and wash out the bladder (avoiding the entrance of air) with sterilised boric lotion. Leave i oz. in the bladder. If there be any doubt as to the capacity of the urethra, pass a large- sized bougie. Thoroughly lubricate the instrument and introduce, making certain that the curve is fully within the bladder and beyond the prostate. The lubricant of Krauss is to be recommended (see Appendix, p. 288). Examine, if necessary, from rectum or vagina. The patient is now propped up, with his feet supported over the end of the table, the separator Fig. 190.— The Luys Separator detached. — A, Central stem with rubber membrane concealed ; B, milled head, by the turning of which the chain is tightened; C, cap • which keeps the end of the membrane in position ; D D, lateral catheters, which fit against the central stem. Fig. 191. — The Luys Separator mounted.— E, Instrument with tubes attached, but membrane concealed ; F, membrane drawn up by tightening chain. being steadily supported in the middle line by hand, parallel with the thighs. The membranous partition is now to be raised with a few turns of the screw. The boric lotion runs off rapidly, and a couple of collecting tubes, re- spectively labelled right and left, are introduced on the movable frame, beneath the catheters, and receive the urine. The tubes are changed every ten minutes, and the collected urine is set aside for examination as to specific gravity, urea, cryoscopy, &c., and may be centrifuged for microscopic deposits. The functional activity of each kidney may also be determined if we inject into the glutei 4 cc. of a 4 per cent, solution of indigo carmine, sterilised, with a hypodermic needle. The colour normally shows itself in the urine within ten minutes. Where there is a difference in the activity of each organ, the different hue of the urine gives a striking demonstration of the efficiency with which the partition acts as it lies in the grasp of the bladder. On withdrawing the instrument the bladder may again be washed out with boric lotion, and the patient sent to bed. There is rarely difficulty in passing the separator, and so little pain that an ana;s- thetic is not required. Some potash water may be given during use. The separator should now be cleansed by plunging it into boiling water, taking it to pieces, and carefully drying. The rubber cover serves five or six times, and is readily slipped on again if it be well dried and plentifully dusted inside with powdered talc. The parts ot the instrument should now be fitted together, and replaced in the box.