1 \JU Fig. 124.—Kocher's Method—Third Part, the arm having been raised forwards, Internal Rotation is rapidly executed.* fixes the shoulder girdle with one foot, and raises the arm above the patient's head. Second or "■Manipulation" Method of Kocher.—Th^ so-called "manijuilation" method of Kocher is performed by flexing the fore- arm to a right angle, and |)ressingtheelbo\v to the side. External rotation of the hum- erus is then performed by pulling the hand outwards (Fig. 123). This movement must be carried out slowly and gently, and may occupy five minutes. The limb is now rap- idly elevated directly forwards, and then rotated inwards, and the displaced bone slips easily into its socket. In every case where this is difficult, chloro- form may be given. Third or Maniptt- latiofi by Abduction and Rotation Inwards is strongly recom- mended by A. G. Miller, who describes it as follows:—" The patient being seated on a chair, the surgeon stands at the injured side (say the right) and takes the arm in both hands ; one (the left) being above the elbow, the other (right) above the wrist, the arm being bent to an L at the elbow. An assistant stands at the patient's other side and steadies the scapula with both hands. "The surgeon then gently and slowly elevates the arm, making trac- tion outwards from the body, at the same time assuring the patient that what he is doing will not be very painful, and that it is not the actual reduction but merely a preliminary. If the patient should resist, then the surgeon may wait for a while or administer an anEesthelic. "When the patient has ceased to resist, the arm will come towards the surgeon; then is the time to rotate the humerus by dropping the hand, and the head of the humerus will glide into position." Subsequent Treatment.—Rest the joint by means of supporting the elbow in a sling, and bind the hmb to the side. Begin gentle passive motion at the end of ten days. (3) Dislocations of the Elbow are most readily diagnosed by finding the condyles of the humerus, noting the relation of the head of the radius to the end of the olecranon condyles, carefully explor- ing the bend of the elbow, and noting to what extent movement is interfered with. In the common backward displacement of both * The humerus has been represented as slightly abducted. It should have been elevated directly forwards.