THE URINE. 245 from an injury or from an embolus, may be expected in acute nephritis of whatever kind; in the course of chronic nephritis, from direct or indirect efiect of a calculus, or from excess of unc or oxalic acid in the blood. When the source of bleeding is the bladder, a calculus, a simple or malignant tumour, cystitis, tubercular ulceration, or (after a severe injury) a rupture may be traced as its cause. Bleeding often comes from dilated veins about the prostate in old men, and as the blood may easily pass back into the bladder, the diagnosis may be difficult. Haematuria and serious lesions of the urinary tract are sometimes traced to a parasite (bilharzia haematobia), and bleeding occasionally follows the sudden evacuation of an over- distended bladder. From the urethra, besides the causes of bleeding already noticed, a new growth, urethral calculus, or chancre, may be accountable. In women the menstrual flow or blood from a tumour at or near the cervix, escaping by the vagina, may contaminate the urine and simulate hsematuria, (5) Pus in the urine—pyuria—like blood, may have its source in anv part of the urinary tract. When pus is detected, its source should be ascertained, if pos- sible. That from the urethra will be swept out with the first few ounces of urine, which should therefore be collected separately. If the remainder of the urine comes away clear, the diagnosis is pretty certain, but if not, an effort may be made to distinguish between pus from the kidney and that from the bladder. By first washing out the bladder and then tying in a catheter, a suffi- cient sample may be obtained. If it be uniformly turbid, the source of pus will be above the bladder; if clear, probably in that \-iscus {Thompson). When the urethra has been localised as the source of the pus, we may require to know whether the pus comes from the anterior or posterior urethra (in front of or behind the compressor urethra), and if from the latter, whether from the mucous membrane or from a collection opening on to it. The follow- ing method may then be adopted :—The patient having retained his water for some time, the surgeon passes a small sized soft catheter down to, but not beyond, the triangular ligament, and through this washes out the anterior part of the urethra with sterilised water, boric lotion, or per cent, of salicylic acid. If the patient then micturates into two beakers, the first will contain the sediment which has been lodged in the posterior urethra. Should we wish, however, to know if discharge is being poured into the posterior urethra, three beakers will be needed. The anterior urethra is washed out as before, then the patient passes some water into the first beaker, the surgeon then passes his finger into the patient's rectum, and tries to press out fluid from the prostate and vesiculae seminales, some may escape at the meatus and settle the question, but if not, the patient micturates into the second beaker which will then contain whatever the surgeon has pressed into the posterior