(l) In the Three or (if available) four bearers are required to carry a patient in the horizontal position. Getting into position.—While the patient is still on the ground, the bearers range themselves on his sound side (say, his right), and stooping down, put the left knee (in every case) on the ground with the right foot near it. No. I is opposite the shoulder, and placing his left arm beneath the right shoulder, leans across and passes his right arm under the patient's left axilla, and tries to meet his hands beneath ; the patient at the same time, if able, clasps No. I round the neck and shoulders. No. 2, also on the right side, passes 6oiA arms well below the patient's pelvis. No. 3, still on the same side, passes one arm below the thighs, and the other below the legs. 11 there be a No. 4, he goes to the opposite side, and helps to lift the tnmk and thigh, by passing his arms below. First Stage. —When all are ready, No. 4 (or whoever is taking the lead) gives the word to lift. The patient is then raised from the ground, and supported on the right knees of the bearers, which, from the position assumed, project as a convenient support. Second Stage.—A stretcher, if available, should now be placed beneath the patient by No. 4, who then assists in lowering the patient into it. Should there be no stretcher, the bearers, having adjusted their hold in the first stage, can then more readily rise to the erect position in the second, and carry the injured person to a place of safety. As this is a fatiguing mode of carrying to all concerned, it should not be attempted for more than one or two hundred yards. Where only two bearers are available, the patient must be carried in the sitting position, by the two-, three-, or four-handed seat The four-handed seat is best when the patient can clasp his bearers round the neck ; the two-handed seat is available when two bearers have to carry a nearly unconscious patient; and the use of the three-handed seat is for an intermediate condition. Four-handed Seat (Fig. 129).—The bearers place themselves on each side of the wounded person, facing obliquely towards him, and stooping down. Each grasps his own left wrist with his right hand, and with his left hand grasps the right wrist of the other bearer. The patient places himself on the seat thus formed, and puts an arm round the shoulders of each bearer as they rise to the erect position. Three-handed Seat. —The bearers having placed them- selves in the same position relative to the patient, the pig. lag.—Four-handed Seat, one on the right (No, i) grasps his own left fore-arm with his right hand, and with his left