238 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Variations In the Normal Excretion.—An important matter is the varying rate ai which urine is excreted during the twenty-four hours by the kidneys. Roberts has shown* that the solid and fluid constituents of urine are much increased after meals, and diminished during fasting and sleep. From this two deductions may be drawn, which might be of service in surgical cases—(i) That the urine, like the faeces, may be reduced by a sparmg solid as well as liquid diet, in cases where it might be thought necessary; and (2) that where urine had to be repeatedly drawn off by the catheter, the meal-hours might be so planned to suit the surgeon's time, that his visits an hour or so later would relieve the bladder after the increased flow had occurred. Urine is diminished in feverish conditions, especially those associated with sweating ; in cirrhosis of the liver ; in heart-disease, when it results in backward venous congestion, or lowered arterial blood-pressure ; in acute Bright's disease, or in the acute interstitial nephritis reflexly caused by irritation to the urethra, or in the later stages of all forms of chronic Bright's disease ; in rapid removal of fluid from the blood, as in severe hemorrhage, extensive serous effusions, persistent vomiting, or violent diarrhoea; in peritonitis, and in severe irritation of the splanchnic nerves, as in strangulation of the bowel, and in renal or hepatic colic ; also in blockage of the ureter by a calculus or by the pressure of a tumour. Complete Suppression of Urine—A condition of the utmosi danger—may occur not only in severe forms of Bright's disease, and in the course of any violent fever, but also in the congestions and inflammations of the kidneys which are apt to follow even the simplest operations on the urethra or bladder, especially when there has been long-standing backward pressure in the pelvis of the kidney from obstruction to the outflow of urine, due to stricture or enlarged prostate. Suppression may also be caused by an overdose of turpentine, nitric acid, or other irritant, or by the absorption of cantharides from a large blister. An increased quantity of urine may be due to diabetes insipidus or mellitus; to the early stage of any degeneration of the kidneys, of which it is sometimes the first symptom, and to waxy disease in particular ; to the intermediate stage of cirrhotic kidney associated with increased arterial tension ; to irritation in the prostate acting reflexly as in an early stage of tubercular deposit or senile enlarge- ment ; in certain degrees of backward pressure, as in the partial or intermittent obstruction of the ureters which leads to hydro-nephrosis; or to cystic degeneration of the kidney. It is also caused by nervous excitement, and is often a symptom of hysteria. The frequency of micturition should always be noted, as, taken along with other symptoms, it is an important detail in diagnosis. Like the quantity of urine, the frequency of micturition may be * Oh Urinary and Renal Diseases,