99 TRACHEOTOMY. fascia and isthmus on each side, and divide the tissue between the forceps as far as necessary. In this way, the upper two or three rings of the trachea are bared, and can readily be felt by the finger- tip. The knife is then held short, and plunged into the windpipe for a quarter of an inch with its cutting edge directed upwards and the incision slightly prolonged. The knife should be then withdrawn, and its handle introduced ; this, being rotated transversely to the wound, permits of the ejection of mucus, and acts as a director along which the tube may be now introduced. Should the violent upward movements of the trachea during forced respiration prove troublesome, fixation may be obtained by laying hold of the compression-forceps, which grip the isthmus of the thyroid gland and its fascia, or, by inserting a sharp hook to one side of the middle line, the parts may be steadied. The trachea is then readily incised. In the " low" operation, the operator must clearly bear in mind that the chief difficulties are met with as soon as the deep fascia of the neck is entered. The anterior aspect of the trachea below the isthmus is clothed with the inferior thyroid veins, which may form a complex anastomosis, and here also an abnormal thyroidea ima arterj- may appear. It may be necessary to push up the thyroid isthmus, and in the case of infants to push aside the thymus gland. As soon as the operator has carried his incision between the depressors of the hyoid, secured the superficial veins, and opened the deep fascia, then his troubles begin. The deeper veins must be separated with the handle of the knife, or grasped with compression- forceps wherever they cross, and the rings of the trachea should be iairly exposed and cleared before they are divided. Should there be great hemorrhage with urgent dyspnoea, it is well to open the trachea during the bleeding, after having allowed it to continue for a few seconds, since the venous bleeding will relieve Ihe engorged right heart. The hemorrhage and dyspnoea will cease frith the first respiratory efforts, and the inspired blood will be mostly expectorated. As far as possible, however, the opening of the trachea should not take place till haemorrhage is checked. The inspiration of blood is a fruitful source of subsequent pneumonia. The surgeon must impress on his assistants the importance of keeping the head steady, and must ever bear in mind that misfortunes may attend any deviation of the incision from the middle line. In children, the trachea is soft and yielding, and is readily missed— more especially if the surgeon passes a little to one side or the other. In very urgent adult cases, a rapid'vertical incision from the apex of the thyroid downwards will expose the crico-thyroid membrane, and by incismg this transversely, in order to avoid the crico-thyroid artery, rapid eiitrance can be obtained to the respiratory tract. Again, it is possible still further to gain room by proceeding next to divide the ring of the cricoid [Laryngo-iracheotany). Caution!—TYiZ operator should always stand a.side at the moment that the trachea is opened. Its contents are ejected with much force