A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 12 renders the albumen almost as ready for rectal absorption as peptonising does. This method from its simplicity will be of much practical use. Peptonised suppositories are a convenient form by which albu- minoid substances may be administered. To lessen the irritability of the rectum, all faecal matter should be cleared out from it by an enema of warm water, with or without soap, before rectal alimentation is begun, and from time to time during its progress. The same care in maintaining an excess of carbohydrate over albuminoid food (in proportion of about 4 to i) must be taken in dealing with this, as with the ordinary mode of feeding by the mouth. Nourishment: General Hints on.—Speaking generally, the nourishment of patients recovering from an operation is to be main- tained on the principle of giving nutrition without increasing the nitrogenous waste. Beef-tea, chicken-broth, and other meat- infusions are recognised as stimulants to tissue-change rather than foods proper. They should not be omitted: but starchy foods should be chiefly relied on, and it should be remembered that meat- infusions alone will cause more rapid wasting than no food at all. In feverish conditions (septic and otherwise) the digestive juices lose their power—hence the indication for giving artificially-digested foods in extreme cases. When the mouth becomes dry and parched for lack of saliva, arrow-root, rice, and other starchy foods are contra-indicated, unless previously acted on by malt or pancreatic extract {Chambers). In these cases the use of artificially-prepared foods specially intended for infants will be found of service. The various kinds seem to have this in common, that they contain starchy foods more or less changed by malting (Mellin's, Angell's, and Savory & Moore's, can be all highly recommended). CHAPTER III. AN.S3STHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. Contents.—^The Condition suitable for Operation—Importance of Per- sonal Experienee in the Administration of Anassthetics—(l) Chloro- form: Modeof Administration—Dangers and Cautions—Respiratory and Cardiac Complications: how to meet them —(2) Ether: ministration of (a.) by the "Open," (b.) by the "Closed," Method —(3) Cocaine—Caution !—(4) The Method of producing Local Insensibility by Extreme Cold. The drugs most commonly employed for the production of general anaesthesia are chloroform and ether. No anaesthetic can be regarded as absolutely safe. The relative safety of the various agents em- ployed depends upon the administrator, the condition for which the anaesthesia is required, and the ana?sthetic. The condition suitable for operating, is that in which the patient is said to be "under." This implies muscular relaxation, and the