145 ON FRACTURES. an ordinary rectangular splint," or else by a piece of straight splint laid across the angle formed by the forearm splints and the upper arm. Either of these appliances when secured in position will prevent pronation. The latter method will fix the elbow in fracture of the upper arm. (5) Fracture of the Olecranon, when transverse in chara-cter, with separation of the fragments, is readily distinguished. When the fracture is comminuted, more care is required in diagnosis. Marked tenderness on pressure, with broadening of the bone, is always suspicious, and when complicated with an injury to the bones, or with bruising of the skin, demands circumspect treatment, lest the fracture become compound. Where there is much displacement, the following method may be adopted :—Cut an oblong piece of plaster with horseshoe-shaped extremities, to which stitch two extension tapes. Fashion from Gooch material a splint to fit the antenor aspect of the limb, so that the angle of the upper and forearm may be well marked (Fig. 99, i). Bandage the forearm (Fig- 99. 2) ; lay the limb supine, and apply the plaster to the postenor aspect of the humerus, so that the upper fragment of the olecranon lies in the horseshoe, and carry the bandage up the arm, avoiding all pressure over the seat of fracture. Place the splint well padded, especially at the elbow, on the front of the limb, and bandage from below upwards, taking care not to include the exten- sion tapes. Finally, an elastic band may be secured to the tapes and fastened to the end of the splint (Fig. 100). In this way, gentle traction is maintained, the fragments are brought into apposition and good serviceable union secured. When the displacement is not marked, there is no necessity for the plaster and rubber extension • but a figure-of-eight bandage at the elbow will suffice. The patient 13 advised to have his hand as seldom as possible dependant; and Fig. gg.—Bandaging the Forearm in Fracture of the Olecranon, 2, prior to the application of the anterior splint, i. 100.—Fracture of the Ole- cranon treated with elastic extension. IC