A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 246 urethra; the remainder of the urine is now passed into the third beaker to make sure that the deposit has not come from the bladder. Coming from the kidney, pus may indicate pyelitis (by extension of septic mischief from the bladder, from tubercular deposit, or from the irritation of a calculus), a tumour, suppuration within the kidney or acute nephritis. When the bladder is its seat, it may be due to cystitis, tumours, tubercular ulceration, a stone, or bilharzia. ' From the urethra, gonorrhoea or gleet is the usual source of pus; more rarely a urethral abscess, and occasionally a tumour, urethral chancre, or secondary syphilitic ulceration. Bilharzia hsematobia is said to lodge most frequently in the prostatic urethra. The cystoscope in practised hands is often of the greatest use in ascertaining the source of pus and blood in doubtful cases. The condition of the bladder wall can be observed and the flow from the ureters watched, while the condition of the vesical orifice of the ureter often indicates that of the ureter or kidney above. In many cases it is necessary to examine the uiine collected separately from each kidney, either by a urine separator (see p. 255) or by the catheter cystoscope. The Occurrence of Urinary Deposits. —After urine has been allowed to cool and stand for several hours, a deposit is generally seen, varying from a delicate cloud of mucus in health, to distinct sedi- ments in disease. The naked-eye and microscopic characters of these must be noted. The materials of some of the deposits are formed in the urine before it cools, while those of others only appear after cooling. Those which appear before, are pus, and occasionally crystals of uric and oxalic acid, when in excess, entangled in mucus, also amorphous phosphates. In an alkaline urine, crystals of ammonio-magnesium phosphate may be seen. Where a deposit occurs before cooling, there will be greater risk of calculus formation within the body, although, as V. Carter has shown, it is probable that calculi are not the result of aggregation of the ordinary crystalline forms of the various substances, but of the com- bination of a modified crystalline form with mucus in a way not as yet clearly understood. After cooling the commonest deposit is one ot amorphous urates of soda, ammonia, lime, or magnesia. These may be seen under many conditions—such as excessive mus- cular exercise, congestion of the liver, any feverish condition, errors of diet, and from dyspepsia. When visible continuously for some time they indicate liver derangement, and being premonitory of gout and uric acid formation, require treatment (Murchison). If co-existent-with piles they would call for an improvement in the hepatic circulation. Besides urates, crystals of uric acid or oxalate of lime may be deposited, one or both, generally with urates also. Their deposit will depend partly on the quantity of acid present, partly on the acidity of the urine. In an alkaline urine, phosphate of lime in an amorphous or partly crystalline form may be seen, also crystals of