A SURGICAL handbook: I02 tion fail, one must be prepared to perform tracheotomy at once. The intubation instruments of Collin (Paris) are decidedly the best (see Fig. 38). A laryngeal tube of suitable size is selected, threaded, and affixed to the introducer by means of its obturator. The child, pinned in a towel to secure its arms, is laid flat on a narrow table, as if for tracheotomy. This position for intubation was introduced by the late Dr. Moon, of the Edinburgh City Fever Hospital. The gag is inserted on the left side of the mouth. The operator, standing at the patient's right, passes his left forefinger behind the epiglottis, so as to feel the rima, glides the introducer along his finger, and slightly tilting the point forward, as if making for the Adam's apple externally, avoids the oesophagus, and the larynx is entered. The mechanism of detaching the obturator forces the tube onwards, and it is now pushed home with the left forefinger. If this be successfully accomplished there is a violent paroxysm of coughing, mucus and membrane are violently expelled, after which respiration becomes tranquil. It is well to have the laryngeal tube mounted with the central core of a banjo D string, the wire being removed, except at the portion which lies between the teeth. This serves Fig. 38.—Collin's Intubation Instrument. to withdraw the tube at once if we have planted it within the oesophagus, or at any moment if it become blocked. It may be left in situ secured by a loop around the patient's ear, and fastened with adhesive plaster. The wire cannot be cut by the teeth. The hands should be secured in some fashion to prevent the child pulling at it. Intubation requires practice on the cadaver, but the necessary dexterity is speedily acquired. The child may become cyanosed during the operation. The beginner is apt to intubate the oesophagus, and may require to make several attempts before he succeeds. The tube should be withdrawn about the fourth day, and re-introduced if required. Removal by the extractor is not easy. The beaked extremity is to be passed within the orifice of the larjTigeal tube, the blades expanded, and so locked within the tube ; extractor and tube are removed together. The shorter tubes of Collin can also be expressed by the fingers applied externally. As a rule, feeding presents but little difficulty if the child be kept recumbent, and it soon gets used to the tube.