A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 136 forwards, occurs when the break lies at any point internal to the coraco-clavicular ligament. There is generally some irregularity at the seat of fracture, unless it lie between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, in which case locahsed tenderness on pressure, taken in conjunction with the history of the case and the condition of the limb, affords ground for a positive diagnosis. _ If the fracture lie external to the coraco-clavicular ligament, there is httle tendency to downward displacement; but forward rotation becomes gradually well marked, should suitable treatment not be adopted. Treatment.—Restore and retain the outer fragment. If the patient be confined to bed with a pillow between his shoulders, the weight of the limb no longer causes downward displacement, and the forward and inward distortion is remedied by the gravitation of the shoulders backwards, counterbalancing and exhausting the muscular action. Although satisfactory results may be obtained in this way, few people care to submit to such restriction and confine- ment, so that generally the patient is not treated in bed. Authori- ties diflfer as to the measures to be adopted for obtaining satisfactory union. The necessary indications are fulfilled by the following plans, which may be used and modified as circumstances indicate. Fracture of the left clavicle at the junction of its inner and middle thirds. (a.) First Method—by Pad and Triangular Handkerchiefs. Materials.—Two triangular handkerchiefs ; oblong pad of wadding • Domet roller; safety-pins. Treatment.—Pad a sling with wadding in such a way that one end of the sling is longer than the other ; thus the knot, when tied, will lie in front of or behind the sound armpit, as in P"ig. 82. The second sling is arranged as in Fig. 72, so that its base lies beyond the elbow. The surgeon should now flex the forearm, carry the hand to the opposite shoulder, and brace back the shoulders, so as to restore the outline of the broken bone. He now raises the dependant angle of the sling, and ties it round the neck (Fig. 82); in doing so, he can bring the elbow as far across the chest as is needful to maintain correct apposition. The apex of the sling is now carried behind the arm, and the three folds there secured by a pin. Finally the circular bandage (Fig. S3) binds the elbow to the side, and all is fixed by pins. The axillary pad acts as a fulcrum, and thus the shoulder is carried outwards, supported, and steadied; while the sling serves to remedy the downward and forward displacement. The pad is, however, seldom necessary, and as it may be overdone, is liable to cause oedema from pressure. {b.) Sayre's Method—by Plaster Sirips.—ln this plan the chief factor is support exercised on the elbow. Materials.—Two strips of strong adhesive plaster, 2% inches broad ; boracic lint, or antiseptic wool.