A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 76 peculiar, and may have relation to heat-centres, more especially since very low temperatures (85° F.) have also been observed in connection with some spinal and cranial lesions. On the second and third day after most injuries, even although subcutaneous or aseptic (as, for example, simple fracture), a rise of one or two degrees often takes place, and the same phenomenon attends on aseptic wounds. This, then, gives no cause for anxiety. It may be due to some waste pro- duct circulating in the blood; but we are in the dark as to its precise origin. A very different rise follows the advent of sepsis. This shows itself generally by a marked and increasing rise of temperature, which, however, gradually falls as granulation advances, and the wound no longer absorbs. Where abscess forms, rigors may take place with marked rise. If constitutional blood-poisoning develops, the temperature may vary from the regular nocturnal increase of hectic to the more erratic jumps and relapses of pyremia. WTien tension is associated with pain, as in whitlow and orchitis, increased heat is also present, and this abates at once on removal of tension. A rise of temperature is of graver import in the aged than in adults, and in adults than in children. Where 104° is reached the prognosis is always guarded, if the temperature does not speedily yield to treatment. The conditions of shock and loss of blood ahyaj's give rise to low temperature. The advent of erj^sipelas is often indicated by a rise of temperature before other symptoms have appeared. Treat?fient.—'We may look upon the most serious accelerations of pulse and temperature in surgical cases as generally due to wound- fever—i.e., a true septic absorption—and therefore preventible. The treatment where this fever occurs, then, is—not so much to lower the temperature by the administration of drugs as—to stimulate the patient, and enable him to combat the poison he has absorbed, and to prevent the entrance of more. Stimulants and strong cardiac tonics are therefore desirable, until the purification and free drainage of wounds amend the local condition. When wounds have become distinctly septic, and general blood-poisoning ensues, the best treat- ment is to remove all the stitches, and purify the wound-surface. In some cases, the part may even be removed entirely, as, for example, in pyaemia or septic gangrene, where amputation may save the patient's life. Irrigation, free drainage, and pure air are necessary. The rise of temperature due to local tension and pain may subside under the soothing application of an ordinary or antiseptic poultice to the part. If the condition persists, free incision is indicated, more especially if pus has formed. The urethra and bladder often exhibit most interesting phenomena in regard to rigors and fever in their reaction to instrumentation. A great rise and rigor often follows the passage of a catheter in some individuals. This is obviously nervous in origin, and may be antagonised by the use of cocaine and morphia. Again, there may be no trouble till the patient makes water. This is sometimes followed by a rise due to the absorption of some alkaloid from the urine. Finally, the urine itself may become infected from a dirty instrument, and from this a true catheter-fever, septic in character, due to absorption, may follow.