26 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. amount left in the wound, the less risk there will be of this. Strips of fresh ox aorta, kangaroo tendon, and allied animal textures have been prepared like catgut. Closure of wounds is effected by sutures of silk, silk-worm gut, horse-hair, or silver wire, which will require removal, or by catgut, which becomes absorbed. The margins of the wound should be closely and accurately applied, each epithelial edge meeting its fellow, and no fat protruding. In wounds which unite by the first intention, and which are aseptic, the "Continuous" suture may be used. It is finished off by slipping the double end of the suture under the last stitch, and tying over that (Fig. 2). Tension is met by the use of Lister's button suture, which gives excellent results. It permits the relaxed edges of the wound to lie in apposition. Similarly we may employ deep buried stitches of catgut. When the edges will not meet we may cover the raw surface with Thiersch grafts. (See p. 36.) Drainage is effected by means of ordinary rubber tubing, glass tubes, or by media which become absorbed, such as decalcified bone tubes (see Appendix) or prepared catgut. There is a great advantage in making separate apertures for the drains at the most dependent part, encouraging union by the first intention along the line of incision. A dependent aperture is made by thrusting a closed forceps from the wound through the tissues, till the skin is tense over it, and then incising. In this way danger of injuring blood-vessels or other important structures is reduced to a minimum. The Dressing.—An efficient covering for the lips of the wound is found in three or four folds of moist carbolised gauze. This does not adhere, and remains soft and pliant. Dressing in copious amount is now applied, arranged so as to bring together raw surfaces, and to obliterate all cavities. It should extend well beyond the confines of the wound. Finally, a firm bandage, splints, and other supports, as need be. When to change the Dressing.—Should discharge appear at one spot, the surface there may be touched with an antiseptic lotion and a fresh pad put over all. If the discharge be in quantity, a new dressing is required. General Remarks.—^\'Ca. absorbable drains and stitches, all may be left untouched for an indefinite length of time should a favourable course be pursued. When tubes and sutures have to be removed, the tubes may be taken out in 24 hours, the deep stitches on the third or fifth, and superficial on the seventh or tenth days. An area of redness around any stitch calls for its removal. A slight rise of temperature generally takes place on the second or third evening in any case, but there is no occasion to dress unless something has gone wrong with the wound, as is evidenced by the rise being over 100° F., by quickening of the pulse, or by local pain or disturbance, without other known cause. Aseptic Surgeiry.—Many surgeons reach the ideal of thoroughly aseptic wound treatment by operating in an aseptic roorn, with aseptic surroundings, dressings, and instruments. In practice this