ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 25 Pharmacopceia. It is sufficient to apply this with sterilised nail brush or gauze for the space of live minutes. One of the most efficient methods is Ahlfeld's hot-water-alcohol method, slightly modified by Schreffer—, (1) Scrub the hands thoroughly in (not over) a strong solution of green soap in water as hot as can be borne. This must last for at least len minutes, and during the time the water must be changed two or three times. Use a sterilised nail brush. Between the changes of water the hands should be well rubbed with sterilised fine sand made from powdered marble or pumice stone. Before the last change, scrape under and round the nails with some convenient blunt instrument. (2) With another sterilised nail brush, scrub for five minutes in methylated spirits once changed. (3) Bathe the hands in 1-2000 corrosive sublimate solution. Cheyne recommends to sponge the hands with turpentine, to wash thoroughly with soap and Lister's "strong mixture" {5 per cent, car- bolic lotion, containing one five- hundredth part of corrosive subli- mate in solution) and a nail brush, then to carefully clean the nails with a knife. The hands, which are now dried, are repeatedly dipped thereafter in 1-2000 cor- rosive lotion, before and during the operation. It is advisable to protect the hands as far as possible from con- tact with septic material. Soiled dressings should be removed with forceps, rubber gloves should be used for septic operations, rectal examinations, &c. Antiseptic Ligatures and Dressings. — Catgut ligatures, prepared according to the various formulzE in the Appendix, are to be used. A difficulty arises in getting good catgut, and it is better that the .surgeon should prepare his own. That supplied by the instrument-makers is often unreliable, and is a fertile source of wound-infection. Under these circumstances, some have pre- ferred to u.se silk, duly purified (see Appendix). As shown by gradually absorbed by the tissues, slower than with catgut invariably slough out. Fig. 2.—Melhods of Closing Wound— I, Lister's wire button suture; 2 and 3, interrupted suture ; 4, suture of norse hair, showing double twist; 5, continuous suture. Lister, this, when aseptic, is The process is, however, much .Should sepsis take place the silk ligatures The finer the silk, and the smaller the