ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 43 of temporary ancemia of the part is caused by local spasm of the arterial walls, producing a result like that occasioned by the general slackening of the circulation in fainting. One or all of these conditions may be present in the use of different agents, their exact action, however, in the case of many known to be useful is not certain. If we have clearly grasped the general principles involved in the above sketch, we shall the more easily be able to understand what the various kinds of hemorrhage are, and be better prepared to apply intelligently the practical rules devised to meet them. Three kinds of hemorrhage have been recognised by surgeons : — I. Primary, that which occurs at the moment of division of the blood-vessel; 2. Reactionary, that which appears on the return of quickened circulation after a collapsed condition—i.e., within six or eight hours of the injury ; 3. Secondai-y, that which occurs during the process of healing of the vessel. A. Primary HaBmorrhage.—During an operation, bleeding may be avoided by temporary pressure on the main vessels leading to the part, with subsequent closure of the wounded vessels by ligature, torsion, styptic, or cautery. In other cases, the vessels, as they are being divided, may be closed by the use of the ecraseur or cautery ; or, again, the vessels may be exposed and seized with forceps before they are di\'ided, being permanently secured immediately afterwards. The Temporary Closure must be carried out differently in different parts of the body. In the extremities (unless when close to the trunk) the main vessel can be secured by the pressure of a tight band, applied by a tourniquet, elastic bandage, or elastic band. {a.) The ToTirniquet in use now is only slightly modified from the original instrument devised by Petit. The instrument is in such frequent use that a description of it would be superfluous. The following points must be at- tended to in applying the band to the tourniquet-. — (i) The receiving side of the buckle must be towards the limb, and about 2 inches of band must be left between the buckle and the first roller ; (2) the band must pass only over the rollers Fig. 7.—Petit's Tourniquet, to show of the plates, SO that when the use of Rollers. instrument is ready nothing should be seen from below but the brass margin-s (Fig. 7); (3) lastly, before being handed to the operator, the two plates should be screwed close together. A pad is generally used with the tourniquet, and is applied differently by different surgeons. Usually the pad, in the form of a medium-sized