302 APPENDIX. recommended for indexing according to name is that described in Todd's Student's Manual. A good thick notebook is taken, and the pages are marked as follows :—Each letter of the alphabet has lo pages allotted to it—i.e., two for each of the vowels, a, e, i, (y), o and ii. The patient's name is then entered primarily according to the first letter in the name and secondarily according to the first vowel. Thus, J. Smith or Simpson would be entered on page S, i; Sloan, on page S, o; Anderson, on page A, e, and so on. Following the name there would be a reference to the disease and the number of the case. Thus, against J. Smith's name might stand " Knee, Tuberculosis, 15"—i.e., the 15th of the tubercular knee cases. There still remains to be described the method of storing the cases, which are grouped together according to the disease. Nothing seems more suitable for a practitioner than an adaptation of the " Ceres" system. A number of separate cardboard slips is placed in a box. They lie slanting against one another, steadied by a support which can be moved along at will as more space is required. Instead of the letters which are sent out fixed upon the slips the practitioner pastes the names of the diseases fixed on in his plan. Between the slips go the cases—arranged either in direct series or preferably with several pinned or gummed on to a broad sheet (a student would find one or two of the portfolios before-mentioned would sufficiently suit his purpose, if the partitions had names of diseases pasted over the letters). The advantages of the method now recommended are that (i) full use is made of the admirable business expedient of simultaneously storing and indexing. While a patient is still in attendance his name gives the index to his case-sheet. Afterwards when the medical man wishes to refer to similar cases of a given disease he finds them grouped together. Should, however, he wish to find the case through the prtient's name, he has the book index for reference. (2) Notes of the same patient's case are kept together. (3) He has no bulky note-book to carry about with him. In hospital practice the only difference is that the cases are usually taken on larger sheets of paper than those recommended for private work.