ON FRACTURES. I5S loop of strong elastic tubing to the extension-tapes, and passing this over the foot-piece, keep up traction (Fig. iii). Others prefer the apparatus (Fig. 112) where both fragments are acted on by elastic force. An attempt should always be made to secure osseous union. Moreover, since we usually only succeed in getting a short liga- mentous uniting medium by the methods above described, and since this is extremely liable to stretch to an almost unlimited extent, if subjected to early strain, it follows that the longer the knee can be kept stiff in the position of extension, the better for the patient. Hence, the limb may be put up in starch at the end of eight or ten weeks. In sixteen weeks gradual attempts may be made to get a little flexion, but nine or twelve months should elapse before full flexion is allowed. The operation of cutting down upon and wiring Fig. 113.—Fan-shaped Plaster for extension. the fragments in order to obtain osseous union need not be dis- cussed here. Stellate and longitudinal fractures are not so trouble- some, and may be treated with a simple figure-of-eight bandage and posterior spUnt. (4) Fracture of both Bones of the Leg.—When both bones of the leg are broken, there is usually marked displacement. This is not so when one alone gives way, as then the other acts as a splint. The customary displacement of shortening and rotation of the lower fragment outwards, may be met by careful setting and by extension with weight and pulley. When the break is very low down, so that It 13 somewhat difficult to get a grasp of the lower fragment, an attempt may be made by incorporating fan-shaped plasters (Fig. 113), with a bandage covering in the foot and ankle. [a.) First Method—In the Extended Position.—Yox all fractures of the leg, there is no apparatus of such universal application as the Box splint. Materials.—Ty/o splints of light wood, % inch thick, 4 inches broad and long enough to extend from above the knee to a hand's-breadth Wow the sole. Three towels; one large, and two somewhat smaller blip knots; bandage; wadding.