JOIXT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 235 to reach from the knee to a point about 10 inches below the heel, and wide enough to encircle the calf. Upon this gauze, mark out with a lead pencil a pattern similar to the outline of the accompany- ing sketch (Fig. 183, b) of such size that it shall cover the posterior two-thirds of the limb. Place the pattern upon six or eight layers of the same material, and with a pair of shears cut them together." He lays these layers on one another, with freshly-mixed plaster between (the plan with the dry powder, afterwards wet, would seem better), and then places the soft mass beneath the limb previously padded, and after folding it up applies a roller-bandage. This splint is open in front. Flannel or lint, soaked in plaster, of the de- sired shape, would probably do as well. {f.) Pasteboard or Poroplastic Splints.—These, besides being shaped to the sides of the limbs, may be applied from the back, making a trough opposite any bend in the limb. The material must be incised at right angles to its long axis. When the splint is then moulded into position, there is an over-riding at the place of the cut, which gives greater strength than if the piece had been cut out (see also pp. 213 and 214). (o-.) Starch Bandage.—This is seldom applied by itself. More generally it is used over a pasteboard (or poroplastic) splint, which gives it greater rigidity, especially as the starch takes about twelve hours to dry. There are required—household starch, a bowl and spoon, kettle of boihng water, some cold water, roller-bandages, and pasteboard. First wrap the limb in lint, wool, or flannel, then soften the paste- board splints, and mould them into place with the fingers. Make the starch by first thoroughly breaking it down into a thick paste with cold water in the bowl. In this stage it will be white. Pour in now boiling water, and stir well. The starch will swell up and turn of a bluish tint. Add more water till the whole, being thus changed, pours easily out of the spoon. As it cools it will set into a jelly, but it may be used in either the hquid or the jelly state. Powdered boracic acid, about 10 per cent., may be added along -R-ith the boiling water with advantage. A layer of roller bandage having been now firmly applied over the pasteboard splint, is then smeared over with starch. A second layer of bandage is in turn smeared over, and so on for three or four layers. To dry the starch, lay the limb near the fire, or place hot bottles alongside of it. ih.) Water-glass Bandage.—This is a silicate of soda, dissolved in excess of caustic alkali (according to Wagstaffe, silicate of potash is not so good). It may be used instead of starch, and dries more quickly, although it does not harden completely for two or three days. It is light, strong, and cheap (4d. to 6d. per lb.) May be ordered from most wholesale druggists. Water-glass may be used with or without pasteboard. When extra hardness is needed, whiting, powdered chalk, slaked lime, or magnesia should be mixed with it to the consistence of batter. As in the starch bandage, after a layer of roller-bandage, the water-