JUIl V J. -* ■* ' iaiklts q dte ai porous as the material of any other efficient jacket. ^ V^ UMuTy, in certain patients, for the accumulaiton of vermin. This' may be obviated by the thorough cleansing of the PaUent s skm before^he splint is applied, by steeping the semet .n a saturated solution of boracic add and letting it dry before applying the plaster. Provision may Sso be mkde for changing the semet without disturbing the jacket ^Nvo h-htly tacked togetlier, instead of one, are put on at firs . When a ch mie is needed, the clean semet is fastened to the inner of the two. and on°the latter being withdrawn the clean one is pulled into its place. The outer semet is held in position by the plaster. lp=epnpd (•,) Interference with Respiration.-In so far as there is essened thoracic and increased abdominal respiration, this is an advantage for the spinal column. Respiration, as a whole, does not seem to be notably affected in well-applied jackets. . (.) Tendency to produce ulceration by pressure on the prominences. Th^ is due to insufficient padding. Where there are unopened ab- scesses the jacket should only be applied if infrequent aspiration is to be employed, as antiseptic dressings cannot be efficiently applied through the fenestra, which Sayre recommends for the purpose. Where a sin'os akeady exists, however, unless the quantity of discharge is very great, a jacket with an opening may be applied with advantage. [b ) Material of the Plaster Jacket.—Thi material with which the plaster is to be incorporated, whether as bandage or in layers, is "some loosely-woven material, such as cross-barred muslin, mosquito-netting, or crinoline." There is nothmg better than the white " butter cloth " used for dressings. For bandages, cut it into strips 3 yards long and Irom 24 to 3 inches wide. To work in the plaster, lake a quantity of Ireshly- baked plaster of Paris in a bowl; spread a newspaper over any Hat Uble or board ; now lay one end of the bandage on the table, and hav-ing sprinkled plaster freely over it, rub it in with the hand ; roll up loosely with the fingers the part of the bandage thus treated, and proceed with a new part, which is to be in turn rolled up. Repeat this until the bandage is finished. Several may be done at the sanie time. Unless the roll is quite loose, the water will not enter freely into it when it comes to be soaked for immediate use. [c.) Sayre's Method of Applying ike Plaster Jacket-Preparation of the Patient.—M\y markedly prominent spinous process is to be well padded round about with well stuffed glove-fingers {Sayre), or pads of lint or absorbent wool. In thin subjects, the iliac crests also may be protected by several folds of cloth put on until the plaster has set; when removed, they relieve from undue pressure. " If the patient be a female, and especially if she be developing at the time, it will be necessary to appiy a pad under the shirt over each breast before the plaster bandage is put on. These pads should be removed just before the plaster sets, and at the same time slight pressure should be made over the sternum for the purpose of indenting the central portion of the plaster jacket, and ol thus giving form to the body, and removing pressure from the breasts."— Sayre.