ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 23 (b.) Corrosive Sublimate is at present one of the most univer- sally employed antiseptics, being cheap and effective. It is non- volatile. It corrodes metals, and, hence, can only be used in glass, porcelain, or vulcanite. In solution, I to 500, it has been used for the hands and skin, but in this strength it is rather irritating. I to 1000 is the stronger form of solution used for general purification, while i to 2000-5000 is that employed for irrigation. WTien used to purify septic wounds, it should be employed in large quantity, as the mercury is speedily used up by forming compounds with albumen, and the lotion is thus apt to become inert. _ For the same reason it is inferior to carbolic acid for purifyirig the skin. The addition of common salt to the solution prevents this action. Wood-wool wadding, absorbent wool, gauze, jute, and wood- wool are all to be had charged with Corrosive Sublimate, and make excellent dressing-materials. Caution!—Corrosive Sublimate solutions must be used with the greatest care. It is probable that more deaths have occurred from the use of mercurial salts as antiseptics, than from that of carbolic acid. Irrigation of absorbing surfaces—as, for example, the tunica vaginalis and pleura—is fraught with danger. Diarrhoea, vomiting, collapse, and death may rapidly ensue. Absorption is also prone to occur if an extensive corrosive wool dressing becomes saturated with discharge and evaporation be prevented. A moist corrosi%-e application also causes irritation and pustulation of the skin ; hence a corrosive wool poultice is a dangerous agent for purification. In order to obviate the danger so often produced by corrosive subhmate, other compounds as effective and perhaps less irritating have been advocated. Amongst these we may mention sal alembroth, and biniodide of mercury. (c.) Iodoform has obtained a great reputation from its marked deodorising properties, and from its supposed special action upon the tubercle bacillus. The fine sublimed crystals, mitigated with boracic acid or bismuth, should be lightly dusted over the wound. It is an antiseptic in virtue of the amount of iodine which it contains. It is soluble in fats, oils, ethers, &c., but not in water or in serum. Ptomaines also liberate the iodine. It slowly purifies a septic wound, favours the growth of healthy granulations, lessens the irritability of sensory nerves, and prevents the growth of tubercle bacilli. It unfortunately possesses a vile, penetrating odour, which is with difficulty disguised. It may produce erythema of the skin. Iodoform gauze forms a most admirable tampon in abdominal and pelvic surgery. Caution!—Iodoform should always be used with great discretion. There is no occasion to apply it in large quantity to wounds and absorbing surfaces. Children, as well as old, fat, and weak people, are especially liable to be affected injuriously. Fatal results have followed from its accumulation in the deep recesses of wounds after insufflation. The symptoms vary from sudden collapse, associated with brain-symptoms and vomiting, to milder forms of loss of