54 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. one pair of forceps, while they are twisted three or four times round with another pair. Experience has shown that torsion is a perfectly safe method of closing even the largest vessels. However, for large vessels anywhere, and for smaller ones, unless when lying in unusually lax tissues (as in the scrotum, or iDeneath the mucous membrane of the rectum), ligature under antiseptic precautions with absorbable material, is equally efficient and more rapid, as obviating the need for so carefully isolating the vessel. A modification of torsion is forcible pulling out. Victor Horsley, in excising the thyroid gland of monkeys, seized the arteries, and drew them out from the gland, until they tore away. The broken vessels were in this way simultaneously divided and closed, and gave no further trouble. Under certain circumstances, this method might be useful. (3) Acupressure has now fallen almost entirely into disuse. It was introduced by the late Sir J. Y. Simpson to obviate in a decomposing wound the irritation of silk threads, which only con- ducted the septic mischief closer to the wounded and healing artery. One of the methods employed may be sometimes useful on the scalp, or in the face, where there is difficulty in finding the wounded vessel, and where further cutting is undesirable. This method con- sists in passing below the vessel, at a little distance from the wound, a needle, round whose projecting ends a loop of wire or silk is after- wards wound, so that the artery is compressed between the needle and the silk. (4) Pressure directly over the wounded vessel will stop the bleeding in any artery, although, owing to the simultaneous pressure upon companion-veins, and on other structures, the method is inconvenient. Wounds of any of the palmar arteries are frequently treated by graduated pressure, although general pressure often succeeds as well. The arteries of the palm are difficult to reach, and lie close to large nerves; moreover large cicatrices are undesirable there, hence the need for pressure. Graduated pressure is produced by a series of successively larger pads of lint, beginning with one that just fits into the wound, until a conical plug is formed. This, when bandaged in place, presses upon the wounded part, and generally stops the bleeding. At the same time the circulation in the hand should be lessened, by firmly bandaging the forearm, by placing pads over the radial and ulnar arteries at the wrist, by flexion of the forearm, and by raising the hand by fixing it at the opposite shoulder. The pads used in the wound should be soaked in antiseptic lotion. They should be removed in 24 or 36 hours, and equable pressure over the wound be substituted. When possible a firm flat pad over the wound should be used from the beginning, as it permits of closure of the wound, and if successful, obviates the risk of an outbreak of the bleeding, such as may occur when the graduated pad is removed. All that has been said of the palm of the hand applies equally, with the necessary modifications, to the sole of the foot. (5) Use of Heat and Cold.—As the result of experiments on