DISLULAllUlS^, i>rKAIl\:>, ^lyu njiuiojLC). toy bones, the cup-shaped head of the radius is readily detected posterior to the condyle, and the bend of the elbow is filled up with the pro- jected extremity of the humerus. By hyper-extension, or extension and rapid flexion, reduction takes place; moreover, this is not attended with crepitus, nor yet with redisplacement when support is with- drawn, as is so well- marked in cases where thehumenjs is broken. After every reduction the surgeon must fully flex the limb, in order to satisfy himself that all is right. Treat- ment is then similar to that for fracture in the elbow-joint (see Fig. 96). It sometimes hap- pens that the radius alone is displaced, and its head is to be found Y\g. iss.-Reduction 01 Backward Dislocation lying in front of or be- of Elbow over the Knee, hind the external con- dyle. In such a case the surgeon extends the forearm, supinating in the first form, and pronating in the second, to get the parts in appo- sition. A special pad should be bound over its head to retain it, and the elbow kept at rest for a longer period than in other dislocations. (4) Dislocation at the Wrist-joint is easily recognised, and as easily reduced. (5) Dislocation of the Thumb is often very stubborn. By forcing the metacarpal well into the centre of the hand, fitting on the Siamese link, making extension in the direction of displacement, and then suddenly and forcibly flexing in the opposite direction, the ligaments and tendons may be so stretched that the reduction takes place. An excellent plan is to hyper-extend the thumb, and then push the base of the phalanx upwards and flex. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis passes to the ulnar side, and sometimes requires to be unlocked by manipulation before reduction can be effected. (6) Dislocation of the Phalanges.—When the phalanges are di.splaced, there is some little difficulty in getting a grip of the small distal extremity. The toy known as the " Siamese link " gives one a good purchase, or somewhat similar methods may be improvised. I7) The rare condition of mallet or dropfinger is one in which there is more or less complete subcutaneous rupture of the extensor tendon of the finger at its insertion, so that the terminal phalanx is displaced and the flexor tendon entangles over the head of the second phalanx. Replacement is effected by means of a splint, but operative treatment may in some cases be necessary. (8) Dislocation of the Lower Jaw.—The recognition of this is