A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. with a mallet; or by merely rotating the chisel in the saw-cut, the skull-cap may be prised off. [/« Medico-legal Cases, and where fracture of the cranium is suspected, the saw should divide the entire thickness of the bone everywhere, as the chisel is apt to make cracks and fissures. If the skull-cap be firmly adherent, as in children, the dura mater must be carefully divided all round with a probe-pointed bistoury, and the anterior and posterior attachments of the falx severed.] On removal of the calvarium, the tension and condition of the dura should be noted ; the great longitudinal sinus slit up and examined ; the anterior end of the falx cut; and the dura divided all round, so that it may be raised and its under surface studied. The pia mater and cerebral surface may now be investigated, after which the brain has to be removed as in the dissecting-room, viz. :— by raising the frontal lobes, dividing the nerves seriatim, carefully cutting the tentorium along its attachment to the temporal bone, and severing the medulla and vertebral arteries as low as possible. The brain may now be laid aside in the skull-cap, while the base of the cranium is carefully examined, its sinuses opened, the dura stripped off in a search for fractures, and the condition of the middle ear ascertained. . ^, , , • , Attention is now directed to the bram. The lateral ventricles may be laid open by horizontal slices from above downwards, and the basal ganglia exposed by transverse sections. The cerebellum is cut into vertical and transverse sections, but the nature of the examina- tion must largely depend on the character of the special lesion. Neck and Thorax—The viscera of the neck and trunk are reached by a mesial incision which extends from the chin onwards, by the left side of the umbilicus, to the pubes. By entering the peritoneal cavity at the ensiform cartilage, the fingers may be intro- duced and used as a director, so that the bowels are shielded while the abdomen is opened. The cage of the thorax is exposed by bold sweeps of the knife on the sternum and ribs. The sterno-clavicular articulations should be opened, the costal cartilages divided rather obliquely inwards close to the ribs, and the diaphragm separated below We are thus able to throw the sternum and cartilages up- wards, and to complete its disarticulation. The position and condition of the thoracic viscera may now be studied and before they are handled we should also note the condition of the abdominal organs. The skin and pectorals should be tucked over the ends of the ribs, so that the hands are protected as they are introduced to explore the pleural cavities. The pericardium is now to be opened, and the heart examined in siHi. r , Heart and Lungs.-By following the course of the blood through the heart, we arrive at a conclusion as to the amount U contains, the state of its walls, valves, and cavities. Jhe ngh auricle is opened by an incision, throwing the superior and inferior ven« cavx into one. The right ventricle is next to be laid open by an incision immediately to the right of the septum ; the left auricle by cutting from the entrance of the pulmonary veins downwards and