32 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. act as syphons. A mackintosh cloth must be arranged to carry oft the superfluous fluid. Antiseptic "poultices" consist of cloths soaked in such antiseptic fluids as are used for baths or irrigation. Evaporation is prevented by having the cloths surrounded with viraterproof. It will be noticed that the chief difference between antiseptic poultices and irrigation is that in the latter the part is chilled by the free evaporation which is permitted. If there is much inflammation this is an advantage, but if there is any tendency to gangrene the cold will hasten it. (3) Punctured Wounds (i.e.y those in which the depth of the wound is out of proportion to its other dimensions), owe their danger to risk of haemorrhage, in the first place, and to sepsis and confine- ment of discharge, in the second. Should there be reason, from the appearance and condition of the patient, from the state of the parts, and from the probable direction of the wound, to fear haemorrhage, the surgeon should try temporarily to control the circulation in the part, and after enlarging the wound to find and secure the injured vessel. In an inaccessible region, such as the chest, rest, quiet, cold, and internal styptics are alone available. When rise of temperature, pain, and other signs of inflammation render the advent of sepsis probable, free incisions and drainage are indicated. In ordinary cases, punctured wounds may be treated like compound fractures—i.e., with the view of rendering and keeping them aseptic. (4) When tendons are divided they are drawn up by tonic mus- cular contraction, so that the ends become widely separated. They should, however, be united by chromicised catgut sutures. When there is any difiiculty in finding the drawn up ends, they will be readily brought into view by bandaging from above downwards, while the limb is at the same time placed in the position which relaxes the tendons most. (5) Nerve Injuries.—When a nerve is completely divided, the muscles supplied beyond the point of section remain powerless until union takes place. The expected sensory disturbance may be com- plete, or it may be only partial, or even non-existent, because of abnormal distriljution or anastomosis. As the result of loss of the nerve stimulus, the muscles supplied by the divided nerve begin to degenerate rapidly and shrink. In recent wounds, the severed nerve-ends should therefore be carefully sought for and sutured together with fine chromicised catgut. With a fine needle two sutures should be passed at right angles to one another, each trans- fixing the nerve and sheath about y% of an inch from the cut surface of each portion of the nerve. A few extra stitches may be used to draw gaping parts of the sheath together, but the fewer the stitches in the nerve itself the better (Bowlhy). Subsequent restoration of function ensues. In old-standing cases, the longer the secondary suture is delayed, the less likely is it to be completely successful— the first sign of repair is return of motor power. Pressure paralysis, as, for instance, the wrist-drop, due to inter- ference with the musculo-spiral nerve in the axilla from the use of a crutch, yields to massage, electricity, and superficial stimulation. (6) Burns and Scalds may be considered together as being both