250 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. employed has been poured in; heat again to ebullition ; and, no change occurring, set aside without further boiling. If no milkiness is produced as the mixture cools, the urine may be confidently pronounced free from sugar, for no quantity above a fortieth of a grain can escape such a search, and any quantity below that is devoid of clinical significance" {Roberts). Caution!—Certain drugs, such as copaiba and chloral, also glycuronic acid, which may be present in health, mucin, uric acid, and other nitrogenous matters, often present in urine, likewise reduce cupric oxide-hence, in doubtful cases, it will be necessary to employ the following :— By Fermentation Test.—Fill two similar test-tubes two-thirds with mercury. Fill up one with the suspected urine, and the other with healthy urine. To each add a little tartaric acid and a small piece of well washed yeast, invert them over mercury, and leave in a warm place. A slight fermentation occurs in healthy urine, but it will be marked if sugar is present. (f.) Bile.—A test for bile is equivalent to a test for bile-pigments. Tes' for Bile-pigments.—Place a few drops of urine on a white porcelain plate, and near it lay a few drops of nitric acid. Bring the two fluids in contact by inclining the plate, and if bile be present, a play of colours will appear violet, green, red, which rapidly passes away. In doubtful cases a more delicate mode of applying this test is to filter repeatedly through white blotting-paper and apply the acid to the pigments deposited on the paper. The Test for Bile Acids is less certain. {d.\ Melanin.—Take some urine in a test-tube; incline the tube and allow a few drops of strong nitric acid to flow gently down the side—the development of a dark purple band at the junction of the urine and nitric acid will show the presence of melanin. (e.) Indican.—Add 5 cc. of strong hydrochloric acid to an equal quantity of urine; heat, and the presence of indican will show itself by the develdpment of a reddish-violet colour. (/) Pus and Mucus.—Take any of the doubtful sediment, and treat with concentrated caustic potash ; pus will become a tough muco-gelatinous mass, mucus a thin flocculent fluid. Blood-pigment.—This is described by Bedford, as follows :— " If the urine be neutral or alkaline, acidify it. Then pour some tincture of guaiac (made with rectified spirit and preserved in a brown or blue glass bottle) into a test-tube, and add about an equal bulk of ozonic ether or of turpentine which has been ozonised by leaving it exposed to the light for some time. Note any trace of blue colour. If absent, the reagents are satisfactory. Then pour some urine gently on to the surface of the guaiac, and ozonised ether or turpentine solution, inclining the test-tube to do so. A blue zone forms at once at the plane of contact = blood. If the blue colour is diffused through the urine an iodide may be present. Now heat, and 7/the blue colour goes ihe colour is due to pus." Examination of Deposits.—Before minutely examining any urinary deposit with the microscope, its "naked eye" characters