ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 37 Direct Transplantation of Skin.—A pattern of the surface which requires covering should be drawn on the skin. The part removed should include all the layers, and the fat adherent to its deeper parts must be carefully removed with curved scissors. The prepared skin is now bound down under a dressing to the bare area rawed for its reception. The wound left by the removal of the skin must be purified, and drawn together with button and secondary sutures {vide p. 26). Caution.—Syphilis, tubercle, and small-pox have been transferred by skin grafting. The skin may be taken from the recently amputated limb of a young healthy person, or from the body of a freshly killed animal. Excellent results have been obtained by using the skin of the abdomen of a puppy (Miles). A smooth-haired animal is preferable, but is not essential. The animal is chloro- formed in an adjacent room till dead. The selected part of skin is then shaved, purified, and dissected up, being freed from sub- cutaneous fat as far as possible. The skin may then be placed in warm boracic lotion, carried to the wound, and applied in strips of about 2 inches by f inch. If the granulations are healthy, Miles does not find it necessary to remove them, hence the patient need not be anaesthetised. More extensive methods of grafting, where a pedicle of unsevered skin maintains the vitality of the graft till it has united with its new environments, do not come within the compass of the present work. (9) Sinuses, or discharging channels which refuse to finally close up, owe their existence to some local or constitutional cause. They may thus be due to a piece of necrosed tissue, bone, tendon, or gland lying deeply, to want of rest, or to a tubercular or syphilitic condition of the lining granulations. The treatment will, therefore, be to remove the dead tissue, scrape away the diseased lining, purify with antiseptics, keep the part at rest, and improve the patient's constitutional condition. (10) Erysipelas and Erythema are, fortunately, much rarer since the introduction of antiseptics than they were a few years ago. They are still hable to appear in surgical wards, however, as patients with wounds septic, though not erysipelatous on admission, may develop erysipelas_ after they have been in the ward for a few days, while other patients, who have had previous attacks of the disease, are liable to have it again in their wounds, although apparently there haj-i been no fresh infection. It is most important to remember the extreme contagiousness of erysipelas, and to take the most rigid precautions to prevent it from spreading. No ca.se of erysipelas should be admitted within the precincts of an ordinary surgical ward, and every patient that shows signs of the disease should at once be removed to an isolation-ward, kept specially for the purpose. The bedding should then be purified', and the bed (as well as wall and floor near it) sponged well with carbolic before it is returned to the ward. When circumstances demand that a surgeon should dress erysi- pelas and other cases on the same day, the latter should be taken