310 APPENDIX. Arrowroot Pudding. Required— K pint milk. 2 teaspoonsful of arrowroot Sugar to taste. i egg. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with about 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk. Warm a cupful of milk, and pour on to the arrowroot, stirring all the time, return to the saucepan, and stir until the arrowroot has boiled 2 or 3 minutes. Sweeten to taste. Allow the arrow- root to become cold, mix in the yolk of egg. Beat the white to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the arrowroot. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake for about 5 minutes in a moderately hot oven. Semolina Pudding (inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of semolina. i oz. butter. 3 gills of milk. I egg. I dessert-spoonful of sugar. Put the semolina, milk, butter, and sugar, into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling, and continue to stir for about 5 minutes longer while the semolina boils. Take the saucepan from the fire to cool a little, drop the yolk of egg into the mixture. Drop the white upon a plate, and beat to a sticf froth. Mix well with the semolina, place in a greased pie-dish, and bake for about 5 or 7 minutes. Tapioca Pudding (inexpensive). Required— 1 tablespoonful of tapioca. 3 gills of milk. 2 eggs. I dessert-spoonful of sugar. % oz. butter. Well wash the tapioca, and cover it with the milk, and allow to stand for 2 hours, stirring occasionally. Then place in a saucepan by the side of the fire, and cook very gently for about 60 minutes, stirring oc- casionally. [Tapioca must be cooked slowly, or it vnW become tough and hard. Each particle should be soft and perfectly clear after it is cooked.] Draw the saucepan away from the fire to cool a little, add the sugar and butter. Mix the yolks well with the tapioca. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, stir lightly into the tapioca. Pour into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for about 7 minutes. Beef-Tea Custard. Required— Yolks of 2 eggs. I gill beef-tea (free from fat). White of I egg. Vi teaspoonful salt, to season. Ya teaspoonful pepper, to season. Whisk the yolks and white till quite frothy, add the beef tea. Add the seasoning, and cook by steaming. Pour into a buttered basin. Butter a piece of paper, tie this tightly on to the basin, and place it in a sauce- pan of boiling water, taking care that the water only comes three- quarter parts up the basin. If the water boils away, more must be added. Cover the saucepan with a tightly-fitting lid, and let the custard steam thus for 20 minutes. Do not let the water boil too rapidly, or the custard will become honey-combed instead of being firm and smooth. Wlien cooked, remove the paper, reverse the basin over a hot plate, take away the basin, leave the custard standing, and serve.