3i6 APPENDIX. Egg Cream. Required— 1 gill milk. Yolks of 2 eggs. 2 lumps sugar. White of i egg. I gill cream. 1 gill bramble or black currant syruo (».«. % gill hot water poured over i gill of jam and strained.) Whip the cream until stiff. Warm the milk and sugar, pour on to the yolks and white, stirring all the time; return to the saucepan and continue to stir until thick, but do not boil or the eggs will curdle. Strain on to the syrup, and when cool add the cream bvalid 5""^'" any mixture containing eggs before giving it to an Oatmeal Gruel (inexpensive). Required 3 tablespoonsful of medium oatmeal. Sugar to taste; I pint milk. Small piece of butter. Put the oatmeal into a basin with the milk, and let it stand for minutes, stirring occasionally. Strain the milk into a saucepan pr4s the oatmeal as dry as possible, and stir over the fire until boiUng and boil for 10 minutes, still stirring. Pour into a basin over the butter and sugar, and stir imtil the butter is melted. Serve hot. [To make gruel from prepared groats—Mix i tablespoonful of groats with 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk, add these to nearly i pint of hot milk. Boil 10 minutes, and serve hot.] Rice Gruel (inexpensive). Required— Va. lb. of whole rice. i pint of water. 2 lumps of sugar. i inch of cinnamon stick, [i tablespoonful of brandy.] Wash the rice thoroughly, put it into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and cinnamon; let boil, and skim well. Put the lid on the pan and simmer for 60 minutes, when the rice ought to be soft and pulpy, Take out the cinnamon, beat the gruel with a fork to make it of uniform thickness. Serve a little warm, with or without the brandy. A Cup of Arrowroot. Required— H pint milk. Sugar to taste. 2 teaspoonsfid of arrowroot. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste, with about 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk. Warm a cupful of milk and pour on to the arrowroot, stirring all the time; return to the saucepan and stir until the arrowroot has boiled 2 or 3 minutes. Sweeten to taste and serve. [When wine or brandy is to be served in arrowroot, water must be substituted for the milk, otherwise the mixture will curdle; and the wine added after the arrowroot is removed from the fire.]