in tlie desired position ; lay the edge of the up])er half of the paper along the line of the thigh, and cut the lower half of the paper to correspond with the line of the leg. This gives the anterior edge of the splint; the posterior edge can easily be trimmed nearly parallel to it at a distance equal to half the circumference of the I'mb (Fig. 151). When the halves are opened out, the pattern for each side will be ready. After the millboards have been cut to the required size, each half must be softened by pouring boiling water first Fig. 151.—Pattern for l.ncrai on one side and then on the other. Tear pasteboard splints, the edges thin to make them lie evenly, and make slight transverse tears at the bend of the knee. Then, having padded the limb well, bandage on the splint, and let it dry in posi- tion, or, having removed it carefully while in the soft state, dry it at the fire. Poroplastic Felt, when used, requires to be softened belore the fire or over the gas before being applied. Undressed Ccnvhide may also be used. It has to be softened by soaking in cold water before being moulded to the part. (c.) By a Posterior Splint of metal, Gooch, or straight wood, reaching from the top of the thigh to the calf of the leg, and especially well padded behind the knee. (d.) By Thomas's Knee-splint.—For all cases of strumous knee- joint disease, unless where there is very marked flexion, there is no better splint than Thomas's Knee-splint. The objects of its in- ventor are to ensure immobility without external compression of the joint, and in suitable cases to permit of out-of-doors locomotion for the patient without allowing the joint to bear much weight. The mechanism of the splint is extremely simple (Fig. 152). Two light iron bars pass up the sides of the leg. Above they are fixed to a padded iron ring (Fig. 153), on which the patient sits when erect ; and below they end in an ovoid ring (Fig. 154, b), which rests on the ground beyond the foot. * Pieces of leather between the bars support the leg and thigh behind. The limb, after being placed in * Latterly Thomas introduced for synovial joint disease, a " caliper " ending to the knee-splint, instead of the ovoid rin^. In this arrangement, the lower ends of the vertical bars are bent abruptly in towards one another just below the patient's heel, and are cut off short so that they may fit into a piece of brass tubing, which is sufficiently long to make the vertical bars clear the malleoli. This tube is let into the heel of the boot, by boring a hole for it in children, but in adults by cutting out a slot for it so as to allow of some rotation in walking. The upper leather must be sht in front down to the toes, and the heel part of the "upper" leather must at the same time be cut down the middle and latterly at Its attachment to the heel, otherwise the patient's heel will be unduly pressed upon The patient's heel is kept about an inch above the heel of his boot, and his weight is distributed between the splint and the balls of his toes. The sole of the boot on the sound side is thickened to equalise the length of the limbs. For patients confined to bed the staple endmg (Fig. 154, a) is required. 'The former method of ending the splint with the patten for the foot of the sound limb (Fig. 155), was latterly used by Thomas only for ankle-joint disease. In such cases a posterior splint to fix the ankle was also used. (Fig. 158).