JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. lO)-] CHAPTER XXI. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. Contents. — Remedial Effects of Absolute Rest — Local Sources ot Irritation obviated by Rest—General principles of Treatment by Fixation, Extension, and Venous Congestion—Treatment of Cold or Tubercular Abscess—(A.) Treatment of Special Joints:— (i) The Hip-joint—(2) Knee-joint—(3) Ankle-and Tarsal-joints— (4) Shoulder—(5) Elbow-joint. Remedial Effects of Absolute Rest.—In certain chronic diseases of the joints—of the type known as strumous or tubercular—the appropriate treatment in the early stage seems chiefly to be pro- longed rest. The tubercle bacillus, though associated with, and probably the cause of, these chronic inflammations, may often be destroyed by the tissues under the conditions of improvement of the patient's general health, and rest to the affected part, aided by counter irritation, by venous congestion of the part (Bier's method), ana by the local injection of iodoform.* The rest, to be efficient, must be complete and prolonged for weeks, months, or even years— so long, in fact, as signs of disease continue, and for weeks after they have disappeared. Although in most of our General Hospitals, patients suffering from these chronic joint diseases may not be re- tained dvuring the whole period necessary for their treatment, still the time allowed is often sufficient for improvement to begin, after the careful application of the immobilising apparatus which is necessary to complete the cure at home. Local Sources of Irrilation obviated by Rest.—The local sources of irritation to an inflamed joint which are obviated by ensuring its perfect rest, are:— (1) Voluntary Movements.—These cause friction of the synovial and cartilaginous surfaces within, and of the fascia and tendons around the joint, besides compression of the joint-surfaces by the necessary muscular action. (2) Muscular Spasm.—This indeed limits movement, and fixes the joint in the position of greatest ease; but continuous muscular action is involved, which helps to cause rapid muscular wasting, and continuous compression of joint-surfaces. (3) Transmission of Body-Weight (in spine and lower limb), which, besides involving compression of articular surfaces and of bones, necessitates, reflexly, some action of surrounding muscles, however rigidly the joint may seem to be steadied. Joint rest is obtained by (a.) Absolute fixation, which not only obviates the first, but also the second source of irritation, for when a joint is steadied in its position of greatest ease without the muscles, they, being no longer needed, relax. As a result, joint-compression * For a full discussion of the subject of Iodoform injection, see " Translation of Henle'i Account of Mikulicz's Conservative Treatment of Tubercular Joints " Published by E. (fc S. Livingstone, Edinburgh.