i8 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. children. The condition of the urine before and after anaesthesia should be noted. Albumen and fibrinous casts or sugar are frequently present thereafter. In kidney disease or diabetes the patient is accordingly liable to suffer, and in the latter case fatal acetonuria may be determined. Tracheotojny for asphy.xia during anaesthesia is rarely necessary. It may be called for owing to the impaction of blood, vomited matters, or when a tooth or other foreign body lodges in the larynx. It may be required when ordinary means fail to open the glottis. For minor operations requiring a short anaesthesia, especially for dental surgery, the use oi gas and eiher may be strongly recommended. Administration should take place in the recumbent position. The usual rubber bag and stopcock of a nitrous oxide apparatus is fitted on to a Clover's inhaler, charged with ether, and face piece. The bag is filled two-thirds with nitrous oxide, and the face piece well pressed down over the mouth and nose so that no escape can occur. The gas alone is now turned on, and as the patient rapidly passes under its influence, in about 20 seconds, ether is added and its action maintained until complete anaesthesia is produced. Pure Ethyl Chloride, or preparations thereof, are also extensively used for short operations. About 5 c.c. are sprayed into the bag of a Clover's or special inhaler, and administered by firmly pressing down the face piece. With this drug we gain an anaesthesia of about i.^ minutes, which may be repeated. Caution.—Where the heart substance is weak, gas is preferable to ethyl chloride. (3) Cocaine.—No agent equals cocaine tor the production of local anjesthesia. Care should be taken to obtain a good preparation, since the impure forms are highly irritating. Two solutions are commonly employed—a 5 per cent, and a I per cent.; or a •! per cent, solution if adrenalin be added. These should be freshly pre- pared by dissolving I grain of cocaine in sterilised normal salt solution, as required. Etccain, if dissolved in normal salt solution, is safer. It can, moreover, be sterilised by boiling and retain its properties. {a.) The stronger solution is used for external application to mucous surfaces; it does not penetrate ordinary cutaneous epithelium. It may be sponged, painted on, or rubbed in with a pledget of lint or wadding. The latter method gives the more rapid and lasting effect, but the application will vary with the accessibility of the part. Thus, we drop the solution on to the conjunctiva, spray the nostrils and throat, rub the tonsils and pharynx, and so obtain insensibility prior to interference with the eye or throat, or when using the laryngoscope, or removing tonsils, &c. In painful dysphagia due to ulceration, its action is most beneficial. {b.) The weaker solution is for hypodermic use. Five minims should be injected at the spot selected, the needle left in situ, and as .sensation becomes dulled, the point may be radiated as required, and further doses introduced. In this way about a grain may be injected. The patient should always be in the horizontal position. Anfcsthesia, as in the case of mucous membranes, is complete in about three minutes, and lasts for about twenty minutes longer. As the toxic effect ol cocaine is lessened when injected into non-vascular