ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 41 fainting lasts, a clot may have had time to form, large and firm enough to resist further bleeding when consciousness, and with it quickened circulation returns. After the mouth of the vessel has been closed by this external clot, a thrombus or internal clot forms inside the vessel, and, extending up within it for a variable distance, still further resists the force of the blood-stream, although it probably is not in itself quite sufficient for that purpose. In the " N'ahiral" arrest, therefore, when the vessel is divided across, the mechanical agent is the contraction of the vessel and the presence of an external blood-clot aided by an internal one. Should the artery be only partially divided, the retracting tendency makes the wound in the vessel gape the more, so that the outer clot has less chance of forming than if the division had been complete. Under favourable circumstances, however, the clot does form, and unless the current be so strong as to make it yield and produce a false aneurism, the processes of healing will go on as in the first case. A\Tien an artery, instead of being cut across, is torn, twisted, or bruised across, its inner and middle coats are curled up inside the outer one, and so, by blocking the lumen, stop the bleeding; when, in addition, the outer coat is either twisted or drawn out into a fine thread, the occlusion is still more complete. Probably when the inner coat is thus injured, the internal clot or thrombus forms more strongly, and acts more efficiently in closing the vessel, than when it is divided by a clean cut. Tke ArtificiaV Arrest of Hamorrhage.—lx\ " Torsion" and "Forcipressure," therefore, whether deliberately performed by the surgeon, either directly with forceps, or indirectly by the use of the ecraseur, or cold snare, or accidentally done by the violence of machinery, the mechanical or occluding agent is the twisted, bruised, or torn ends of the broken vessel, aided by the formation of an internal clot. In a Ligature as usually applied, the mechanical agent is the tight band round the tough outer coat, after the inner and middle coats have given way and have retracted. An internal clot is also formed in this case, but is not of great service in maintaining the occlusion. By the time the process of sealing up by granulations has been completed, the ligature is useless. In the old days of silk ligatures in septic wounds, the ligature, being saturated with fermenting dis- charges, was a source of irritation to its surrounding granulations, and became loosened by making them suppurate. If the suppurating or liquefying process went too far into the sealing mass, the vessel was opened again, and secondary haemorrhage, formerly very common, was the result. In aseptic wounds, on the other hand, the ligature of catgut, silk, or other suitable organic material, is absorbed by the granulation cells, and disappears without any suppuration at all. The risk in these cases is the softening not of the sealing mass, but rather of the ligature, or of its slipping before the sealing mass is ready to take its place : or, on the other hand;