a good layer o( cotton-wool next the skin of the trunk, and bandage the arm to the side—the hand being placed on the opposite breast When additional steadiness is required, a shoulder-cap of paste- board or poroplastic felt must be fitted to the shoulder, and bandaged in position. It must be shaped as shown in the diagram (Fig. 92). ^ (5) The Elbow-joint.—When absolute rest is required, the hand and fingers should be fixed as well as the elbow, for not only is the whole elbow-joint more or less involved in pronation and supination, but since the flexors and extensors of the fingers arise near the elbow-joint and pass across it, their contraction must involve some stimulation of the parts near the joint, as well as excite it by movement. A rectangular splint is the form most usually chosen. It may be of wood, of which a set of different sizes may be kept ready vnth advantage. Many, however, prefer to cut the splints, as wanted, from paste-board or poroplastic felt. The following is a simple method of doing this :— Cut out a square of paper, viath the sides equal to the distance from the acromion process to the point of the elbow 'Fig. 162). A D F P O E Fig. 162.—Pattern for paste- Fig. 163.—Jones's Elbow-splint, board Arm-splint. Measure off A D, equal to half the circumference of the upper-arm, and D F, C E, and E G equal to half the circumference of the wrist. Draw DO, E O : F P, G P parallel to the sides, and cut out the pieces so marked out. These splints have next to be fitted to the arm. The larger one fits on the outside of the arm and shoulder, AD being at the acromion. The inner splint is reversed, G E being in the axilla, and D F on the fore-arm. If these paper splints seem suitable, copies of them are to be cut in pasteboard or poroplastic felt, and after having been softened applied to the limb. When, along with fixation, the elbow is to be left free for the application of dressings, some form of bridge splint must be used, such as that advocated by Robert Jones of Liverpool (Fig. 163). Thomas's method of fixing the elbow consisted in flexing the fore-arm acutely and tying the hand up to the front of the neck. He fastened a band round the wrist, and another round the neck, and drew them together till the angle between the thumb and the index finger lay against the front of the neck.