ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. S9 feature of Secondary h^iimorrhage is—the uncertainty of its onset. It often comes on while the patient is asleep, without disturbing him in the least, often while he is improving in health, and when the wound, except for a slight suppuration, seems rapidly healing. On this account, wounds suppurating near large vessels (especially if recently hgatured), must be watched with the greatest care. No foreign body should be allowed to press upon the wall of a large vessel, especially not on an artery. The effect of the resistance of the blood within the vessel and the pressure, however gentle, of the foreign body outside of it, is nearly certain to lead to ulceration through the coats. On no account, for instance, should a drainage- tube be allowed to press upon the sheath of a large artery. Lives and limbs have been lost by the faulty position of a drainage-tube before now. As soon as Secondary hcemorrhage is discovered, check it by " pressure, if possible, upon the main artery leading to the part. Ne.xt, after assistance has been called, find out by the colour of the blood and nature of its flow, if it seem arterial or venous—remem- bering, however, that often in Secondary hsemorrhage the flow from an artery is continuous, and not intermittent, since the blood may escape from a small hole, and flow through blood-clots and granula- tions. Often when the first compression is released, the bleeding has ceased—only to return, however, in a few days or hours, when the circulation has improved and the ulceration again made way. Should the bleeding have ceased when the means of stopping it are at hand, precaution against its return should be adopted. The circulation in the part must be diminished by posture, and functional rest; deep clots should be left undisturbed, superficial ones removed; the wound may be cleansed with antiseptic lotions, and a pad placed over the bleeding spot. In a limb, a tourniquet may be left loosely in place, and special watch be kept against the risk of fresh bleeding, while at the same time the general indications as above are carried out. Should bleeding break out at any time in a smart stream and resist moderate pressure, elevation of the limb, and rest, an effort should be made to detect its source. If from a large artery, and if graduated pressure with styptics fail or seem unadvisable, the only resources are ligature of the main trunk higher up or amputation. If it be from a large vein, localised pressure is generally sufficient, aided by styptics, and by the removal of all obstacles to the venous return. If the bleeding should be in the form of a general capillary ooze, the limb must be raised, and the part injected with a hot antiseptic lotion, or swabbed out with adrenalin solution (i-iooo), turpentine, hazeline, or chloride of calcium solution, after which a dressing with firm pressure should be applied, and the general circulation kept down. Plugging is not generally required. (C.) Reactionary Haemorrhage occurs a few hours after a recent wound, on the return of strong blood pressure after a condition of shock. Blood-clots are pushed from the mouths of vessels, hut remain in the wound as a kind of poultice, which encourages vascular