APPENDIX. 2S0 B. The Microscopical Examination of Secretions and Discharges. The microscopical examination of secretions and discharges has now become almost as much a matter of routine as the examination of the urine. The presence of organisms in wounds, blood, or pathological products is of great significance and mterest. An Abba's condenser and high magnifying powers are to be employed. The fluid should be obtained fresh, and spread on very fine cover-glasses. It is ob\'ious that cover-glasses and instruments must be absolutely pure. The glasses, if dirty, should be soaked in nitric acid, and may always be kept for use in strong acetic acid, from which they are removed and dried with a clean cloth before use. A drop of the discharge to be examined is lifted on the point of a needle—which has just been purified by heating to redness—and spread in a fine film over the surface of the cover-glass. A couple of films may be obtained by placing a drop between two glasses and pulling them asunder. The film is then carefully and thoroughly dried by holding it for a little while above the lamp. Finally, just before staining, the cover-glass should be drawn thrice through the flame of a Bunsen burner at the rate of a long pendulum swing; this fixes the film, and makes it stain more readily. Staining.—Place on the film for sixty seconds a drop of a 2 per cent, watery solution of methyl aniline blue, with 20 per cent, absolute alcohol added ; wash off with a gentle stream of distilled water, and examine. In the case of blood, the stain should be a half-saturated alcohohc solution. Gram's Method.—Prepare a watery solution of aniline oil by putting a few drops of the oil into a test-tube, adding about half an ounce of water, and after shaking, filter. Add to this, in the proportion of 1 to 10, a saturated alcoholic solution of gentian or methyl blue. Let the cover glasses stain in this for fifteen to thirty minutes. [Sec- tions require twice as long.] Then at once place, them in Gram's-fluid —Iodine, i part; iodide of potassium, 2 parts ; water, 300 parts ; or as a substitute for this, add tincture or liniment of iodine to water, till of a dark-sherry colour. They should remain in this till of a dark-brown or black colour. They should next be transferred to absolute alcohol to decolorise, and then placed in a weak watery solution of Bismarck brown or eosine for the contrast stain, after which they should be washed