239 THE URINE. relative, but when there is an increase from the patient's previous habit, or when the frequency is manifestly above the normal, some cause must be looked for. The increase in frequency may be attributed solely to a larger quantity of fluid passed, but besides, its explanation may be sought (1) In the irritating quality of the urine, when highly concentrated, charged with acid, or loaded with sugar. (2) In irritations of the genital organs and perinseum, as in congenital phym sis and adherent prepuce, and occasionally in gonorrhcea and piles. In children, and occasionally in adults, from worms in the rectum. (3) In obstruction to the outflow of urine, as in stricture of the urethra and enlargement of the prostate (mostly at night). (4) In irritation of the bladder from cystitis, presence of a calculus or foreign body, ttmiour or tubercular deposit in the bladder-wall, or celluStis near the bladder. Also in pressure against the bladder-wall from tumours, misplaced uterus, or pelvic accumulation of fluid—i.e., pus or blood. {5) Irritation of the kidney, as in renal calculus, or tubercular pyelitis. N.B.—The most sensitive parts of the urinary tract seem to be the prostatic portion of the urethra, the floor of the bladder in and near the trigone, and the pelvis of the kidney, a gradual deposit of tubercular matter, a quietly growing tumour, or a slowly forming calculus, may for a time escape notice, especially when they affect the less sensitive part* of the urinary tract, (2) Any Association of Pain with Micturition should also be observed and recorded. Pain before micturition indicates sensi- tiveness to stretching of the bladder-wall, generally from cystitis, but sometimes from an ulcer, or new growth ; also from pressure on the vesiculae seminales when they are distended a?nd inflamed; during micturition, some obstruction to the flow, as stricture, also irritating quahty of the urine, a highly sensitive urethra as in urethritis, or a caruncle in women ; after micturition, generally some irritation at the neck of the bladder as from a calculus or tubercular deposit there, or from an inflamed prostate. Almost all irritations of the neck of the bladder and in the urethra cause referred pains at the point of the penis, or at the orifice of the urethra in women, and those in the kidney and ureter often cause similar pains shooting down to the testicle and scrotum in men, and towards the groin in women. Occasionally penile pain has been caused by irritation in the kidney; pain in the perinaeum is chiefly due to affections of the prostate and vesiculse seminales, while pains in the loins and thighs are felt in various conditions, and may be reflex or due to direct involvement of nerves when an inflammation or new growth has extended beyond its original seat in the urinary tract. (3) The Odour of Urine is peculiar to itself; familiarity with it is necessary for the detection of abnormalities, .and for diag- nostic purposes, as it is often important to.know whether certain