A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. of the frontal bone, or upon the zygoma, just in front of the ear; and the occipital arteries, against the occipital bone between the external occipital protuberance and the mastoid process. The coronaries of the lip can be easily controlled by the grasp of an assistant's fingers, or by special forceps. The lingual arteries may be compressed, as Mr. Christopher Heath advises, by passing the fore-finger behind the tongue, and hooking the soft parts forward and inwards against the lower jaw. This may often be useful in an emergency. Even where feasible, it would be inadvisable to apply any means for temporarily controlling circulation for longer than from four to six hours, lest the tissues should be so starved by want of nourishment, that they would inflame or become gangrenous when the blood returned. Permanent Closure of Divided Vessels.—The means at our disposal of immediately closing divided vessels are many :— (l) Ligatures.—The mouth of the artery or large vein, being grasped with forceps, is slightly drawn out from its sheath, and secured by a ligature. Formerly, a curved needle on a handle or tenaculum was passed into or near the vessel, so that it might be Fig. 19.—Artery Forceps (sharp pointed). raised; afterwards, sharp-pointed forceps were adopted with a catch to keep them shut (Fig. 19), these being' subsequently improved, so as to make the thread slip better over their end (Fig. 20); while, more recently, pressure forceps have been introduced, of which there are many modifications of Koeberle's original pattern. The best are, perhaps, the strong conical-ended Fig. 20.—Fenestrated Artery Fig. 21.—Plan's Forceps. Forceps. forceps, known as " Wells' forceps," from their having been modified by Sir Spencer Wells ; although many similar instruments, such as Pean's (Fig. 21), Tail's, Greig Smith's, or Kocher's are in use, according to the taste of the surgeon. In order to facilitate thorough cleaning, most patterns of forceps, as indeed of other two- bladed instruments, are now made so that the blades can be detached at pleasure.