EMERGENCY CASES. 1 *• 2 Opium, Acute Alcoholic Poisoning, Suspected Poisoning, Coal Gas, Strvchnia, Morphia, Phosphorus, Chloral,. Ammonia. Oxalic Acid, Paraffin, Belladonna, . Chlorodyne, Iodine, Lead, Insolation, . . _ • Irritant, Atropia, Spirit of Salt, Sulphuric _ Acid, Aconite, Corrosive Sublimate, Bow's Liniment, Prussian Blue, Carbolic Acid, Chloroform, A. B. C. Liniment, Croton and Opium, Cyanide of Potas- sium, Creosote and Opium, Salt ol Sorrel, Prtissic Acid, Arsenic, Classification of Poisons.—(i) Irritants, such as arsenic and cantharides, irritate and inflame; symptoms are delayed. Corrosives have immediate action; they soften and destroy the mucous mem- branes—, caustic alkalies, strong acids, corrosive sublimate, also, to a less degree, oxalic acid. (2) Narcotics or cerebral poisons, producing stupor, delirium, convulsions, or coma—as opium, hydrocyanic acid, poisonous gases. (3) Narcotic-irritants combine the effect ot the above in greater or less degrees—e.g., strychnia, aconite, hemlock. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—When diagnosis has to be made from symptoms, the following tabular form, modified from that given by Murrell in his excellent work on "What to do in Cases of Poisoning," will be found useful:— Collapse.—Viommtnt in irritant and corrosive poisons, and in all others towards the end. Coma.—In opium and morphia, alcohol, chloroform, chloral, coal gas, prussic acid. Exciteinent.—ln alcohol (early stage), belladonna, hyoscyamus, cannabis indica. State oj Pupils.—Contracted in opium and morphia, and alcohol (sometimes). Dilated in belladonna and atropine, hyoscya- mus, tobacco, and alcohol generally. Stale of Skin.—T)ry'\n belladonna and atropine. Moist in opium, aconite, and in collapse. Time .Symptoms take to appear.—Developed at once in corrosive poisons and in hydrocyanic acid. In others the time varies with strength and dose of poison, condition of stomach as to tood, and idiosyncrasy of patient. Effects of arsenic and phosphorus are often delayed. Smell of Breath.—Characteristic in laudanum, alcohol, carbolic acid, &c.; in phosphorus poisoning there is a smell as of garlic. State of MovUh.—Mucous membrane made white and softened by caustic alkalies and mineral acids (nitric turns it afterwards brown); also by corrosive sublimate and strong carbolic acid. Dry from belladonna, atropine and opium. Vomiting, Colic, Purging.—In strong irritants, also in arsenic. 60 cases. 30 . 12 , 6 , 4 . , each- 3 .