ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 27 presents but little difficulty, in war it must be well nigh impossible. The method employed by Neuber in his private hospital, at Kiel, is remarkable for simplicity and success. The table, macintoshes, vessels, &c., are all washed with soap and water, and then with 5 per cent, carbolic lotion. The patient has already been well bathed, and the site of opera- tion purified with carbolic lotion. The instruments, which, after the last operation, had been washed, boiled, and put away, are now rolled in a napkin and boiled over a Bunsen burner for 20 minutes in order to sterilise them, and thence transferred to \ per cent, carbolic lotion. The surgeon's hands, those of the assistants and nurses, and the skin of the patient are purified as usual. A copious supply of sterile salt solution is ready. It is practically the neutral saline solution (p. 66) sterilised by boiling. Gauze is sterilised by boiling for half an hour, and is then used freshly prepared, or, hke the sponges, it may be stored in 5 per cent, carbolic lotion, and wrung out of the sterile lotion before use. The operator's hands, and everything that comes in contact with the wound, are purified with 5 per cent, carbolic and are then rinsed with the sterile fluid to get rid of the antiseptic, and leave them aseptic. The bleeding points are carefully secured with catgut, and- the wound flushed with the sterile fluid, poured from a jug. The wound is now dried with the moist gauze, and a pad of the gauze is laid over the raw surface, and the wound is closed by a continuous - suture. Before the last stitches are tightened, the gauze compress is gently withdrawn, and the dressing applied. External drainage is not generally required. The tissues have sustained the minimum of irritation, and are able to cope with the ensuing effusion. Union by the first intention is the rule. It will be observed that sterilising by moist heat is the great anti- septic, and that active antiseptics are retained for objects that cannot be so purified. Iodoform is used in tubercular cases. Separate operating chambers are set apart for aseptic, septic, tubercular, and other cases. The advocates of aseptic surgery generally employ the method of Schimmelbusch. It is more liable to failure than even imperfect antiseptic precautions, and demands the most rigorous, and even reflex, thoroughness of every detail. The operating rooms are con- structed with a view to prevent the harbouring of dust. The walls, floors, and roofs are smooth, their angles rounded off, and they are daily flushed with |y>t water or antiseptics. Table, shelves, and furniture are constructed of glass or metal. Moist heat takes the place of chemical antiseptics for disinfecting, and by boiling the instruments and sterilising the dressings, &c., with steam, asepsis is secured. The gauze dressings, swabs, towels, aprons, &c., are lightly packed in perforated metal boxes, which are placed within a steriliser (see Appendix). Merc they are subjected for an hour to the action of steam, at a temperature of 100'' C. The boxes are then removed, the perforations which admitted the steam closed, and the now sterile contents are ready for use. Of necessity, we