149 ON FRACTURES. the tnajority of fractures of the lower extremity are found in the obliquity of the fracture, generally from above downwards and forwards; the shortening, and the tendency of the lower fragment to roll outwards. There is also seen drawing up of the heel. The position of extension is suitable during treatment in most cases, more especially since we can by a glance recognise to what extent eversion of the limb has been remedied. The internal edge of the patella, the internal malleolus, and the ball of the great toe, should always be seen to lie in the same vertical plane when the limb is extended. The application of extension is treated of in detail at p. 203. In the case of fractures, the plasters should stop short just below the seat of injury. We now proceed to apply the necessary splints, buckle the foot-piece to the extension-straps, secure the pulley to the foot of the bed, and put on the weights. From six to eight pounds is about enough for an adult. If spasm ceases and the limb is comfortable, there is sufficient weight. Next raise the foot of the bed on props, and the patient's body acts as the counter-extending force. The limb should be carefully measured every day; and whenever the limbs are of equal length, weight must be decreased. Take off weight also if there be pain in the joints below the fracture. Increase it, if there be starting pains at the site of injury. (I) Fractures of the Femur, like those of the humerus, may be considered according to the portion which they involve. Shortening is sometimes of little value as a diagnostic of fracture of the neck of the femur. This symptom is usually delayed, and may take a day or two to develop when the fracture is intracapsular. It is sometimes inappreciable, if the fracture be impacted. In the latter case, the history and presence of antero-posterior broadening, with flattening laterally, and tenderness of the trochanter major, enable one to come to a conclusion. Impaction should not be released in old people. An altered position of the trochanters is readily ascertained, as follows :— Lay the normal limb in the same position as its fellow. See that the pelvis is straight. Wlien there is any pelvic obliquity, the lines drawn from one anterior spine to the other, and from the umbilicus to the symphysis pubis, do not intersect at right angles. Indicate the anterior superior spine and tip ol the trochanter major on each side with ink; then take a couple of strips of stout sheet- lead, as recommended by Chiene, and lay them across the body, joining the above points. If the trochanters occupy the same level on each side, the strips will be parallel. Should they have under- gone any change, the direction will be at once obvious, and a conclusion may be drawn as to the nature of the injury. For a similar purpose we may use Bryant's triangle. With the patient lying supine, indicate the anterior superior spine and the tip of the great trochanter. Join the points by a straight line. From the anterior superior spine drop a line vertically towards the ground, and from