66 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. be attained by such proceeding are these : either (i) To add fluid to the circulation, and so give the heart something on which to con- tract ; thus to enable it to utilise the blood which always remains in the veins after bleeding, and to stimulate absorption (water or saline fluids); (2) to add also nutriment to the blood (blood or milk); or (3) to add to it, besides fluid and nutriment, red blood-corpuscles, which will be functionally active as respiratory agents (blood). Of these, while the second is of doubtful value, and the third of doubtful possibility, the first is unquestionably possible, and is often all that is required to save life, especially after sudden hemorrhage. The effect produced has been called the "dynamic ' effect. Aseptic (boiled) water at blood-heat, injected to the amount of about i \ Htre (2f pints) has been found sufficient in an apparently desperate case of post partum hsemorrhage. A warm f per cent, solution of common salt in boiled distilled water (about a drachm to the pint) would be preferable to plain boiled tap water. Various other saline solutions have also been recommended ; but it would be difficult to prove their practical advantage over a | per cent, solution of common salt. Where shock is great adrenalin solution should be added (from 1-20,000 to i-ioo,ooo—z.e., from i oz. to i\ drachms of the i-iooo solution to 20 ozs. of normal saline" solution). Where the patient's system is depressed from want of food from any cause, 5 per cent, of glucose has been added, by Lennander, to the normal saline solution with apparent advantage. Apparatus Needed for Saline Infusion.—A nozzle of glass or metal, for tying into the vein, and a piece of tubing to attach it to a small glass funnel raised 2 feet above the opened vein. Some prefer a syringe. The end of the nozzle, if cut obliquely, will enter the opening in the receiver's vein more easily. A metal nozzle, with bulbous end, is strongly to be recommended. Mode of Procedure.—(a.) In Infusion of Water or Saline Solu- tion.—First retard the circulation in the limb so that the veins may be distended and a suitable vein selected. The median basilic vein is generally chosen, but it may be irregular in size or position. Inject cocaine and adrenalin locally, or freeze the site of the incision (p. 20). Then expose with scalpel and forceps the vein selected. Pass a double catgut ligature under it. Tie the distal one to prevent bleeding. Now fill with saline fluid the previously steril- ised and warmed funnel, to which the similarly prepared nozzle has been attached. Clamp the tube near the nozzle to ensure that it keeps full of fluid, and entrust it to an assistant. Nip up with forceps a piece of the coat of the vein, and incise it with knife or scissors. Enter the nozzle and secure it in the vein with a single twist of the proximal ligature. Before releasing the clamp compress the vein just beyond the nozzle. Now release the clamp and shake the apparatus while holding the funnel vertically. If air has got into the nozzle it will ascend. Should a syringe have been used the piston should be slightly drawn back before the fluid is injected. This withdraws any air that may have got in. Having now excluded air, release the pressure on the vein and allow the