ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 47 (2) IVyeth's Method of Elastic Compression with the help of pins is an improvement upon a method introduced by Professor Spence. The patient is laid on his back, with his sacrum resting on the corner of the operation table (Fig. 12). To prevent the elastic tourniquet Fig. 12.—Wyeth's Method of using Pins in Amputation at Hip-joint (after Wyeth). from slipping after the head of the femur has been disarticulated, two spear-pointed steel pins, J inch thick and 10 inches long, are used. One is entered ^ inch below and a little to the inner side of the anterior superior iliac spine, and is driven for 3 inches superficially through the skin and muscles, and brought out on the outer side of the thigh at the same level as its point of entrance. The other pin enters at a point i inch below the angle of the symphysis, and after passing through the tendon of origin of the adductor magnus, is brought out h inch below the tuberosity of the ischium. The points are guarded with pieces of cork (small pieces of metal tubing would be preferable). A pad of sterilised gauze 4 inches square and 2 inches thick is next laid over the femoral vessels where they cross the pubes. A strong india-rubber tube, | inch in diameter (when unstretched), and long enough to go five or six times round the thigh, is then wound tightly round above the pins. Wyeth recom- mends that the main vessels should be ligatured before the head of the femur is disarticulated. (3) Where the head of the femur can be left in position until the main vessels have been secured, bleeding may be controlled by an elastic tube encircling the thigh, and carried round the pelvis after being crossed above the great trochanter. To prevent it slipping down the thigh, two supporting bands should draw it upwards at the inside—one in front, and one behind. These may be secured round the trunk or held by assistants (Fig. 13). A large pad and an elastic bandage may also be used to compress the external iliac (Fig. 14). ii^) Digital Compression 0/ the External iliac against the pubes in children, or in adults by a powerful hand, while the posterior vessels are ?>eing compressed by a pad over the sciatic notch. Most surgeons, hov/ever, prefer the security afforded by mechanical means. tb) Close to the Shoulder-Joint.—Many operations can be