133 ON FRACTURES. of crepitus is often elicited. Where of parallel bones one only is broken, there is usually little displacement, and crepitus is not always to be obtained with ease. The plan of placing the fingers at each end of the bone, and making pressure while they approach each other, will aid largely in showing the seat of pain and obtaming characteristic crepitus. Thus in fracture, pressure at a distance will localise pain at the injured spot; in a bruise this does not occur. In difiScult cases, for diagnosis and reduction, chloroform is invaluable. If swelling should obscure the lesion, one is justified in deferring diagnosis, and meanwhile directing treatment to allay the swelling by means of rest, pressure, and evaporating lotions, as occasion may indicate. In all doubtful cases the value of the X-rays is great. The injured limb should not only be "screened," but a skiagram also taken. Such a detailed method of examination as we have given above is not, however, always necessary. In many cases, the well-known salient characters of the injury most frequent at the site in question are easily recognised. Should this not be the case, then the further methodical search indicated above is called for. In regard to treatment when confinement in the horizontal position is essential, the patient should always have a good firm bed, in which he cannot sink. For this purpose, nothing is better than a well stuffed, double-quilted, hair mattress. When such a bed cannot be obtained, and the ordinary mattress is soft and yielding, a wooden board may be placed beneath it. Essentials of Treatment.—The great object in treatment is, firstly, to secure accurate apposition of the fragments, and secondly, to inaintain a condition of rest and fixation until such time as repair is concluded. The limb should be comfortably and efficiently steadied, and all movement prevented. In order to ensure this, the principle of fixing the joint above and below the point of fracture is well worthy of consideration, since it is obvious that all muscles which pass over a joint, must influence it whenever they are called into action. Moreover, if the patient having any liberty attempts_ some little exertion, he is apt to fling the muscles into action ; in endeavouring to keep the injured limb quiet, he renders the jomts in the vicinity rigid, and, in fact, may entail movement at the seat of fracture. Hence, in fractures of the leg and thigh, forearm and humerus. It IS advisable—in the case of restless patients, at least—to fix the ankle, knee, and hip joints, or the wrist, elbow, and shoulder joints, as the case may require. The long splint for the lower limb, and the rectangular splint, with shoulder piece, for the upper, fulfil this purpose admirably. In all cases of fracture it is of importance to ascertain whether there be any nerve injury, and to watch for this during the subsequent progress of the case ; since it sometimes happens that the newly formed callus may cause injurious pressure. For the first few days after treatment a daily inspection is required. Any pain or dis- comfort calls for examination, and the condition of the circulation must always be ascertained. A slight rise of temperature on the second or third day, even in simple fracture, is to be expected.