EMERGENCY CASES. 83 do not account. Recovery is slow and often complicated with paralysis and by albuminuria. Should diphtheria be diagnosed, the question will be—is the patient chiefly suffering from tracheal obstruction, or from general poisoning ? If from the former, an operation may be considered; if from the latter, it is, ol course, unnecessary. When the local symp- toms seem to be getting steadily worse, and to be the chief evil, the tree entrance of air should be ensured. Symptoms are then relieved. The early use of antitoxine serum is of the utmost importance (see Appendix). There should therefore be no delay before searching for the organism by culture and by microscopical examination of the membrane or discharge from the throat. If it be a case of croup, the chief consideration wall be :—is the obstruction becoming dangerous ? If so, and if steaming, nauseants, and poultices, and possibly bloodletting, have done no good, intubation or tracheotomy will be indicated. The rules for an emergency case of tracheal obstruction from any other cause may be hkened to those for simple croup. {c.) Foreign Body in the Air-passages.—Whether this be a seed, small coin, or other object, it places the patient in imminent risk of choking at any moment. It may be lodged in one of the ventricles o: the larynx, or have passed down the trachea into the bronchi. If a patient be brought into hospital with a history that points to such an accident, and should no symptoms be immediately pressing, he should be put to bed as quietly and speedily as possible, no exertion being permitted, lest the foreign body be disturbed and come into a more dangerous position, or cause spasm of the larynx. All prepara- tions for tracheotomy (see Chapter xi.) should then be made, and the visiting surgeon sent for. A bad fit of choking may necessitate tracheotomy at any moment. No efforts should be made at inverting the patient and shaking the foreign body out, so long as it lies in a harmless place, or, unless the operator is prepared to perform tracheotomy at once. The glottis might become suddenly closed, either by reflex spasm or by direct lodging of the foreign body between the cords. Fig. 31.—The Umbrella-Probang : closed. Fig. 32.—The Umbrclla-Probang : open. In some hospitals Kilian's apparatus has been used to extract foreign bodies from the bronchi, as a substitute for tracheotomy.