248 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. low as the mark 1000; the more the solid matter suspended in any flnid, the higher will the stem rise. As the fluid lends to rise up around the stem, the figures should always be read oflT by placing the eye on a level with the surface of the liquid in the jar. The urinometer should be entirely immersed once or twice before beiny read oflf, and should not be allowed to rest against the sides of the vessel. Examination for Substances in Solution.—Next, we test for substances in solution. 1. For the quantity of a substance normally present—t.<f., urea— the hypobromite of sodium method, with the instrument kr-wn as Southall's ureometer, is the best. As directions are sent with the instruments it is unnecessary to detail them here. 2. For the presence of substances normally absent, i.e.— _ (<z.) Albumen—i.e., serum albumen and globulin, which for prac- tical purposes are the only forms whose presence is important. (a) By Boiling after Aciduiaiion.—'' A test tube is charged with about 3 fluid drachms (10 c.c.) of urine. To this is added a single drop of acetic acid. The upper half of the column is then heated to ebullition. If albumen be present, the upper boiled portion of the column will show opalescence in contrast with the lower hall, which remains unchanged. If the urine be alkaline, it should be carefully neutralised by adding successive drops of acetic acid, until the litmus paper shows a distinct, but slight, acidity, and then the final drop of acid is added before boiling. Even il the urine possesses its natural acidity, it is better to add a drop oi acid, ii you want to bring out the maximum sensitiveness ol the boiling test. When performed with these precautions, the boiling test is the most sensitive and the most reliable of all albumen tests" {Roder/s). If the urine be alkaline cautiously add dilute acetic (2 per cent.) till there is a distinct acid reaction with blue litmus paper; then proceed to boil. If urates be present, boiling alone is suflScient, as the urates indicate acidity. Heat re-dissolves the urates, and as the boiling-point is ap- proached a cloud of albumen will appear, if present. Should the urine have been alkaline, or faintly acid, when boiled, a cloud of phosphates is likely to appear. This cannot be distin- guished from albumen until a few drops of nitric acid are added, when the phosphates will be dissolved, and albumen, if present, coagulated. (/3) Nitric Acid. — "Nitric acid is an extremely delicate test for albumen, and is the test to use first in all cases except when the urine is turbid from urates. The best manner of applying it is to fill a test-tube to the depth of about an inch ; then, inclining the tube, to pour in strong nitric acid in such a manner that it may trickle down along the side of the tube to the bottom, and form a stratum some quarter of an inch thick below the urine. Added in this manner, there is scarcely any mingling of the two fluids, and if albumen be present, three strata or layers will be obser\'ed—one