APPENDIX. 3o8 To Toast.—When the fire is not bright on the top, the chop may be toasted in front of the fire, turning frequently. To Fry.—Make a little butter very hot in the pan, put in the chop and cook, turning frequently. [This method entails less trouble than grilling, but is not nearly so satisfactory.] Time, 7 to 10 minutes. Steamed Mutton Chop. Required— I nice loin chop. Small piece of butter. White pepper and salt (of a teaspoonful of each). Have ready over the fire a saucepan of boiling water, with a deep plate fitting tightly over the top and touching the water. Select a nice chop, remove all skin and superfluous fat, and trim the chop neatly. Butter the plate, and when it is quite hot place the chop upon it. Cover tightly with a saucepan lid, or another plate, being careful that it fits closely. Let the water boil rapidly under the plate for from 7 to 10 minutes, according to the thickness of the chop, then lift the lid or plate, turn the chop, cover again, and allow to cook 7 to 10 minutes more, filling the saucepan with more boiling water if necessary. When the chop is cooked lift it on to a clean hot dish, add the white pepper and salt to the liquid in the plate, mix thoroughly, and pour over the chop. Serve with snow-flake potatoes (see p. 305). [Any small piece of meat, chicken, or fish may be steamed and served in this manner.] CMcken Panada. Required— Breast of a young chicken. About 2 tablespoonsful of cream. Yolk of 1 egg. Small slice of toast. H teaspoonful of salt. Remove the skin from the breast of a young chicken, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Put them into a jar, and sprinkle a little salt over them, cover the jar with greased paper, place it in a saucepan with enough boiling water to come half way up the jar. Cover with a Ud and cook for 60 minutes, as the water in the saucepan evaporates, add more, which must be boiling. Remove the chicken from the jar, pound it in a mortar with the yolk, and pass through a hair sieve. Add cream to the juice left in the jar until there are 3 tablespoonsful of the mixture. Pour this on to the pounded chicken, and stir over the fire till it thickens. It must not boil. Dip the toast into hot milk, and pile the chicken mixture on to the toast. If liked, squeeze a little lemon juice over it. Serve hot. Vegetables. Snow-Flake Potatoes (inexpensive). Required— Freshly boiled potatoes from the pot. Pass the potatoes quickly through a wire sieve, and lift them with a slice on to the hot dish, on which they are to be served, without press- ing them in any way. . , , j .v [If preferred, the potatoes may be heated or slightly browned on the top, after they have been passed through the sieve.]