SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. 71 Where other means have been ineffectual, general and local remedies are required. We may attack the fever by specifics such as quinine, antipvrin, and the like, or act on the skin and circulation, and so cause lowering of the temperature. The most energetic mode of cooling the patient is by means of Letter's iced-water coil. This method is also applicable as a local antiphlogistic in inflam- mation of joints, &c. When there is rise of temperature wilh a scantv secretion of urine (as, for example, after operations on the urina'r>' tract), the hot '' pack " is indicated. This is readily carried out by rolling the patient in a blanket, after placing around him hot bottles enveloped with moist warm flannel or stockings. Inflammations, which threaten to form abscess, often yield to antiseptic poultices. These are made by enveloping the part in boric lint, soaked in carbolic lotion, and covered with mackintosh or guttapercha. Local blood-letting is often serviceable. This treatment is most suitable for those inflammations in which the affected area is small and the process not very virulent. In severe and spreading forms of inflammation—cellulitis, as it is often called—free incisions should be made into the inflamed area even before pus has formed, and still more without delay if pus is present when the case is first seen. (See also p. 38, par. (12)). Blood-letting by leeches, or otherwise, is not often employed now, but may be useful in acute inflammations. (i) By Leeches.—Leeches are to be applied as follows :—The part of the skin selected is washed and, if hairy, shaved ; it is then dabbed oyer wilh milk. The leech or leeches are then taken from the box in which they are usually sent up, and allowed to swim for a few minutes in a basin of clean water. Each, before being applied, should next be allowed to crawl over a clean towel for a few minutes. It is then to be taken up in a wine-glass, or test-tube, which, when inverted, is placed over the desired spot. Considerable patience is often expended before the leech can be induced to fasten ; when it has once taken hold, it may be leu till it becomes distended, and drops off. Leeches to mucous surfaces (as of the vagina), must be applied in carefully adjusted test-tubes, or in leeching glasses—, tubes open at one end, and at the other end narrowed so as to allow the head only of the leech to protrude. When much blood has to be removed, the leech-bite should be fomented with warm water. When the bleeding continues too long, pressure with a pad will generally stop it; but if this fail, the leech-bite should be touched with a point of solid nitrate of silver. The continuance of the flow is due to the anti-coagulating substance secreted from the leech's pharynx {Haycrafi). (2) By Cupping, like leeching, has now gone too much out of use. In dry cupping, the blood is only drawn to the surface; in wet cupping, it is withdrawn from the body. (a) For dry cupping, if a cupping glass is not at hand, an empty jelly-can (jam-pot), cup, or strong tumbler will do as well. A flat