APPENDIX. 287 and a margin of about inch should be left all round the linen to llOTi up over the edge of the poultice. If the poultice has to be carried some distance to the patient, it should be placed between two heated plates. The poultice should be gently applied, and, in the event of there bein" much discharge from the wound, lay some absorbent cotton wool round it • over the poultice a piece of waterproof matenal; and then cotton wool or flannel to retain the heat better. The poultice should be n.'ied in its place by a bandage or handkerchief. Poultices should be applied as hot as the patient can bear them, without any material between the sore and tlie mixture, otherwise their value is diminished. They should be changed at least every three hours. The poultice should at once be burned after removal. (2) Oatmeal Poultices ai'e made in the same way as linseed, but some authorities recommend that the meal should be previously boiled. (3) Bread Poultices. — Boil some stale bread with water for five minutes. Drain off the water, and spread the bread on a piece of hnen. A few drops of warm oil should be placed on the poultice, and so prevent it from sticking to the patient. (4) Bran Poultices are made by pour-ing boiling water on to the re- quired quantity of bran, and stirring well. Antiseptic Precautions.—To any of the above poultices there may be added powdered charcoal, powdered boracic acid, or. iodoform, to diminish foetor and fermentation. The material should also be freely dusted over the surface of the sore, before the poultice is applied. (5) Mustard Poultice.—?^S!ang mustard leaves, either spread mustard, prepared as if for use at table, on hnen, or simply shake dry mustard over a Unseed poultice, and then apply it to the patient. 16) Boric Starch Poultice (CoW).—Add a teaspoonful of powdered boric acid to four tablespoonfuls of cold water starch, mix with a little cold water, ihen pour in a pint of boiling water, and stir till melted; let stand till cold ; spread the cold sta»ch thickly on pieces of cotton, cover with muslin, and apply to the part, changing the poultices every few hours, before they become hard. How to Cleanse and Purify Sponges.—Sponges, when new, are to be repeatedly washed out of hot water, dried, and beaten until the sand is shaken out. Some recommend that they should then be steeped in an 8 per cent, solution of hydrochloric acid, until all calcareous particles are dissolved. They are then to be stored in 1-20 carbolic acid, and kept ready for use. After having been used at Operations for some time.—(i) Free them from grease by steeping in a concentrated solution of washing soda. (2) Then soak for twenty-four hours in permanganate of potash i gr. to I 07.., and wash again in clean water. {3) Soak in i per cent, solution of commercial salt of sub-sulphite ol soda with 8 per cent, pure concentrated hydrochloric acid (in 24 ozs. of water, 3i of the soda, and .5ij of the acid) until (in about a quarter of an hour) they have become white. (4) Again wash in water until scentless, and store in 5 per cent, carbolic acid. Sponges used in abdominal surgery should be stored apart, and u.scd for nothing else. (In ordinary cases, after operations, the second and third directions may be omitted.) During an operation sponges should be squeezed dry of blood, and wrung out of 1-40 carbolic or 1-2000 corrosive sublimate lotion.