APPENDIX. 309 To boil a Cauliflower. Required— I cauliflower. i tablespoonful of vinegar. Water. Salt. Remove all the coarse outer leaves from the cauliflower, but let the small close leaves remain to protect the flower. Wash, and place the cauliflowet in a basin, with cold water to cover it. Add the vinegar, and let the cauliflower lie for 30 minutes. The vinegar will draw out any insects that may be secreted in the leaves or flower. Wash the cauliflower again in fresh cold water, and plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, containing i teaspoonful of salt to i quart of water. Let the water boil rapidly till the cauliflower sinks to the bottom of the pan, and the stalk is tender, about 20 to 30 minutes are required. Lift into a hot vegetable dish, and pour sauce over. Sauce. Required— I oz. butter. M pint milk. \i oz. flour. '% teaspoonful salt. Make in the same manner as directed for sauce for boiled fish (p. 303). Puddings and Jellies. Custard Pudding. Required— 3 eggs. Vi pint of miUc. I teaspoonful of sugar. % oz. butter. Take the yolks of three eggs and i white, beat well with the sugar, add the milk. Butter a pie-dish, strain the milk, &c. into the dish, and place it in a moderately hot oven to cook for about 10 minutes. The dish must not be moved in the oven until after the eggs are set, or the custard will curdle, and not become firm. Bread Crumb Pudding (inexpensive). Required— r heaped tablespoonful of bread crumbs. }4 oz. of butter. I giU of miUc. 3 lumps of sugar. I egg. A grate of nutmeg. Heat the milk, and pour it over the bread crumbs, butter, and sugar, in a basin, beat with a fork until quite smooth. Whip the yolk and white of the egg together, and mix all well together. Butter a small basin, pour m the mixture, cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam for 20 minutes. [For steaming, see beef-tea custard p. 307,] Turn the pudding from the basin on to a hot plate, and serve plain, or with a little jam. Eice Pudding (Inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of rice. i egg. M pint of milk. Water, r dessert-spoonful of sugar. Wash the rice in several waters, put it into a saucepan with just enough water to cover it, and, when the water boils, stir with a fork and add the milk. Continue to stir occasionally until the rice is tender. Butter a pie-dish, pour the rice into it. Beat the egg with the sugar, and add to the rice. Mix well, and bake in a moderate oven for about 7 to 10 minutes.