JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED AFFAKAI U^. 199 iodoform in glycerine (this does not require to be sterilised). Some bicyanide gauze or sublimated wool, and a bandage. The operator's hands and^the skin over and round the abscess must be purified. The puncture must be made through sound skin, and the course of the needle should be oblique. The contents of the abscess having been partially evacuated, the iodoform emulsion is injected. A pad is laid over the point of puncture as the needle is withdrawn, and is held in position with the bandage while a slight pressure is main- tained over the abscess cavity. The quantity injected will vary from 10 cc. (2^ drachms) to 100 cc. (3i ounces), according to the size of the abscess and the age of the patient. iV..5.—Had the abscess cavity been previously scraped out the larger doses would be dangerous. The abscess first increases after the injection and then contracts. A second injection, if needed at all, is not required for six weeks. For parenchymatous injec/ioti smaller quantities must be used as absorption is greater. For small children the maximum quantity at one sitting is 4 cc. (i drachm), for adults 30 cc. (8 drachms). A. Treatment of Special Joints. (I) The Hip-joint—(a.) By Thomas's Hip-splini.-'Th^ hip may be fixed by Thomas's hip-splint in all cases where fixation is needed, whether the patient be going about, or be confined to bed. The splint may be applied to the hip at any an^de, and this may be altered as required. One great advantage claimed for this sphnt by its inventor is, that surgeons at a distance from large centres can with its aid treat their patients at home " with no more mechanical assistance than can be rendered by the village blacksmith and saddler, and the poorer class of suft'erers will, at a small cost, be assisted as effectually as the wealthier classes."—Thomas. The following description* will serve to explain the apparatus and its mode of application :— The Splint consists of an upright bar or stem of flat malleable iron moulded to the body, and furnished with three transverse pieces or crescent " wings," to grasp respectively the chest, the thigh, and the leg (Figs. 140 and 141). The upright "should extend from the lower angle of the shoulder-blade, in a perpen- dicular line downwards over the lumbar region, across the pelvis slightly external, but close to the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the prominence of the buttock, along the course of the sciatic nerve to a point slightly internal to the centre of the extremity of the calf of the leg."—Thomas. The material should be the best malleable iron. According to Jones the upright should be x | in. in breadth and thickness for an adult of 6 feet; for one of about S feet 6 inches it should be 'i X -ir. in. ; for a boy of ten years of age, | x ^ in. ; for a child * Taken partly from Thomas'.? own book and from conversations with himself, partly from an article on the uses and application of the splint by Jones, in the British Medical Journal for Oct. i, 1887.