A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. is relieved, the inflammation subsides, and a return to the natural position of the joint is soon possible. [b.) Extension.—This is specially called for in acute and subacute cases, and to be efficient the extension must not tend to directly undo any deformity that may exist (Marsh). This caution is especially necessary where there is acute distention of the synovial membrane, or where there is disease of the bone or articular surface. To prevent the evils attendant on bearing weight, the patient must either be kept in bed, or be supplied with an immobilising apparatus, which takes the body-weight off the affected joint. The latter method is preferable in the less advanced chronic cases, since it allows the patient to enjoy some open-air exercise ; the former is necessary in acute or in severe chronic cases. In subacute and chronic tubercular cases Thomas latterly reduced the deformity rapidly by bandaging the limb into his hip-splint, kept straight, and by tightening the bandage as soon as it became slack. Robert Jones, who continues the practice and methods of the late Mr. Thomas, holds that " the lumbar spine readily curves when there is flexion at the hip sufficiently to allow the limb to be brought down to the splint when there is as much deformity as fifty degrees; but if the deformity be very great, as much, perhaps, as ninety degrees, it may be necessary to bend the splint just enough to get the limb in contact with it when the fullest possible lordosis has been obtained." It is probable that the cases which permit of this direct reduction of deformity will be chiefly chronic and sub- acute affections of the synovial membrane. It is well to note that when a joint has to be kept absolutely quiet, other joints must also be fixed whose muscles either pass over the affected one, or are in co-ordination with its movements. Thus, in bad cases, the knee should be fixed with the hip, the ankle with the knee, and the elbow and the hand with the shoulder. Bier's Method.—Passive venous congestion has been introduced by Bier of Bonn for the treatment of tuberculous joints and testicle. It is based on the rarity with which lungs, congested because of chronic heart disease, are attacked by tubercle. For all joints below the hip and shoulder the method is as follows :—Above the joint a piece of elastic webbing bandage is wound round the limb, sufficiently tight to produce a distinct bluish-red discoloration of the parts below. It Martin's solid rubber bandage is used, the skin is protected by a few turns of ordinary bandage or of lint. The congestion should be kept up for one or two hours out of the twenty-four for several months. It is well to restrict the degree of congestion to that which can be comfortably borne. The position of the constricting bandage should be altered from day to day. A watch must be maintained to recognise early foci of suppuration, which are to be treated by puncture and injection of iodoform emulsion. Treatment of Cold or Tubercular Abscess with Iodoform 'KraxilsioVL.—Apparatus required.—A fine trochar and canula, with small syringe to fit the latter, or a large-sized serum syringe and hollow needle. These must be purified by boiling or by soakmg in 1-20 carbolic lotion. A few ounces of a lO per cent, emulsion of