A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 228 place when in use. a poroplastic collar, of the bar is incomplete in front; but the extremities are joined by means of wire, or are loosely clamped, their ends being turned down to form flanges, so as to facilitate this connection. On the upper ring is placed a piece of millboard, and this serves to support a pad, sufficiently broad and thick to form a comfortable rest (Fig. 176). At the back there is a tie to keep the apparatus in It is, in many cases, found to be best to use to give a firm resting surface for the shoulder ring, or sometimes it may be desirable to employ a Sayre jacket, carrying it over the shoulders, and placing the apparatus on this." The support being on the vertical bars be- hind, the amount of elasticity depends on their thickness and shape. If need be, lateral supporting bars can be added to prevent the "give." Hilliard & Son, of Glasgow, supply them. Two other collars have been advocated, and seem specially useful in giving rest to diseased vertebrae in the cervical or upper dorsal regions. (/) Owen's Leather Collar. — One de- scribed by Owen has been long used in the great Ormond Street Hospital (Fig. 177). It is made of "undressed cow-hide, and is moulded on after being soaked in a pail of hot water. The hardened case is afterwards lined with chamois leather, and the front and back halves are made to overlap on the shoulders, and are fixed together by straps and buckles." —j5;-?VmA Medical Journal, Oct. 31, 1885. {g.) Walsham's Combined Jacket and Collar of Poroplastic Felt (Fig. 178), described in the same number of the Journal, is somewhat similar to the above, but encloses the head and chest more completely. It is like a combined helmet and cuirass, and has been used with success. \h.) Jordan's Cervical Support. — We cannot omit mention of Furneaux Jordan's "laminated plaster jury-mast (Fig. 165), which fixes the head and neck in one im- movable block—so immovable that, if the finger move the spine of the ilium, the head is moved at the same time ; or if the head be turned, the trunk is turned with it. The jury- mast is a layered strip (eight to ten layers) about 45 or 50 inches long by 2^ or 3 inches wide. The deformity, if any, of cervical caries should be alleviated by horizontal mid pulley- extension, maintained by a chin and occiput sling for some weeks Fig. 177.—Leather Collar for supporting head (after Owen). Fig. 178.—Poroplastic support lor head and neck {after IValsliam).