APPENDIX. 3o6 [A few drops of browning or ketchup will improve the colour of the beef-tea, but be careful to serve it in a coloured or opaque glass as its appearance is not appetising.] Beef Essence. Required— 1 lb. freshly-killed lean beef. % teaspoonful salt. Cut the meat into very small pieces, sprinkle the salt well over it put it into a jar and cover with a lid. Place the jar in a covered saucepan of boiling water, or moderately hot oven, for 5 or 6 hours. Press the beef, and pour off all liquid. Remove the fat with a piece of porous paper, and serve a teaspoonful of the essence at a time. [To hurry the process a tablespoonful of water may be poured over the beef and salt, and two hours will then suffice to draw out a good deal of the juice from the meat.] FlBh. ^.5.—White fish, such as haddock, whiting, cod, or turbot, should always be preferred for invalids to oily fish, such as salmon, herring, or mackerel. Boiled Fish and Sauce (inexpensive).—Have a very clean fish- kettle, with a strainer, with salted water (i teaspoonful salt to i pint of water), just enough to cover the fish. Too much water will wash away the flavour. Remove the fish from the water directly it is cooked, or it will become soft and broken. It may be kept hot over the water, on the strainer, covered with a cloth or flannel. A whole fish should be put into cold water ; a slice or piece of fish into boiling water. Do not poiu- the water over the fish, but place the fish in the water, directly after it has been well washed in cold water and salt. The time for cooking will depend upon the thickness. Whiting or floimder requires about . . 5 minutes. Sole, „ „ . . 7 .. Haddock, ,, ,, 10 to 15 Slice of cod or skate, ,, ,, 12 to 15 Put a skewer or fork close to the bone, and, if the flesh feels tender and will leave the bone, the fish is cooked enough. If the flesh feels hard, the fish must be cooked longer, for underdone fish is not only unsightly but most unwholesome. Sauce for boiled Fish. Required— A piece of butter size of half an egg. 1 dessertspoonful of flour. I small cupful of milk. % teaspoonful of lemon juice. I tablespoonful of the water in which the fish was boiled. % teaspoonful salt. Melt the butter, add the flour, and mix over the fire until there ore no lumps, pour on the milk and fish liquor, and stir constantly until boiling. Cook for 3 minutes, add the seasoning, and serve \vith the fish in a separate vessel. Broiled Fish.—This method of cooking fish is most suitable to small flat fish, or a slice from a thick fish. Have ready a very clear fire, throw on a little salt to allay the smoke. Put on the gridiron, and, when it is