JOINT FIXATJO^ AND FIXED APPARATUS. 227 the screws without side play. The fiat piece of iron " is fixed under the last layer of the jacket, during its application, great care being taken to place it exactly in the median line of the body, and to bring its upper end to within ij< in. of the top of the sternum." The nuts are removed and the screws are protected by an envelope of lint while this piece is being fixed to the jacket. When the plaster is hard, the slots of the fork handle having been passed through the projecting screws, and the level of the prongs adjusted, the whole is made fast by screwing home the nuts. Straps round the chin and occiput, from the hooks of the prongs, are used to suspend the head. (iT.) Thomas Neck Collar.—This is "made by using sheet tin as a base wrapped in boiler felt and covered with leather, as shown in Figs. 172, 173, 174." These are copied from Thomas's hgures, but the rings in Fig. 173 seem too near the ends of the collar, at least when compared with his other illustration of the collar in place. (d.) Davy uses "plain cyhndrical collars, much like swimming collars. In country practice, a dry piece of inflated gut answers Fig. 175.—Moore's Collar. N.B. — The lower extra turns have been lately added. Fig. 176.—Moore's Collar applied. very well, but in towns india-rubber is best, and is easily covered w ith fur, so as to imitate a victorine" (British Medical Journal, July 4, 1885), while Pughe has found very serviceable for poor patients "a collar made of soft leather filled with sawdust" Horsehair would be lighter and more elastic. U.) Moore's Collar.—A steel collar (Fig. 175), the invention of a blacksmith for his own little girl, is described by Clark, of Glas- gow (Fig. 176) "It consists of two incomplete rings, the upper for .supporting the head, and the lower to rest on the shoulders Being formed of one piece of steel, the two rings are continuous at the back; and the upright portions, passing from the lower to the upper support the latter, and, when in use, support the head also. The lower ring is formed of round steel; but it is flattened for the upper, the flattening commencing about the middle of the vertical .supports. The upper ring being formed of the ends