ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 55 vessels and muscular tissue ot" the uterus of rabbits, Milne Murray has shown * that— " (i) Water, at temperatures of 120° F. and 10° lower, contracts blood- vessels, and arrests haemorrhage from small arteries. " (2) Water, at temperatures of 100° and 30° or 40° under, dilates small vessels, and promotes haemorrhage. "(3) Water, at temperatures of 50° F. and 20° under, checks hsemorrhage by constricting blood-vessels, but this only temporarily. " (4) After water at the above temperatures has lost its styptic power, water at high temperatures is still effective." These experiments have been fully verified by clinical experience in postpartum hsemorrhage. The more efficient and lasting effects produced by hot water—i.e., at temperatures between 110° and 120° F.—as well as the diminished risk of its inducing shock by extracting heat, would lead surgeons to employ it in many cases where formerly cold was used. In bleeding from inaccessible cavities or deep wounds, for instance, the injection of hot sterihsed water has been found of great service. Hot water has also the advantages of being generally more readily available than very cold, and, after it has been boiled, ol being at least aseptic. The observations hitherto have been made chiefly directly on wounded surfaces and upon bleeding mucous membranes, which seem to stand without damage a temperature which would blister the skin. If we have to produce constriction of vessels at a distance below the skin by the continued action of either heat or cold, we should prefer the latter. It would be more difficult to maintain the constricting high temperature on the deep parts, and, if it were maintained, its effects on the intervening tissues would be serious. When temperatures from 120" to the boiling-point and onwards are brought to bear on the tissues, effects other than those produced merely by muscular spasm are seen. There is (besides injury visible only by its results) first coagulation of albuminous sub- stances and softening of connec- tive tissue; a higher temperature still more coagulates the one and hardens the other; while the temperature of dull red-hot iron coagulates and hardens all * Ed. Med. Journal, Sept., 18S6.