TREA TMENT OF PA TIENTS AFTER OPERA TION. 7 There are many cases where necessity precludes any preliminary treatment, except,' perhaps, a rapid cleansmg with washiug-soda or turpe^t^ie, and a nail brush, to prepare for the more effective acting of the antiseptic lotion. Some recon,mend painting the surface of skm with tincti^e of iodine. The best that is possible under the circum- stances must, of course, be the rule. . , Cleansing of the Mouth.-Before any operation, the patient s moutli should be fi-eed from decomposing material, and this precaution is especially necessary before operations on the mouth or throat or betore those in which the "alimentary canal is involved. Organisms harboured in the mouth may directly infect the lungs or the blood, or may lead to septic fermentation in the alimentary canal. . On this account loose teeth should be removed, and carious teeth removed, stopped, or at least swabbed with pure carbolic acid, the teeth and gums should be well brushed at least twice a day, and the mouth frequently rinsed with Condy's fluid or other antiseptic mouth wash. EstabUslinient of Artificial Hjrper-Leucocytosis.—Mickuhcz ad- vocates the subcutaneous injection of neucleic acid before operations on the ahmentary canal, as this drug increases the number of white blood corpuscles in the blood. This is believed, from experimental evidence, to act as a valuable prophylactic against peritoneal infection in ttie human subiect. .,. , , i „f Messrs. Parke Davis & Co. supply a sterilised s per cent, solution ot neucleinic acid for hypodermic injection. The usual dose is a hypodermic injection of 50 c.c. of a 2 per cent, solution, administered twelve hours before an abdominal operation Before operations on the alimentary canal, efforts should be made to render the stomach and intestines as free from organisms as possible Besides attention to the mouth. Gushing advises that the tood for some days before operation should be taken from very clean or sterilised vessels, and should consist of sterilised water, milk, and other fluids in an aseptic condition. Where there is gastritis, and micro- organisms in number in the gastric contents after a test meal, the stomach should be washed out twice daily for some days before operation. ^\^lere plastic operations involving the transplanting of skin- flaps by stages from distant parts are to be undertaken, the parts which are to be held in apposition must be fixed on their place for some days before, so that the patient may be accustomed to the constraint. IL After Operation.—(i) ConstiHUional Treatment.—Aittx axiy caoiul operation the patient is usually kept on fluid diet for a few davs until the effects of the ansesthetic have passed off. When patients complain of much pain, the best analgesic is opium, given as morphia, hypodermically or by the mouth. The amount of the dose will vary with the patient's tolerance of the drug; but it is best to begin with small doses—say J4 of a grain, which may be repeated if necessary. Children, aged people, and those with renal di-sease or bronchitis, bear opium badly. In sleeplessnes.-5, where there is no pain, paraldehyde, bromide of ammonium, chloral, trional, and hyoscyamus, prove useful. As soon as digestion per- mits of it, fish or chicken i.s added to the diet (see Appendix E), and, as soon as possible, full hospital diet is ordered. If the bowels do not act of themselves, they .should be opened on the third or fourth day by an enema or simple laxative. The tongue,