A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. •78 tear will be partial. In the latter case, the patient should not be allowed to try to pass water himself; it should be drawn off at intervals of six or eight hours, for three or four days, or a catheter tied in continuously. When there is a complete rupture—any severe retention being meanwhile relieved by aspiration—the visiting surgeon should be sent for, and preparations made for perinaeal section. (3) Possible Rupture of the Bladder.—Such a condition may be expected when a person with a more or less filled bladder receives a violent blow in the hypogastric region, or when the pelvis is severely crushed. The diagnosis is chiefly made from the hsematuria, not traceable to the kidney or ureter, from the small quantity of urine obtainable, and from the collapse. The patient must be put to bed, and treated with warmth and opiates, while the visiting surgeon is sent for. Preparation meanwhile should be made for laparotomy. (4) Possible Injury of the Intestines.—"Where there is a penetrating wound of the abdominal wall, whether from a stab or a bullet, it may be assumed that if the abdominal cavity has been reached, the intestines or other viscera will have been injured. Only in rare cases do they escape. Again, should the abdomen have been severely crushed or heavily struck, any of the viscera may be injured without the shghtest trace of violence being visible on the outside. For penetrating wounds of the intestine it is now generally acknowledged that (at least, if the case can be seen before severe peritonitis has occurred) laparotomy should be at once performed, so that apertures may be sutured and bleeding points tied. If the probable injury could be as nearly surmised in non-penetrating abdominal injuries, the treatment would be similar. We may, therefore, lay it down as a rule that, in all cases where from the nature or history of the injury, especially if accompanied by great shock and by vomiting and hiccough, severe injury of the intestines is suspected, the patient should be sent to bed and kept absolutely quiet, while opium or morphia is administered. Nothing should be given by the mouth except a little ice to suck. Collapse may have to be treated by some of the methods indicated on p. 68. A general examination of the abdomen should be made, and special attention paid to rigidity of the abdominal wall, and to liver dulness. Meanwhile, the visiting surgeon should be sent for without delay, and preparations made for laparotomy; a few hours may make all the difference between the success or failure of a possible opera- tion. If we wait until intestinal contents have escaped into the peritoneum, and septic peritonitis has been well established, the patient's chances of recovery are greatly diminished, if not entirely destroyed. (5) Strangulated Hernia is always a matter of great anxiety. The only question that a house-surgeon may have to settle is: -how far should he go in efforts at taxis before sending for the