i6 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. but also opens up the glottis effectually. It is best accomplished, if the patient's ankles are already secured, by tilting the table, or by the operator mounting a chair, and placing his left leg on the table, while he lifts the patient and lays him across his left knee, so that the chest and head are dependent. The chloroformist pulls out the tongue and begins artificial respiration, while an assistant injects ether or strych- nine hypodermically, and makes himself generally useful. If air passes freely into the lungs, we do not lose hope, but persevere with artificial respiration. It will be noted how much can be learnt by watching the aspect of the patient's face. The pallor of syncope and sickness, the congestion of respiratory embarrassment must be well watched, in contrast with the normal colour of the lips and ears. To sum up : we expect that no operative procedure whatsoever should take place till the patient is fairly " under"; that as soon as he is under—as evidenced by the muscular relaxation, cutaneous insensibility, and loss of conjunctival reflex—the anaesthetic should be at once removed; and that in the event of any respiratory trouble arising which is not at once relieved by pulling forward the chin, or by forcible traction on the tongue with artery-forceps, the alarm should be given, and artificial respiration promptly begun, with the patient's head and shoulders well lowered (Fig. 34a). When extensive operations have to be performed in the region of the mouth and jaws, the patient's sufferings are mitigated, and less chloroform is required by mixed narcosis; J to ^ gr. morphine is given hypodermically twenty minutes before chloroforming. Moreover, the operator may be greatly assisted by the patient's ability to clear his mouth while still remaining insensible to pain. Junker's apparatus is serviceable for the continuous administration of chloroform during mouth operations. The vapour may be pumped along a tube into the throat, or the modified Mason's gag, with its hollow handle, for connection with Junker's inhaler, may be found still more convenient. Chloroforming to facilitate further operative procedure after a pre- liminary tracheotomy. To one end of a short piece of rubber tube attach a filler, to the other the inner tracheotomy tube. Chloroform is poured on a piece of lint at the bottom of a tumbler, the tracheotomy tube inserted, and the filler held over the tumbler. The shorter and larger the tube the greater the ease in breathing. Certain disadvantages are apt to attend the administration of chloro- form in small rooms with exposed gas or paraffin-oil fights. A decom- position of the vapour takes place and intensely irritating chlorine pro- ducts are formed. On one occasion where the room was heated by a small oil stove, an operation had to be hurriedly concluded, on account of the discomfort caused by the compounds liberated from the chloro- form, and the patient had an attack of bronchitis in consequence. The well-known inflammable nature of ether also calls for caution when it is used by night, or in proximity to a naked light or glowing cautery. All operation theatres should have covered or electric illu- mination. (2) Ether is held in favour as the safer anmsthetic by many surgeons, notably so in England and abroad. It would appear, however, that in this respect its virtues have been exaggerated, and fatalities during its use are not extremely rare, as is shown by some American writings and recent German statistics.