CHAPTER XX. SURGICAL APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRICITY. Contents.—Various Forms of Electricity Employed—Mode of Pro- ducing the Electrical Current—The "Galvanic," and the "Faradic" Current — Electro - Diagnosis — Electro - Therapeutics — Caution — Selection of Current—Duration of the Application—Motor Points— Mode of Application—Electrolysis—The Galvano-Cautery. Compared with its uses in Medical practice, the applications of Electricity to Surgery are less extensive, besides being chiefly of a different kind. For full information on " Medical Electricity," we must refer our readers to some of the special works on the subject. In the present chapter we shall only attempt a brief explanation of some ol the more important applications of Electricity to Surgical practice. The Forms of Electricity employed are the Galvanic, or Chemical, current, allowed to remain continuous, more or less slowly interrupted, or occasionally reversed, and the rapidly interrupted induced Faradic current. The terms " Galvanic and "Faradic" are derived from the name of the discoverer of the special form of current in each case. Electricity is the same thing under all circumstances, but it differs in its effects according to the way in which it is produced. Before we speak, however, of the applications of current elec- tricity, we must understand the mode in which it is produced. Mode of Producing the Electrical Currettt.—The Galvanic Current is obtained from some form or other of " cell" or " element." This depends for its construction on the fact that when two dissimilar metals, or a metal and carbon, are immersed in a corrosive fluid, and either touch at one point or are united by a connecting-wire, an electrical current is established in the "Circuit," which is the term used to express the combination of metals, fluid, and connection. One such arrangement is called a palvanic cell or galvanic element, while a number of cells coupled together form a battery or pile. The metal more easily attacked by the fluid is corroded, while bubbles of hydrogen gas form on the other. The current is said to begin at the corroding metal, pass through the fluid to the other metal or carbon, thence throueh the latter, and back to the first metal by the point of junction or by the connectmg-wire. The outer por- tion of the current—i.e., that which flows along the connecting-wire, is that which is used for medical and other purposes. The points of attachment of the connecting-wire to the metals are known as the Poles of the cell. That Pole towards which the current flows in the outer part of the circuit is called the negative () pole, while the other from which it comes, is called the positive (-t-)