38 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. first, and in dealing with the former—besides attention to scrupulous cleansing and purification—the surgeon should wear a clean linen over-all, by which he protects his clothes, and so reduces to a minimum the chance of his carrying organisms away with him. Erysipelas connected with wounds requires that the wounds be treated on general principles, especially providing for free drainage and washing out with antiseptics. The reddened surface of .skin before being wrapped in cotton wool should be painted with tincture oC iodine, which generally relieves the burning pain complained of. Ichthyol ointment (20-50 per cent.) is also a most useful application. Watch must be kept for subcutaneous suppuration, and incisions made as soon as it appears. Generally milk diet is indicated. In bad cases, careful nursing and feeding at short intervals are of the utmost importance. Unduly high temperature may be reduced with the ice cap, or antipyrin. Quinine may be tried, but it often sickens. Free stimulation will be required in asthenic cases. Perchloride of iron in large doses has been vaunted.* (11) Whitlow is the name given to a celluhtis which often attacks the fingers, and frequently spreads up the sheaths of the tendons to the fore-arm. When seen in the early stage, the pain and throbbing may be treated by very hot fomentation. When, in spite of this, inflammation proceeds, it should be treated by warm antiseptic appli- cations, with early and free incisions as soon as suppuration seriously threatens. If the pus have burrowed into the fore-arm before the surgeon has been consulted, his duty will be to ensure free escape of pus and to put the fore-arm in a splint. In bad cases, imgation or continuous immersion is indicated. (12) Treatment of Acute Inflammation by Passive Conges- tion.—Bier has strongly recommended passive congestion as a cura- tive agent in acute suppurations and inflammations, and has treated acute abscess, furuncules, cellulitis, inflammations of joints, and even osteomyelitis, in this fashion with success. A Martin's rubber bandage is appUed two or three times around the limb well above the iiiflam- matoiy focus till a powerful passive congestion is created. Thus, in case of the hand or foot the bandage is applied to the upper arm or thigh. The bandage must on no account cause pain. A fiery red oedema and swelling is produced, extending over the whole limb below the level of the bandage. The bandage is kept on in general for at least ten hours daily. In severe cases it is employed for twenty to twenty-two hours. Between the applications the limb is laid in an elevated position, and dressings may then be changed. Blisters forming indicate that the bandage is too tight, or may mean that an abscess forms, which must, of course, be opened. The position of the bandage may be altered, and it may be slightly padded with gauze if it cause inconvenience or threaten the skin. A rapid relief of pain and fall of temperature ensue. Special suction apparatus has been used where parts were affected to which the bandage could not be applied. (13) Blisters may be considered as the result of so rapid an eSusion of • See Appendix. Sero-Therapeutics.