76 A SURGICAL handbook: have more confidence in gently pushing the instrument on. After great difficulty has been met with in passing an instrument, it is often well to tie it in for six or eight hours, or at once perform external urethrotomy. When the smallest instruments have been tried in vain, and if the symptoms are not very urgent, the patient may be again put into a warm hip- or general bath. The urethral injection of cocaine and adrenalin may also be repeated. He may then be able to pass urine himself, or the next attempt with the catheter may be successful. If, however, the symptoms are urgent, an effort to pass a catheter under chloroform should be made, and, if unsuccessful, the bladder should he aspirated just above the pubes. If cystitis has been present aspiration may cause cellulitis in the track of the needle, but this is a risk which must be faced in very bad cases. With aseptic urine the method is harmless, it may be repeated with- out hesitation over and over again (during five weeks it has been done regularly), and by removing the distention, it at the same time often relieves the spasm which complicates the stricture. The patient can often make water afterwards without assistance, or at least the surgeon's trouble is much relieved. In retention from other causes also, where urine is probably aseptic, aspirate above the pubes in all cases of urgency and difficulty. Should there be no exhausting bottle at hand, a vacuum is easily produced by first heating and then cooling a bottle with a tightly-fitting cork, perforated to transmit a connecting-tube. At the same time, negative pressure is not really required; an aspirating-needle, or fine trochar, is sufficient, and involves no danger so long as the surgeon sees that the intra-bladder pressure is naturally present, or is maintained by the hand over the abdomen until the needle is withdrawn. Where the bladder-wall is thick and hard from old standing inflammation, it tends to keep in a semi-contracted state ; if compressed beyond this, it expands again at once like an india-rubber ball; and would draw air and organisms into the bladder, if the compressing hand were relaxed while the tube was patent. (b.) Retention from enlarged Prostate is most frequent in old men, but otherwise from previous history might be mistaken for stricture. Except where the middle lobe is enlarged alone, and towards the bladder, a finger in the rectum feeling the prostate will generally make the diagnosis plain. Should the nature of the retention be doubtful, the passage of a large instrument will remove the uncer- tainty. No obstruction will be felt until the prostate is reached, and there the difficulty, and a serious one, will be met with. To obviate the alteration in curve of the urethra due to the enlargement, which may be lateral as well as from below, we may use (i) a soft catheter with a " coudi^ " or "bi-coud^ " end ; (2) a metal instrument with an extra large bend ; or (3) a well-curved gum-elastic catheter with stilette, passed down to the obstruction. If the catheter be gently pressed onwards while the stilette is being withdrawn, the point of the former will be raised up and may be so guided past the obstacle into the bladder.