57 ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. as to effect the constriction of the vessels ot the affected part, or that of the main vessels leading to it. Its application must be continuous, but not sufficiently so as to lower vitality to any appreciable extent ; hence the need of care in its use. Formerly, cold injections were used for bleeding mucous membranes and for deep oozing wounds ; but where a fluid at a temperature of abwut iio° can be brought to bear upon them, we should advocate its use instead. Application of Styptics.—Of the many styptic agents which have been employed, it is only necessary for us to explain the use of a lew. No matter what the styptic is, it should always be applied directly to the mouths of the cut vessels, without any intervening blood or blood-clot. Thus, when an operation has been performed upon a part in which the circulation can be controlled by a tourniquet, if a stj'ptic is to be used, it should be applied before the tourniquet is relaxed in order that its full effect may be obtained. Of course, we may wish to apply styptics while bleeding is still going on. Then we must do our best to first sponge the surface clean and remove all the clots which have collected in the wound. A styptic, when mixed with blood on the surface of a wound, only makes a cloggy mass, which, while not stopping the bleeding point, hides it from subse- quent attempts. Various Styptics. —Powdered alum and matico leaves are recom- mended as styptics, but are not often used. (a) Adrenahn.—By far the most efficient agent is adrenalin, or other similar preparation of the active principle of the supra-renal gland. It acts by causing constriction of the smaller vessels. The drug is sold in solution, or in a dry form suitable for solution. (b) Tiirpenline, soaked in a cloth which plugs a deep oozing wound, acts well. This may be called a domestic remedy, and is an antiseptic as well as styptic. It is less irritating to the tissues than perchloride of iron. Some hold that the plugs in which it is soaked should be removed at the end of a few hours ; but it is doubtful if any further irritating effect is produced after this time. (c) Tincture of Perchloride of Iron is one of the most efficient stj-ptics in use, but it is, at the same time, one of the most irritating to the tissues, and its application is generally followed by more or less sloughing. It makes a hard sticky mixture with blood-clot, of a dark colour, and unless applied, as above stated, directly to the raw surface, it does more harm than good. It should only be used when unavoidable. It may be painted on the wound surface, soaked in the texture of a plug, or, after dilution, injected into a cavity. (d) Ilazeline, or the active principle of Witch Hazel {Hamavielis virgtnua), has durmg the last few years been found useful as an astnngent and hsemostatic. Locally, it may be applied as an oint- ment, or in solution, by injection, painting, or on a plug. (e) Tannic Acid, applied as powder or in solution, has long been advocated as a local and remote styptic, as well as an astringent. When applied locally, tannic acid precipitates albumen and^^^ay thus be of service for discharging surfaces, but other agents are