TREATMENT OF PATIENTS AFTER OPERATION, ir at least three or four times daily, or a syphon with clamp or stopcock may be laid close to the patient's bed, so that he may wash out his mouth himself as often as he pleases. Difficulties in Administering Food: How to meet the?n.—Under these circumstances, liquid food must be administered (a.) through a tube by the mouth, or (b.) per anum. {a.) Sometimes at the end of the operation, a gum-elastic or soft rubber catheter (about No. 12 to 18) is passed either through the nostril or the mouth into the cESophagus, and is held in position by a stitch. In other cases the House Surgeon or nurse passes a similar tube each time the patient is fed. The food, which must be poured through a funnel raised a few inches, will generally consist of milk, beaten-up eggs, beef-tea, thin arrow-root, and (if necessary) alcohol in the form of brandy or whisky. It is needless to say that, if a tube has to be daily passed, care must be taken to ensure that it enters the oesophagus and not the trachea. It has happened that the patient's lungs have received the food meant for the stomach— an accident which involves nearly certain death, either by immediate suffocation or rapid pneumonia. (3.) Rectal Alimentation is at best a poor substitute for feeding by the mouth. Life may be sustained by it, however, for several weeks and even months; and in certain circumstances the rectum becomes the only available channel for introducing nourishment into, the system. The physiological facts on which the proper management of rectal alimentation depends, are briefly: that while the absorptive power of the large intestine is very great, digestive powers may be considered to be wanting in its juices altogether, and that, as its chief function is expulsive, fluids or solids introduced per anum, large in amount, or with irritating qualities, will be expelled before absorption can occur. Nutrient Enemata should, therefore, be pre-digested, should be small in amount (from 2 to 6 ounces), should be injected slowly, and as nearly as possible at the body-temperature (95° to 100° F.). Under favourable conditions, a reverse peristalsis seems often to occur, and the materials of enemata injected shortly before death have been found afterwards at the caecum. The food injected should be (i) peptonised albuminoids, in the form of peptonised meat-juices sold ready for use (Johnston's, Darby's, Brand's, &c.); beef-tea, or white of egg, digested with pepsin and hydrochloric acid, or more conveniently with Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus, or some of the peptonising powders sold by chemists (Fairchild's and the zymine powders sold by Messrs. Burroughs & Welcome act admirably); (2) Diastased starch in the form of prepared malted foods, or starchy foods acted on by malt extract, or by artificial pancreatic juice ; (3) Or the combination of starchy and albuminoid foods contained in peptonised milk, or peptonised milk-gruel (see also Appendix). N.B.—Recent experiment by Huter seems to have established that the mixture of a gramme (15 grs.) of common salt with the white of each egg