142 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. y Fig. 92. — Shoulder-cap Shaped from Cardboard, a, and Moulded, b. wards as far as the elbow. Finally, secure the arm to the side with a second roller, which may also support the forearm, or use a sling for this purpose. Some authorities dispense with a sling, and (more especially in the case of fractures above the level of the surgical neck) are content to fix the parts by means of the bandage (Fig. 61). Others, again, lay stress on the use or non- use of the sling in fracture at the surgical neck. Where the fracture is very oblique, it is better not to support the elbow, but to let it hang, as in Fig. 91. In any case an external shoulder-cap and axillary-pad may be used (Figs. 92 and 93). It sometimes though rarely happens that in fracture of the surgical neck the upper fragment is tilted outwards, and cannot be replaced. Under such circumstances the lower fragment should be brought in line with the upper till union is obtained. Middeldorpf's splint secures this end conveniently (Fig. 94). Stromeyer's triangular pad makes a comfortable and steady splint for fractures of the humerus. The parts are carefully adjusted on the cushion, and secured to it by straps. (b.) Fractures of the Shaft are recognised with ease. Shortening is generally pro- nounced, the fracture being commonly oblique, with the fragments carried past each other. Gooch's splints, padded and cut away so as to avoid pressure on the bend of the elbow or internal con- dyle (Fig. 90), should be applied with slip-knots. The arm bandaged from the finger- tips to the bend of the elbow, is carried in a sling, leaving the elbow dependant, and a circular roller steadies all (Fig. 91). In the case of untrust- worthy patients, it is safer to use a rectangular splint in addition, so that the joints ^. ^. ,, ,• j • r . , J u 1 .u i- . Fig. Q-!.—Shoulder-cap applied in fracture above and below the fracture S 93 ^^^^ of the kumerus. may be commanded. This splint should also include the hand, since movement of the fingers has been known to cause non-union (Fig. 91). Fractures of the humerus immediately above the condyles, or which implicate the joint, must be carefully diagnosed from disloca-