ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. 35 it be sluggish; (c) to remove obstacles to venous return; and {d) to treat any constitutional condition that may exist. (a) Locally, foul ulcers in the skin should be dusted with iodoform, and dressed with lint, exactly fitting the sore, soaked in antiseptic lotion, and kept moist with oiled silk, which overlaps the lint all round with a i-inch margin. Should granulations become oedematous, and the healing be sluggish, stimulate the surface by touching it with blue stone (sulphate of copper), or by dressing with an astringent, such as 4 grs. to the ounce of sulphate of zinc. Bright red, "healthy" granulations should, after being washed with a stream of boracic or weak lotion, be covered with oil silk or tin foil, over which is laid absorbent antiseptic wool, or boracic lint applied wet and allowed to dry, in situ. The region of the ulcer should be kept as much as possible at rest. Thus, rest in bed is generally indicated in leg ulcers, especially if extensive. In the case of ulcers elsewhere, fixation of the part should be carried out by a splint. Where there is any tension on the base of the ulcer, as there generally is in large ulcers the surrounding skin should be relaxed either by the position of the part, or by drawing together the surrounding skin with long strips of plaster, passing near and, if necessary, over the sore. Before remo\ing the dressing from an ulcer, the whole should be softened by soaking with lotion, to prevent any part from sticking in. {b) Tertiary Ulcers of gummatous origin, are generally benefited by free blistering round the sore, in addition to other treatment. In Callous Ulcers the thickened brawny condition of the surround- ing parts may be got rid of by various means, all of which, however, seem to act in common by stimulating the circulation and emptying the lymphatics ; thus, free blistering of the surface of the sore and of the surrounding skin, firmly strapping the part, or compressing it vvith an elastic bandage while the patient is walking about, or rubb- ing and kneading it once or twice daily and fomenting it with hot water, have each and all been found useful. To strap an ulcer, strips of plaster should be cut, J-inch wide and 3 inches longer than the circumference of the limb. The limb should first be bandaged nearly up to the ulcerated spot, then successive pieces of plaster should be applied, beginning just below the ulcer. Apply the middle of each strip at the part of the limb opposite to the ulcer, then bring either end forwards over the ulcer to over-lap in front of it. The bandage should afterwards be con- tmued up the limb, well above the ulcer. Should the application seem too tight, relief may be given by carefully dividing with scissors the plaster opposite the ulcer. When removing the plaster in two or three days, it must be divided at this place, and carefully pulled forwards at each side in one piece. (f ) The need for aiding venous return is almost exclusively found in ulcers of the leg, where varicose veins very frequently complicate, if they do not cause, the ulcerated condition. Rest in bed in itself