Thus the plane of the lower part will be about I inch or inch in front of that of the upper part (Fig. 142). For acute cases with Fig 142.—Diagram of Thomas's Hip Splint, side view, to show the bend on the upright and the position of the wings (after Thomas). distinct angular deformity, the upper and lower portions of the splint must be kept at an angle so as to fit the patient's abnormal position. As the acute stage subsides, the splint may be gradually straightened. Position of Cross-pieces.—The upper end of the main stem is forged flat and bent over the chest-band, and the two are made fast by a single rivet. The calf-band is fixed to the lower end of the main stem in the same way, and the thigh-band, '' being placed on the surface of the main stem next to the patient, is joined to it by one rivet at a point about i inch below the lower bend " (Jones). (See Figs. 140, 141, and 143.) Length of Cross-pieces. — Each cross-piece should be long enough to embrace more than two-thirds of the patient's trunk, thigh, and leg respectively. In practice, Thomas re- commends the top cross-piece to be 2 inches less than the full length of the vertical bar, the mid cross-piece to be about inch more than half the length of the vertical bar, and the bottom cross-piece to be two-thirds of the length of the mid cross-piece. In the walking splint, however, the lowest cross-piece is equal in length to the mid-piece. Mode of Attachment of the Cross-pieces.— For hospital practice each cross-bar is riveted at its middle point to tne upright bar. Thus the splint as it leaves the blacksmith's hands is adaptable to either side of the body. When the splint is made for a special case, the inain stem is fixed to the chest band on one side of the middle line—z.^., towards the diseased side, because the mam stem lies on this side of the patient's chest. The surgeon with his wrenches only requires to give a slight rotation to the °" "^^'^ gi^^" above the buttock bend, and has the effect of making the upper or trunk portion of the vertical bar look obliquely towards the opposite side, while the lower part looks straight forward. Thus for a left splint, the upper part of the vertical bar will look obliquely towards the right, and vice versd. Fig. 143.—Thomas's Walking Hip Splint applied.