52 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. The second knot may then be made, and a third, if necessary. Although a single turn is generally sufficient, a double turn, although more difficult to tighten, lessens the risk of slipping before the second knot is made, and may sometimes be needed. From time im- memorial, the reef-knot has been advocated as imperative lest the thread should slip, and it ill becomes us to discredit this practice. We shall only say, however, that sailors prefer the "reef-knot (Fig. 23) to the "granny" (Fig. 24), less because the former is more Fig. 23.—The Reef-Knot. Fig. 24.—The Granny. secure, than because it can be pushed out and undone more easily. The difference between the two knots is in the second twist. If each end, after being twisted round the other once, be brought back on itself past the other before being twisted a second time, the "reef" will be formed. If they crossed over at once, the "granny" will be the result. . r, » Two simple ways of ensuring the constant formation of a reet-knot are illustrated by the figures 22 and 25 respectively, where the operator is supposed to be looking at his own hands. In each method the work is done in the same way by each hand alternately. To begin with, the ligature being held in the right hand is passed round the forceps to the left hand. In the method shown m figure 22 the right hand is prone as it grasps the ligature, the free end of which points to the left and is at the radial side of the right hand (a). The right hand is then supinated, but in such a way as to keep the ligature still pointing to the left. Next the left hand brings its end over that in the right hand and places it between the fore and middle fingers of the right hand which then grasp it [b). The left hand then lets go its own end and grasps the other one. In this way the ends of the ligature change hands. The right hand then draws on the end which lies between its index and middle fingers and pulls it through so as to form the first stage of the knot (^). The kno is tightened by the ligature being firmly held by the ring and httle fingers of each hand while it is guided over the forceps and strained transversely by the forefingers (d). At this stage the forceps are taken off by the assistant so that the knot may be fully drawn in. When this has been done the second stage of the knot is begun by the left hand grasping its end of the ligature exactly as the right hand originally did (.) After this the process is the same as before only with the left hand replacing the right and vice versd. In7he method shown in figure 25, the right hand is supme a crasps the ligature, the free end of which, also pointmg to the left, is few at the ulnar side of the hand (a). The right hand now remains