20 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. syringe should be ready, containing stovain in normal salt solution, and of this an amount equal in bulk to the cerebro-spinal fluid with- drawn, and containing o"o6 to 0*04 of stovain, is now genily and freely injected. In a few minutes the anus is insensible to pain and the action rapidly extends. Eier recommends the addition of para- nephin {3 drops) to the solution. He formerly used cocaine with adrenalin, but found this combination did not prevent the headache, backache, and vomiting, which frequently followed after operation. Injection into a tia-ve trunk (Krogitcs) causes anaesthesia of its peripheral area, and can be used with great advantage. This method has been especially urged as a means of "blocking" the conductivity of large nerve trunks to avoid shock in major amputations. Caution.—It would appear that some people are highly susceptible even to moderate doses of cocaine. In such, it gives rise to dis- agreeable, and sometimes dangerous, symptoms. The patient becomes pale, and syncope threatens; or, again, he may turn dusky or livid. Giddiness, cardiac irregularity, retching, delirium, un- consciousness, and collapse have been noted. Treatment consists in laying the patient at full length, giving stimulants and heat; good Vias also been obtained by inhalation of nitrite of amyl. (5) Local Insensibility by Cold.—Local anaesthesia may also be produced by rendering the part bloodless after Esmarch's method, and freezing. For this purpose the ether spray, ethyl chloride, or antesthetile may be used. The two latter are supplied in convenient small cylinders. On opening and inverting, the fluid is sprayed over the field of operation or over the nerve trunk which leads to it. The skin speedily becomes dead white and insensible. The thawing is painful. The method is more specially useful where cocaine fails, as in acute inflammations, whitlows, &C. CHAPTER IV. ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND TREATMENT. Contents.—Antiseptic Treatment and the Germ Theory—A. General Antiseptic Principles and Practice—Antiseptic Materials- Isolation—Cautions necessary in the use of Antiseptics—Various Antiseptics and their Relative Advantages: Carbolic .^cid, Corrosive Sublimate, Iodoform, BoracicAcid, Chloride of Zinc, &c. ,&c. — Use of Antiseptics during Operation—Antiseptic Ligatures, Dressings, and Strapping. A. General Antiseptic Principles and Practice. The whole question of the treatment of wounds turns upon the differences which obtain between a compound and a simple fracture, an injury with skin broken and one in which it remains intact. All surgeons endeavour to bring wounds into a condition comparable with that in which the skin is unbroken. Speaking generally, we may say that inflammation does not attend subcutaneous injuries. Wherever the skin is destroyed, however, external noxious agents