no A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. CHAPTER XII. ON BANDAGINa. Contents. — Uses of Bandaging—The Roller Bandage — Rules for Bandaging —Typical Cases: How to Bandage (a.) the Foot; (b) the Hand — Cautions to be observed in Bandaging—The ■■ Spica" Bandage for (i) the Heel—(2) Knee joint—(3) Elbow— (4) Groin ('' Ascending" Spica)—(5) in Femoral Hernia ('' Descend- ing" Spica—(6) Shoulder—(7) Double Spica of the Groin—(8-9) Single and Double of the Mamma—(to) The Head (how to cover (a.f the Forepart; (*.) the Posterior Segment; (c.) the whole Scalp)—(11) How to Bandage the Fingers. The bandage is one of the most ancient forms of surgical apparatus, the simplest and most convenient. It is employed under varying circumstances and for many purposes, but its chief use is to give res' and support. With it one may retain splints and dressings, prevent and cure swelling, or check bleeding. Impregnated with some stiffening agent such as plaster of Paris, it gives us a rigid material most useful in the treatment of fractures and of other lesions. Simplest Form of Bandage.—Inasmuch as the proper applica- tion of a bandage requires an appreciation of certain principles necessary to attain the end in view, it is well to study the most elementary and fundamental form at length; this is the roller- bandage. It is intended in what follows that the student should apply the bandage as he reads, and carry out all the manipulations as they are described. The Roller-bandage, as provided in hospital, is usually made as follows :—Procure 6 yards of calico, about i yard in width, and remove the selvedges. Mark off with scissors short strips of the desired breadth; then grasp the alternate strips gathered in two separate bunches, and pull in opposite directions. From such a web one may thus obtain— 16 roUers, inches broad; suitable for the head and upper limbs. 12 „ 3 " " lower hmbs. 8 „ 4 .. •■ These are frequently known as eights, twelves, and sixteens. The strips must now be rolled. Start at one end as if makmg a cigarette with the fingers and thumb. Lay the small roll on a flat surface, such as a table, or on the thigh ; steady the loose strip with the left hand; press the right palm firmly against the roll and run it down over the strip, which will coil round, and we get a firm uniformly wound bandage. Or, again, the small , „ ^ initial roll may be held between Fig. 3y«.-Rolling the Bandage. forefinger and thumb of each band, and rolled with the fingers as shown in Fig. 39'?.