JO INT-FIX A TION AND FIXED APPARA TUS. 223 method is equally applicable when the patient is suspended verti- cally, and is more easy to carry out than Sayre s. {e) Davys Method.—Ur. Davy advocates the application of the CaUe piaster bandage while the patient is slung prone in a hammock made of coarse towelling. He uses a soft woollen hand-knitted vest as a semet The hammock, as broad as the patient s chest from axilla to axilla, is fastened in front to a stout wooden rod, from whose pro- iecting ends the supporting stays are made fast. The other end of the hammock, extending beyond the feet, is gathered mto a knot, and fixed to a rope with a pulley. „ ,u„ The patient being laid prone on the hammock is made to grasp tne ends of the rod with the hands ; the forehead is supported against a band stretched between the two stays. While thus suspended the patient remains quite comfortable during the application of the plaster bandage, and until the plaster has set. He is then taken down, and the edges of the hammock are trimmed off with scissors. Tnomas's Modification of Batter's Cuirass .—lYA?, is essentially a ricrid back support extending from the pelvis to the shoulders and fastened on with straps. It is simple and cheap; any blacksmith and saddler could make it under the surgeon's directions. Its straps can be modified to suit the needs of a growing child, and it readily permits of attention to cleanliness (Figs. 170 and 171). The frame is of bar iron, A of an inch thick by | of an inch broad for a child of from four to eight years, and thicker in proportion for older people. It is welded into a single piece, and lies against the patient's body as follows:—At the bottom it reaches as low as the sitting posture will allow, and thus extends across the sacrum_ from the space just posterior to the great trochanters. From this point on each side it passes up on the outer side of the posterior superior spines of the ilium, and thence inwards, to lie close to the spinal column in the lumbar and lower dorsal regions. As it ascends further it diverges sHghtly outwards towards the posterior fold of the axilla, and is then bent inwards till it runs across to meet its fellow of the opposite side about the level of the 7th cervical vertebra. As the figure shows, the frame is slightly broader above than below. It is forged so as to lie flat against the patients back. J , 1 .u To measure for the splint, the patient sits upright, and the length of a perpendicular, dropped from the level of the 7th cervical vertebra to the seat, is first taken, as giving the length of the upright bars. The cross measurements at the wider and narrower parts, as already described, can then be noted. The patient is next laid on his face, and the outhne of the spine recorded by means of a flexible tape of pure tin or lead. It is, of course, to be remembered that the angle is greater over the spines than at the sides where the bars run. When the blacksmith has made this frame to lie flat against the patient's back, the services of the saddler are called for. A piece