THE URINE. 247 triple phosphate; in ammoniacal decomposition the triple phosphate " MorrorS".- is always associated with any of the above deposits, and holds them together. After urme has stood for a time, a .am often appears on its surface. This may consist of urates phosphate of lime, triple phosphates, micro-organisms, or of oil- globules. The latter may be seen after severe fractures attended by crushing of the medulla knd according to some authors, to a certain extent in most fracSr^ 6n-globules ar? present in the circulation, and are excreted bv th^Sidneys They occasionally give rise to the severe symptoms a;.ocfated "^th fatty embolus, in the later stages of diabetes, and in the rare and obscure disease caUed chylous urine. (The obser^-er must, of course, exclude the possibility of the 01 having been introduced into the urine by the lubrication of instruments.) C. Examination of the TJrine. Where possible, for reasons already given, the whole urine passed in the preceding twenty-four hours should be collected and measured ; failing this, morning and evening urine may be mixed when the specific S^vity is wanted. Urine after fasting is most acid; that after meals Sa^4the highest specific gravity; and will reveal the smallest traces ""^WTiTe^^pus is present, urine from a single micturition should be collected in separate vesseb. Preliminary Examination.—After the total quantity of urine for twenty-four hours has been measured, a portion should be placed in a narrow cylindrical jar, holding about a pmt, and be allowed to stand; in an hour or two afterwards the examination may be made, noting:— 1. Colour. 2. Odour. . \ t 3. Froth, whether permanent {i.e., indicating albumen) or not, or if tinged with bile. 4. Deposit. 5. Reaction.—'Y\as is to be tested with litmus paper. The ordinary blue colour will be changed to red if the reaction be acid ■ and if previously reddened, wiU be turned blue again by an alkaline rraction. Where ammonia is the cause of alkalinity—as in decomposition—it may be driven off with gentle heat so as to allow the red colour to re-appear. With other forms of alkalinity, this is not possible Violet litmus paper available for either acid or alkaline reaction is sometimes used, while instead of reddened litmus paper, yellow turmeric paper —turned brown by an alkah —is sometimes employed. 6. Specific Gravity is generally ascertained by means of a urino- meter, or hollow glass cylinder, weighted with mercury below and having a graduated stem above. In water the stem should sink as