45 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. permits. After an amputation, the main vessels can be picked up and tied ; then, by relaxing the tourniquet, some previously unnoticed vessels will be found by their spouting, and secured while the tourniquet is screwed up again. The process may be repeated as often as desired. In the interval many smaller vessels will become occluded by the blood- clot which has thus an opportunity to form. When the elastic band or bandage on the other hand is slackened, it must be removed alto- gether, unless, indeed, a Ward Cousin's or other catch be used, which can be relaxed and tightened at will. The " Bloodless " Method of Operating.—A method, known now as the "bloodless" method, of operating was taught in Edinburgh many years ago by Lord Lister, and was afterwards independently advocated by Professor Esmarch of Kiel. The object of this method is to empty the limb of blood before the tourniquet is applied, so that the part to be operated upon may be bloodless. Lord Lister raises the limb vertically, while the patient is lying horizontally, this in itself is generally suiBcient to blanch the limb in a few minutes ; but the process may be hastened by compressing the main artery, and encouraging the venous return by a few passes of the hand towards the trunk. The tourniquet, or elastic band, must be applied while the limb is still vertical. Professor Esmarch produces a similar effect by bandaging the limb, from the extremity upwards, with an elastic bandage, thus forcibly dri\-ing all the fluids out of the limb. Before relaxing the bandage, he compresses the main vessels with an elastic tube, which effectually prevents the return of blood. Dtu-ing an operation, the "bloodless" method permits of the most perfect inspection of the part; but in pro- portion to the thoroughness of the process, and to the length of time it has been maintained, is the intensity of the hypersemia which follows the return of blood. On this account, the oozing which at first occurs from innumerable small vessels is apt to cause a greater loss of blood to the patient than when the ordinary method is carried out, so that the term " bloodless," from the patient's point of view, is far from applicable. To obviate this inconvenience, as many vessels as possible should be secured before the blood is allowed to return; then a sponge should be pressed into the wound, and the limb raised for a few minutes after the circulation is allowed to return. The congestion will soon pass off, and the remaining vessels can then be picked up and secured. Lister's method is simpler, has no tendency to drive pus, blood-clot, organisms, or debris of a malignant growth into the general circulation, and being less complete, although sufficient for all purposes, is followed by a less intense congestion. ^V.i?.—In applying any tourniquet, the maximum of compression should be attained as rapidly as possible, otherwise venous congestion is apt to occur during the tightening of the band. Special Modes of Control.—The application of an ordinary tourniquet to compress the vessels of a limb close to the trunk, or th ose of the trunk or head and neck themselves, is difficult or impossible. It is, however, generally possible to plan an operation at the hip, shoulder, or elsewhere, so that the main vessels can be exposed and ligatured as the first step of the procedure. This is especially necessary where there are few or unreliable assistants ; still, special means for temporary control of the circulation may be adopted in particular cases, such as