A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 148 CHAPTER XV. ON FRACTURES—Cw^z«M«^. Contents.—C. Special Fractures of the Lower Extremity—General Treatment—Prevention of Bed-Sores—Application of Extension— Treatment of Fracture (i) of the Femur—in Children—(2) of the Shaft of the Femur—(3) of the Patella—(4) of both Bones of the Leg—Various Forms of splint: Lateral, Dupuytren's, Macintyre's, &c.—General Remarks. C. Special Fractures—Lower Extremity. General Treatment.—A patient suffering from fracture of the lower limb requires treatment in bed. Prolonged recumbency can only be carried out on a suitable mattress such as has been already described (p. 133); it should be firm, even, and unyielding. Prevention of Bed-Sores.—The formation of bed-sores must be carefully prevented. They occur wherever pressure is kept up over bony prominences, such as the sacrum, heel, region of the buttocks, and popliteal space. Moisture is their chief causation—be it due to urine, sweat, discharge, or lotions. In old and weakly patients, extreme watchfulness can alone combat bed-sores. The patient must be kept absolutely dry. The skin exposed to pressure niay be strengthened by daily sponging with some hardening antiseptic lotion, such as spirits of wine and corrosive sublimate I -2000, after which it must be carefully dried. In women it is advisable in man)- cases to draw off the water with a carefully purified catheter three times a day, and in both sexes the perineum may be dusted with finely-powdered boric acid. Bed sores may also be treated with advantage with picric acid (see under "Burns," p. 34). Some difficulty is usually experienced at first in the use of the bed-pan. Where the patient is strong enough, he may assist by flexing the sound limb, and raising his pelvis with the aid of his arms and leg, while the sUpper is introduced from before. Mattresses are also to be had with a movable pelvic segment, which, on withdrawal, permits of the introduction of the bed-pan. Application of Extension—General Features common to