JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 231 CHAPTER XXIII. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS— Contents.—C. Treatment of Joints after Excision—(i) The Hip- joint — (2) Knee-joint—(3) Ankle-joint — (4) Shoulder-joint — (=;) Elbow-joint—(6) Wrist-joint. D. Various Forms Of Fixed Apparatus—Applications and Uses of Plaster of Pans—Various Splints (Watson's, The Bavarian, Croft's, &c., &c.)—Various Bandages (Starch, Water-glass, Paraffin, &c., &c.)—How to finish the Surface of Fixed Bandages. C. Treatment of Joints after Excision. After excision joints require to be fixed in different ways, according to whether (in the lower limb) anchylosis or (in the upper limb) mobility is desired as a final result. "Thus, while rigidity is essential for an excised knee or ankle, mobility is as important for an excised elbow or wrist. In the shoulder mobility, and in the hip rigidity, is less important. It is well to remember, however, that in any case for the first fortnight, the surgeon's chief care will be to secure the kindly healing of the operation wound, by ensuring for it rest and a-septicity. (1) After Excision of the Hip, light extension applied to the thigh, in addition to the local support given by the dressings, is all that is needed. Extension is usually maintained for a month or six weeks after the operation ; after which the patient may wear a Thomas' hip-splint for six or eight weeks longer before trying to walk. Some surgeons prefer a long splint bracketed opposite the hip- joint, instead of extension as the treatment immediately after the operation. (2) After Excision of the Knee.—Watson's splint has been much used (Figs. 181, 182). Many surgeons either wire or peg the bones together at the operation to give them greater fixity. Preparation of Watsons Splint.—Watson's splint for use after excision of the knee is made of " Gooch " long enough to extend from the ischial tuberosity to beyond the heel, and wide enough to surround the leg and thigh for two-thirds of their circumference, or less. At the knee it is scooped away laterally to a breadth of about inches, and opposite the heel and tendo Achillis it is cut away in the middle so as to <-nd in two prongs, which pass down the side of the foot. (Esmarch "nds the splint off where the prongs begin, and finds that he can steady the foot without them.) The upper end is sometimes prolonged upwards at the outer side. The splint is to be padded with lint or wool, except opposite the knee (where movable padding will form part of the dressing), and it is then covered with mackintosh cloth sewn on. Besides the splint, a suspension-rod of iron wire (No. 5 trade-wire-