224 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. of fairly rigid leather is placed beneath the frame and extends beyond it all round. Beneath the leather, and extending a little beyond it in turn, is a piece of saddler's fell. The felt and the leather are sewn together, and the frame, and afterwards the strai>s and buckles, are fastened to both. The whole is then covered with basil leather. Straps and Buckles.—The cuirass is fixed to the pelvis by a broad leather strap lined with felt, which passes round between the great trochanter and the crest of the ilium on each side. Perineal straps are fixed behind, just below the attachments of the pelvic belt, and they pass between the thighs to fasten to buckles on the pelvic belt, about opposite the middle of Poupart's ligament. From the middle of the cuirass a strap of webbing is fixed on each side. This passes round the lower part of the chest and buckles on one side. The shoulder straps on each side are fixed at the junction of the neck and shoulder and at the lower border of the axilla. The shoulder and perineal straps are made of leather lined with felt, and covered with basil leather. If the angle of curvature projects sharply, the leather and felt over it may have to be split, so as not to press on it. The angle may also be protected from pressure as the patient lies by a longitudinal bar of iron over the spines. Where it is necessary to fix one or both thighs, additional bars can be fixed on to the lower part of the frame with cross pieces to encircle the thigh above the knee. Where neck has to be fixed, a Thomas, or other neck collar, may be worn in addition to this cuirass, or an additional piece may be fixed to the upper part of the frame. This piece bears a cross bar curved to fit the occiput and ending in straps which pass from just above the back of the ears round the forehead. (The account of this splint is taken from Jones and Ridlon's article in the Provincial Medical Journal, December, 1892.) 2. Methods of Support in High Dorsal and Cervical Caries.—As the upper limit of the ordinary jacket is determined by the axilla, it is evident that diseased vertebrae in the upper dorsal and cervical regions must have some other and special means of support. To some of these a brief allusion has already been made ; further details are, however, here necessary. {a.) Sayre's "yz<rj/-;//aj/."- Sayre describes his "jury-mast" as follows :—"There are some cases of spondylitis in which the cervical or upper dorsal vertebrae, or both together, are involved. In these cases treatment by the plaster jacket alone can do but little, if any, .good. It then becomes necessary to treat the disease by the use of an instrument which I call the 'jury-mast' (Fig. i6b). This consists of two pieces of malleable iron, bent to fit the curve of the back. To the lower portion are attached three or more strips of tin, long enough to go nearly round the body. These strips are roughened like a nutmeg-grater, by having holes punched out through them in both directions, in order to firmly fasten the strips to the jacket. The tins