MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. log of venereal disease, where inflammatory phymosis may have ren- dered the cleansing and other treatment of sores under the prepuce impossible. When the prepuce is inilamed and where palliative treatment has failed or would take too long, the circumcision should be performed as follows:—Instead of grasping and drawing forward the prepuce, the surgeon must begin by inserting a director between the glans penis and the upper part of the prepuce; with a sharp-pointed curved bistoury, he then slits up both layers ol the prepuce as far as the corona. Each half oi the prepuce is then grasped with eatch forceps and held away from the glans, while the surgeon trims the superfluous prepuce (both layers) with scissors—leaving a margin all round and not touching the tnenum. As the parts are generally vascular, allow blood to return, and tie all bleeding points before stitching up. Powder with iodoform, and dress with strips of dry boric lint. Change dressing on second or third day, or at a later date if possible. (10) Phymosis—i.e., where the prepuce cannot be drawn back over the glans penis, may be congenital, or acquired from venereal inflammation. In slight non-inflammatory conditions, the prepuce may be gradually stretched by being drawn back daily. In more severe cases circumcision will be required. (11) Paraph3rmosis is where the prepuce, after having been drawn behind the glans, cannot be restored to its natural position. The narrow orifice of the prepuce becomes a tight constriction behind the glans, which in turn swells, and so aggravates the mischief. If the condition be not relieved in time, there is a risk of sloughing of the glans, as well as of the prepuce at the point of constriction. Treaimenf.—Oil the glans, and try to reduce by grasping the skin of the penis between the fore- and middle-fingers of each hand, while with the thumbs the glans is pressed back. Should this fail, or should there be much oedema, wrap the glans penis and prepuce in cotton wool, and then compress it with a narrow elastic bandage for twenty minutes, taking care that the elastic bandage extends no fiirther back than the point of constriction. This drives the serous effusion back into the body of the penis, and facilitates reduction, partly by thus diminishing the size of the glans penis, but still more by freeing the reflected part of the prepuce of serum, and so enabling it to double forward over the glans. A second attempt to reduce may now be made, followed by a repetition of the elastic pressure, if need be. Another method is to grasp the glans with the tips of the thumb and next two fingers, and thus to draw on the penis, then with the fingers of the other hand to try to slide the prepuce over the glans. Should these manipulations fail the constricting parts must be incised.