249 THE URINE. perfectly colourless, of nitric acid at the bottom; immediately above this an opalescent zone of coagulated albumen ; and at the top the unaltered urine. If there be only a trace of albumen, twenty^^or thirty minutes elapse before the opalescent zone becomes visible." Cautions!—" In concentrated urines, and especially in febrile urines, the addition of the acid is apt to precipitate the amorphous urates, and thus to occasion a turbidity which might be mistaken for albumen. " .\lburaen begins to coagulate immediately above the stratum of acid, and the turbidity spreads upwards ; but the urates first appear at or near the surface of the urine, and the opacity spreads downwards. Heat also readily resolves the doubt; for urates speedily disappear when the urine is warmed, but turbidity from albumen is not affected bv heat." .■\lburaoses are precipitated by nitric acid, but not by heat. 1 ne clinical import of albumose is uncertain, but it sometimes alternates with albumen. Nitric acid may increase the opalescence conrimonly present in the urine of patients who are taking cubebs and copaiba. When e.xcess of urea is present in the urine, nitric acid produces a cr}-stalline deposit of nitrate of urea after the fluids have been some time in contact. Too small a quantity of nitric acid will fail to coagulate the albumen; a large quantity, it mixed with the urine, will re-dissolve it. (i.) Sugar. JSI.B.— ^ Before Testing for Sugar, albumen must be removed by boiling and filtering the acid urine" (Bedford). By ."'ofranine Test, described by Bedford, as follows :— (1) Take equal parts of—• (a) The albumen free urine. (b) Liquor potassae (B.P.), which must be iiee from lead, and not too old. ic) i-iooo solution of safranine [i.e., '35 gramme, or about 5 grains of safranine dissolved in 33 cc. of distilled water). The resulting mixture is dark blood-red and opaque. (2) Boil this mixture in a test-tube, but avoid as much as possible shakirff up the mixture. Then cool; if more than i-ioth per cent, of glucose be present the opaque RED colour disappears, a yellow colour taking its place. '• This test is the simplest, and, fortunately, also one of the surest tests for glucose, and is not interfered with by the presence of uric acid, hippuric acid, creatinin, nor apparently by glycuronic acid. The solutions required keep well, and are much more readily prepared than Fehling's or other reagents." By the Reduction of Oxide of Copper [with Fehling's Solution). —" Pour some of the prepared test - liquor into a narrow test- tabe to the depth of three-quarters of an inch ; heat until it begins to boil ; then add two or three drops of the suspected urine. If sugar be abundant, a thick yellowish opacity and deposit of yellow suboxide are produced, and this changes into a brick-red at once if the blue colour of the test remain dominant. If no such reaction ensue, go on adding the urine until a bulk nearly equal to the test