POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION. 277 forwards, in front of the appendix ; the left ventricle by an incision along its anterior surface, immediately to the left of the septum. The heart may be now removed by dividing the great vessels, and the competency of the valves and state of the coronary arteries ascertained. The lungs may next be separated, and cut in section from base to apex. If necessary, all the organs of the neck and chest may be removed en masse. This is done by dis- secting back the skin of the neck, and then thrusting the knife through the floor of the mouth, so as to divide the mucous membrane close to the jaw all round. When this is done, the tongue may be puUed downwards and outwards, and as the larynx, trachea, cesophagus, and great vessels, are pulled forwards, they may he stripped from off the prevertebral muscles and cervical vertebrae. The vessels passing over the first rib are next divided, the contents of the posterior mediastinum, as far as may be, detached from the vertebrae, and the structures piercing the diaphragm cut; whereupon we may lift out everything — and examine the parts in detaiL The larynx, trachea, bronchi, and oesophagus should be slit up. The Abdomen.—An inspection having been made prior to re- moval of the thoracic viscera, the abdominal organs may be now more carefully examined, and, if necessary, removed. For this purpose, double ligatures should be applied to the cardiac and pyloric extremities of the stomach, the beginning of the jejunum and the sigmoid flexure. The bowel may be removed for complete examination by cutting between the ligatures and dividing the omentum and mesenteries. The stomach, liver, duodenum, and pancreas may now be removed together. The duodenum should be laid open, and the patency of the bile-passages ascertained by pressing upon the gall-bladder, and by introducing a probe-pointed knife and slitting them up. Sections may be made of the liver and pancreas, and the stomach opened. The kidneys, ureter, and bladder, together with the rectum and ovaries in the female, may now be removed. The size and consistence of the kidney should be noted, and also the thickness and adhesion of the capsule. It should then be laid in halves with a knife, the pelvis opened, the ureters followed up, and the bladder incised. Tiie Spinal Cord, is reached by laying the body prone, and making a mesial incision from the ligamentum nuchae to the sacrum. The arches of the vertebrae should now be exposed, divided with saw and chisel, and removed as in the dissecting-room. At the conclusion of the autopsy the organs may be carefully replaced, and the incisions closed with a continuous suture. The body should be left exactly as found, the grave-clothes replaced, and the most scrupulous care exercised to avoid leaving even the trace of a stain. The operator's hands should be held from time to time in running water from a tap, if possible, or washed with turpentine and carbolic lotion.