24 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. .appetite, mental depression, and excitement. When the patient complams of feeling its taste and smell in everything, its use must be discontmued, and the patient stimulated and treated lo plenty ot fresh air. The presence of iodine in urine is readily detected by shakmg up a little starch m the urine, adding a few drops of fumioc nitric acid, and the blue reaction is declared. (d.) Boric, or Boracic Acid, is one of the mildest and most unirntating germicides we possess. It may be used in saturated watery solution (i to 30), or dusted on copiously when finely powdered. It is specially applicable in open wounds after their prehminary purification with stronger agents, and highly suitable for irrigating the bladder. It is practically non poisonous (e.) Chloride of Zinc, in the strength of 40 grains to the ounce of water, is a most potent, safe, and lasting disinfectant. It is a valuable medium with which to soak strips of lint for use as plugs after operations in the vicinity of the oro-nasal cavities. It will maintain its action for forty-eight hours. It is, however, somewhat painful, and latterly it has been replaced by iodoform, or iodoform mitigated with boric acid or bismuth. (f.) Peroxide of Hydrogen owes its antiseptic property to its breaJcing up and setting free oxygen gas when it meets with discharge. There is no better agent for loosening crusts or gauze packing, or for penetrating the recesses of a wound or joint cavity. (g.) Other Antiseptics.—Amongst the many other powerful antiseptics, all of which have had their advocates, we may mention salicylic acid, thymol, acetate of alumina, lysol, sttbnitrate of bismuth, todol, and aristol. Mode of using Antiseptics during Operations.—Previous to operation, the skin of the whole part should be washed with soap, and shaved, the razor acting like the strigil of the Roman bathers, and then thoroughly scrubbed with carbolic lotion (i to 20). The skin-purification should be thorough. It is always good, when circumstances permit, to have a towel soaked in carbolic, bound over the spot, for at least twenty minutes before operating (see ante, p. 6). The patient should be warmly covered with blankets. By spreading one or two sheets of mackintosh, covered with carbolised towels, over the clothing, in the vicinity of the field of operation, an antiseptic area is provided, whereon instruments, &c., may be laid with safety. A mackintosh beneath the patient serves to protect the blanket. Everything being in readiness, while the patient is get ting '' under," the surgeon proceeds to disinfect his hands. For this purpose we cannot employ the absolute methods used for the sterilisation of instruments. To obviate sepsis-implantation by the surgeon and his assistants is still the crux of aseptic surgery. No method can be regarded as perfect. Some surgeons use sterilised operating gloves, but the majority trust to vigorous mechanical cleansing followed by the use of antiseptics, and, in addition, rinse the hands frequently during the course of an operation in a sterile or mild antiseptic lotion. Mikulicz strongly recommended as most efficient, time-saving, and economical, the spirit soap of the German