ANu¥:STHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 15 (a.) Respiratory Arrest, when sudden, is frequently due to the presence of some foreign body in the mouth, lodging in the larynx. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to remove false teeth, and search the mouths of children for sweetmeats, prior to giving an anesthetic; similarly gags, sponges, and mouth instruments should be examined before use, lest part may be loose. The tongue itself may suddenly fall back, and so obstruct respiration. If so, by pulling the chin forward, and turning the head slightly on one side, the tongue is prevented from becoming an impediment; and if the condition does not at once yield to this simple manoeuvre, the mouth should be opened and the glottis explored with the finger. Gradual stoppage of breathing is usually associated with over-dose. In poisoning of the respiratory centres, the breathing becomes shallow, irregular, and laboured—all ofwhich signs are evident enough to the attentive administrator. Or, again, there may come on closure of the glottis, associated with crowing, "croup-like" breathing, which at once gives the alarm. The treatment is to open the mouth, which may entail the use of the gag. The tongue is then forcibly seized with the artery forceps about half an inch from its tip, and they are closed, so that slipping is impossible, and the tongue is then pulled forcibly forwards and upwards. This causes the glottis to open, and reflexly stimulates respiration. The tongue is, of course, pierced by the forceps, but less damage is inflicted than by the various inefficient substitutes which have been recommended. In every case where there is no response to this treatment, artificial respiration should be at once carried out. Sickness and vomiting are dangerous from the risk of ejected material gaining access to the air passages. This is very liable to occur during operation for intestinal obstruction. A preliminary washing out of the stomach gives the patient relief, and may obviate this disaster. Inter- mittent administration, shaking and movement of the patient, favour sickness. If the stomach contain food or fluid, the patient shoifld be turned bodily on his side and allowed to vomit, after which the chloro- form is again resumed. If it be empty, chloroform is pushed in order to abolish the reflex act. {b.) The Cardiac Complications are, in the first place, those associated with, and secondary to, difficulty of breathing, when the right heart becomes distended and general congestion occurs. We have already alluded to this, as seen in the case of drunkards. It is enough to remove the towel and encourage respiration. In anxious cases, the external jugular vein may be opened; or, if the heart have stopped, the right ventricle might, as a last resort, be punctured with the hypodermic needle, blood withdrawn, and the endocardium at the same time stimulated. Sudden heart-failure is not prone to occur when the patient is well "under." Syncope is presaged by pallor, feebleness, and irregularity of the pulse, which, if not relieved by ether (.5i) or strychnine (y^ gr.), hypodermically injected, is speedily followed by extreme pallor, sudden dilation of the pupil, and cardiac failure. The most prompt action is necessitated in such cases. We have to stimulate the cerebral centres by lowering the head, and the method of inversion, which we owe to Nelaton, is of great value, since it not only increases the blood supply to the brain,