301 APPENDIX. Appendix J. Shorthand in Medicine.—" The service ot shorthand in medical work is most extensive in the ability it confers to secure notes of cases, which could not otherwise be talven. The practitioner, by its means, can keep useful records even through a busy life, and the notes which the physician has to take, can be made twice as good in half the time and wi'th less than half the labour. In all scientific medical work, and indeed in all scientific work which rests upon observation, it enables, in a civen time, the amount of record to be doubled, and yet leaves twice the time for observation, which must be more precise and accurate for the greater record. It has thus a special influence on the quality of the work. To the student also it is of extreme value in taking reports of cases. It enables him, moreover, to take perfect epitomes of lectures, and yet to give to the subject as much attention as if he took no notes. It enables him also to secure notes of the bedside teaching, the most precious he receives, which can seldom be obtained with longhand, and yet leaves him adequate time for all necessary observation of the facts. '' Nothing that is worth having can be acquired without some time and labour. Shorthand may be so learned that it can be used with advantage if one hour a day is given to its study for three months. In the case of many students with well-trained minds, three-quarters of an hour a day will suffice, or half an hour a day for four months, if the practice in writing is supplemented by reading in various spare moments. At the end of three months it can be used : it can be written at about twice the rate of legible longhand, and read with ease. A few minutes of study each day, to secure accuracy, enables its use to be adequate for further progress during the second three months. During the second six months, all the time that has been given to its study is regained by its use. At the end of the year there has been no actual loss of time, and afterwards all is pure gain. Shorthand is a lever which, unlike mechanical levers, increases alike the value of time and the power of work."* Arrangement of Notes of Cases.—It is essential that the notes of cases should be so arranged as to be easily referred to. Many methods may be employed, but the following seems the best in our judgment:— For private work the cases should be taken in separate sheets of thin tough paper, 6J by 4J inches. These can be carried in a parchment envelope in the breast pocket. As soon as the case is finished, or during its progress, if the case is seen only in the consulting room, it is put away in a partitioned and alphabetically labelled portfolio (8vo size, to be had for is. or is. 6d. at any large stationer's). At periodical intervals the cases are taken out of the portfolio, arranged according to the disease and indexed in a book according to the name of the patient. The system of diseases adopted must be drawn up beforehand, and will probably vary with the line of practice of each individual ;t but for most people, and especially for students, the headings of the Chapters of Standard Text-books will give a basis to start with. The method * From a leaflet i.ssued by the Society 0/ Medical Phono^-rapliers (Pitman's System). t Messrs. A. & D. Padon, 13 St. Andrew Square, Edinburgh, publish Cath- cart's Index for Surgical Cases.