272 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. without these precautions, air-bells will certainly disfigure the cast when the mould is nearly full, a loop of string should be pushed into the plaster to hang the cast by afterwards. (4) Removing the Cast from the Mould. —Except in almost flat casts, this must be done at the expense of the mould. In all ordinary casts' only one copy can be made from the original mould. Additional copies can be taken from this by making either an elastic gelatine mould or a plaster "piece-mould." The plaster-cast, which has been filled into the mould, should be set aside for twelve hours. With a chisel and hammer the mould must then be chipped away piece-meal, care being taken not to let the chisel cut into the cast. The advantage of staining the plaster of the mould will now be apparent. It will be found an advantage to begiii at the edges, and special care must be taken of any projecting or thin piece of the cast'lest it be broken off with the mould. To harden the plaster of Paris it should be slowly dried, then soaked in a saturated solution ol alum, and slowly dried again. This improves it greatly. Boiled linseed oil softens the surface of the plaster. If the cast is to be painted, one or two coats of Damar varnish or ot size, as a preliminary, will prevent the paint trom being absorbed too quickly by the porous plaster. (a.) A Gelatine Mould is made by suspending the cast, bone, or other object to be copied, in a wooden box large enough to give an interval of at least an inch between the object and all sides of the box. Into this is poured strong melted gelatine, or the gl)'cerine and gelatine mixture (p. 273). When the mould is cold, the sides of the box are taken off', and a cut made in the gelatine all round, half way up the most prominent parts of the object. After lifting off the top half of the mould, the object can be pulled out of the lower halt. The two halves should then be laid together, and a hole cut out of the upper one, opposite its highest point. The sides of the box are now replaced and bound in position, and, in addition, the top ol the mould must be held down to prevent the plaster from escaping, leaving, of course, the top aperture free, A plaster-cast can then be run into this gelatine mould, which, from its fiexibihty, can be lifted off from the rigid cast without injuring it. For small objects a small bowl serves well. The gelatine can be lifted out, cut as desired, and replaced in position. (b.) A " Piece-Mould" is made of plaster of Paris, and being rigid as well as the cast, must b.e made of many pieces, each of which can be lifted off without going round a comer. The object to be copied is first mapped out into areas where casts will lift off; the first area is banked round with clay, the second and succeeding pieces are ranged round the first-^blank sides being banked up, and already made " pieces " being smeared with vaseline to prevent succeeding ones from sticking to them. When the whole is complete, the inner surface is covered with boiled linseed oil; and the pieces having been fitted together are bound with string, and the^cast is made through a.hole left for the purpose.