178 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. they will have, in addition, a haemostatic effect, and should replace the dry rag. {N.B.—Although a recently washed and clean cloth is not necessarily aseptic, it will be more nearly so than one which has been collecting dust from all sides since it left the washing-tub.) Domestic Antiseptics are :—Turpentine (also an excellent haemo- static), and alcohol in the form of spirits, strong wines, or methylated spirits of wine; treacle or golden syrup, or a syrup of ordinary sugar; glycerine. Powdered charcoal, or sulphur, is also efficacious, and is often to be had. In some country-places peat-turf is abundant. This has been largely used in Germany for wound - dressings. It should be crumbled fine, freed from lumps, and applied to the wound in bags of muslin, if possible. Bleeding from an Artery.—When a large artery is wounded, and direct pressure upon it is not possible, the bleeding must be con- trolled by digital compression (Fig. 134*) by a tourniquet or by forced flexion. Forced flexion maintained by a bandage is most easily carried out at the elbow and knee. It may be aided by a pad in the flexure of the joint, but this is not essential. A simple way of fastening the bandage, which is to keep up the forced flexion of the knee, is to pass it through two slits in the patient's boot just above the heel. The femoral artery may also be com- pressed by forcible flexion of the thigh on the trunk. While any one can stop the pulse at the wrist by voluntarily forcing his arm down behind his back, as Braune showed, it is practically im- possible to control the circulation in another person by bandaging the limb in this position. In an emergency Keene's method (p. 48) would be indicated where digital compression could not be continued, as in carr)ing a patient in an ambulance. In the case of the thorax or abdomen firm circular compression over the seat of an injury where internal hajmorrhage was suspected, would be of two- fold service. It would ensure rest, and it would, in the abdomen especially, restrain hemorrhage. An extemporary tourniquet may be made from any scarf or piece of rope, as follows (Fig. 135) : — Knot the band round the limb so loosely that the fingers may easily pass beneath the band ; take a piece of strong stick and twist it into the loose band : then take a piece of paper and lay it on the skin just below the stick, to prevent the skin being nipped in ; now, twist the stick round until the band is sufficiently tight. If a hand- kerchief or scarf be used, a stone or other firm substance may be * See also p. 65- Fig. 135.—Extemporised Tourniquet.