135 ON FRACTURES. dered necessary. All splints should be removed, the limb should be washed, and a little rough manipulation during the process will prove beneficial, by causing a fresh effusion of formative lymph. A more efficient apparatus must now be applied. Should fibrous union and false joint eventually form, nothing short of breaking down or removal of the uniting medium in some way can do good, since no amount of mere rest will induce ossification of fully formed fibrous tissue. . , Treatment by Passive Venous Congestion is of great value. The method has also been used by Bier in the treatment of tuber- cular joints, &c., and is described on p. 198. As applied for the cure of ununited fracture, Nicoladini recommends an interrupted use of the elastic band, at intervals of from two to six days. He points out that the Esmarch bandage may lead to displacement of fragments in the forearm and leg, so that judicious circular padding may, under such circumstances, be substituted. The local accumulation of blood leads to a rapid formation of callus. " Greenstick Fracture" is the term applied to the bending which bones in children are prone to undergo in place of fracture. Treat- ment is that of fracture. During the forcible replacement the bone may give way completely. The collar-bone and forearm are most commonly affected. Dislocation versus Fracture.—It is convenient to consider dislocation along with fracture. The general characters of disloca- tion are fixation and distortion of the joint involved, due to a change in the relative position of the bones which form the articulation. Fractures, on the other hand, display abnormal mobility and distortion as regards the relation of certain parts of the bone to each other at the seat of injury. It is only when fractures occur in the vicinity of joints, more especially if of the nature of diastasis (epiphyseal detachment with no true crepitus), that there is difficulty in coming to a definite conclusion. By manipulation and support, we may restore the outline of a broken bone. Deformity again occurs when we remove the support. On the other hand, a disloca- tion is difficult to replace ; but, when once reduced, tends to maintain its position. Naturally, there are numerous exceptions to such generalisations, as when, for example, dislocation occurs at some shallow ligamentous joint presided over by powerful muscles, in which case, although reduction be easy, retention is even more difficult than in fracture. The sooner a dislocation is reduced, the better. This can in many instances be effected by rapid manipulation if one takes the patient unawares. Failing this, the administration of an anjEsthetic will remove all difficulty. The limb is then to be kept at rest, and after a suitable period of quiet, passive motion is carried out. B. Special Fractures—Upper Extremity. (l) Fracture of the Clavicle is an exceedingly common injury. The typical displacement of the shoulder downwards, inwards, and