THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. 259 second piece of glass tubing bent like a capital letter S, and a third piece tent at a right angle to go into the bladder. These are joined together as illustrated in the diagram (Fig. 193), and the apparatus works as follows :— The douche can, filled with water, is fixed above the head of the patient's bed, the Y-tube is fastened with a large safety pin to the edge of the mattress opposite the patient's pelvis or loins, and the part below the Y is made to hang over a pail on the floor. The screw clamp which controls the rubber tubing between the douche and one arm of the Y-tube is then relaxed, so as to allow the water to flow very slowly, in fact, only by drops. It accumulates in the S-tube, and as it tends to run out produces a negative pressure in the other arm of the Y-tube—that is, the one which is connected with the tube in the bladder. It thus withdraws urine from the bladder, and this in turn, as it runs down the S-tube into the pail, increases the nega- tive pressure in the bladder arm of the Y, and so on. The amount of negative pressure obtainable depends on the distance between the branch- ing point of the Y-tube and end of the india- rubber tube above the pail ; about a foot will generally be found sufficient. A very small outlet at the clamp is all that is required, and at the fastest the flow into the clamp arm of the Y must be less than the possible outflow through the stem below, otherwise there could be no negative pressure in the bladder arm of the Y-tube. This will be better understood by considering what would happen if the conditions were reversed. If we were to diminish the outlet below the Y-tube and increase the inlet on the douche arm, the water would flow up the bladder arm of the Y into the bladder. Thus nothing is gained by increasing the rapidity of the flow beyond a steady dropping from the clamp. The accumula- tion in the S-tube will transform this into a rapidly intermitting flow with which the urine from the bladder is mingled. In an emergency the want of the S-shaped glass tube might be supplied by bending the rubber tube round on itself, to form a single loop a-s Dawbum recommends, or into a large S-shape as Keen advises. Keen also recommends a simple way of making a sub- stitute for the T-tube. He takes a small piece of glass tubing, softens the end in a gas flame, and opens it out with any convenient piece of metal. He then cuts a small hole in the side of a piece of rubber tubing, and stretches it over the expanded end of the glass. When there is no screw clamp at hand a piece of bandage tightened in a single knot may be used instead. None of these substitutes are, however, as convenient as the very simple apparatus advocated. Fig. 193.