22 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. with such precautions. We have to maintain our wounds aseptic Ull heahng takes place. A dressing of soft, absorbent, elas c material receives the discharge, so that it may evaporate speedily and not afford a nidus for sepsis. Moreover, the dressing may be impregnated with an antiseptic, and hence cotton wool charged with corrosive sublimate or salicylic acid, or gauze prepared with the double cyan.de of mercury and zinc, are satisfactoJy applications! and render the discharge inert. ' In many cases, no drain is required. In the case of the abdomen .he peritoneum carries off secretion. When wounds are aseptic' wv'' .''i'^^''^ extensive, and where careful dressing has obliterated every cavity, no artificial drain is required. It sometimes happens, however, that a little discharge does take place, and this by evaporation may cake on the dressing, dam up some further residue, and thus create tension. Hence, a drainage-tube should be used in all doubtful cases, for at least twenty-four hours Cautions necessary in the use of Antiseptics.—Before pro- ceeding to describe the various antiseptics in use and their application one word of caution. _ The more potent the antiseptic, the more likely is it to react injuriously on the tissues; and, moreover, poisonous effects often follow when Carbolic acid, Mercurial salts, or Iodoform become absorbed. Some patients are peculiarly liable to disastrous results, even from small doses, and where such idiosyncrasies are displayed, the offending drug must be at once removed, its effects antagonised, and a milder and less irritating antiseptic substituted for it. Care should be taken to use only pure preparations of the various antiseptics. "Various Antiseptics: (a.) Carbolic Acid.—By far the most useful antiseptic, and certainly that of most general application, is carbolic acid. It is volatile, searching, combines readily with oils and alkalies, and does not damage instruments like the preparations of mercury. It is used in the form of lotion by dissolving pure phenol in water. The strong solution (i to 20) is used for purifying the skin, sponges, towels, and instruments. The weaker solution (I to 40) is employed in connection with parts and instruments already purified, and for irrigation. Carbolised gauze is used as a dressing. Carbolic acid in oil or glycerine is used for catheters and dressings. Caution!—Carbolic acid poisoning exists in varying degrees. The passage of urine which is olive green, and which darkens gradually on standing, is the first indication of carbolic acid absorption, and is in itself of little moment. Headache, giddiness, and sickness are of greater import, more especially when these are associated with the absence of sulphates from the urine. In extreme cases, low temperature, extreme depression, and collapse ensue. Treatment consists in a change of antiseptic, together with the administration of sulphate of magnesium, which, it is hoped, will combine with the free carbolic acid in the system, and be ex- creted as harmless phenol-compounds by the kidneys. In addition, stimulation may be required.