we compare a dislocation of the shoulder or hip, with one of the clavicle or head of the radius. In reducing the dislocation, we may either by gradually increased and prolonged force weary out the resisting muscular structures, and so effect a cure; or, again, by means of manipulations which tend to relax the tense muscles.'and by making use of the dislocated bone as a lever, we may cause the escaped articular end to retraverse the path it took in leaving iU companion-bone, and so regain its normal position. Subsequent treatment consists in retaining the bones in position till the capsule heals, and using passive motion at an early date in order to obviate the formation of adhesions. (1) Dislocations of the Clavicle occur at either end. They are usually replaced with ease, but retained with difficulty; they are amenable to treatment similar to that used in fracture of the collar- bone. Attempts should also be made by means of a pad to retain the displaced surface; for this purpose elastic bands, strapping, or a hernia truss have been recommended. In dislocation at the acromial end, the arm should be supported in a sling at a right angle, and the separated surfaces kept in position by a few turns of elastic webbing, running round the shoulder and elbow. The elastic is kept from slipping by a thoracic belt. The usefulness of the limb is not greatly impaired even where a good result as regards appearance is not obtained. (2) Dislocation of the Shoulder may be made out from several features. The patient generally supports his semiflexed arm mid- way between pronation and supination. The elbow is tilted from the side. The shoulder is flattened—not rounded, as on the normal side, and the level of the axillary border is lowered. If a measuring-tape be carried around the circumference of the axilla over the clavicle and acromion, it will be found that in dislocation there is an increase of from one to two inches, as compared with the opposite side. If the hand be lifted to the top of the opposite shoulder and held there, it will be found that no force can bring the elbow against the chest-wall. This test may fail in old-standing cases. The great proof of dislocation, however, is afforded by the change in the relative position of the coracoid process, the acromion, and the great tuberosity of the humerus. The first two must be identified; the last should be about an inch below, and outside the former two. If the articular cavity be empty, on rotating the elbow the head of the bone will be found anterior, inferior, or posterior to its normal site. The varied forms of dislocation here are recognised more by direct observation as to the position of the displaced head. There is not much to be gained by measurements as to the length 01 the limb. Reduction—First Method—by Heel in Axilla.—Fix the shoulder- girdle and use extension, with the heel in the axilla. Lay the patient on his back on a mattress or couch (Fig. 122). Take a few turns with a wetted bandage just above the elbow ; over this slip a clove-hitch on a lac of worsted, and fix it with a lew more