234 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. wrap it evenly in absorbent wool, boracic lint, or flannel. Next soak one of the two laminated pieces, and apply it down one side of the leg, under the sole and round to the dorsum. The assistants who maintain the leg in position can keep this piece in its place while the other is applied in like manner. In order to facilitate after removal, the parts on the dorsum which overlap should be separated by a few folds of paper (the overlapping on the sole is an advantage). A roller-bandage is now to be applied over the whole while it is still soft. When the pkster has set (ten minutes) the assistants may let go ; next day when it is dry, the splint will be perfectly firm. In the interval no unnecessarj' strain should be put upon it. When a window has to be left for dressing a wound, the separate pieces in many of the above methods can be easily ranged round it; but when plaster bandages are wrapped „. „ „ , „ , .• 1 J 1- u Fig.i8^—<». Pattern kingraans contmuously round a hmb, the \, -Bavarian Splint (a/z^r site of the window must be in- Splint. Gamgee). dicated by placing over the wound a ball of wool, on which the plaster is afterwards cut out. {c.) The Bavarian Splint is made of a double layer of strong flannel, stitched along the back, and shaped as in the diagram (Fig. 183, a). The leg being held in position, the flannel is applied with the stitch behind. The inner layer is brought over and pinned in front, while the outer layer lies back. Plaster of Paris is next mixed, and spread over the outer surface of the inner layer, to the thickness of about half an inch; the outer layer is then brought over, and a firm roller-bandage is applied. (d.) Croft's Splint. —A double pattern for each side of the leg and foot is cut from washing flannel. Beginning with one half of the splint, one piece of it is taken, and that face which is to lie next the leg is laid on any convenient flat surface. Plaster of Paris is then mixed, and the other piece is soaked in it, while plaster of Paris is also spread on the upper or outer face of the first piece. The soaked piece is then laid over the plastered face of the first piece. A similar procedure is meanwhile being executed by assistants with the other half of the splint. The two halves are then laid against the limb, and bandaged into position. The plan, however, now adopted at St. Thomas' Hospital is to protect the leg and foot with an evenly ap- plied flannel bandage, and then to apply a piece of coarse flannel shaped like the Kingman splint, and soaked in freshly made plaster. It is bandaged on in the same way. It may be strengthened with bar iron bent to the shape of the leg and foot, or with extra pieces of flannel, as required. (e.) Kingman's Posterior Laminated Splint (described by Gamgee). —The shape of the layers of gauze is obtained thus—" The leg being bared, a piece of the gauze is placed beneath it, long enough