3 CASE-TAKING. 2. Respiratory Indication of bronchitis, tuberculosis, pneu- monia, or other abnormal condition. 3. Circulatory System.—Coad.\\\on of the heart and vessels ; pulse, as to number, strength, regularity of beats, compressibility. 4. Digestive System.—Condiiion o{ the monXh, teeth, and tongue; of the appetite, digestion, and evacuations ; state of the liver. 5. Skin.—Perspiration, eruptions, cicatrices, pigmentation, tem- perature. 6. Nervous Systej/i.—Alterations in motion, sensation, reflex action, or cerebral functions. 7. Genito-urinary Syste7n.—Mictiu-ition, as to frequency and pain ; condition of urine (see Chap. xxiv.). [In women, catamenia, children, miscarriages.] Diagnosis.—Including examination of fluids withdrawn, or of portions cut off for diagnostic purposes, as well as remarks made by the surgeon. Treatanent.—All the measures used in treatment are to be mentioned. If an operation be performed, the operator should be asked as soon as it is finished what description he wishes given of it. The anaesthetic (if any) should be mentioned, and the patient's behaviour under it; also the mode of closing the wound, the drainage, and dressings used, if in any way unusual. For future reference the fluids or tissues removed should be described, and the result of microscopic examination recorded. Progress.—On graphic temperature charts, the pulse and tempera- ture are to be set down. These are to be noted night and morning in ordinary cases, but as often as every hour or every two hours in bad septic, abdominal, or head cases.' Any important change in the patient's condition should be recorded at the time, as well as any alterations in treatment. Termination.—If in death, its date, cause, and the results of post-mortem e.xamination; if in discharge from the hospital, the condition is to be noted, and the date. Should the patient return to report progress, a note of the date and condition should be added to the case, also any change of address if such has taken place. Illustrative case.— Tubercular disease of right knee—Excision; firm anchylosis. Catherine C, aged 28, domestic servant, single. Address—Comar, Strathmore, by Claynonis. Admitted June 4th, 1890, to Ward X., Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, under Mr Savi^er's care. Complaining 0/ a. bad knee." History of present Disease.—Ten years ago, after a severe cold, the patient noticed a peculiar numb sensation on the outside of her right knee. This continued for some weeks, and was then followed by swelling and pain of a shooting character, which sometimes wakened her from sleep. .Six months later the patient went to Claynonis Infirmary, with her knee drawn up and still swollen, although less painful. The joint was painted with iodine, and