252 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. inequalities left after towelling; these differ from similar ones formed sometimes by uric acid in being finer and in being colourless ; also a sediment with the following features:—An upper layer, while, hummocky, and sharply defined above ; and a lower layer, softer and gelatinous in appearance, and greyish in colour. It is found in an acid urine, and is often associated with uric acid and Fig. 184.—<r, i, c. Uric acid; d, g, Micro-cocci and bacilli; f. Yeast-fungi; g, e. Mould-fungi (from Landois and Stirling's Physiology). amorphous urates. Microscopically, it shows a crystalline form, referable to combinations of four-sided prisms (Fig. 185, a and b). A dumb-bell form {Fig. 185, d) of deposit which often accompanies the oxalate lime crystals, used to be considered another form of the substance. It is now recognised to be a carbonate of lime. B. In an Alkaline Urine.—(4) Ammonia-magjiesium or triple phosphate is most frequently associated with decomposition of urine, either within the body as in some cases of cystitis, or out of it, as the invariable result of exposure to the organisms of the air. In the former case, the turbidity and deposit due to altered pus will be the most striking naked eye feature; in the latter it will be the turbidity—scum and deposit—due to the fermentation. When deposited by itself, the triple phosphate has a snow-white appear- ance, with bright sparkling crystals on the sides of the glass, and forming a film on the surface (Roberts). Most frequently, however, it is associated with a deposit of amorphous phosphate of lime. Under the microscope, the crystals are seen to be relatively large, pris- matic with bevelled ends, and having forms modified from this by the bevelling of the various sides and angles (Fig. 186, b). Associated with the triple phosphate, there is generally a deposit of amorphous phosphate of lime, although it is often present alone. a Tj Fig. 185.—Oxalate of lime, a, b, Octahedra ; c. Compound forms; d. Dumb-bells of Carbonate of lime (from Landois and Stirling's Physiology).