A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 242 increased, or a new one formed, or the lining membrane of the bladder be encrusted with phosphates. Although uric acid calculi are slightly soluble in urine rendered artincially alkaline, no method of dissolving phosphatic calculi has yet been discovered, either by injections into the bladder, or by the administration of drugs, hence a phosphatic coating stops any attempt at removing a calculus by other than surgical means {Roberts), An unduly acid state of the urine may be caused by (i) constitutional causes. This is clinically important as indicating a liability to the formation of a calculus in the urinary passages, or as causing symptoms like those due to a calculus. {2) Muscular exercise. The Speciflo Gravity of the urine, taken along with the total quantity passed, is a direct indication of the activity of the kidney- substance and of the quantity of solids excreted. Necessarily, it will vary with the amount of fluid drunk, and of that removed by the skin and bowels. As the relative and absolute amount of solids excreted varies from time to time according to meals, fasting, and exercise, an average can only be arrived at by mixing together the whole urine passed during twenty-four hours. The average specific gravity has been found to be about 1,020, taking water as 1,000 ; variations, however, from 1,006 10 1,030 are not uncommon. Apart from varying quantities of fluid drunk or excreted by other channels, a high specific gravity., with a pale urine, points to diabetes mellitus with sugar in solution, with a dark urine to feverish condi- tions with excess of urea in solution ; while a law specific gravity, with a pale urine, leads to a suspicion of chronic kidney disease, and possibly albumen. Even where no albumen can be detected, a persistently low specific gravity should always make a surgeon anxious. The kidneys in such cases are not doing their work properly, and hence not only impair the patient's general health, but are apt to fail should an operation involve a strain upon their functions, and to break out into active disease on slight provocation. As the kidneys may be considered one of the chief means of purifying the blood, any sei'tic condition is apt to throw a severe strain on their functions. Indeed, in such cases, micro-organisms and their products have been seen w hen looked for in the urine, and large quantities of micro-organisms have been found post mortem in the kidneys. Hence the special importance of healthy kidneys in septic wounds, as well as in operations on the genito-urinary tract. When pressure within the ureter is increased, the excretion of solids is lessened before the current of fluid is affected—hence a lowered specific gravity may sometimes point to an obstructed ureter.