O.y FRACTURES. ment required. The chest should be examined ; and care as to the state of the circulation, and renal secretion, may save much initial trouble. The difficulty attending expectoration in bronchitis, the tendency to hypostatic congestion, and the embarrassment to breathing, swal- lowing, defecation, and micturition, which attend the dependant position of the patient's body, have to be combated, till there be some degree of tolerance to the new state of afTairs. The adminis- tration of digitalis, ammonia, and bark; the use of enemata, the catheter, and massage of the body will do much to improve the general condition, but in feeble old people we are content with a false joint and get them out of bed into a chair rather than court a dangerous attempt at bony union. (a.) First Method— The Long Splint with Extension.—In using the long splint with extension, the following articles are required :— Materials.—Extension-plaster and tapes ; three Domet bandages; a splint 4 inches broad, of suitable length, to extend from the axilla to beyond the foot, and a sheet; safety-pins; a broad Domet roller for the chest; a foot-piece for the long splint: fine wadding; bed props; weights, cord, and pulley. Apply the extension - plaster as described (Chap, xxi.) Roll the splint in the sheet or tablecloth, leaving enough free to envelop the limb: lay it alongside the patient, and slip it under the leg as in Fig. 105. The loose end is then folded over; the weight for extension adjusted, and the bony prominences being suitably padded, the sheet may be secured to the splint with pins (Fig. 106). The thoracic binder is now passed under the patient (Fig. 105) and pinned. Finally, raise the foot of the bed as in Fig. 107. {b.) Second Method—The Long Splint with Perinaal Band.—It sometimes happens, owing to the form of the bed or other circum- stances, that extension with weight and pulley cannot be carried out. We may then employ the long splint with the perinaeal band. With this a couple of large handkerchiefs folded en cravatce takes the Fig. 106.—-The Long Splint used with extension.