A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. surplus (as in Fig. 11S, A) to form a pad. Split the ends of the band- age and fasten them through the two holes at the end of the splint; bring it down over the towel, and secure all with shp-knots (Fig. Ii8, A). The splint is now mounted. Set the fracture. Lay the splint along the inner aspect of the leg. Secure it to the leg below the knee with a slip-knot, and then proceed to incorporate splint and limb by four or five figure-of-eight turns (Fig. ii8, B). By so doing, the foot is also fixed at right angles. As the bandage now travels Fig. ii8.—Dupuytren's Splint—A, Ready for use ; B, Fixation to Limb; C, Method of producing Inversion of the Foot. from over the outer aspect of the foot, it should be carried between the forks of the splint, and from that should pass over the firont of the ankle round to the back, embracing the splint." Complete the new series of figure-of-eight turns, by once more reaching the front of the ankle, and descend over the fifth metatarsal to the forks. By this manoeuvre, the foot is forcibly inverted, and the displacement caused by the accident remedied (Fig. ii8, C). The splint should be firmly secured before the latter figure-of-eight turns are made, so that the heel is well fixed against the splint, which must on no account be allowed to slip towards the instep. In correcting eversion, the loops of bandage should act through the medium of the fifth metatarsal. Finally, the leg is laid on its outer side on a pillow. ' (b.) In cases of Pott's fracture with marked tendency to backward displacement of the heel, an anterior horse-shoe splint has been used. It should be well padded to avoid pressure effects. Its application is illustrated by Fig. 119, where the tip of the heel is seen to rest in the handkerchief. Macintyre Splint is extremely useftil in all severe injuries of the foot, leg, and lower part of the thigh. It consists of a trough of sheet iron for the thigh, and one for the leg, both being hinged * N.B.—The turns round the ankle should be kept low, so as not to press on the seat of fracture or resist the effect produced by the firm inversion of the foot.