144 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. cases where the joint is implicated, the surgeon retaining the fragments while he moves the forearm. This is done every third day, the limb being rebound at a different angle of flexion. After the sixteenth day, daily motion should be employed. Any subse- quent stiffness of the joint will disappear through time under the effects of massage and suitable exercise, such as weight-carrying, rowing, &c. Many surgeons prefer to treat the fractures implicating the elbow joint with rectangular and boat-shaped or gutter splints and do not adopt early passive motion. (4) Fracture of both Bones of the Forearm should be reduced by extension made from the hand, while some one fixes the arm above the elbow. Here also the supine position may be adopted with advantage during reduction. Anterior and posterior Gooch- splints should be cut and shaped on the normal arm. They should be broader than the limb. The posterior reaches from the elbow to the finger-tips; the anterior from the bend of the elbow to the palmar flexure, with a space cut out for the ball of the thumb. They should be well padded on their convex—z.e., wooden surface, so that they will not mould to the limb and narrow the interosseous space (Fig. 97). The surgeon now lays them in position, the wooden Fig. 97.-DiaKram of Section Fig. g8.—Gooch-splint cut away to avoid pres- of Forearm, showing pre- sure on the ball of the thumb, servation of interosseous space by means of suitable pads and board splints. face inwards, flexes the forearm to a right angle, and lays it midway between pronation and supination. He secures the splints with a couijle of slip-knots, makes sure that there is no injurious pressure exercised at the bend of the elbow or ball of the thumb (Fig. 9»). and bandages from below upwards. Due care is taken that the circulation is in no way impeded. Many surgeons prefer to hx the limb by means of a rectangular splint. , , , r ^i. Such treatment is suitable for all fractures of the bones of the forearm, with the exception of the olecranon, Colles fracture, and fracture between the insertions of the biceps and the pronator teres. This last requires the forearm placed in the attitude of flexion and supination, so as to bring the lower fragment in hne with the upper flexed and supinated fragment, which on account of its shortness we cannot hope to influence. • , • j „;,v.r h« This position, supination with flexion, may be mamtained either by