202 In adapting the sphnt after its application, a rotatory tendency to any particular side is to be met by opening out the portions of the cross-pieces on the same side, and bending in those on the opposite side—i.e., if there is rotation towards the right, relax the right parts and tighten in the left parts of the cross-pieces. A bandage on the leg and thigh, applied in a direction contrary to that of the rotation, is also recommended for keeping the splint in its place. These directions apply to the fitting of splints to patients in whom there is no deformity other than that of flexion. Where there is also adduction or abduction an additional half wing should be fixed on to the upright bar between the level of the patient's iliac crest and last rib. For adduction, this wing will be on the same side as the disease, for abduction, on the opposite side. Where the extra wing cannot be obtained, one-half of the top cross-piece may be bent downwards instead. Sometimes children whose condition requires rest in bed, try to get up and walk, when they are not being watched. To prevent harm from this, Thomas fixes on his "nurse," consisting of a piece of iron screwed on to the lower end of the upright, so to project below the foot, and make walking more difficult and less harmful. I n When the more acute symptoms have subsided, 1 ' l|j and the patient is deemed well enough to be out of bed, the boot on the sound side is raised on a patten, and crutches are provided. The affected leg thus hangs, and extends the hip-joint by its weight. Owing to the artificial rigidity of the hip- joint, the patient cannot easily sit, and prefers either to stand or to lie. Where a patient suffers from double disease, or where there is marked deformity, a double splint is recommended. The distance between the two uprights will then be i inch more than the interval between the two posterior superior spines. A cross-bar joining the two uprights, just above the lowest cross-pieces, will add much to the strength of the double sphnt. This cannot, however, be easily applied when the two hip-joints are at markedly different angles. Thomas urges surgeons to learn how to mould the splints to fit the patient, and figures wrenches made by the Lowel Wrench Company, Mass., U.S.A., which he uses for the purpose (Fig. 144)- ^wo are needed. The surgeon when he has seen that the blacksmith has nghtly made the general proportions of the splint, sends it to the saddler to be padded with a single layer of boiler-felt (No. I, t.c, about i mch in thickness), and covered with basil leather. Fig. 144. Wrench {flfter Thomas). I