53 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. supine while the left hand brings its end behind that held in the right hand and then across and in front of the same. The left hand next places its end between the fore and middle fingers of the right hand which then grasp it (3). After this the left hand lets go its Fig. 25.—Tying the Reef-Knot, second method. own end and grasps the other one, and so on as before. Either method is equally good. When working in a cavity, the use of the forefingers as pulleys, to make the strain transverse, and so prevent the knot from l3eing pulled off the vessel (Fig. 22, d), is specially important. The ligature should be a foot long, to permit of this firm grasp. It is not necessary to tie the smaller vessels on the face of an easily accessible wound with the same care as a main vessel, or a smaller one in a cavity. Joseph Bell employs a long ligature, which he holds in his left ha.nd, and uses repeatedly, saving both time and ligature. The ends do not change hands, and the shorter one in the right hand is passed round the other (alternately over and under), and is always grasped again by the same hand. In practice the method answers well. In drawing on the first twist, the hands should be crossed,* and the thumb of the right hand used like the forefinger to guide the thread. This in an open wound is no objection. The single long end remains coiled up in the left hand, or twisted round the left little finger. Facility in tying arteries is an important accomphshment, and saves much time in an operation. Every young surgeon should practise the art with string on a piece of cloth, until he can do it without effort—reflexly, or in the dark. When a large artery is tied in its continuity, the knot must be a " reef," firmly and securely fastened with, perhaps, two or three extra turns. For different materials used as ligatures, see Appendix. (2) Torsion. —For the smaller vessels, all that requires to be done is to seize the open mouth with pressure forceps (Fig. 20), or special torsion forceps (Fig. 21); draw it out a little, and twist it four or five times round—some say, until it breaks off, but this is not necessary. Larger vessels may be steadied after being drawn out by • Even if the hands be not crossed the first time, the knot will be drawn pro- perly the second time.