THE URINE. 25' should be carefully noted. When the deposit, after standing is small and yet where its microscopic examination is important, he clear urine at the top of such a jar should be decanted off, and the remainder poured into a conical glass. After a second decanting some of the subsequent deposit may be removed with a pipette, and placed on a glass slide under a cover-glass. Sir Heniy Thoinpson advocates thi simple expedient of allowing the urine to stand in a corked bottle placed with the cork downwards. The deposit which afcer^vards adheres to the cork can be easily examined. ,, , , WTiere a centrifuge is available, the deposits can be collected more rapidly and efficiently by its use than in any other way. For our purpose deposits may be divided into two groups— I Unorganised Substances (soluble in moderately strong solutions of either acids or alkalies)—amorphous urates or phosphates, crystals of uric and oxalic acids, or of triple phosphate. II. Organised Substances (more or less altered by weak acids or especially alkalies)-epithelial cells, pus, blood, or mucus, sper- matozoa, tube-casts, micro-organisms, and foreign particles, which have obtained access to the urine. For the examination of all these deposits, magnifying powers of 50 and 350 will be found sufficient. I. Unorganised Substances.—A. In an Acid Urine. —(\) Urates form a loose deposit mingled with mucus, varying from a brick-red to a dirty yellow colour. They are distinguished from all other deposits (a) by being completely soluble by heat, (^) by forming a film on both the surface of urine and on the sides of the vessel in which the urine has cooled (Roberts). They may be combined with other deposits. Under the microscope they are amorphous and granular. (2) Uric Acid.—lmo\\i\i\e. in dilute acids, soluble in caustic alkalies. May form a film on the surface, sink as a dense red deposit to the bottom, or appear as reddish granules on the sides and at the bottom of the vessel. Under the microscope the crystalline forms are numerous, but referable to combinations or modifications of a lozenge shape, or of a rhombic prism (Fig. 184, a, b, and c.) Their deep yellow colour under the microscope is an important character. The murexide test for uric acid or urates may be useful in confirming the microscopic examination ; evaporate a few drops of urine in a porcelain basin nearly to dryness, or moisten some of the crystals, add a drop of strong nitric acid, heat till quite dry, and a reddish-brown deposit will be left ; cool, and if a drop of strong ammonia be now added a reddish-purple colour will be developed. Uric acid in the urine indicates a gouty tendency, while oxalates seem chiefly derived from the oxalates of the food. Oxaluria is often associated with dyspepsia and mental depression, but by no means necessarily so. (3) Oxalate of Lime (soluble in mineral acids, insoluble in water or vegetable acids) forms a characteristic deposit to the naked eye— i.e., lines on the side of the glass, due to crystallisation along the