297 APPENDIX. Appendix I. Preparation of Catgut.—Catgut is made from the intestine of the sheep by scraping away the mucous membrane, and the peritoneal and muscular coats, thus leaving only the delicate sub-mucotis co?inective tissue. This is twisted and dried, as a whole, or in strips according to the thickness required. Sterilising Deliydrated Catgut in Absolute Alcohol in a closed Brass Vessel {Jellctfs).—(\) Roll the raw catgut w«7/ocjf/y on glass plates. (2) Place in absolute alcohol for three or four days to ensure dehydra- tion. (3) Transfer to one of the metal sterilising cylinders (Fannin & Co., Grafton Street, Dublin; Reynolds, Branson & Co., Leeds; &c.) made for the purpose; fill it three-quarters full of absolute alcohol, and screw the Hd on tight. (4) Place the cylinder in a sauce pan of cold water, but interpose some wool or lint between the bottom of the sauce-pan and the cylinder to prevent over-heating. (5) Bring the water to the boil, and continue the boiling for fifteen minutes. (6) After it has cooled, transfer with sterilised forceps to the storage jars. The gut contracts about 1 per cent, of its length during the heating, hence the reason for its being wound loosely. The contrac- tion does not, however, affect the formation of a ball if the catgut has been pre\iously rolled in this form instead of on a plate or spool. Ether and Corrosive Sublimate Method.—(i) Soak the raw catgut for a week in commercial sulphuric ether. (2) Then for a week in 1-4000 solution of perchloride 01 mercury in ether. (3) Transfer to storage solution. Iodine Method.—This is strongly recommended by A. S. Barling, who has used it for ten months with complete satisfaction. The dry catgut as it comes from the makers is soaked in water containing i per cent, of iodine and i per cent, of potassium iodide. After soaking for eight days it is ready for use, and is stored in the same fluid in which it is prepared. Unless, however, the bottle in which it is stored has a well-ground stopper, the iodine escapes and the gut rots. Before use the catgut must be rinsed in boiled water not warmer than tepid. The catgut thus prepared is sterile, tough, knots easily, and is not quickly absorbed. No. 00 lasts about six days in the skin and is recommended for sutures. No. 2 lasts from ten to fourteen days and is recommended for muscle and fascia. Lister's Chromic Acid Catgut.—Pure carbolic acid (absolute phenol), I part dissolved in 20 parts of a solution of chromic acid in water (i in 4,oooj. As soon as the solution has been made, introduce into it catgut equal in weight to the phenol used. Steep for forty-eight hours ; take out the catgut and dry it on. the stretch. When dry, sleep it in 1-5 carbolic oil, and it is ready for use.