63 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. this was kept up by Syme for several hours in a case wheie he had cut off an internal pile (before he had taken lo the ligature). When surgeons used simply to cut off' internal piles without further pre- caution, bleeding was common, and often fatal. Now bleeding is stopped by tying or crushing the base of the pile, or by cauterising th^ cut surface. When other means fail, the rectum may be plugged with a tampon, care being taken to avoid over-stretching of the sphincter. (3) Bleeding after Lithotomy may be from the veins of the prostate, or some perineal vessel, which, if visible, should be tied. If hot injections and raising the pelvis fail, use a tube and a petticoat, or a Brown's tampon. (4) Bleeding from the Prostate may come on in old men, apart from any operation. It is then probably from varicose veins. The bowels should be opened, and the patient kept recumbent with the pelvis raised. Calcium chloride may be administered internally (see p. 58), and a few drops of i-iooo adrenalin solution instilled into the pro- static urethra, preferably through an acorn-headed catheter. When other means have failed, it may be necessary to drain the bladder. (5) Bleedingfr07)1 Varicose Veins.—Excessive haemorrhage follows the rupture of varicose veins in the lower extremities. While the patient is erect, the flow of blood is backward from the heart. The enlarged veins are frequently buried in brawny, infiltrated, inflamed tissues; but sometimes traverse the base of an ulcer, which may be insignificant in size and appearance. It is in the latter case that danger is to be feared. Inflammation affecting the vein causes thrombosis, and so protects against hsemorrhage, but ulceration, which extends without a preceding area of inflammation is much more dangerous. When the wall of the vein gives way, a great gush of dark blood takes place. It ceases as soon as the patient lies down, and holds his leg vertically upwards. Even while he is erect comparatively slight pressure, if accurately applied, by means of a dossil of lint and a bandage, arrests the flow. (6) Bleeding from the Bladder, when troublesome, is almost invariably from a tumour. No effectual cure can be expected short of removing the tumour, but the bleeding may sometimes be diminished by complete rest, internal styptics, and injections of such fluids as adrenalin solution, or hazeline. Sir H. Thompson advocated the injection of nitrate of silver, "i gr. to the ounce, gradually increased to I gr. to the ounce, or perchloride of iron, 30 min. to 5i- to water giv. Hazeline, ergot, or calcium chloride internally may be given at the same time. (7) Bleeding from the Kidney, when extensive, may be the result of injury, or of an operation upon or near the kidney, or it may arise from a tumour. No direct application can, of course, be made to the kidney, unless there is an open wound. The patient must V^e kept at rest, and on milk-diet. Ergot, adrenalin, hazeline, or calcium chloride may be tried internally. The bowels must be kept relaxed to prevent irritation from hardened fceces. Pain is to be subdued by morphia. Sickness, when it threatens to appear, is avoided by simple and sparing diet. See also Chap. xxiv. (8) Bleeding from the Mouth is commonly from the tongue,