262 III. Graduates in Medicine of any legally constituted College or University, requiring residence to obtain Degrees, will be admitted for examination on adducing, together with their Diploma or Degree, proof of having completed the anatomical and surgical Education required by the fore- going Regulations, either at the School of the University where they shall have graduated, or at a recognised School or Schools in the United Kingdom. IV. Certificates will not be recognised from any Hospital unless the Sur- geons thereto be members of one of the legally constituted Colleges of Surgeons in the United Kingdom; nor from any School of Anatomy, Physiology, or Midwifery, unless the respective teachers be members of some legally constituted College of Physicians or Surgeons in the United Kingdom; nor from any School of Surgery, unless the respective teachers be members of some legally constituted College of Surgeons in the United Kingdom. V. Certificates will not be received on more than one branch of Science from one and the same Lecturer; but Anatomy and Physiology—De- monstrations and Dissections—will be respectively considered as one branch of Science. VI. Certificates will not be received from Candidates for the Diploma who hare studied in London, unless they shall have registered their Tickets at the College, as required by the Regulations, during the last ten days of January, March and October in each year; nor from Candidates who have studied elsewhere unless their names regularly appear in the Regi- sters transmitted from their respective Schools. August 15, IS'iS. N.B. In the Certificates of attendance on Hospital Practice and on Lectures, it is required that the dates of commencement and termination be clearly expressed: and no interlineation, erasure, or alteration will be allowed. Blank forms of the required Certificates may be obtained on applica- tion to the Secretary, to whom they must be delivered, properly filled up, ten days before the Candidate can be admitted to examination; and all such Certificates are retained at the College.