263 BYE-LAWS RELATING TO THE PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND EXAMINATION OF CANDIDATES FOR THE FELLOW- SHIP. 1. That, except in the cases and instances hereinafter provided for to the contrary, every Candidate for the Fellowship, whether a Member of the College or not, shall produce Certificates satisfactory to the Court of Ex- aminers,— That he is twenty-five years of age. That he is (if found qualified upon his examination) a fit and proper per- son to be admitted to the Fellowship, and the Certificate of which shall be signed by three Fellows. That he has attained a competent knowledge of the Greek, Latin and French Languages, and of the Elements of Mathematics. That he has been engaged for six years in the acquirement of professional knowledge in recognised Hospitals or Schools of Surgery and Medicine within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or in Foreign Countries; and that three of such years at least have been passed in one or more of such recognised Hospitals or Schools in London. That he has attended the Surgical Practice of a recognised Hospital or Hospitals during four years, and the Medical Practice of a recognised Hos- pital or Hospitals for one year. That he has studied Anatomy and Physiology by attendance on Lectures and Demonstrations, and by Dissections, during three Winter Sessions of not less than six months each, at one or more recognised School or Schools. That he has attended Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Medicine and on Clinical Medicine, and also on the Theory and Practice of Surgery and on Clinical Surgery, during two Sessions of six months each, at one or more recognised School or Schools. That he has attended one course of Lectures on each of the following subjects, viz. Chemistry, Materia Medica, Midwifery, Medical Jurispru- dence, and Comparative Anatomy, at one or more recognised School or Schools. And that he has served' the office of House Surgeon or Dresser in a recognised Hospital in the United Kingdom. Every such Candidate (except in the cases and instances hereinafter provided for to the contrary) shall also present for examination Clinical Reports, with observations, of six or more Surgical Cases taken by himself at a recognised Hospital or recog- nised Hospitals within the United Kingdom, with sufficient Certificates of s 2