2G5 Elements of Mathematics, shall be received or allowed by the Court of Examiners, except the Certificate or Certificates of the persons for the time being so appointed as aforesaid. 5. That all Members of the College, future as well as present, shall be entitled to be admitted to the examination for the Fellowship according to the foregoing Bye-Laws and Ordinances. 6. That any person who shall have been a Member of the College on the fourteenth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and forty-four, shall, after the expiration of eight years from the date of his Diploma, also be entitled to be admitted to the examination for the Fellowsliip upon the production of a Certificate signed by three Fellows that he has been eight years in the practice of the Profession of Surgery, and that he is a fit and proper person to be admitted a Fellow, if upon examination he shall be found qualified. 7. That any person who shall have become a Member of the College after the said fourteenth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and forty- four, shall, after the expiration of twelve years from the date"of the Diploma, also be entitled to be admitted to the examination for the Fellowship upon the production of a Certificate signed by three Fellows that he has been for twelve years in the practice of the Profession of Surgery, and that he is a fit and proper person to be admitted a Fellow, if upon examination he shall be found qualified; and also, if he have not taken the Degree of Bachelor of Arts in an English University, of a Certificate or Certificates that he has a competent knowledge of the Greek, Latin and French Languages, and of the Elements of Mathematics. 1. The Examination for the Fellowship shall be held three times in the year, at or within such periods as the Council shall from time to time determine. 2. Each Candidate shall be examined on two days, either successive or at such an interval as the Court of Examiners may appoint. 3. The subject of the first day’s examination shall be Anatomy and Phy- siology, those of the second. Pathology, Therapeutics and Surgery. 4. The time allowed for examination each day shall be from ten o’clock in the forenoon until five o’clock in the afternoon. 5. The Examinations shall be conducted in the following manner:—Each Candidate shall, upon going in for examination, have delivered to him a written or printed copy of such questions as shall have been previously de- termined upon by the Court of Examiners, and to which questions he shall