Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b285228624 g; -J:>iA VADE-MECUM OF MORBID ANATOMY, MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL; - WITH PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS AND SYMPTOMS. ILLUSTRATED BY UPWARDS OF TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DRAWINGS. BURGESS AND HILL, GREAT WINDMILL STREET, HAYMARKET. 1830.PREFACE. This Vade-mecum is neither intended nor calcu- lated to supersede any of the standard works on Morbid Anatomy, by which medical science has been enriched during the last thirty years. To fur- nish a concise and faithful transcript of the labours of all the eminent morbid anatomical writers, and to illustrate the productions of his more elaborate predecessors, are objects which the Author has most zealously endeavoured to achieve. He has not, however, confined his task merely to the transcrib- ing and illustrating of what others have seen, and of which others have written ; but he has blended in the work some account of what he has himself observed, during many years of close application to this subject. The work contains, Observations on, with Illustrations of, the Changes of Structure found in the Brain, Thoracic, Abdominal, and Pel- vic Viscera, and of the Organs of Generation in both sexes. It likewise gives the Pathological Symptoms, by which we judge of disease duringIV PREFACE. life, and a true Description of the Morbid Changes that are exhibited after death. The Sketches are made either from diseased parts in the Authors Museum, or from recent dis- section ; and it is hoped, the arrangement will render the work convenient, both for occasional reference and regular perusal. It has not been deemed necessary to give Cases, nor to introduce all the strange appearances that are occasionally found after death : the Author has preferred a brief Statement of Symptoms and Mor- bid Phenomena in Diseases the most likely to fall under the daily notice of the Practitioner, than to any speculative hypothesis, or rare or doubtful subjects. The Author, although his name is not appended to the work, is however happy in having this fa- vourable opportunity of publicly returning his sin- cere thanks for the kindness he has received from his numerous medical friends ; and he cannot con- clude this short Preface without presenting to those who have executed the Sketches, his grateful thanks for the faithfulness and ability with which they are depicted. London, 1830.PI. 1.EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. PLATE I. This Plate represents simple abrasion of the bones of the head, thickening of the pericranium, and mercurial skull. Fig. 1. a Thickening and fibro-cartilaginous state of the pericranium. b Simple absorption, or erosion of the parietal and frontal bones. Fig. 2. Fibro-cartilaginous state of the pericranium. a The fibro-cartilaginous matter dipping into, and firmly adhering to the abraded bone. b Outer table of the bone completely destroyed. Fig. 3. Spiculae of bone arising from the inner table of the parietal bone. 4. A portion of mercurial cranium. Symp. Dull heavy pain, with soreness of the integuments covering a particular part or parts of the head, ac- companied with a puffiness of the scalp; pulse small and frequent, tongue moist, and covered with a whitish fur; sometimes an erysipelatous state of the head and face, sickness, constipation of the bowels, restless nights, coma. Morbid Anat. The pericranium is generally found thick- ened, and firmly attached to the bones of the head. In some cases it presents quite a cartilaginous texture, B2 nearly three quarters of an inch in thickness; when removed from the skull, the bone or bones are found to be very much destroyed by absorption, particularly the outer table, and its texture resembles that of coarse spunge, but very white. In such cases you generally find some organic de- rangement within the cranium. PLATE II. Acute and chronic inflammation of the dura mater are repre- sented in this Plate. Fig. 1. Exhibits at one view acute inflammation and soften- ing of the dura mater, and an enlarged state of the pacchionian glands, situated within the lon- gitudinal sinus. a Longitudinal sinus split open. b Softening, lesion, and separation of the laminae com- posing the dura mater. c Injected and arborescent state of the venous capil- lary vessels of the dura mater. Symp. Nausea, thirst, headach; quick, full, and hard pulse; restlessness, pain, and corded sensation of the head. Morbid Anat. The dura mater presents a degree of red- ness more or less intense, and the venous capillary vessels are seen to be dilated and loaded with blood of a vermilion colour. Sometimes lymph is found effused on its surface, but more frequently pus, particularly so if an injury has been the exciting cause. The dura mater is sometimes found firmly united to the inner table of the cranium, and sometimes to the arachnoid membrane and pia mater. Softening of the dura mater is not a very common affection, although I have met with several cases within the last ten years.lig.l. II . 33 Fig. 2. Fibro-cartilaginous state of the cellular tissue be- tween the laminae of the dura mater. 3. Ossific depositions between the arachnoid and dura mater. 4. Fungoid tumours arising from the under surface of the dura mater. 5. Encephaloid tumour arising from the under surface of the tentorium cerebelli. Symp. of 2, 3, 4, and 5 are, long and continued headach, accompanied, at times, with the ordinary symptoms of epilepsy or apoplexy. Morbid Anat. Deposition of ossific matter is frequently found between the arachnoid membrane and dura mater; the patches of bone are generally small, scaly, and irregular in their shape; the falx cerebri and tentorium have been found completely ossified. Fungoid tumours are pulpy to the touch, and of a fibrous texture. In some points they become softened, and broken down, with blood effused into their sub- stance. The dura mater is also subject to ulceration, and some say gangrene. Scrofulous tumours are found adhering, and sometimes passing through the texture of this membrane; also small indurated fleshy tumours, of the size of peas, are met with. PLATE III. Represents inflammation of the pia mater, arachnoid mem- brane, and substance of the brain, and also softening of the cortical and medullary substance of the same organ. Fig. 1. Shows at one view inflammation of the arachnoid membrane, pia mater, and substance of the brain. a The arachnoid membrane thickened and opaque, and the convolutions of the brain imperfectly seen through it.4 b Highly injected state of the vessels of the pia mater, with a deposition of lymph between the convolu- tions of the brain. c Bloody points in the substance of the hemisphere. Symp. Arachnitis—Headach, sense of constriction over the eyebrows, injected state of the eyes, heat of the scalp, nausea, agitation. Pia Mater—Intense throbbing pain in the head, increase of heat, flushing of the face, injected state of the eyes, disturbed functions, want of sleep, delirium. Substance of the Brain—Weight and sense of hea- viness in the head, numbness of one or more of the extremities, ringing in the ears, irritability of the retina, deceptive vision, convulsions, paralysis, coma. Morbid Anat. Thickening of the arachnoid membrane is generally the consequence of chronic inflammation. It has sometimes acquired the thickness of the pleura, of the pericardium, of the dura mater, and even as thick as the coats of the stomach. Inf. of the Pia Mater—The minute capillary ves- sels are much more numerous than in its natural state, are filled with florid blood, and form, by their anasto- mosis, a beautiful network. Substance of the Brain—The inflamed portion be- comes of a red colour, although this is seldom very intense; when cut into, the colour is found to arise from a great many small vessels which are filled with blood. The part which is inflamed has no peculiar hardness, but yields nearly the same sensation to the touch as it would do in a healthy state. Fig. 2. Extensive softening of the cortical and medullary substance of the left hemisphere of the brain. 3. Softening of the medullary matter of the right hemisphere. 4. Softening of the pons varolii, corpora pyramidalia, olivaria, and medulla oblongata. 5. Complete destruction of the right hemisphere of the cerebellum by the softening process.Pig.l. PI . .4, hg.3. Pig. 4. A , % LFig. 6. Pulpy state of the cerebral matter within the ser- rated body. 7. Softening of the corpus olivare. Symp. Softening of the brain—Long and severe attacks of headach, occurring at distinct intervals, obscure vision, loss of memory, deafness, rheumatic pains in the limbs, sleepiness, paralysis of some part or parts, coma. Morbid An at. Softening, to a greater or less degree, of the cortical or medullary matter, without any traces of vascularity or perceptible change of colour; the me- dullary portion being of a dull white and homogeneous, whilst the grey substance remains in its natural state, whatever be the degree of softening. PLATE IV. This Plate represents abscess, cyst, ulceration, and scrofulous tubercles. Fig. 1. An abscess in the substance of the brain; it con- tained a small quantity of pus. 2. A large cyst of a fibro-cellular texture, situated in the medullary substance of the right hemisphere of the brain. 3. Ulceration of the cortical and medullary substance of the right hemisphere, from long and protracted inflammation of the organ. 4. Encysted scrofulous tubercles, situated in the substance of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum of an infant who died of tabes mesenteries. The centre of the large tubercle is softened, and pre- sents the curd-like appearance. Symp. Violent pains in the head fixed to a particular spot, disturbed sleep, convulsions of the extremities, invo- luntary piercing cries, dejected countenance, accom- panied with a lemon tint of the skin.6 Ulceration—Pain and weight in the head, with a sense of tightness, nausea, vomiting, giddiness, twitch- ing, paralysis. PLATE V. This Plate represents the morbid appearance in Apoplexy. Fig. 1. An extravasation of blood between the dura mater and the pia mater, from a rupture of one of the veins. a The convolutions of the anterior and lateral part of the right hemisphere, completely covered by a mass of effused blood. b Shows the turgescent state of the vessels of the pia mater. Fig. 2. An effusion of blood under the pia mater, the patient died of typhus fever (haemorrhagic brain). a The anfractuosities of the brain filled with fluid blood. b A large mass of dark blood lying on the centre of the hemisphere. c Pia mater, dissected and reflected back from the brain. The vessels of the membrane were loaded with blood. Fig. 3. Complete destruction of the wall of the left ven- tricle, thalamus, and corpus striatum, by the soften- ing process. a An attenuated and softened state of the corpus cal- losum. b Corpus striatum. c Softening of the crus cerebri and thalamus. The ventricles were filled with blood. Symi\ Apoplectic effusion—The pulse is firm and vibrating under the finger; face swollen, and of a brick red colour; stertorious breathing, with a frothy white fluid issuing from the mouth and nostrils; paralysis, coma.PI. 5. Tig.l.Fig.l. PI . 6 Pig. 2. Pig.3.7 Morbid Anat. Between the pia mater and tunica arach- noides there often is to be observed a serous effusion, which in some bodies is * colourless, in others turbid, bloody, or even mixed with streaks of coagulable lymph. With respect to the substance of the brain, it is sometimes found unusually firm; and when cut into, the numerous points of blood show that the divided vessels are enlarged. A considerable quantity of serous fluid is also found in the ventricles. For the most part extravasated blood is met with in the cranium; sometimes between the membranes, some- times in the substance of the brain, and sometimes in the ventricles. PLATE VI. Fig. 1. A portion of apoplectic brain, with a large clot of blood at its base, accompanied with softening of the crura cerebri and cerebelli. 2. An apoplectic cyst formed in the thalamus, with softening of the corpus striatum. a Curd-like appearance of the softened medullary mat- ter of the thalamus. b Dark brown clots within the cyst. c Softening of the anterior and inferior portions of the corpus striatum. Fig. 3. An old apoplectic cyst with a recent coagulum. b The cyst formed by condensed cellular tissue. a The clots of blood or coagula. PLATE VII. In this Plate tubercles in the substance of the brain, with circumscribed and diffused melenosis, are depicted. Fig. 1. An encephaloid tumour, situated in the substance of the right hemisphere of the brain; it was lobu-8 lated, indurated, intersected by bands of cellular tissue, and of a greyish white colour. Fig. 2. Cancillated scirrhous tumour, as large as a pigeon’s egg, in the substance of the right hemisphere of the brain. 3. Scrofulous tumours, situated within the lateral ventricle, and arising from the thalamus and corpus striatum. 4. Circumscribed melenosis of the cerebral texture. 5. Diffused melenosis of the substance of the brain. Svmp. Of Tumours within the Cranium—Severe headachs, continued or intermittent, with twitching of one or more of the extremities, pallid countenance, convul- sions, loss of memory, paralysis, epilepsy, coma, hydro- cephalus. Morbid An at. Scirrhous tubercles and encephaloid tu- mours are found in the form of round irregular masses, varying from the size of a pea to that of a hen’s egg, either of a greyish or reddish colour, and sometimes nodulated on the external surface. The nature of the tumour can be determined only by cutting into it; the interior is sometimes found softened, and contains some effused blood. The medullary matter surrounding the tumour is generally found softened. PLATE VIII. This Plate represents the encephaloid and scirrhous tumours, also depositions of calcareous and bony matters in the sub- stance of the cerebrum and cerebellum. Fig. 1. An encephaloid tumour at the posterior part of the medulla oblongata. Two are softened and have a flocculent appearance; they are adhering to the pia mater, covering the right lobe of the cerebellum, and receive their vessels from the same.%/ Tig.5. Fig-5.?1 ■ .9 .9 Fig. 2. Section of an indurated enceplialoid tumour, situ- ated on the cortical matter of the left hemisphere of the brain. 3. An indurated tumour, situated on the crura cerebri and optic nerves. 4. Appearance of the cancillated scirrhous tumour, taken from the left hemisphere of the brain. 5. Macerated portion of the above, showing its can- cillated texture when the intervening matter is washed away. 6. A large calcareous mass taken from the substance of the right hemisphere of the brain of an idiot. 7. A portion of bone embedded in the substance of the cerebellum. PLATE IX. Hydatids, cysts, tubercles, and fleshy tumours adhering to the choroid plexus. Fig. 1. Hydatids adhering to the plexus choroides of an infant who died of hydrocephalus. 2. A large cyst, firmly attached to the plexus of the left ventricle. To the right ventricle were adhering several masses of flesh, somewhat of a fibrous character. 3. Extensive tuberculated state of the plexus cho- roides. Symp. Of Hydatids and Cysts—Dull obscure pain in the head, with a sense of compression, giddiness, tendency to sleep, numbness of the extremities, convulsions. Tuberculated state of the Plexus—Great emaciation, loss of appetite, vomiting, moaning, ptosis of the upper eyelids, starting in sleep, with a constant inclination to lie down, pallid countenance.10 Morb. Ap. Of Hydrocephalus—On removing the scalp the bones are found to be very thin, and there are frequently broad spots of membrane in them. These appearances are however only to be observed when the disease has been of long continuance. In some cases, where the quantity of water is not great, the substance of the brain appears to be indurated, and in others softened. We frequently find within the cranium the veins, particularly those of the membranes on the surface of the brain and lining of the ventricles, gorged with dark blood; sometimes considerable ad- hesions and thickening of the membranes and minute and florid vessels upon the pia mater : collections also of a viscid tenacious matter have been disco- vered, in cysts, upon its external surface, and tumpurs have been found attached to its substance. PLATE X. Fig. 1. An extensive deposition of a calcareous matter in the substance of the striated body, and in the thalamus. a Chalky concretion embedded in the substance of the thalamus. b Irregular and serrated appearance of the earthy matter deposited into and on the surface of the corpus striatum. Fig. 2. A deposition of chalky matter in the substance of the quadrigeminal bodies. 3. A very large hydatid, with a great many smaller ones, situated in the substance of the left hemi- sphere of the cerebrum.?1 . 10 .?! . 11 , Tirf 2. oT1 .12 .11 PLATE XI. Fracture of the bones of the head and fungus cerebri. Fig. 1. Fracture of the skull. a Extravasation of blood between the pericranium arid bone. b Depressed portion of bone. Fig. 2. Fungus cerebri, from an injury of the bones of the head. 3. Fungus cerebri, in consequence of a complete destruction of the bone and membranes of the head from syphilis. PLATE XII. Fig. 1. Complete destruction of the eye and all its ex- ternal appendages within the socket, by an exten- sive encephaloid tumour. a Encephaloid mass removed from the anterior lobes of the brain. b External and lobulated appearances of the tumour, as seen when projecting from the socket. d Section of the optic nerve compressed and embedded in the substance of the encephaloid mass. Fig. 2. Lobulated state of the eye from a deposition of encephaloid matter within the sclerotica; also a large tumour, situated externally, of the same nature. 3. The whole cavity of the eye filled up with en- cephaloid matter, but in its centre and on its edges are seen depositions of melenotic matter. 4. A small encephaloid mass seen arising from the vessels of the retina. Symp. Fungus Fl&matodes—Diminution of sight, amaurosis, dilatation and immobility of the pupil, deeply seated12 and constant pain in the eye, white shining metallic appearance in the fundus of the eye, opacity of lens, eyeball enlarged, deep leaden colour of sclerotica, dilated and varicose state of vessels of the conjunctiva, countenance pallid, bowels torpid, coma. Morb. Anat. The eyeball, optic nerve, and in many cases the brain itself, are all involved in the disease. The morbid growth has, in almost every instance, the ap- pearance of medullary matter. It is chiefly composed of an opaque, whitish, homogeneous matter, having the same degree of pulpy softness and tenacity with the brain, mixed with a filamentous substance, resembling the cellular membrane^ PLATE XIII. Sketches of chronic inflammation of the fauces, enlarged, indurated, and ulcerated tonsils. Fig. 1. Chronic inflammation of the mucous tissue of the palate and fauces. 2. Enlarged and indurated tonsils. 3. Extensive ulceration of the tonsils, uvula, and mucous tissue of the fauces. Symp. Tickling in the throat, attended with great heat and a peppery taste in the mouth, cough, expectoration of mucus, sometimes blood; the tonsils are enlarged, and of a dark red colour. The uvula is soft and papulous, as if composed of a clot of blood. The capillary veins are distended, and the soft vascular network spread over the palate gives it the appearance of a well injected tissue of blood vessels. Morbid Anat. Cynanche maligna—The fauces are in- flamed, suppurated, and gangrenous; and the trachea and larynx are likewise in a state of inflammation, and lined with a viscid fetid matter.11. 13. Iig.1.PI. 14n . ib.13 PLATES XIV. XV. These Plates represent acute and chronic inflammation of the oesophagus and its effects. Plate XIV. Fig. 1. Acute inflammation of the mucous tissue of the oesophagus. 2. Fibrine deposited in the oesophagus; it was moulded to the calibre of the tube, and slightly adhered to its mucous tissue. 3. An enlarged state of the mucous glands situated in the oesophagus. 4. Extensive ulceration of the mucous follicles of the oesophagus. Symp. Inflammation of the (Esophagus—Burning sensation on taking food, pain in the neck, particularly so in the side, which is increased on pressure, dryness of the fauces, regurgitation of the food through the nostrils. Ulceration—An uneasy sensation in some part of the oesophagus, which is aggravated after eating, or after drinking ardent spirits ; a lancinating or burning sensation in one or more parts of the tube; slight cough, cardialgia, repeated efforts to clear the throat of a tough dirty-coloured matter. Plate XV. / Fig. 1. Two tumours of a fibro-cartilaginous nature, arising from the mucous tissue of the oesophagus. 2. A tumour of the encephaloid character, arising from the mucous tissue of the oesophagus. 3. Stricture of the oesophagus, from chronic inflam- mation of the mucous tissue. 4. Stricture of the oesophagus, from ulceration of the mucous tissue, produced by the swallowing of sulphuric acid.14 Symp. Stricture of the (Esophagus—Dyspnoea, difficulty in swallowing, nausea, vomiting, eructation, sense of hunger, bowels constipated, dejected and pallid coun- tenance, cramp and spams, both at the seat of stricture and in the stomach. Morbid An at. The mucous membrane is generally found pulpy and red, and its capillary vessels are very dis- tinctly seen loaded with blood; sometimes it is lined with a false membrane. Ulcers of the oesophagus are generally surrounded with indurated and everted edges; the erosion sometimes is very deep, sometimes super- ficial. PLATE XVI. This Plate exhibits the effects of contraction of the chest consequent on pleurisy. Fig. 1. Anterior view. 2. Posterior view. PLATE XVII. Inflammation and ulceration of the trachea, with deposi- tion of fibrine ; also an enlarged thyroid gland. Fig. 1. An extensive inflammation of the mucous tissue of the trachea, with a deposition of fibrine, which is firmly adhering to the inside of the tube. 2. Fibrine moulded to the shape of the trachea, and bifurcation of the bronchia of an old man who died of laryngitis. 3. Fibrine expectorated in a severe case of pneumonia. 4. An enlarged and scirrhous state of the thyroid gland.Fig.l . *1,10 iH . 17 Tig.l .(15 Fig. 5. Section of the thyroid gland, to show its cancillated structure. 6. Extensive ulceration of the mucous tissue of the larynx and trachea. Symp. Croup—Harsh, dry, metallic cough, dyspnoea, shrill voice, flushed face, veins of the head and neck turgid, and violent action of the muscles of the throat; asphyxia. Trachitis—Heat, pain, soreness in the trachea, dry- ness of the mucous tissue of the windpipe, followed by copious mucal expectoration, cough. Bronchocele—At first the swelling is without pain, but as the tumour increases in size it grows hard and irregular, the skin acquires a yellow colour, and the veins of the neck become varicose; flushing, headach, and lancinating pains in the tumours. Ulceration of the Larynx—Fixed pain in the seat of this organ, difficulty of breathing, and the patient can only speak in a whisper. Morb. Anat. In croup there is generally an exudation of lymph, which, becoming concrete at the very moment of its formation, lines the inner surface of the trachea to a greater or less extent. When this false mem- brane is removed, the subjacent tunic is found of a deep, vivid, red colour, occasionally livid and somewhat thickened. This colour is commonly uniform over the whole space covered by the false membrane, but is also fre- quently unequal, and occasionally altogether wanting. PLATE XVIII. This Plate represents the diseases of the bronchial membrane and tubes. Fig. 1. Extensive ulceration of the mucous tissue of the right bronchial tube.1G Fig. 2. Dilated bronchia—ramifications, which, in the natural state, would scarcely admit a fine probe, acquire a diameter equal to that of a crow-quill, or a goose-quill, or even of the finger. 3. A dilated bronchial tube terminating in a cul- de-sac. 4. Ulceration of the bronchial valve and mucous tis- sue lining the edge of the tube. 5. Fungoid excrescence arising from the edge of one of the bronchial apertures. 6. Rupture of the delicate membrane forming the bronchial valve. 7. A small fleshy excrescence arising from the mucous tissue of the bronchial membrane. 8. The calibre of the left bronchus and its bifurca- tions diminished from a thickening of the mucous tissue. 9. A transverse section of the lower end of the trachea, showing its calibre reduced in size from thickening of the mucous membrane. 10. The calibre of the left bronchus reduced in size by a deposition of a fibro-cartilaginous matter be- tween the laminae of the mucous tissue. 11. Concretions expectorated from the lungs. 12. A large chalky concretion expectorated from the pulmonary organ. 13. Lobulated hydatid taken from the substance of the lungs of a person who died of phthisis. Symp. Bronchitis—Dyspnoea, loose, deep, and diffused cough, accompanied with a stuffing noise, copious and loose expectoration, purple, violet, or leaden colour of the lips and cheeks, soft and compressible pulse. Dilatation of the Bronchia—Over the seat of the principal dilatations pectoriloquism, more or less per- fect, is perceived, together with a loud mucous rattle, precisely like the cavernous rattle of phthisis. Morb. An at. The bronchial membrane is generally covered with mucus, and if you wipe that off with a sponge,17 you will find the membrane highly injected, and gene- rally of a dark colour, which soon becomes more red on being exposed to the air, when the mucous secretion is removed. The substance of the lung itself is gorged with venous and arterial blood. If you press the end of your finger upon the part most affected, the impres- sion remains. If you slice the lung, and squeeze the divided portions, a mucus or muco-purulent fluid will issue from the cut surfaces, similar to that contained in the bronchial passages. Symp. Of Pneumonia—Dyspnoea, accompanied with a weight and sense of oppression in the thoracic cavity, metallic cough, expectoration of a dark yellowish, or yellowish green lymph, which adheres firmly to the sides of the vessel, crepitation in some part or parts of the chest, flushed countenance. Morbid Anat. The lung is heavier than in its natural state, and presents on its surface a livid or violet colour, and a degree of firmness much greater. It is, however, still crepitous; but when pressed between the fingers it is very apparent that it is gorged with a fluid, and that the crepitation is much less than in the healthy state. When cut, its tissue appears of a livid red, and alto- gether filled with a serous fluid, more or less bloody and frothy, which exudes in abundance from the divided surfaces. In the second stage there is no crackling whatever of the lung on its being pressed between the fingers, and it then acquires a degree of firmness and solidity similar to that of the liver. In the third stage the pulmonary tissue preserves the same firmness and granular appearance, assumes a pale yellow colour, and pours out, in greater or less abundance, from its divided surfaces, a yellow, opaque, viscid* and evidently puriform matter. c18 PLATE XIX. This Plate represents emphysema and apoplexy of the lungs. Fig. 1. General emphysema of the lung. 2. Dried portion of the same lung. 3. Diffused apoplexy of the lung. 4. Circumscribed apoplexy of the lung. Symp. Emphysejna—Dyspnoea, wheezing inspiration, op- pression and stricture across the chest, cough, mucous expectoration, lassitude, torpor; pulse generally regular, lips violet-coloured, thick, and swollen. Apoplexy—Dyspnoea, cough, oppression at the chest, expectoration of a bright and frothy, or black and clotted blood, quite pure, or merely intermixed with saliva, or some bronchial or guttural mucus; pulse fre- quent, full, and vibrating under the finger. Morbid Anat. Emphysema—The pulmonary vesicles on the surface of the lungs are distended, their size varies from that of a millet seed to a nut; the partitions separating them are ruptured, hence the contained air is readily extravasated. The small bronchial ramifica- tions of the affected part are also dilated. Apoplexy—The lung is generally found gorged with dark venous blood ; when sliced, it presents an appear- ance similar to indurated liver, and the minute vessels and bronchial tubes are completely buried in the bloody mass. On the pleura pulmonalis are seen a great many ecchymose spots. Sometimes the blood is found diffused, sometimes circumscribed.. 19.n. 2019 PLATE XX. Miliary, indurated, and suppurative tubercles, and vomicae of the lungs. Fig. 1. A portion of lung loaded with miliary tubercles. 2. A portion of lung studded with indurated miliary tubercles. 3. A portion of the left lung considerably reduced in size, with a large tuberculous excavation in the superior part of it, and other smaller cavities filled with cheese-like matter. 4. One very large tuberculous excavation, with a fibro-cartilaginous state of the bands crossing it. 5. Vomicae, with condensation of the intervening tissue of the lung. Symp. Incipient Tubercles—Short dry cough, dyspnoea, dull heavy pain at the scrobiculus cordis; fatigued on the slightest motion; venous inactivity around the nasal and ocular portions of the face; dry skin, with a florid state of the mucous tissue of the lips. Suppurative Tubercle—Increased cough, accom- panied with copious expectoration of a muco-purulent matter, suppression of the catamenia, colliquative per- spiration, and diarrhoea; skin pale, shrivelled, and sometimes dry; intense heat in the soles of the feet and palms of the hand; nose sharp, cheeks prominent, with a purplish blush; pearly appearance of the con- junctiva of the eyes; nails elongated and curved; tormina. Morbid Anat. On the surface and in the substance of the lung are generally found the vesiculated, granular, or indurated cheese-like tubercle; sometimes all these might be met with in the same lung; after the vesicu- lated stage is past, they have the appearance of in- durated glands, are of different sizes, and are often found in clusters. Their firmness is usually in pro- portion to their size, and when laid open in this state they are of a white colour, and of a consistence nearly20 approaching to cartilage. Although indolent at first, they at length become inflamed, and at last changed into little abscesses or vomicae, which breaking and pouring their contents into the bronchia, give rise to purulent expectoration. PLATE XXI. Encephaloid, scirrhous, and melenotic state of the lungs, also vomicae. Fig. 1. An extensive vomica, lined with a membrane of a fibro-cartilaginous texture. 2. A vomica communicating with a dilated bronchial tube. 3. A fibro-cartilaginous state of the lung, which has destroyed the minute bronchial texture, and pro- duced condensation through compression. 4. Encephaloid tumours embedded in the parenchy- matous texture of the lung. 5. An extensive deposition of melenotic matter into the substance of the lung. Symp. Dyspnoea, cough, expectoration, with slight oppres- sion at the chest. Melenosis of the Lung—Dyspnoea, cough, which is often dry, but sometimes attended by a mucous ex- pectoration, intermixed with some puriform sputa. PLATE XXII. Hydatids, cysts, bony and chalky concretions in the sub- stance of the lung; also ossific, calcareous, and scrofulous depositions in and on the surface of the bronchial gland. Fig. 1. Section of a large and an encysted tumour, situatedT1 . 21 Tig - 1 ■Tl. 22. Mg. 2. Titf-l- ' && • Tig.5.Fig. 1. PI . 25. Fig. 4. Frg.2.21 in the lower portion of the parenchymatous texture of the lung. 2. Hydatids, situated in the substance of the lung of a youth twelve years old. 3. A large chalky concretion, embedded in the sub- stance of the lung of an old man who died of phthisis. 4. Fibro-cartilaginous state of the capsule of an old hydatid, from chronic inflammation. 5. Bone deposited on the superior and lateral part of a bronchial gland. 6. Chalky concretion, deposited within the capsule of a bronchial gland. 7. An enlarged and scrofulous state of a bronchial gland. PLATE XXIII. XXIV. Represent diseases of the pleura pulmonalis and costalis. Plate XXIII. Fig, 1. Condensation or compression of the lung by a fluid, in the cavity of the chest, produced by in- flammation of the pleura. 2. Deposition of ossific matter on the pleura costalis. 3. Fibro-cartilaginous state of the pleura costalis. 4. The lung compressed by a tumour of the en- cephaloid character, arising from the pleura cos- talis. Symp. Pleuritis—Acute pain in the side or sides, difficulty of breathing, dry cough; deep inspirations increase the pain and produce a catch in the side; inability to lie on the side affected. Hydrothorax—Dyspnoea, numbness of one or both arms, sense of suffocation on lying down, frightful dreams, weight and oppression at the chest, urine high22 coloured and scanty, anarsarca of the extremities; the chest sounds dull on percussion, and the respiration is inaudible. Morbid Anat. When the pleura is inflamed, it becomes thicker than it is naturally, and in some degree pulpy. There are also interspersed through it a great number of very small vessels containing florid blood, and a layer of coagulable lymph is at the same time formed upon its surface. Plate XXIV. Fig. 1. Extensive adhesion of the pleura costalis to the pleura pulmonalis by strong cellular bands. 2. Complete union of the pleura pulmonalis to the pleura costalis. 3. Small indurated fleshy tubercles arising from the pleura costalis. 4. Tumours of an albuminous nature arising from the pleura costalis. PLATES XXV. XXVI. XXVII. XXVIII. Represent the effects of acute and chronic inflammation of the pericardium and substance of the heart. Fig. 1. Pericarditis, with an extensive deposition of lymph on the heart and inner surface of the pericardium. 2. The surface of the heart firmly fixed to the peri- cardium by strong cellular bands. 3. Perfect adhesion of the pericardium to the surface of the heart. Symp. Acute Pericarditis—Heat and soreness of the integu- ments covering the pericardial region, with acute pain in the anterior mediastinal space, particularly so on taking a deep inspiration; firm pulse, wiry, and re-Pig. 2 .23 gular, but rendered variable by the slightest move- ment of the body. Crepitation in the heart’s region: this symptom com- mences with the attack, and subsides in six or ten hours. Chronic Pericarditis—Dull obscure pain in the cardiac regions, with irregular pulse, palpitation, acute lancinating pains in the chest, sense of tightness, dyspnoea, anxious and pallid countenance, oedema of the lower extremities. Morbid Anat. Redness of the membranes, more or less deep, a concrete albuminous exhalation, and a sero- purulent effusion. * The redness is most generally but slight in the acute disease; when it exists it is for the most part only partially. It is commonly punctuated, and looks as if the sur- face of the membrane was covered with little specks of blood, very close to each other. In some cases, wherein, judging by the thickness of the false mem- branes, the inflammation appears to have been very great, no redness whatever can be discovered on the serous membrane on removal of this membranous exu- dation. This concrete albuminous exudation commonly in- vests the whole surface of the pericardium, as well on the heart and large vessels as on the sac. It rarely presents the appearance of an equable membranous layer, like the false membranes of pleurisy; on the contrary, its surface is most frequently marked by a great number of rough and irregular prominences. Symp. Inf \ of the Substance of the Heart—Violent palpi- tation and sense of oppression; at times anxious breath- ing, aggravated by exercise or any bodily motion; pulse full, sometimes weak and intermittent; bowels consti- pated, pain in some cases,'relieved in others, aggra- vated by the application of heat.24 Plate XXVI. Fig. ]. Several indurated pearly tubercles arising from the serous membrane of the heart. 2. Deposition of a cartilaginous matter into the cel- lular tissue, between the laminae of the pericar- dium reflected on the heart. 3. Ulceration of the reflected portion of pericardium and muscular substance of the heart. 4. A great many small cysts attached to the pericar- dium ; they contained a small quantity of limpid fluid of a faint straw colour. 5. Deposition of bony matter between the laminae of the pericardium reflected on the heart. Symp. of Ulceration—Palpitation, fatigued by the slightest exertion, pulse small but quick, constant weight and sense of burning in the regions of the heart. Morbid Anat. Ulceration of the heart is a very rare disease; I have seen but two cases in twenty years : the subjects were young women, disease asthma. The ulcer was situated in the muscular substance of the ventricle of the heart; it appeared of a dark colour, surrounded by an irregular edge, and bordered with an inflamed areola. One part of the surface of the ulcer had a tough cheese-like matter adhering to it. When first examined, the pericardium contains a quantity of blood- like serum, and very offensive. Plate XXVII. Fig. 1. Chronic inflammation of the serous membrane lining the cavity of the left ventricle, with thicken- ing, and a deposition of cartilaginous matter be- tween its laminae. 2. Recent effusion of imperfect lymph on the surface of the serous membrane lining the heart (chronic rheumatism).T1 . 27.25 3. The cavity of the heart filled with coagulable lymph. 4. A large abscess situated in the muscular substance of the left ventricle, the effect of acute inflam- mation. 5. Softening of the muscular fibres of the lower and lateral portion of the right side of the heart. 6. Softening, attenuation, and rupture of the muscular fibres of the apex of the heart. Symp. Inf. internal Lining—Agonizing pain in the peri- cardial region, dyspnoea, concentration of heat over the site of the organ; jactitation, with great expression of distress depicted in the countenance ; pulse full, quick, and wiry. Softening of the Heart—Dull obscure pain in the region of the heart, pallid countenance, pulse small and soft, and sometimes intermittent; slight exertion at times produces syncope; the lips are seldom purple, and still more rarely swollen, but on the contrary almost always colourless. Polypus—In cases where the heart has been acting regularly, if the pulsations suddenly become anoma- lous, obscure, and confused, so as not to be analyzed, we may suspect the formation of a polypus. If the disordered action exists on one side of the heart only, we may consider the thing as almost certain. Morbid Anat. Of Softening—The muscular fibres are soft, and easily tom; sometimes the softening takes place only on one side of the organ. It is of a dark red or brown colour in the acute stage, pale and yellowish in the chronic. Plate XXVIII. Fig. 1. Deposition of an earthy matter in the muscular substance of the heart. 2. A fibro-cartilaginous state of the wall of the left cavity of the heart. 3. An encephaloid tumour arising from the muscular substance of the left ventricle.26 PLATE XXIX. Cartilaginous and bony deposition on the valves of the heart. Fig. 1. An extensive dilatation of the foramen ovale. 2. A mulberry-like tumour, the size of a pigeon’s egg, firmly attached to the inner surface of the auricle. 3. An opening in the septum ventriculorum. 4. Cartilaginous state of the corpora sesamoidea, and a reticulated state of the semilunar valves. a b Reticulated portions. Fig. 5. The superior margins of the semilunar valves completely encased in bone. 6. A deposition of cartilaginous matter between the layers of the serous membrane forming the mitral valve. 7. Ossific and cartilaginous deposition in the sub- stance of the tricuspid valve. Svmp. Blue or violet colour of the skin and mucous tissue of the body, dyspnoea, palpitation of the heart, syn- cope. , Ossif. of Semilunar Valves—Dyspnoea, aggravated on motion, palpitation, intermittent pulse, face gene- rally violet or brick-red colour. Ossif. of Mitral and Tricuspid Valves—Dyspnoea, increased on the slightest motion, irregular action of the heart at its pericardial region, while the pulse at the wrist is small and feeble; purplish hue of counte- nance. Morbid Anat. Tumours situated in the auricles generally have a proper capsule, besides the envelope they re- ceive from the serous lining of the heart. The proper capsule is smooth externally, but internally it has more the character of loose cellular tissue, and apparently enters into the composition of the tumour. The sub-27 stance of the tumour is composed of fibrine, partially organized, and intersected with patches of coagulated blood, of a purplish red colour; sometimes there is a matter in its substance similar to the earthy-like mat- ter formed on the external surface of the aorta. PLATE XXX. Deposition of calcareous and bony matter, and ulceration and tumours on the serous surface of the aorta. Fig. 1. Deposition of ossific and cartilaginous matter on the thoracic aorta. 2. Chronic inflammation of the serous tunic of the thoracic aorta, with a deposition of a cheesy or earthy-like matter. 3. Ulceration of the serous and muscular tunics of the thoracic aorta. 4. Several tumours of an indurated fleshy structure, arising from the serous membrane of the abdominal aorta. Symp. Inf. of the Serous Memh. of the Aorta—Strong pulsa- tion in the heart’s region, coming on suddenly, dyspnoea, great anxiety, sighing, pulse strong and full, face florid, jactitation. Chronic—Sense of weight in the pericardial region, anxiety, and depressed countenance; dyspnoea, bron- chitis, pulse slow and weak, disposition to syncope on motion.28 PLATES XXXI. XXXII. XXXIII. XXXIV. XXXV. XXXVI. These plates represent the effects of acute and chronic inflammation of the serous and mucous membrane of the stomach; xxxv. contains a tuberculated state of the spleen, with a bony and cartilaginous deposition on its capsule. Plate XXXI. Fig. 1. This patch represents the vessels in congestion; the larger vessels are distended to their utmost extent, and the capillary vessels are empty. 2. This figure represents the arborescent state of vessels in acute inflammation of the serous tunic of the stomach. 3. Appearance of the capillary vessels in chronic inflammation; they are enlarged, tortuous, and filled with blood. 4. Tubercles arising from the serous tunic of the stomach. 5. Melenotic state of the serous membrane of the stomach. Symp. Sero-Gastritis—Pain in the region of the stomach, anxious and hurried breathing, hot skin, pulse quick and small, tongue covered by a whitish fur, nausea, sometimes actual vomiting. Chronic—More or less pain at the scrobiculus cordis, aggravated on pressure and accompanied by a sense of distension and confinement after any food has been taken, emaciation, a yellow, clay-like appearance of the skin, tongue broad and soft, pale tip and edges, and covered with a whitish fur. Morbid Anat. The serous membranes of all the organs in acute inflammation, present an arborescent state of the minute serous vessels; there is also an infiltration of' 13229 lympli between its laminae, and a larger quantity of blood allowed to circulate through the larger capillary vessels; it also becomes thickened, softer, and less transparent. Chronic—The veins are observed to be enlarged, and their capillary vessels dilated and loaded with a red-coloured blood. Plate XXXII. Fig. 1. A deposition of lymph on the mucous surface of the stomach in acute gastritis. a Lymph firmly adhering to the villi of the stomach. b Lymph removed, shewing a red and pulpy surface. Fig. 2. Minute ulceration of the mucous follicles of the stomach. a a The ulcerated points. Fig. 3. Melenotic state of the mucous tissue of the sto- mach ; those parts unoccupied by the black matter are white and corrugated, and the stomach was very much attenuated. Symp. Acute Muco-Gastritis—Nausea, vomiting; full, hard, and quick, sometimes small and contracted pulse; tongue white, with red tip and edges; concentration of heat about the scrobiculus cordis, great prostration of strength, pain increased on pressure, desire for cold fluids. Chronic Muco-Gastritis—Sense of heat and pain in the stomach after eating, nausea, constipation of bowels, cardialgia with acid eructation, dejected coun- tenance, dyspnoea, cough, palpitation, emaciation, oedema of the lower extremities, tongue covered with a white varnish and red tip and edges, skin cold and harsh to the touch. Morbid Anat. The mucous membrane of the stomach is , sometimes studded with red dots, or covered by patches arising from the effusion of blood into the substance of the membrane itself; at other times a uniform redness30 is diffused over its whole extent, being particularly conspicuous, and of a deeper shade, around the cardia and pylorus. Plate XXXIII. Fig. 1. Thickened and pulpy state of the mucous mem- brane, with a deposition of lymph between it and the muscular fibres of the stomach. 2. An attenuated state of stomach, from long and protracted inflammation. 3. An attenuated state of stomach, with the solution of its mucous and muscular parietes. Symp. Nausea, vomiting after meals, pain in the region of the stomach, increased on pressure, cardialgia, prostra- tion of strength, pulse small and quick, tongue red tip and edges, skin dry and husky. Morbid Anat. The mucous coat softened, varies in colour from white, or grey, to the deepest shade of red; scraped with a knife it is easily detached in the form of a pulpy matter, occasionally it presents slight erosions. Perforation—The edges are thin, soft, fringed, sometimes with a blackish line more or less marked. It presents no appearance of thickening or inflamma- tion. In perforation from caustic poisons, the edges are of the same thickness as the organ; sometimes they are hard and callous. Plate XXXIV. Fig. 1. An encephaloid tumour embracing the lower and external portion of the oesophagus. 2. An encephaloid tumour arising from the mucous membrane of the stomach ; it is partially softened, and the flocculent appearance arises from the ves- sels which formed the tumour. 3. Encephaloid tumours in the pyloric extremity of the stomach.