BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. glasses of wine; let it simmer gently for half an hour longer, till the meat is quite tender, taking care it is not overdone : while the soup is doing, prepare for each tureen a dozen and a half of mock turtle force- meat balls, (to make these, see No. 375, or No. 390, to No. 396,) and a dozen egg balls ; put these into the tureen, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Brain balls are a very elegant addition, and arc made by boiling the brains for ten minutes, then put them in cold water, and cut them into pieces about as big as a large nutmeg; take savory, or sweet mar- joram and lemon-thyme dried and finely powdered, nutmeg grated, and pepper and salt, and pound themalltogether; roll the brains in this mixture, and make as much of this powder as possible stick to them, dip them in an egg well beat up, and then in finely grated and sifted bread crumbs, fry them in hot fat, and put them into the soup the last thing. A veal sweetbread, with or without a pound of salted neat’s tongue, cut into mouthfuls, is a favourite addition with some cooks. We order the meat to be cut into mouthfuls, that it may be eaten with a spoon ; the knife and fork have no business in a soup plate. *** Some of our culinary cotemporaries order the Haut-gnut of this (as above directed, sufficiently relishing) soup to be augmented by the addition of anchovies, mushrooms, truffles, morells, curry-powder, artichoke bottoms, salmon,s head and livers, or lobsters and sates cut into mouthfuls, a bottle of Madeira, Qc., and to complete their sur- feiting and burn-gullet olio, they put in^such a tremendous quantity of Cayenne pepper, that no palate, that has not been educated in the Indies, can endure it. Obs. — This is a most delicious and nutritious soup, and within reach of those who eat to live;” but if it had been composed expressly for those who only “ live to eat,” Ido not know how it could have been made more agreeable: as it is, the lover of good eating will “ wish his throat a mile long, and every inch of it palate.”