The University Library Leeds The John F. Preston Collection svf ( 1 s\ r\ hov\/ jp si silks' LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: IVU*Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21529668> * / * 4 \~i-~^—r—-—.1—-■—-i—-—i—1~~—.1—-—i—^l ^-—i' lt-w. i i ,' r lEILl^Z-A'iBiETJjr ]RAFFALID)0 Pttfyudicd as the Let directs, hvKJiahht in, 3/Jut1, 178-2 .THE EXPERIENCED * Englifti Houfekeeper, FOR THE USE AND EASE OF ' Ladies, Houfekeepers, Cooks, See. WRITTEN purely from practice, AND DEDICATED TO THE HON. LADY ELIZABETH WAUBURTON, Whom the author lately ferved as Houfekeeper: Confiding of near Nine hundred Original Receipts, mod ef which never appeared in print. F^.RT I. Lemon Pickle, Browning for all Sorts ofmadeDilhes, Sc ups, FiJh, Plain Meat, Game, Made Difhes both hot and cold, Pycs, Puddings, &c. FART II. All Kinds of confec- tionary, particularly the Gold and Silver web for covering of fweet- meats and a defert of fpun Sugar; with directions to fet out a Table fa the mod elegant Manner, and in the modern Tafte; Floating Iflandsy Fifh-ponds, Tranfparent Puddi<ngs, Trifles, Whips, &c. PA.RT III. Pickling, Potting and Collaring, Wines, V inegars, Catch- ups, Diddling, with two mod va- luable Receipts, one for refining Malt Liquors, the other for curing Acid Wines, and a correct Lid of every Thing in feafon for every Month in the Yean THE ELEVENTH EDITION* WITH AN ENGRAVED HEAD OF THE AUTHOR ; Alfo T wo Plans of a Grand Table of Two Covers; and A curious new invented Fire Stove, wherein &ny common Fuel may be burnt indead of Charcoal. By ELIZABETH bt A FFALD. LONDON: PRINTED FOR R. BALDWIN, NO. 47, IN P.A T 5 R.-NOST SR' ROT. M DCC XCIV.( ' ' > I 1 ■ \ I > \ sgwa 5ec <f& & wow & Mb«4ff & ww sc <sneb TO THE HONOURABLE LADY ELIZABETH WARBURTON. PERMIT me, honoured madam, to lay before you a work, for which I am ambitious of obtaining your Lady- fhip’s approbation, as much as to oblige a great number of my friends, who are well acquainted with the pra&ice I have had in the Art of Cookery, ever fince I left your Ladyfhip’s family, and have often folicited me to publifh for the in- ftruftion of their houfekeepers. As I flatter myfelf I had the happinefs of given fatisfaftion, during my fervice, Madam, in yo.ur family, it would be a itill greater encouragement, Ihould my endeavours for the fervice of my fex be honoured with the favourable opinion of fo good a judge of propriety and elegance as your Ladyfhip. I am not vain enough to propofe adding any thing to the Experienced A 2 Houfe-at the expence of my health* by being too ftudious, and giving too clofe application. The only anxious wifli I have left is, that my worthy friends may find it ufeful in their families, and be an inftrudtor to the young and ignorant as it has been my chiefeft care to write in as plain a ftyie as poffible, fo as to be under- flood by the weakeft capacity. I am not afraid of being called extravagant, if my reader does not think that I have erred on the frugal hand. I have made it my ftudy to pleafe both the eye and the palate, without ufing pernicious things for the fake of beauty. And though I have given fome of my diflies French names as they are only known by thofe names, yet they will not be found very expenfive, nor add compolitions but as plain as the nature of the difli will admit of. The receipts for the confedtionary are fuch as I daily fell in my own fhop, which any Lady may examine at pleafure ; as I ftill continue my befl: endeavours to give fatisfadtion to all who are pleafed to favour me with their cuftom. It may be neceffary to inform my readers, that I have fpent fifteen years in great and worthy families, in the capacity of a houfe- keeper, and had an opportunity of travelling with them *, but finding the common iervants generally lo ignorant in dreffing meat, and a good cook fo hard to be met with, put me tipon ftudying the art of cookery, more than perhaps I other-[iii] I otherwife would have done: always endeavour- ing to join ceconomy withneatnefs and elegance, being fenfible what valuable qualifications thefe are in a houfekeeper or cook; for of what ufe is their fkill, if they put their mailer or lady to an immoderate expence in drefiing a dinner for a fmall company, when at the fame time a prudent manager would have drefTed twice the number of dirties for a much greater company^ £t half the coft. I have given no directions for cullis, as I have found by experience, that lemon pickle and browning anfwTer both for beauty and tarte ( at a rifieing expence) better than cullis, which is extravagant: for had I known the ufe and value of thofe two receipts when 1 fir ft took upon me the part and duty of a houfekeeper, it would have faved me a great deal of trouble in making gravy, and thofe I ferved a deal of expence. The number of receipts in this book are not fo numerous as in fome others, but they are what will be found ufeful and fufficient forany gentleman’s family—neither have I meddled with phyfica! receipts, leaving them to the uperior judgment, whofe proper are. phyfician's province they Defcription4 Defcription of the PL A T E. HP H E P*ate is the deflgn of three ftove-fires for the Jt kitchen that will burn coals or embers inftead of char- coal (which I always found expenfive, as well as pernicious to the cooks) and will carry off the fmoke of the coals and fleam, and fi$ell of the pots and flew pans; the coals are burnt in call iron pots, flat at the bottom, with bars. A A, Fronts of'the ftove. BB, Top of the ftove, which is covered all over with caft iron. CC, Stove-pots, in which the fire is made. D, The form of the pot, with two vents caft in them fix Inches deep at the top, and three wide, as exprefled at HH in the pot, and to let the fmoke through at HH in the flues. EE, Carried from there through the back wall to the kitchen chimney, as exprefled in the lower plan. F F, Back wall. G, The chimney bread, betwixt which and 'the back wall the fleam rifes, and goes off into the kitchen chimney by a Y§nt made into it. HH, Vents in the pot. 11, Draughts for the fire, and to receive the afhcs. 'I he fcale will give the djmepilons. /5sC eWa¥ JS*eWs M fc.,#’ %.. seC <Wa3 SSCfe ® «?2f ?K esW> » *2T«soi THE EXPERIENCED Englifti Houfe-Keepen you make any kind of foups, particularly portable, vermicelli, or ^ WM ^rown gr^y foup, or any other that ^ y& has roots or herbs in, always obferve *O§GJ(^S0KjMf o lay your meat in the bottom of your pan with a good lump of butter; cut the herbs and roots fmall, lay them over your meat, cover it clofe, fet it over a very flow fire, it !vill draw all the virtue out of the roots or lerbs, and turn it to a good gravy, and give he foup a very different flavour from putting /ater in at the firft : when your gravy is al- noft dried up fill your pan with water, when it >egins to boil take off the fat, and follow' the liredions of your receipt for what fort of foup ou are making: when you make old peas oup take foft water, for green peas hard is :he bed, it keeps the peas a better .colour: vhen you make any white foup don’t put in :ream till you take it off the fire: always iifli up your foups the la ft thing; if it be a B gravy2 THE EXPERIENCED gravy foup it will fkin over if you let it ftand ; if it be a peas foup it often fettles, and at the top looks thin. To make Portable Soup for Travellers. TAKE three large legs of veal, and one of beef, the lean part of half a ham, cut them in fmall pieces, put a quarter of a pound of but- ter at the bottom of a large chauldron, then lay in the meat and bones, with four ounces of anchovies, two ounces of mace, cut off the green leaves of five or fix heads of celery, wafh the heads quite clean, cut them fmall, put them in with three large carrots cut thin, cover the cauldron clofe, and fet it over a moderate fire; when you find the gravy begins to draw, keep taking it up till you have got it all out, then put water in to cover the meat, fet it on the fire again and let it boil flowly for four hours, then ftrain it through a hair fieve in to a clean pan, and let it boil three parts away, then ftrain the gravy that you drew from the meat into the pan, let it boil gently (and keep feumming the fat oft very clean as it rifes) till it looks thick like glue ; you mu ft take great care when it is near enough that it don't burn; put in Chyan pepper to your fade, then pour it on fiat earthen difhes, a quarter of an inch thick, and let it ftand to the next day, and cut it out with round tins a little larger than a crown piece; lay the cakes on difhes, and fet them in the fun to dry ; this foup will anfwer beft to be made in frofty weather; when the cakes are dry put them in a tin box with writing paper be- twixtENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3 twixt every cake, and keep them in a dry place 3 this is a very ufeful foup to be kept in gentle- men's families, for by pouring a pint of boil- ing watdf on one cake and a little fait, it will make a good bafon of broth. A little boiling water poured on it will make gravy for a turkey or fowls, the longer it is kept the bet- ter. N. B. Be careful to keep turning the cakes as they dry. To make a Transparent Soup. 1 TAKE a leg of veal, and cut off the meat as thin as you can 3 when you have cut off all the meat clean from the bone, break the bone in fmall pieces, put the meat in a large jug, and the bones at top, with a bunch of fweet herbs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half a pound of Jordan almonds blanched and beat fine, pour on it four quarts of boiling water, let it Hand all night by the fire covered clofe, the next day pur it into a well tinned fauce-pan and let it boil flowlytill itis reduced to two quarts; be fure you take the fcum and fat off as it rifes, all the time it is boiling3 ftrain it into a punch bowl, let it fettle for two hours, pour it into a clean fcauce-pan clear from the fediments, if any at the bottom 3 have ready three ounces of rice boiled in water; if you like vermicelli better, boil two ounces, when enough, put it in and ferve it up. To make a Hare Soup. CUT a large old hare in fmall pieces, and put it in a mug with three blades of mace, a B 2 little4 THE EXPERIENCED little fait, two large onions, one red herrin g fix morels, half a pint of red wine, three quarts of water, bake it in a quick oven three hours, then ftrain it into a toiling pan, have ready boiled three ounces of French barley, or fago, in water ; fcald the liver of the hare in boiling water two minutes 5 rub it through a hair fieve with the back of a wooden fpoon 5 put it into the foup with the barley or fago, and a quarter of a pound of butter, fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it but don’t let it boil; if you dont like liver, put in crifped bread fteeped in red wine. This is a rich foup, and proper for a large entertainment; and where two foups are required, almond or onion foup for the top, and the hare foup for the bottom. To make a rich Vermicelli Soup. INTO a large toffing-pan put four ounces of butter, cut a knuckle of veal, and a fcrag of mutton into fmall pieces, about the fize of walnuts; flice in the meat of a fhank of ham, with three or four blades of mace, two or three carrots, two parfnips, two large onions, with a clove ftuck in at each end, cut in four or five heads of celery wafhed clean, a bunch of fvveet herbs, eight or ten morels, and an an« chovy ; cover the pan cl.ofe up, and fet it over a flow fire, without any water, till the gravy is drawn out of the meat, then pour the gravy out into a pot or bafon, let the meat brown in the fame pan, and take care it don’t burn, then pour in four quarts of water, let it boil geiitly till it is wafted to three pints, then ftrain it, and . ... putENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 5 put the other gravy to it, fet it on the fire, add to it two ounces of vermicelli, cut the nicefl part of a head of celery, Chyan pepper and fait, to your tafte, and let it boil for four minutes; if not a good colour, put in a little brownin g> ]ay a fmall French roll in the foup difh, pour in the foup upon it, and lay fome of the vermcelli ©ver it. "To make an Ox Cheek Soup. FIRST break the bones of an ox cheek? and wafh it in many waters, then lay it in warm water, throw in a little fait to fetch out the (lime, wafh it out very well, then take a large ifew-pan, put two ounces of butter at the bottom of the pan, and lay the flefh fide of the cheek down, add to it half a pound of a (hank of ham cut in flices, and four heads of celery, pull off the leaves, wafh the heads clean, and cut them in with three large onions, two car* rots, and one parfnip diced, a few beets cut fmall, and three blades of mace, fet it over a moderate fire a quarter of an hour; this draws the virtue from the roots, which gives a pleafaat flrength to the gravy. I have made a good gravy by this method, with roots and butter, only adding a little browning to give it a pretty colour : when the head has fimmered a quarter of an hour, put to it fix quarts of water, and let it flew till it is re- duced to two quarts : if you 'would have it eat like foup, drain and take out the meat and other ingredients, and put in the white part of a head of celery cut in fmall pieces, with a little B 3 browning6 THE EXPERIENCED browning to make it a fine colour, take two ounces of vermicelli, give it a fcald in the foup, and put the top of a French roli in the middle of a tureen, and ferve it up. If you would have it eat like flew, take up the face as whole as poflible, and have ready cut iniquare pieces, a boiled turnip and carrot, a fiice of bread malted and cut in fmall dices, put m a little Cbyan pepper, and ftrain the foup through a hair, fieve upon the meat, carrot, tur- nip and bread, to ferve it up. To make Almond Soup. TAKE a neck of veal, and the fcrag end of a neck of mutton, chop them in fmall pieces, put them in a large toiling pan, cut in a turnip with a blade or two of mace, and five quarts of water, fet it over the fire, and let it boil gently till it is reduced to two quarts, ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clear pot, then put in fix ounces of almonds blanched and beat fine, half a pint of thick cream, and Chyan pepper to your tafte, have ready three fmall French rolls, made for that purpofe, the fize of a fmall tea- cup ; if they are larger they will not look well, and drink up too much of the foup; blanch a few Jordanalmonds, and cut them length ways, ltick them round the edge of the rolls flant- ways, then ftick them all over the top of the rolls, and put them in the tureen ; when difhed up pour the foup upon the rolls : thefe rolls look like a hedge-hog: fome French cocks give this foup the name of hedge-hog foup.ENG LISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 7 ¥0 make Soup a-la reine. TAKE a knuckle of veal, and three or four pounds of lean beef, put to it fix quarts of water with a little fait, when it boils fcum it well, then put in fix large onions, two large carrots, a head or two of celery, a parfnip, one leek, and a little thyme, boil them all together till the meat is boiled quite down, then (train it through a hair fieve, and let it itand about half an hour, then fcum it well, and clear it off gently from the fet- tlings into a clear pan ; boil half a pint of cream and pour it on the crumbs of a half-penny loaf, and let it foak well ; take half a pound of al- monds, blanch and beat them as fine as poffible, putting in now and then a little cream to pre- vent them from oiling, then take the yolks of fix hard eggs, and the roll that is foaked in the cream, and beat them all together quite fine, then make your broth hot and pour it to your almonds, drain it through a fine hair fieve, rub- bing it with a fpoon till all the gocdnefs is gone through into a fiew-pan, and add more cream to make it white; fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it till it boils, fcum off the froth as it rifes, foak the top of two French rolls in melted but- ter in a (lew pan till they are crifp, but not brown, then take them out of the butter, and lay them on a plate before the fire; and a quarter of an hour before you fend it to the table take a little of the foup hot and put it to the roll in the bottom of the tureen, put -your foup on the fire, keep flirring it till ready to boil, then pour it into your tureen, and ferve » B 4 - i cs THE EXPERIENCED* It up hot; be fore you take all the fat off the broth before you put it to the almonds, or it will fpoil it, and take care it does not curdle. To make Onion Soup. BOIL eight or ten large1 Spanifh onions in milk and water, change it three times, when they are quite foft, rub them through a hair iieve, cut an old cock in pieces, and boil it for gravy with one blade of mace, drain it, and pour It upon the pulp of the onions, boil it gently with the crumb of an old penny loaf, grated into half a pint of cream ; add Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte : a few heads of afparagus or dewed fpinnage, both make it eat well and look very pretty : grate a crud of brown bread round the edge of the difh, i To make White Onion Soup. TAKE thirty large onions, boil them in five quarts of water with a knuckle of veal, a blade or two of mace, and a little whole pepper ; when your onions are quite foft take them up, and rub them through a hair fieve, and work half a pound of butter with flour in them; when the meat is boiled fo as to leave the bone, drain the liquor ro the onions, and boil it gently for half an hour, ferve it up with a coffee cup full of cream and a little fair, be fure you dir it when you putin the flour and butter, for fear of itsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 9 To make Brown Onion Soup. SKIN and cut round ways in dices fix large Spanifh onions, fry them in butter till they are a nice brown, and very tender ; then take them out and lay them on a hair lieve to drain out the butter, when drained put them in a pot with five quarts of boiling water, boil them one hour and ftir them often, then add pepper and lalt to your tafte, rub the crumbs of a penny loaf through a cullender, put it to the foup, ftir it well to keep it from being in lumps, and boil it two hours more; ten minutes before you fend it up beat the yolks of two eggs, with two fpoon- fuls of vinegar, and a little of the foup, pour it in by degrees, and keep ftirring it all the time one way, put in a few cloves if you choofe it.— N. B. It is a fine foup, and will keep three or fouh days. To make Green Peas Soup. SHELL a peck of peas, and boil them in fpring'water till they are foft, then work them through a hair fieve, take the water that your peas were boiled in, and put in a knuckle of veal, three flices o£ ham, and cut two carrots, a turnip, and a few beet leaves fhred fmall, add a little more water to the meat, fet it over the fire and let it boil one hour and a half; then ftrain the gravy into a bowl and mix it with the pulp, and put in a little juice of fpi- nage, which mu ft be beat and fqueezed through a cloth, put in as much as .will make it look a prettyTO THE EXPERIENCED I . 1 pretty colour, then give it a gentle boil, which will take off the tafte of the fpinage, flice in the whiteft part of the head of celery, put in a lump of fugar the fize of a walnut, take a flice of bread and cut it in little fquare pieces, cut a little bacon the fame way, fry them a light brown in frefh butter, cut a large cabbage lettuce in flices, fry it after the other, put it in the tu- reen with the fried bread and bacon: have ready boiled as for eating a pint of young peas, and put them in the foup, with a little chopped mint if you like it, and pour it into your tureen. jTo make a Common Peas Soup. To one quart of fplit peas put four quarts of foft water, a little lean bacon, or road beef bones, wadi one head of celery, cut it and put it in with a turnip, boil it till reduced to two quarts, then work it through a cullender, with a wooden fpoon, mix a little flour and water, and boil it well in the foup, and flice in another head of celery, chyan pepper and fait to your tafte; cut a flice of bread in fmall dice, fry them a light brown, and put them in your difh, then pour the foup upon it. To make a Peas Soup for Lent. PUT three pints of bine boiling peas into five quarts of foft cold water, three anchovies, three red herrings, and two large onions, ftick in a clove at each end, a carrot and a parfnip fliced in, with a bunch of fweet herbs, boilENGLISH HO USE-KEEPER. n them all together, till the foup is thick, flrain it through a cullendar, then flice in the white part of a head of celery, a good lump of butter, a little pepper and fait, a flice of bread toafted and buttered well, and cut in little diamonds, put it into the difh, and pour the foup upon it, and a little dried mint if you choofe it. Gravy Soup thickened with Yellow Peas,. Put a (bin of beef to fix quarts of water, with a pint of peas and fix onions, fet them over the fire, and let them boil gently till all the juice be out of the meat, then flrain it through a fieve, add to the drained liquor one quart of ftrong gravy to make it brown, put in pepper and fait to your tafte, then put in a little celery, and beet leaves, and boil it till they are tender. make a White Pease Soup. TO four or five pounds of lean beef and fix quarts of water put in a little fait, when it boils fcum it, and put in two carrots, three whole onions, a little thyme, and two heads of celery, with three quarts of old green peas, boil them till the meat is quite tender, then drain it through a hair fieve, and rub the pulp of the peas through the fieve, fplit the blanched part of three gofs lettuces into four quarters, and cut them about one inch long, with a little mint cut fmall, then put half a pound of butter in a flew pan that will hold your foup, and put the lettuce and mint into the butter with a leek diced very thin and a pint of green peas, flew them12 THE EXPERIENCED a quarter of an hour, and keep fhaking them often about, then put in a little of the foup, and ftew them a quarter of an hour longer; then put in your foup and as much thick cream as will make it white, keep dirring it till it boils; fry a French roll in butter a little crifp, put irin the bottom of the tureen, and pour your foup over it. To make Green Peas Soup without Meat. IN fhelling your peas feparate the old ones from theyoung, and boil the old ones foft enough to drain through a cullendar, then put the liquor and what you drained through to the young peas, which mud be whole, and fome whole pepper, mint, a little onion fhred fmall, put them in a large fauce-pan, with near a pound of butter, as they boil up fhake in fome flour, then put in a French roll fried in butter, to the foup; you mud feafon it to your tade with fait, and herbs, when you have done fo, add the young peas to it, which inud be half boiled fird; you may leave out the flour if you don't like it, and indead of it put in a little fpinage, and cabbage lettuce, cut lmall, which mud be fird fried in butter, and well mixed with the Broth. To make an excellent White Soup. To fix quarts of water put in a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, and a pound of lean bacon, and half a pound of rice, with two anchovies, a few pepper corns, two or three onions, a bundle of fweet herbs, three or lour heads of celeryENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 13 celery in flices, (lew alltogether, till your foup is as ftrong as you choofe it, then (train it through a hair fieve into a clean earthen pot, let it (land all night, then take off the fcum, and pour it clear off into a tolling pan, put in half a pound of Jordan almonds beat fine, boil it a little and run it through a lawn fieve, then put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. Make it hot, and fend it to the table. To make White Soup a fecond Way. BOIL a knuckle of veal and a fowl, with a little mace, two onions, a little pepper and fait, :o a ftrong jelly, then ftrain it and fcum off all the fat, have ready the yolks of fix eggs well beat, put them in and keep ftirring it or it will curdle, put it in your difh with boiled chickens and toafted bread cut in pieces; if you do not like the eggs, you may put in a large handful of vermicelli half an hour before you take it off the fire. To make Craw-Fish Soup. BOIL half a hundred of frdh craw-filh, pick out all the meat, which you muftfave, take a freih lobfter and pick out all the meat, which you muft likewife lave, pound the (hells of the craw-fifh and lobfter fine in a marble mortar, and boil them in four quarts of water with four pounds of mutton, a pint of green fplit peas, nicely picked and walhed, a large turnip, car- rot, onion, mace, cloves, anchovy, a Little thyme, pepper, and fait. Stew, them on a flow fire*4 THE experienced fire till all the goodnefs is out of the mutton and fhells, then (train it through a fieve, and put in the tails of your craw-fifh and the lob- jfter meat; but in very fmall pieces, with the red coral of the lobfter, if it has any; boil it half an hour, and juft before you ferve it up add a little butter melted thick and fmooth, ftir it round feveral times, when you put it in, fend it up very hot 5 but don’t put too much fpice in it. N. B. Pick out all the bags and the woolly part of your craw-fifh before you pound them. To make Partridge Soup. TAKE off the (kins oP^o old partridges, cut them into fmall pieces with three ilices of ham, two or three onions diced and fome ce- lery, fry them in butter till they are as brown as they can be made without burning, then put them into three quarts of water with a few pepper corns, boil it flowly till a little more than a pint is confumed, then ftrain it, put in fome ftewed celery and fried bread. CHAP. II. Obfervations on Dressing Fish. WHEN you fry any kind of fifh, wadi them clean, dry them well with a cloth, and duft them with flower, or rub them with egg and bread crumbs $ be fure your dripping, hog’s-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. iS 6 wine. hog9s-lard, or beef fuet, is boiling before you put in your fifh, they will fry hard and clear, butter is apt to burn them black, and make them foft; when you have fried your fifh, always lay them in a difh or hair fieve to drain, before you difh them up ; boiled fifh fhould always be wafhed and rubbed carefully with a little vinegar, be- fore they are put into the water; boil all kind of fifh very flowly, and when they will leave the bone they are enough j when you take them up fet your fifh plate over a pan of hot water to drain, and cover it with a cloth or clofe cover, to prevent it from turning their colour ; fet your fifh-plate in the infide of you difh, and fend it up, and when you fry parfley, be fure you pick it nicely, wafh it well, then dip it in cold water, and throw it into a pan of boiling fat, take it out immediately, it will be very crifp and a fine green. tfo drefs # Turtle ofa hundred weight. Cut off the head, take care of the blood, and take off all the fins, lay them in fait and water, cut off the bottom fhell, then cut off the meat that grows to it, (which is thecallepee or fowl) take out the hearts, livers, and lights and put them by themfelves, take out the bones and the flefh out of the back fhell (which is the caUepafh) cut the fiefhy part into pieces, about two inches fquare, but leave the fat part, which looks green, (it is called the monfieur) rub it firft with fait, and wafh it in feveral waters to make it come clean, then put in the pieces that you took out, with three bottles of Madeira16 THE EXPERIENCED wine, and four quarts cf ftrong veal gravy, a lemon cut in dices, a bundle of fweet herbs, a tea-fpoonful of Chyan, fix anchovies wafhed and picked clean, a quarter of a pound of beaten mace* a tea-fpoonful of mufhroom powder, and half a pint of effence of ham if you have it, lay over it a coarfe pafte, fet it in the oven for three hours ; when it comes out, take off the lid and fcum off the fat, and brown it with a falamander.—This is the bottom difh. Then blanch the fins, cut them off at the firft joint, fry the firft pinions a fine brown, and put them into a toffing pan with two quarts of flrong brown gravy, a glafs of red wine, and the blood of the turtle, a large fpoonful of le- mon pickle, the fame of browning, two fpoon- fuls of mufhroom catchup, Chyan and fait, an onion ftuck with cloves, and a bunch of fweet herbs: a little before it is enough, putin an ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, flew them gently over a flow fire for two hours; when they are tender, put them into another toffing pan, thicken your gravy with flour and butter and ftrain it upon them, give them a boil and ferve them up. —This is a corner dijh Then take the thick or large part of the fins, blanch them in warm water, and put them in a toffing pan, with three quarts of ftrong veal gravy, a pint of Madeira wine, half a tea- fpoonful of Chyan, a little fait, half a lemon, a little beaten mace, a tea fpoonful of mufh- room powder, and a bunch of fweet herbs let them iiew till quite tender, they will take two hoursENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 17 hours at leaf!:, then take them up into another tolling pan, ilrain your gravy, and make it pretty thick with flour and butter, then put in a few boiled forcemeat balls, which mull be made of the veally part of your turtle, left out for that purpofe ; one pint of frefh mulhrooms, if you cannot get them pickled ones will do, and eight artichoke bottoms boiled tender, and cut in quarters, lhake them over the fire five or fix minutes, then put in half a pint of thick cream, with the yolks of fix eggs beaten ex- ceeding well, lhake it over the fire again till it looks thick and white, but do not let it boil; dilh up your fins with the balls, mulhrooms, and artichoke-bottoms over and round them. *1 his is the top dijh. Then take the chicken part, and cut ft like Scotch collops, fry them a light brown, then put in a quart of veal gravy, flew them gently a little more than half an hour, and put to it the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, a few mo- rels, a fcore of oyfters; thicken your gravy, it mull be neither white nor brown, but a pretty gravy colour; fry fome oyfter patties and lay round it.—his is a corner dijh to anfwer the fmall jins. Then take the guts (which is reckoned the belt part of the turtle) rip them open, fcrape and walh them exceeding well, rub them well with fait, walh them through many waters, and cut them in pieces two inches long, then fcald the maw or paunch, take off the fkin, fcrape it well, cut it into pieces about half an inch broad and two inches long, put fome of C the18 THE EXPERIENCED the fifhy part of your turtle in it, fet it over a flow charcoal fire, with two quarts of veal gravy, a pint of Madeira wine, a little mufh- room catchup, a few fhaiots, a little Chyan, half a lemon, and flew them gently four hours, till your gravy is almoft confumed, then thick- en it with flour, mixed with a little veal gravy, put in half an ounce of morels, a few force- meat halls, made as for the fins; difh it ug, and brown it with a falamailder, or in the oven.—- This is the corner difh. Then take the head, fkin it, and cut it in two pieces, put it into a flew-pot with all the bones, hearts, and lights, to a gallon of water, or veal broth, three or four blades of mace, one fhalot, a flice of beef beaten to pieces, and a bunch of fweet herbs, fet them in a very hot oven, and let it fland an hour at lead, when it comes out ftrain it into a tureen for the middle of the table. Then take the hearts and lights, chop them very fine, put them in a flew-pan with a pint of good gravy, thicken it and ferve it up; lay the head in the middle, fry the liver, lay it round the head upon the lights, garnifh with whole flices of lemon.*—-This is the fourth corner difh. N. B. The firftcourfe fliould be of turtle only, when it is dreffed in this manner: but when it is with other victuals, it fliould be in three different diflies: but this way I have often dreffed them, and have given great, fatisfadion. Obferve to kill youb turtle the night before you want it, or very early next morning, that you may have all your difliesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 19 difhes going on at a time. Gravy, for a turtle a hundred weight, will take two legs of veal, and two fhanks of beef. *T0 drefs a Turtle about thirty pounds weight. WHEN you kill the turtle, which muft be done the night before, cut off the head, and let it bleed two or three hours, then cut off the fins and the callipee from the caliipafh, take care you do not burft the gall, throw all the inwards into cold water, the guts and tripe keep by themfelves, and flit them open with a penknife, and wafh them very clean in fcalding water, and fcrape off all the inward fkin; asyou do them throw them into cold water, wafh them out of that, and put them into frefh water, and let them lie all night, fcalding the fins and edges of the caliipafh and callipee; cut the meat off the fhoulders and hack the bones, and fet them over the fire with the fins in about a quart of water, put in a little mace, nutmeg, Chyan, and fait, let it flew about three hours, then ftrain it and put the fins by for ufe, the next morning take fome of the meat you cut off the fhoulders and chop it fmall as for faufages, with about a pound of beef or veal fuet, lea- foned with mace, nutmeg, fw e e t - m a rj oram, parlley, Chyan, and fait to your tafte, and three or four glaffes of Madeira wine, fo fluff it un- der the two flefhy parts of the meat, and if you have any left, lay it over to prevent the meat from burning, then cut the remainder of the meat and the fins in pieces the fize of an egg?so THE EXPERIENCED feafon it pretty high with Chyan, fait, and a little nutmeg, and put it into the callipafh, take care that it be fewed or fecured up at the end, to keep in the gravy, then boil up the gravy, and add more wine if required, and thicken it a little with butter and flour, put fome of it to the turtle, and fet it in the oven with a well buttered paper over it to keep it from burning, and when it is about half baked fqueeze in the juice of one or two lemons and ftir it up. Cal- lipafh or back will take half an hour more bake-* ing than the callipee, which two hours will do; the guts muftbe cut in pieces two or three inches long, the tripe in lefs, and put into a mug of clear water, and fet in the oven with the cal- lipaih, and when it is enough and drained from the water, it is to be mixed with the other parts and fent up very hot* To drefs a Cod’s Head and Shoulders, TAKE out the gills and the blood clean from the bone, wafh the head very clean, rub over it a little fait, and a glafs of allegar, then lay it on your fifh plate; when your water boils throw in a good handful of fait, with a glafs of allegar, then put in your fifh, and let it boil gently half an hour; if it is a large one three quarters; take it up very carefully, and (trip the Ikin nicely off, fet it before a briik fire, dredge it all over with flour, and bafte it well with butter; when the froth begins to rife, throw over it fome very fine white breadcrumbs; you nvufl keep bafting it all the time) ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 21 time to make it froth well; when it is a fine white brown, difli it up, and garnifh it with a lemon cut in flices, fcraped horfe radifh; bar- berries, a few fmall fifh fryed and laid round it, or fryed oyfters ; cut the roe and liver in dices, and lay over it a little of the lobfter out of the fauce in lumps, and then ferve it. To make fauce for the Cod’s Head. TAKE a lobfter, if it be alive flick a fkewer in the vent of the tail to keep the water out and throw an handful of fait in the water, when it boils put in the lobfter, and boil it half an hour ; if it has fpawn on, pick them off, and pound them exceeding fine in a marble mortar, and put them into half a pound of good melted butter, then take the meat out of your lobfter, pull it in bits, and put it in your butter, with a meat fpoonful of lemon pickle, and the fame of walnut catchup, a dice of an end of a lemon, one or two dices of horfe- radifli, as much beaten mace as will lie on a fix- pence, fait and Chyan to your tafte, boil them one minute, then take out the horfe-radifti and lemon and ferve it up in your fauce boat. —— JV. B. If you can get no lobfter, you may make Ihrimp, cockle, or mufcle fauce the fame way; if there can be no kind of fhell-fifh got, you then may add two anchovies cut fmall, a fpoonful of walnut liquor, a large onion ftuck with cloves, (train it and put in in the fauce- boat, C 3 SecondTHE EXPERIENCED 22 Second way to drefs a Cod’s Head. TAKE out the gills and blood clean from the back- bone, wafh it well, and put it on your plate: when your water boils, put in two handfuls of fait, and half a'pint of alegar, it will make your fifh firmer, then put in the cod’s head ; if it is of a middle lize, it will take an hour’s boiling; then take it up, and ftrip off the ikin gently, dredge it well with flower, and lay lumps of butter on it; if it fuits you better you may fend it to the oven, and .if it is not brown all over, do it with a falamander : make your gravy fauce to it, and ferve it up. To drefs young Codlins like Salt Fisk. TAKE young codlins, gut and dry them Well with a cloth, fill their eyes full of fait, throw a little on the back bone, and let them lie all night, then hang them up by the tail a day or two : as you have occafion for them, boil them in fpring water, and drain them well, difh them up, and pour egg fauce on them and fend them to the table. To drefs a Salt Cod. STEEP your fait fifh in water all night with a glafs of vinegar, it will fetch out the fait, and make it eat like frefh fifh ; the next day boil it; when it is enough, pull it in flakes into your difib, then pour egg fauce over it, or parfnips boiled and beat fine with butter and cream; fend it to the table on a water plate, for it will foon grow cold. ToENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 23 T0 make Egg Sauce fora Salt Cod. BOIL your eggs hard, fird half chop the whites, then put in the yolks, and chop them both together, but not very fmall, put them into half a pound of good melted butter, and let it boil up, then put it on the fifh. To drefs Cod Sounds. STEEP your founds as you do the fait cod, and boil them in a large quantity of milk and water, when they are very tender and white take them up, and drain the water out, then pour the egg fauce boiling hot over them, and ferve them up. To drefs Cod Sounds like little Turkeys. BOIL your founds as for eating, but not too much, take them up and let them ftand till they are quite cold, then take a forcemeat of chop- ped oyders, crumbs of bread, a lump of but- ter, nutmeg, pepper, fait, and the yolks of two eggs, fill your founds, with it, and fkewer them up in the (hape of a turkey, then lard them down each fide, as you would do a turkey’s bread, dud them well with Hour, and put them in a tin oven to road before the fire, and hade them well with butter : when they are enough pour on them cyder fauce; three are fufficieni for afidediffi; garnifh with barberries 5 it is a pretty fide diih for a large table, for a dinner in Lent, To boil Salmon Crimp. SCALE your falmon, take out the blood, wadi it well, and lay it on a nfh-plate, put your C 4 water24 THE EXPERIENCED water in a fifh-pan with a little fait : when it boils put in your fifh for half a minute, then take it out for a minute or two ; when you have done it four times, boil it until it be enough; when you take it out of the fifh-pan, fet it over the water to drain; cover it well with a clean cloth dipped in hot water; fry fome fmall fifhes or a few flices of falmon, and lay round it; gar- ni£h with fcraped horfe-radifh and fennel. To make Rolled Salmon. TAKE a fide of falmon when fplit and the bone taken out and fcaled, drew over the infide pepper, fait, nutmeg, and mace, a few chopped cyders, parfley, and crumbs of bread, roll it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a quick oven, make the common fifh fauce and pourover it.—Garnifh with fennel, lemon, and horfe-radifh. To make Sauce for a Salmon. BOIL a bunch of fennel and parfley, chop them fmall, and put it into fome good melted butter and fend it to the table in a fauce boat; another with gravy fauce. To make the gravy fauce, put a little brown gravy into a fauce-pan, with one anchovy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a meat fpoonful of liquor from your walnut pickle, one or two fpoonfuls of the water that the fifh was boiled in ; it gives it a pleafant flavour ; a flick of horfe radifb, a little browning and fait; boil them three or four minutes, thicken it with flour and a good lump of butter, and drain it through a hairENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 25 hair fieve. N* B* This is a good fauce for moft kind of boiled fifh. To boil a Turbot. WASH your turbot clean (if you let it lie in the water it will make it foft) and rub it over with allegar, it will make it firmer, then ;ay it on your fifh-plate, with the white fide up* lay a cloth over it, and pin it tight under yGur plate, which will keep it from breaking* boil it gently in hard water, with a good deal of fait and vinegar, andfcum it well, or it will difcolour the fkin; when it is enough, take it up and drain it* take the cloth carefully off, and flip it on your difh, lay over it fried oyfters or oyiter patties,* fend in lobfter or gravy fauce in fauce-boats;* Garnifh it with crifp parfley and pickles. N, B. don’t put in your fifh till your water boils. To boil a Pike with apuddmg in the belly. TAKE out the gills and guts, wafh If well, then make a good forcemeat of oyfters chopped fine, the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a few fweet herbs, and a little lemon peel fhred fine, nut- meg, pepper, and fait to your tafte* a good lump of butter, the yolks of two eggs, mix them well together, and put them in the belly of your fifh, few it up, fkewer it round, put hard water in your fifh-pan, add to it a tea cupful of vinegar, and a little fait : when it boils put in the fifh ; if it be a middle fize, it will take half an hour’s boiling: garnifh it with walnuts and pickled barberries, ferve it up with oyfrer fauce in a boat.26 THE EXPERIENCED boat, and pour a little fauce on the pike. You may drefs a roafted pike the fame way. 5To few Carp white. WHEN the carp are icaled, gutted, and wafhed, put them into a flew-pan, v/ith two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, whole pepper, and fait, two onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, a Rick of hprfe-radifh, cover the pan clofe, let it Rand an hour and a half over a flow Rove, then put a gill of white wine into a faucepan with two anchovies chop- ped, an onion, a little lemon peel, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, a little thick cream, and a large tea cupful of the liquor the carp was Revved in ; boil them a few minutes, drain your carp, add to the fauce the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a little cream; when it boils up fqueeze in the juice of half a lemon ; difli up your carp, and pour your fauce hot upon it. To drefs Carp the heft way, and the fauce. KILL your carp, and fave all the blood, fcale and clean them very well, have ready fome nice rich gravy made ot beef and mutton, feafoned with pepper, fait, mace, and onion, Rrain it off before you Rew your fifh in it, boil your carp fir ft before you Rew it in the gravy, be careful you don’t boil them too much before you put in the carp, then let it Rew on a flow fire about a quarter of an hour, thicken the fauce with a good lump of butter rolled in flour : gai nifli your dish v/ith fryed offers, fryed toaft cut threeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 27 three corner ways, pieces of lemon, fcraped horfe-radifh, and the row of the carp cut in pieces, fomefryedand the other boiled, fqueeze the juice of a lemon into th£ fauce juft before you fend it up ; take care to difh it up hand- lamely and very hot. Another Carp Sauce. TAKE the liver of the carp clean from the guts, and three anchovies, with a little parfley, thyme, and one onion, chop all thefe fmall to- gether, then take half a pint of Rhenifh wine, four fpoonfuls of elder vinegar, with the blood of the carp, put all thefe together to (lew gently, and put it to the carp, which muft firft be boiled in water, a little fait, and a pint of wine ^ take care not to do it too much after the carp is putin the fauce: garnifh with fried ovfters, fryed toaft, fcraped horfe-radifh, and pieces of lemon, with the row cut in pieces and fryed: ifyou don’t like elder vinegar, any other fort will do. 1*0 make White Fish Sauce. WASH two anchovies, put them intoafauce- pan, with one glafs of white wine, and two of water, half a nutmeg grated, and a little lemon peel; when it has boiled five or fix minutes, ftrain it through a fieve, add to it a fpoonful of white wine vinegar, thicken it a little, then put in near a pound of butter rolled in flour, boil it well, and pour it hot upon your fifh. 6 ToTHE EXPERIENCED 2% To ‘To make a very nice Sauce\for rnoft forts of Fish. TAKE a little gravy made of either veal or mutton, put to it a little of the water that drains from your filh, when it is boiled enough put it in a lauce-pan, and put in a whole onion, one anchovy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a glafs of white wine, thicken it with a good lump of butter rolled in flour, and a fpoonful of cream; if you have oyfters, cockles or fhrimps put them in after you take it off the fire, (but it is very good without) you may ufe red wine inflead of white by leaving out th§ cream. Tomake Lobster Sauce. BOIL half a pint of water with a little macc and whole pepper, long enough to take out the ftrong tafte of the fpice, then ftrain it off, melt three quarters of a pound of butter fmooth in the water, cut your lobfter in very finall pieces flew it all together tenderly with anchovy, and fend it up hot. ’To make Lobster Sauce another way* BRUISE the body of a lobfter into thick melted butter and cut the flefh into it in fmall pieces, ftew all together and give it a boil, fea- fon with a little pepper, fait, and a very fmall quantity of mace.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. -9 Toft ew Carp or Tengh* GUT and fca!e your fifh, wadi and dry them well with a clean cloth, dredge them well with flour, fry them in dripping, or fvveet rendered fuet, until they are a light brown, and then put them in a flew pan, with a quart of water, and one quart of red wine, a meat fpoonful of lemon pickle, another of browning, the fame of walnut or mum catchup, a little mufhroom powder, and Chyan to your tafle, a large onion fiuck with cloves, and a flick of horfe radifh, cover your pan clofe to keep in the fleam, let them flew gently over a flove fire, till your gravy is reduced to ji*fl enough to cover your fifh in the difh; then take the fifh out, and put them on the difh you intend for table, fet the gravy on the fire, and thicken it with flour and a large lump of butter, boil it a little, and flrain it over your fifh : garnifh them with pickled mufh» rooms and fcraped horfe-radifh, put a bunch of pickled barberries, or a fprig of myrtle in their mouths, and fend them to the table. It is a top difh fora grand entertainment. ‘To drefs Sturgeon. TAKE what fize of a piece of fiurgeon you think proper, and wafh it clean, lay it all night in fait and water, the next morning take it out, rub it well with allegar, and let it lie in it for two hours, then have ready afifh-kettle full of boil- ing water, with one ounce of bay fait, two large onions, and a few fprigs of fweet marjoram ; boil your fiurgeon till the bones will leave the fill).30 THE EXPERIENCED fifh, then take it up, take the fkin off, and flour it well; fet it before the fire, bafte it with frefh butter, and let it (land till it be a fine brown ; then difh it up, and pour into the difh the fame fauce as for the white carp; garnifli with crifp parfley and red pickles. This is a proper difh for the top or middle. TS? roajl large Eels or Lampreys with a pud- ding in the belly. SKIN your eels or lampreys, cut oft the head, take the guts out, and fcrape the blood clean from the bone, then make a good forcemeat of oyflers or ihrimps chopped final], the crumbs of halfa penny loaf, a little nutmeg and lemon peel ihred fine, pepper, fait, and the yolks of two eggs, put them in the belly of your fifh, few it up, turn it round on your difh, put over it flourand butter, pour a little water in your difh, and bake it in a moderate oven ; when it comes out take the gravy from under it, and fcum off the fat, then (train it through a hair fieve; add to it a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, two of brown- ing, a meat fpoonful of walnut catchup, a glafs of white wine, one anchovy, and a (lice of lemon, let it boil ten minutes, thicken it with butter and flour, fend it up in a fauce-boat, difh your fifh: garnifli it with lemon and crifp parfley. This is a pretty difh for either corner or fide for a dinner.r ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 31 ‘To fiew Lampreys. SKIN and gut your lampreys, feafon tliem well with pepper, fait, cloves, nutmeg and mace, not pounded too fine; and a little lemon peel fhred fine; then cut fome thin dices of butter into the bottom of your fauce-pan, put in the fifh with half a pint of nice gravy, half the quan- tity of white wine and cyder, the fame of claret, with a fmall bundle of thyme, winter favory, pot marjoram, and an onion diced, dew them over a flow fire, and keep turning the lampreys till they are quite tender, when they are tender take them outand put in one anchovy, and thicken the fauce with the yolk of an egg, or a little butter, rolled in flour, and pour it over the flih and ferve them up—2V. B. Roll them round a fkewer before you put them into the pan. ToJ Ait; Flounders, Plaice, ^ Soles. HALF fry your fidi in three ounces of but- ter a fine brown, then take up your fifh, and put to your butter a quart of water, and boil it llowly a quarter of an hour with two anchovies, and an onion diced, then put in your fifh again, with a herring, and flew them gently twenty minutes, then take out your fifh, and thicken the fauce with butter and flour, and eive it a boil, then drain it through a hair fieve, over the fifh, and fend them up hot.—N. B. If you chaofe cockle or oyfter-liquor, put it in juft be fore you thicken the fauce, or you may fend oyfters, cockles, or fhrimps in a fauce-boat to table. A goodTHE EXPERIENCED To J2 \ A good way to Jlew Fjsh. ]VllX half a tumbler of wine with as much water as will cover the fifli in the ftew-pan and put in a little pepper and fait, three or four onions, a cruft of bread toafted very brown, one anchovy, a good lump of butter, and fet them over a gentle fire, fhake the ftew-pan now and then that it may not burn ; juft before you ferve it up, pour your gravy into a fauce-pan, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, a little catchup and walnut pickle beat well to- gether till fmooth, then pour it on your fifh, and fet it over the fire to heat, and ferve it up hot. To boil Mackarel. GUT your mackarel and dry them carefully with a clean cloth, then rub them flightly over with a litle vinegar, and lay them ftraight on your fifti plate (for turning them round often breaks them) put a little fait in the water when it boils 5 put them into your fifti-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes, then take them up and drain them well, and put the water that runs from them into a fauce-pan, with two tea fpoon- fuls of lemon pickle, one meat fpoonful of wal- nut catchup, the fame of browning, a blade or two of mace, one anchovy, a flice of lemon; boil them all together a quarter of an hour, then ftrain it through a hair fieve and thicken it with flour and butter; fend it in a fauce-boat, and parfley fauce in another; difii up your fi(h with the tails in the middle ; garnifh it with fcraped horfe-radith and barberries,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 33 To boil Herrings. SCALE, gut, and wa(h your herrings, dry them clean, and rub them over with a little vinegar and fait, fkewer them with their tails in their mouths, lay them on your fifh plate, when your water boils put them in, they will take ten or twelve minutes boiling; when you take them up, drain them over the water, then turn the heads into the middle of your difh, lay round them fcraped horfc-radifh, pariley and butter for fauce. To fry Herrings, SCALE, wafh, and dry your herrings well % lay them feparately on a board, and fet them to the fire two or three minutes before you want j them, it will keep the fifh from flicking to the pan, duft them with flower, when your dripping or butter is boiling hot put in your fifh, a few at a time, fry them over a brifk fire, when you have fryed them all, fet the tails up one -againfl another in the middle of the difli, then fry a large handful of pariley crifp, take it out before it lofes its colour, lay it round them, and parfley fauce in a boat; or if you like onions better fry them, lay feme round your difli, and make onion fauce for them ; or you may cut off the heads after they are-fryed, chop them and put them into a fauce-pan, with ale, pepper, fait, and an anchovy, thicken it with flour and butter, ft rain it, then put it in a fauce boat. D Tq34 THE EXPERIENCED To bake Herrings. WHEN you have cleaned your herrings as above lay them on a board, take a little black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, and a good deal of fait, mix them together, then rub it all over the filh, lay them ftraightin a pot, cover them with allegar, tie ftrong paper o^er the pot, and bake them in a moderate oven ; if your allegar be good, they will keep two or three months; you may eat them either hot or cold* To bake Sprats. RUB your fprats with fait and pepper, and to every two pints of vinegar put one pint of red wine, dilfolve a penny-worth of cochineal, lay your fprats in a deep earthen difh, pour in as much red wine, vinegar, and cochineal as will cover them, tie a paper over them, fet them in an oven all night.—They will eat well and keep for fome time. To boil Sc ate stRay. CLEAN your fcate or ray very well, and cut it in long narrow pieces, then put it in boil- ing water with a little fait in it, when it has boiled a quarter of an hour take it out, flip the lldn off, then put it into your pan again, with a little vinegar, and boil it till enough ; when you take it up fet it over the water to drain; and cover it clofe up, and when you.difh it, be as quick as poffible, for it foon grows cold ; pour over it cockle, flirimp, or mufcle fauce, lay over it oyfler patties ; garniIh it with barberrries and horfe-radifh.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 35 To fry Soles*„ SKIN your foies as you do eels, but keep on their heads, rub them over with an egg, and ftrew over them bread crumbs, fry them over a brifk fire in hog’s lard a light brown, ferve them up with good melted butter, and garnifh it with green pickles. To marinate Soles. BOIL them in fait and water, bone and drain them, lay them on a difh with the belly up, boil fome fpinage, and pound it in a mortar, then boil four eggs hard, chop the whites and yolks feparate, lay green, white, and yellow amongft the loles, ferve them up with melted butter in a boat. To broil Haddocks or Whitirgs. GUT and wafh your haddocks or whitings, dry them with a cloth, and rub a little vinegar over them, it will keep the fkin on better, duft them well with flour, rub your gridiron with butter and let it be very hot when you lay the fi(h on, or they will flick, turn them two or three times on the gridiron, when enough ferve them up, and laypickles round them, with plain melted butter, or cockle fauce, they are a pretty difh for fupper. A fecond Way. WHEN you have cleaned your haddocks or whitings, as above, put them in a tin oven, and fet them before a quick fire, when the fkins be- gin to rife take them off, beat an egg, rub it over D 2 them36 THE EXPERIENCED them with a feather, and drew over them a few bread crumbs, dredge them well with flour, when your gridiron is hot rub it well with butter or fuet, it muff be very hot before you lay the fifh on, when you have turned them, rub a little cold butter over them, turn them as your fire requires until they are enough and a little brown; lay round them cockles, mufcles, or red cab- bage, you may either have fhrimp fauce or melted butter. 'Tofry Smelts or Sparlings. DPvA W the guts out at the gills, but leave in the melt or roe, dry them with a cloth, beat, an egg and rub it over them with a feather, then ftrew bread crumbs over them, fry them with hogs-lard or rendered beef fuet, when it is boil- ing hot put in your fifh, (bake them a little, and fry them a nice brown, drain them in a fieve, when you difh them put a bafon in the middle of your difh with the bottom up, lay the tails of your fifh on it, fry a handful of parfley in the fat your fifli was frved in, take k out of water as you fry it, and it will keep its colour and crifp fooner, put a little on the tails, and lay the rell in lumps round the edge of the difh ; lerve it up with good melted butter for fauce. To fry Perch or T r o u t . WHEN you have fcaled, gutted, and walked your perch or trout, dry them well, then lay th em feparately on a board before the fire, two minutes before you fry them duft them well with flour, and fry them a fine brown in road drippingsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 37 drippings or rendered fuet, ferve them up with melted butter and crifped parfley. To drefs Perch in Water Sokey. SCALE, gut, and wafh your perch, put.fait in your water, when it boils put in the fifh, with an onion cut in dices, you . muft feparate it into round rings, a handful of parfley picked and waided clean, put in as much milk as will turn the water white, when your fifh-is enough, put them in a foop difli, and pour a little of the water over them with the parfley and the onions, then ferve it up with butter and parfley in a boat; onions may be omitted if you pleale. You may boil trout the fame way. To boil Eels. > ■ , , SKIN, gut, and take the blood out of your eels, cut off their heads, dry them, and turn them round on your fifh plate, boil them in fait .and ’water and make parfley fauce for them* To pitch-cock Eels. SKIN, gut, and wadi your eels, then dry them with a cloth, fprinkle them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage, turn them backward and forward, and fkewer them, rub your grid- iron with beef fuel, broil them a good brown, put them on your difh with good melted but- ter, and lay round fryed parfley. To broil Eels, WHEN vou havefkinned and clean fed your eels as before, rub them with the yolk of an com ftrew 11 r> h* v)THE EXPERIENCED ftrew over them bread crumbs, chopped parfley, fage, pepper, and fait, bafte them well with but- ter and fet them in a dripping-pan, roaft or broil them on a gridiron, ferve them up with parfley and butter for fauce. To boil Flounders, and all Kinds of Flat Fish. CUT off the fins, and nick the brown fide under the head, then take out the guts, and dry them with a cloth, boil them in fait and water; make either gravy, ftirimp, cockle, or mufcle fauce, and garnifh it with red cabbage. jTo few Oysters, and all Sorts of Shell Fish. WHEN you have opened your oyfters, put their liquor into a tolling pan with a little beaten mace, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it; three or four minutes, toaft a llice of white bread, and cut it into three-cornered pieces, lay them round your difh, put in a fpoonful of good cream, put in your oyfters, and {hake them round in your pan, you muft not let them boil, for if they do it will make them hard and look fmall; ferve them up in a little foup difh or plate. N. B. You may ftew cockles, mufcles, or any fhell fifti the fame way. To flew Oysters, Cockles, and Muscles. OPEN your fifti clean from the fhell, fave the liquor, and let it {land to fettle, then ftrain itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 39 To it through a hair fieve, and put to it as many crumbs of bread as will make it pretty thick, and boil them well together before you put in the fifh, with a good lump of butter, pepper, and fait to your tafte, give them a Angle boil, andferve them up,—N. B. You may make it a fi(h fauce by adding a glafs of white wine juft before you take it off the lire, and leaving out the crumbs of bread. Tofcoljop Oysters. * WHEN your oysters are opened, put Wiem inabafon, and wa(h them out of their own liq uor, put fome in your fcollop-(hells , ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and lay a (lice of butter on them, then more oyfters, bread crumbs, and a (lice of butter on the top, put them into a Dutch oven to brown, and ferve them up in the (hells. To fry Oysters. TAKE a quarter of an hundred of large oy- fters, beat the yolks of two eggs, add to it a little nutmeg, and a blade of mace pounded, a fpoonful of flour, and a little fait, dip in your oyfters, and fry them in hogs-lard a light brown ; if you choofe you may add a little parlley (hred fine.-— N. B. They are a proper garnifli for cods-head, calves-head or moft made diflies. %40 THE EXPERIENCED To maize Oyster Loaves. TAKE fmall French rafps, or you may make HtttJe round loaves, make a round hole in the top, fcrape out all the crumbs, then put your ©yflers into a tailing pan, with the liquor and crumbs that came out of your rafps or loaves* and a good lump of butter* Rev/ them together five or fix minutes, then put in a fpoonful of good cream, fill your rafps or loaves, lay the bit of cruR carefully on again* fet them in the oven to crifp. —Three are enough for a fide dilh. \To ^//Lobsters. TAKE your lobRer, and put a fkewer in the vent of the tail, to prevent the water from get- ting into the body of the lobRer, put it into a pan of boiling water, with a little fait in it, if it be a large one it will take half an hour’s boiling; when you take it out, put a lump of butter in a cloth, and rub it over, it will flrike the colour* and make it look bright. To roqft Lobsters. HALF boil your lobRer as before, rub it well with butter, and let it before the lire, baRe it all over till the fiiell looks a dark brown* ferve It up with good melted butter.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 4i ToJiew Lobsters or Shrimps. PICK your lobfters or (hrimps in as large pieces as you can, and boil the fhell’S in a pint of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a few whole pepper corns ; when all the ftrength is come out of the fhells and fpice, (train it, and put in your lobfters or Ihrimps, and thicken it with flour and butter and give them a boil; put in a glafs of white wine, or two ipoonfuls of vinegar, and ferye it up. , To make Lobster Patties to garnijh Fish. TAKE all the red feeds and the meat of a lobfter, with a little pepper, fait, and crumbs of bread, mix them well with a little butter, make them up in fmall patties, and put them in either rich batter or thin pafte, fry or bake them, andgarnifh your fifh with them. To pickle Sturgeon. Cut your fturgeon into what fize pieces you pleafe, wafh it well, and tie it with mats ; to every three quarts of water put one quart of old ftrong beer, a handful of bay fait, and dou- ble the quantity of common fait, one ounce of ginger, two ounces of black pepper, one ounce of cloves, and one of Jamaica pepper, boil it till it will leave the bone, then take it up, the next day put in a quart of ftrong ale allegar, and a little fait, tie it down, with ftrong paper, and keep it for ufe.—Don't put your fturgeon in till the water boils. To /42 THE EXPERIENCED To pickle Salmon the Newcajile Way. TAKRafalmon about twelve pounds, gut it, then cut off the head, and cut it a-crofs in what pieces you pleafe, but don’t fplit it, fcrape the blood from the bone, and wafh it well out, then tie it acrofs each way as you dofturgeon, fet on your fifh-pan with two quarts of water, and three of ftrong beer, half a pound of bay felt, and one pound of common felt, when it boils fcum it well; then put in as much fifh as your liquor will cover, and when it is enough take it carefully out, left you ftrip off the fkin, and lay it on earthen difhes ; when you have done all your fifh, let it ftand till the next day, put it into pots, add to the liquor three quarts of ftrong beer allegar, half an ounce of mace, the feme of cloves and black pepper, one ounce of long pepper, two ounces of white ginger, iliced, boil them well together half an hour, then pour it boiling hot upon your fifh, when cold cover it well with ftrong brown paper.*— This will keep a whole year, To pickle Oysters, OPEN the largeft and fineft oyfters you can get, whole and clean from the fhell, wafh them in their own liquor, let it ftand to fettle, then pour it from the fediment into a fauce-pan, put to it aglafs of Lifbon wine, as much white wine vinegar as you had oyfter liquor, three or four blades of mace, a nutmeg iliced, a few white pepper corns, and a little felt, boil it five or fix minutes.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 43 minutes, fcum It, then put in your oyfters, fiminer them ten or twelve minutes, take them out, and put them in narrow-topped jars; when they are cold, pour over them rendered mutton fuet, tie them down with a bladder, and keep them for ufe. To pickle Oysters a fecond Way. OPEN the oyfters very carefully, and take off all the fhells that flicks to the fifh, put them into a little water, and waih the oyfters in it and ftrain the liquor, boil it with a little vinegar, whole pepper, fait, and mace, till it tafte of the fpices, then put in the oyfters: if they are large they muft boil eight minutes, if fmall not fo long ; put them into pickling-pots, when the liquor is cold pour it upon the oyfters. To half a hundred of oyfters put fix fpoonfuls of water and four of very good vinegar, then tie bladders very clofeover them. To collar Mackarel. GUT and flit your mackarel down the belly, cut off the head, take out the bones, take care you don’t cut it in holes, then lay it flat upon its b ack, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, and a handful of parfley fhred fine, ftrew it over them, roll them tight, and tie them well feparately in cloths, boil them gently twenty minutes in vinegar, fait, and water, then take them out, put them into a pot, pour tho liquor on them, or the cloth will flick to the ftlh, the next day take the cloth off your fifh, put 044 THE experienced put a little more vinegar to the pickle, keep them for ufe ; when you fend them to the table, garnifh with fennel andparfiey, and put fome of the liquor under them. To pickle Mackarel. WASH and gut your mackarel, then fkewer them round with their tails in their mouths, bind them with a fillet to keep them from break- ing, boil them in fait and water about ten mi- nutes, then take them carefully out, put to the water a pint of allegar, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, and boil it all to- gether ; when cold pour it on the fifh, and tie it down clofe. To pot Salmon. Let your falmon be quite frefli, fcale and wafh it well, and dry it with a cloth, fplit it up the back and take out the bone, feafon it well with white pepper and fait, a little nutmeg and mace, let it lie two or three hours, then put it in your pot with half a pound of butter, tie it down, put it into the oven and bake it an hour, when it comes out, lay it on a fiat difh that the oil may run from it, cut it to the fize of your pots, lay it in layers till you fill the pot, with the fkin upwards, put a board over it, lay on a weight to prefs it till cold, then pour over it clarified butter; when you cut it, the fkin makes it look ribbed, you may fend it to the tabl« either cut in flices^ or in the pot. AfecondENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 4f To Afecondway. WHEN you have any cold falmon left, take the fkin off, and bone it, then put it in a mar- ble mortar, with a good deal of clarified but- ter; feafon it pretty high with pepper, mace, and fait, ihred a little fennel very fmall, beat them all together exceeding fine, then put it clofe down into a pot, and cover it with clarified butter. To pot Smelts or Sparlings. DRAW out the guts with a fkewer under the gills, .the melt or roe mud: be left in, dry them well with a doth, feafon them with fait, mace, and pepper, lay them in a pot, with half a pound of melted butter over them, tie them down, and bake them in a flow oven three quar- ters of an hour; when they are almoft cold, take them out of the liquor, put them into ova! pots, cover them with clarified butter, and keep them for ufe. To pickle Smelts or Sparlings. GUT them with a fkewer under the gills, but leave the melt or roe in, dry them with a cloth, and fkewer their tails in their mouths, put fait in your water, when it boils put in your iifii for ten minutes, then take them up, put to the water a blade or two of mace, a few cloves, and a little allegar ; boil them all together, and when it is cold put in your fifh, and keep them for ufe.46 THE EXPERIENCED To collar Eels, CASE your eel, cut off the head, flit open the belly, take out the guts, cut off the fins, take out the bones, lay it flat on the back, grate over it a fmall nutmeg, two or three blades of mace beat fine, a little pepper and fait, ftrew over it a handful of parfley fhred fine with a few fage leaves, roll it up tight in a cloth, bind it well; if it be of a middle fize, boil it in fait and water three quarters of an hour, hang it up all night to drain, add to the pickle a pint of vinegar, a few pepper corns, and a fprig of fweet marjoram, boil it ten minutes and let it ftand till the next day, take off the cloth, and put your eels into the pickle, you may fend them whole on a plate, or cut them in flices; gar- nifh with green parfley.—Lampreys are done the fame way. To pickle Cockles. WASH your cockles clean, put them in a fauce-pan cover them clofe, fet them over the fire, fhake them till they open, then pick them cut of the fhells, let the liquor fettle till it be clear, then put the fame quantity of wine vinegar and a little fait, a blade or two of mace, boil them together, and pour it on your cockles, and keep them in bottles for ufe,——You muff pickle mufcles the fame way#ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 4j 4 To pot Chars. CUT off the fins, and cheek-part of each fide of the head of your chars, rip them open, take out the guts and theblood from the back- bone, dry them well in a cloth, lay them on a board, and throw on them a good deal of fait, let them ftand all night, then fcrape it gently off them, and wipe them exceeding well with a cloth, pound mace, cloves, and nutmeg, very fine, throw a little in the infide of them, and a good deal of fait and pepper on the outline, put them clofe down in a deep pot, with their bellies up, with plenty of clarified butter over them, fet them in the oven, and let them ftand for three hours $ when they come out, pour what butter you can off clear, lay a board over them, and turn them upfide down, to let the gravy run from them, fcrape the fait and pepper very carefully off, and feafon them ex- ceeding well both infide and out with the above feafoning, lay them clofe into broad thin pots for that purpofe, with the backs up, then cover them well with clarified butter; keep them in a cool dry place. To pot Eels. SKIN, gut, and clean your eels* cut them in pieces about four inches long, then feafon them with pepper, fait, beaten mace, and a little dryed 1 age> rubbed very fine, rub them well with your feafoning, lay them in a brown pot, put over them as much butter as will ec- 6 ver43 THE EXPERIENCED ver them, tie them down with a ftrong paper, fet them in a quick oven for an hour and a half j take them out, when cold put them into frnall pots, and cover them with clarified butter. ——N. B. Y ou may pot lampreys the fame way. To pot Lampreys. TAKE lampreys alive, and run a flick through their heads, and flit their tails, hang them up by their heads and they will bleed at the tail end ; when they have done bleeding, cut them open, take out the guts and wipe them until they are perfeftly dry and clean, (you mull not wafh them with water) then rub them with pepper and fait, let them ftand all night, and wipe themexceedingly dry again, then feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and a lit- tle nutmeg, roll them up tight, put them in a pot with fame butter, cover them up with ftrong paper, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when they are enough and near cold, drain out the butter from them, put them in your potting pot, and cover them with clari- fied butter. To pot Lobsters* TAKE the meat out of the claws and belly of a boiled lobfter, put it into a marble mortar, with two blades of mace, a little white pepper and fait, a lump of butter the fize of half an egg, beat them all together till they come to a pafle, put one half of it into your pot, take the meatENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 49 meat out of the tail part, lay it in the middle of your pot, lay on it the other half of 3/our pafte, prefs it clofe down, pour over it clarified butter, a quarter of an inch thick.—iV. B. To clarify butter, put your boat into a clean faucepan, fet it over a flow fire, when it is melted, fcum it, and take it off* the fire, let it ftand a little, then pour it over your lobfters ; take care you do not pour in the milk, which fettles to the bottom of the faucepan. A receipt to pot Lobsters, which cojl ten guineas* \ TAKE twenty good lobfters, and when cold pick all the meat out of the tails and claws (be carefulltt) take out all the black gut in the tails, which mu ft not be ufed) beat fine three quarters of an ounce of mace, a fmall nutmeg, and four qr five cloves, with pepper and fait, feafon the meat with it; lay a layer of butter into a deep earthen pot, then put in the lob- fters and lay the reft of the butter over them (this quantity of lobfters will take at leaft four pounds of^butter to bake them) tie a paper over the pot, fet them in an oven, when they are baked tender, take them out, and lay them on a difh to drain a little, then put them clofe down in your potting pots, but do not break them in fmall pieces, but lay them in as whole as you can, only fplitting the tails. When you have filled your pots as full as you choofe, take a fpoonful or two of the red butter they were baked in, pour it on the top,, and fet it before the fire to let it melt in, then cool it, and melt a little E white50 THE EXPERIENCED white wax in the remainder of the butter, and cover them. N. B. Lay a good deal of the red hard part in the pot to bake, to colour the butter, but do not put it in the potting pots. C To pot Shrimps. PICK the fined fhrimps you can get, feafon them with a little beaten mace, pepper and fak to your tafte, and with a little cold butter pound them all together in a mortar till it comes to a pafte, put it down in fmali pots, and pour over them clarified butter. To caveach Soles. FRY your foies in either oil or butter, boil feme vinegar with a little water, two or three blades of mace, a very few cloves, feme black pepper and a little fait, let it Hand till cold, and when cold beat up fome oil with it, lay your fiih in a deep pot, and flice a good deal of fhalots or onions between each fifh, throwyour liquor over it, and pour fome oil on the top : it will keep three or four months, made rich and fryed in oil 5 it mud be flopped well and kept in a dry place. Take out a little at a time when you ufe it. To caveacb Fish. CUT your fifh into pieces the thicknefs df your hand, feafon it with pepper and fait, let it lie an hour, dry it well with a cloth, flour it, and then fry it a fine brown in oil: boil a fufii- cient 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 5t E To dent quantity of vinegar with a little garlick, mace, and whole pepper to cover the fifh, add the fame quantity of oil, and fait to your tafte, mix well the oil and vinegar, and when the fifh and liquor is quite cold, flice fome onion to lay in the bottom of the pot, then a layer of fifh and onion, and fo on till the whole fifh is put up ; the liquor mufi not be put in till it is quite cold. Avery good Way to preferve Fish. TAKE any large fifh, cut,off the head, wadi it clean, and cut it into thin flices, dry it well with a cloth, flour it and dip it in the yolks of eggs, fry it in plentyof oil till it is a fine brown, and well done, lay them to drain till cold, then lay them in your veffel, throw in betwixt the layers, mace, cloves, and fliced nutmeg, then make a pickle of the beft white wine vinegar, lhalots, garlick, white pepper, Jamaica pepper, long pepper, juniper berries and fait, boil it till the garlick is tender, and the pickle will be enough ; when it is quite cold pour it on your fifh, with a little oil on the top , fmall fifh are done whole ; cover it ciofe with a bladder* To pickle Shrimps. PICK the fineft fhrimps you can get, and put them into cold allegar and fait, put them into little bottles, cork them ciofe, and keep them for ufe.THE EXPERIENCED fi > ft! h * * To pot red and black Moor-Game. PLUCK and draw them, and feafon them with pepper, cloves, mace, ginger and nutmeg, well beaten and fifted, with a quantity of fait not to overcome the fpices, roll a lump of but- ter in the feafoning, and put it into the body of the fowls, rub the outfide with feafoning, and then put them into pots with the bread down- wards and cover them with butter, lay a paper, and then a pafte over them, and bake them till they are tender, then take them out and lay them to drain, then put them into potting-pots with the bread upward, and take all the butter they were baked in clean from the gravy and pour upon them; fill up the pots with clari- fied butter, and keep them in a dry place. CHAP. III. Obfervatiom on Roasting iWBoilivg. ^ 7 HEN you boil any kind of meat, parti- V cularly veal, it requires a great deal of care and neatnefs : be fore your copper is very clean and well tinned, fill it as full of foft water as is neceffary, dud your veal well with fine flour, put it into your copper, fet it over a large fire: lome choofe to out in milk to make it * i white, but I think it is better without: if your water happens to be the lead hard it curdles the-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 53 the milk and gives the veal a brown yellow call, and often hangs in lumps about the veal, fo will oatmeal, but by dufting your veal, and putting it into the water when cold, it prevents the fouln-efs of the water from hanging upon it; when the fcum begins to rife, take it clear oft, put on your cover, let it boil in plenty of water as flow as poffible, it will make vour veal rife and plump : a cook cannot be guilty of a greater errour than to let any fort of meat boil faff, it hardens the outlide before the iniide is warm, and di(colours it, efpecially veal; for initance, a leg of veal of twelve pounds weight will re- quire three hours and a half boiling, the flower it boils the whiter and plumper it will be ; when you boil mutton or beef, obferve to dredge them well with dour before you put them into the kettle of cold water, keep it covered and take off the fcum ; mutton or beef do not require fo much boiling, nor is it fo great a fault if they are a little fhort, but veal, p6rk, or lamb, are not fo wholefome if they are not boiled enough ; a leg of pork will require half an hour more boiling than a leg of veal of the fame weight ; when you boil beef or mutton, you may allow an hour for every four pounds weight; it is the belt way to put in your meat when the water is cold, it gets warm to the heart before the out- fide grows hard, a leg of lamb of four pounds weight will require an hour and a half boiling. WHEN you roaft any kind of meat, it is a very good way to put a little fait and water in E 3 your54 THE EXPERIENCED your dripping-pan, bafte your meat a little with it, let it dry, then duft it well with flour, bafte it with frefh butter, it will make your meat a better colour; obferve always to have a brifk clear fire, it will prevent your meat from dazing and the froth from falling, keep it a good dis- tance from the fire, if the meat is Scorched the outfide is hard, and prevents the heat from pe- netrating into the meat, and will appear enough before it be little more than half done* Time, diftance, bailing often and a clear fire, is the beft method I can prefer!be for roafling meat to perfection ; when the fleam draws near the fire, it is a Sign of its being enough, but -you will be the bed judge of that from the time you put it down, be careful when you roaffc any kind of wild fowl to keep a clear brifk fire, roaft them a light brown, but not too much : it is a great fault to roaft them till the gravy runs out of them, it takes off the fine flavour.—-Tame fowls require more roafling, they are a long time before they are hot through, and mu ft be often bailed to keep up a ftrong froth, it makes them rife better, and a finer colour.—-Pigs and geefe Should be roafted before a good fire, and turned quick. Hares and rabbits re- quire time and care, to fee the ends are roafted enough, when they are half roafted, cut the neck fkin, and let out the blood, or when they are cut up they often appear bloody at the neck.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 55 To roajl a Pig. STICK your pig juft above the breaft-bone, run your knife to the heart, when it is dead put it in cold water for a few minutes, then rub it over with a little refin beat exceeding fine or its own blood, put your pig into a pail of fcald- ing water half a minute, take it out, lay it on a clean table, pull off the hair as quick as poffi- ble, if it does not come clean off put it in again, when you have got it all clean, off wafh it in warm water, then in two or three cold waters, for fear the refin (hould tafte; take off the four feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the belly, take out all the entrails, put the liver, heart, and lights to the pettitoes, wafh it well out of cold water, dry it exceedingly well with a cloth, hang it up, and when you roaft it, put in a little fhred fage, a tea fpoonful of black pepper, two of fait, and a cruft of brown bread, fpit your pig and few it up; lay it down to a brifk clear fire, with a pig-plate hung in the middle of the fire ; when your pig is warm, put a lump of butter in a cloth, rub your pig often with it while it is roafting ; a large one will take an hour and an half: when your pig is a fine brown, and the fleam draws near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig quite dry, then rub it well with a little cold butter, it will help to crifo it; then take a fharp knife, cut off the head, and take off the collar, then take off the ears and jaw-bone, fplit the jaw in two, when you have cut the pig down the back, which mull be done before you draw the fpit out, then lav your R a s pi:56 THE EXPERIENCED pig back to back op your difh, and the jaw on each fide, the ears on each Ihoulder, and the collar at the Ihoulder, and pour in your fauce, and ferve it up : garnifh with a cruft of brown bread grated.' cIo make Sauce for ^Pig. f .m. CHOP the brains a little, then putin a tea- cupful of white gravy with the gravy that runs out of the pig, a little bit of anchovy, mix near half a pound of butter, with as much flour as will thicken the gravy, a flice of lemon, afpoon- ful of white wine, a little caper liquor and fait, fhake it over the fire, and pour it into your difh; fome like currants, boil a few and fend them in a tea faucer with a glafs of currant jelly in the middle of it. A fecond way to make Pig Sauce. CUT all the outfde off a penny loaf, then cut it into very thin fiices, put it into a faucepan of cold water, with an onion, a few pepper corns and a little fait, boil it until it be a fine pulp, then beat it well, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, and two fpoonfuls of thick cream, make it hot, and put it into a bafon. To drefs a Pig’s Pettitoes, TAKE up the heart, liver, and lights, when they have boiled ten minutes, and fhred them pretty final 1, but let the feet boil till they are pretty tender, theri take them out and fplit them 5ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 57 them ; thicken your gravy with flour and but- ter, put in your mincemeat, a flice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and boil it a little, beat the yolk of an egg, add to it two fpoonfuls of good cream, and a little grated nutmeg, put in your pettitoes, fhake it over the fire, but do not let it boil; lay fippets round your difh, pour in your mincemeat, lay the feet over them the fkin fide up, and fend them to the table. To boil a Goose with Onion Sauce. TAKE yourgoofe ready drefled, finge it and pour over it a quart of boiling milk, let it lie in it all night, then take it out and dry it ex- ceeding well with a cloth, feafon it with pepper and fait, chop fmall a large onion, a handful of fage leaves, put them into your goofe, few it up at the neck and vent, hang it up by the legs till the next day, then put it into a pan of cold water, cover it clofe, and let it boil flowly one hour. ToJlew Goose Giblets. CUT your pinions in two, the neck in four pieces, flice the gizzard, clean it well, itew them in two quarts of water, or mutton broth, with a bundle of fweet herbs, one anchovy, a few pepper corns, three or four cloves a fpoonful of catchup, and an onion ; when the giblets are tender, put in a fpoonful of good cream, thicken it with flour and butter, ferve them up in a foupdifh, and lay fippets round it.?S THE EXPERIENCED To roaii ^Green Goose. WHEN your goofe is ready drefled put a good lump of butter, fpit it, lay it down, huge it well, dud it with flour, bade it well with ire ill butter, bafte it three or four different times with cold butter, it will make the flefh rife better than if you was to bafte it out of the dripping-pan ; if it is a large one it will take three quarters of an hour to roaft it ; when you think it is enough, dredge it with flour, bade it till it is a fine froth, and your goofe a nice brown, and difh it up with a little brown gravy under it : garnifh with a cruft of bread grated round the edge of your difh, To make Sauce fora Green Goose. TAKEfome melted butter, putin a fpoonful of the juice of forrel, a little fugar, a few cod- led goofeberries, pour it into your fauce-boats, and fend it hot to the table. To roafia Stubble Goose. CHOP a few fage leaves, and two onions very fine, mix them with a good lump of but- ter, a tea fpoonful of pepper, and two of fait, put it in your goofe, then fpit it and lay it down, finge it well, duft it with flour; when it is thoroughly hot bafte it with frefti butter : ifit be a large one it will require an hour and a half before a good clear fire; when it is enough, dredge and bade it, pull out the fpit, and pour in a little boiling water.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 59 ♦ . * Homake Sauce for a Goose. PARE, core, and dice your apples, put them in a faucepan with as much water as will keep them from burning, fet them over a very flow fire, keep them clofe covered till they are all of a pulp then put in a lump of butter, and fugar to vour tafte, beat them well and fend them to the table in a china baton. To boil Ducks with Onion Sauce. SCALD and draw your ducks, put them in warm water for a few minutes, then take them out, put them in an earthern pot, pour over them* a pint of boiling milk, let them lie in it two or three hours; when you take them out dredge them well with flour, put them in a copper of cold water, put on your cover, let them boil flowly twenty minutes, then take them out, and fmother them with onion fauce. To make Onion Sauce. BOIL eight or ten large onions, change the water two or three times while they are boiling, when enough chop them on a board to keep them from growing a bad colour, put them in a faucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, two fpponfuls of thick cream, boil it a little, and pour it over the ducks. To roajl Ducks. WHEN you h ave killed and drawn your ducks, fhred one onion, and a few fage leaves, put6o THE EXPERIENCED pot them into your ducks with pepper and fait, fpit, finge, and duft them with flour, baite them with butter ; if your fire be very hot they will be roafted in twenty minutes, the quicker they are roafted the better they eat; juft before you draw them, duft them with flour, and bafte them with butter, put them on a difh, have ready your gravy made of the gizzards and pinions, a large blade of mace, a few pepper corns, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, and one onion, ftrain it, pour it on your di(h, and fend onion fauce in a boat. Tq boil a Turkey with Oyster Sauce. LET your turkey have no meat the day be- fore you kill it, when you are going to kill it give it a fpoonful of allegar, it will make it white and eat tender; when you have killed it hang it up by the legs for four or five days at leaf! ; when you have plucked it drata it at the rump, if you can take the breaft-b’one out nicely it will look much better, cut off the legs, put the end of the thighs into the body of the turkey, fkewcr them down, and tie them with a firing, cut oft the head and neck, then grate a penny loaf, chop a fcore or more of oyfters fine, fibred a little lemon peel, nutmeg, pepper, and lalt to your palate, mix it up into a light force- meat with a quarter of a pound of butter, a fpoonful or two of cream, and three eggs, fluff the craw with it, and makes the reft into balls and boil them; few up the turkey, dredge it wellENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. Si 6 blades well with flour, put it into a kettle of cold wa- ter, cover it and fet it over the fire, when the fcum begins to rife take it off, put on your cover, let it boil very (lowly for half an hour, then take off your kettle, and keep it dole covered, if it be of a middle fize let it ftand half an hour in the hot water, the fleam being kept in will flew it enough, make it rife, keep the lkin whole, tender, and very white ; when you difh it up, pour over it a little of your oyfter fauce, lay your balls round it, and ferve it up with the reft of your fauce in a boat : garaifli with lemon and barberries.—N. B. Obferve to fet on your turkey in time, that it may flew as above : it is the beft way I ever found to boil one to perfection ; when you are going to difh it up, let it over the fire to make it quite hot. To make Sauce for a Turkey. AS you open your oyfiers, put a pint into a bafon, wafli them out of their liquor, and put them in another bafon : when the liquor is fet- tied, pour it clean off into a faucepan, with a little white gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, thicken it with flour and a good lump of butter, boil it three or four minutes, put in a fpoonful of good thick cream, put in your oyfters, keep (baking them over the fire till they are quite hot, but do not let them boil, it will make them hard and look little. A fecond way to make Sauce for a Turkey* CUT a fcrag end of a neck of veal in pieces, put them in a faucepan, with two or three62 THE EXP ER IFNCED blades of mace, one anchovy, a few flicks of celery, a little Chyan and fait, a glafs of white wine* a fpoonful of lemon pickle, ateafpoonful of rnufhroom powder or catchup, a quart of water, put on your cover, and let it boil until it be reduced to a pint, drain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, boil it a little, put in a fpoontul of thick cream, and pour it over the turkey. To roajl a Turkey. WHEN you have dreffed your turkey as before, trufs its head down to the legs, then make your forcemeat, take the crumbs of a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuel ihred fine, a little faufage meat, or veal fcraped and pounded exceeding fine, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your palate, mix it up lightly with three eggs, duff the craw with it, ipit it, and lay it down a good didance from the fire, keep it clear and bride, flnge, dud, and bade it feveral times with cold butter, it makes the froth dronger than hading it with the hot out of the dripping-pan, and makes the turkey rife better: when it is enough, froth it upas before, diili it up, pour on your difh the fame gravy as for the boiled turkey, only put in browning indead of cream : garnifh with lemon and pickles, and ferve it up y if it be a middle fize it will re- quire one hour and a quarter roading. To make S a u c e for a Turkey. CUT,the crudsoff a penny loaf, cut the red in thin dices, put it into cold water, with a few pepperENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 63 pepper corns, a little fait and onion, boil it till the bread is quite foft, then beat it well, pot in a quarter of a pound of butter, two fpoonfuls of thick cream, and put it into a bafon* 1 To boil Fowls, WHEN you have plucked your fowls, draw them at the rump, cut off the head, neck, and legs, take the breaft bone very carefully out, ikewer them with the ends of their legs in the body, tie them round with a firing, finge and duff them well with flour, put them in a kettle of cold water, cover it clofe, fet it on the fire, when the fcum begins to rife take it off, put on your cover, and let them boil very flowly twenty minutes, take them off, cover them clofe* and the heat of the water will flew them enough in half an hour; it keeps the fkin whole, and they will be both whiter and plumper than if they had boiled faff ; when you take them up drain them, pour over them white fauce, or melted butter. To make White Sauce for F o w l s . TAKE a ferag of veal, the necks of the fowls, or any bits of mutton or veal you have, put them in afauce-pan, with a blade or two of mace, a few black pepper corns, one anchovy, a head of celery, a bunch of fweet herbs, a face of the end of a lemon, put in a quart of water, cover it clofe, let it boil till it is reduced to half a pint, drain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, mixed with Hour, boil it 6 five64 the experienced five or fix minutes, put in two fpoonfuls of pickled mufhroom, mix the yolks of two eggs with a tea cupful of good cream and a little nutmeg, put in your fauce, keep (baking it over the fire, but do not let it boil. To roafl large Fowls. TAKE your fowls when they are ready dreflfed, put them down to a good fire, finge, duft, and bafce them well with butter, they will be near an hour in roafling, make a gravy of the necks and gizzards, {train it, put in a fpoon- ful of browning; when you difli them up pour the gravy into the diih, ferve them up with egg fauce in a boat. To tnakeEGG Sauce. BOIL two eggs hard, half chop the whites, then put in the yolks, chop them both toge- ther, but not very fine, put them into a quarter of a pound of good melted butter, and put it in a boat. To boil young Chickens. PUT your chickens in fcalding water, as foon as the feathers will flip off take them out,, or it will make the fkin hard and break, when you have drawn them lay them in fkimmed milk for two hours, then trufs them with their heads on their wings, finge and dull them well with flour, put them in cold water, cover them dole, fet them over a very flow fire, take off the fcum, let them boil (lowly for five or fix minutes, take themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 65 To F them off the fire, keep them clofe covered in the water for half an hour, it will flew them enough, and make them both white and plump; when you are going to difh them, fet them over the fire to make them hot, drain them, pour over them white fauce made the fame way as for the boiled fowls. 1 To roajl young Chickens. WHEN you roaft young chickens, pluck them very carefully, draw them, only cut off the claws, trufs them, and put them down to a good fire, finge, duft, and bafte them with but- ter; they will'take a quarter of an hour roaft- ing, then froth them up, lay them on your difh, pour butter and parfley in the difh, and ferve them up hot. Toroajl Pheasants or Partridges. i I . j WHEN you roaft pfteafants or partridges, keep them at a good diftsince from the fire, dull them, and bafte them often with frefh butter; if your fire is good, half an hour will roaft them; put a little gravy in the difh, made of a fcrag of mutton, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, and a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, ftrain it, difh them up, with bread fauce, in a bafon, made the fame way as for the boiled tur- key, N. B. When the pheafant is roafted, flick feathers on the tail before you fend it to the table.€6 THEEXPERIENCED N To roaft Ruffs ^/z^Rees. THESE birds I never met with but in Lin-, colnfhire; the beft way is to feed them with white bread boiled in milk, they muft have fe* parate pots for two will not eat out of one* they will be fat in eight or ten days ; when you kill them* flip the (kin off of the head and neck with the feathers on* then pluck and draw them j when you roaft them, put them a good diftance from the fire* if the fire be good they will take about twelve minutes* when they are roafted flip the fkin on again with the feathers on, fend them up with gravy under them, made the fame as for the pheafant, and bread fauce in a boat, 1 and crifp crumbs of bread round the edge of the difh. To roaft Woodcocks or Snipes, PLUCK them, but do not draw them, put them on a fmall fpit, dufte and'bade them well with butter, toaft a few flices of a penny loaf, put them on a clean plate, and fet it under the birds while they are roafting, if the fire be good thy will take about ten minutes roafting 5 when you draw them lay them upon the toafts on the difh 5 pour melted butter round them, and ferve them up. Toroaft\NiLV Ducks or Teal. WH^N your ducks are ready drefled, put in them a fmall onion, pepper, fait, and a fpoon- fui of red wine, if the fire be good they will roaftENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 67 froaft in twenty minutes, make gravy of the iieck and gizzards, a fpoonful of red wine, half an anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a flice of an end of a lemon, one onion, and a little Chyan pepper, boil it till it is wafted to half a pint, ftrain it through a hair fieve, put in a fpoonful of browning, pour it on your ducks, ferve them up with onion fauce in a boat: garnifh your difti with rafpings of bread. To boil Pigeons. SCALD your pigeons, draw them, take the craw clean out, wafh them in feveral waters, cut off the pinions, turn the legs under the Wings, dredge them, and put them in foft cold water, boil them very flowly a quarter of an hour, difti them up, pour over them good melted but- ter, lay round them a little brocoli in bunches, and fend, butter and parfley in a boat. To roaft Pigeons* V / . . 1 WHEN you have dreffed your pigeons, as be- fore, roll a good lump of butter in chopped par- fley, with pepper and fait, put in your pi- geons, fpit, duft, and bafte them 5 if the fire be good they will be roafted in twenty minutes $ . when they are enough lay round them bunches . of afparagus, with parfley and butter for fauce. To roaft Larks., r PUT a dozen of larks on a Ikewer, tie it to the fpit at both ends, dredge and bafte them, let them roaft ten minutes, take the crumbs of a F 2 half-68 THE EXPERIENCED To half-penny loaf, with a piece of butter the fize of a walnut, put it in a tolling pan, and (hake it over a gentle fire till they are a light brown, lay them betwixt your birds, and pour over them a little melted butter. To boil Rabbits. W HEN you have cafed your rabbits, fkewef them with their heads ftraight up, the fore-legs brought down, and the hind legs ftraight, boil them three quarters of an hour at leaft, then 1 mother them with onion fauce, made the fame as for boiled ducks, pull out the jaw bone, ftick them in their eyes, put a fprig of myrtle or bar- berries in their mouths, and ferve them up. To roaji Rabbits. WHEN you have cafed your rabbits, (kewer their heads with their mouths upon their backs* ftick their fore-legs into their ribs, (kewer the hind legs double, then make a pudding for them of the crumb of half a penny loaf, a little par** (ley, fweet marjoram, thyme, and lemon peel, all (bred fine, nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte, mix them up into a light (luffing, with a quarter of a pound of butter,, a little good cream and two eggs, put itinto the belly, and few them up, dredge, and bade them well with butter, roaft them near an hour, ferve them up with par- iley .and butter for fauce, chop the livers and lay them in lumps round the edge of your difli.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 6$ Toroafta Hare. SKEWER your hare with the head upon one fhoulder, the fore legs duck into the ribs, the hind-legs double, make your pudding of the crumb of a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef marrow or fuet, and a quarter of a pound of butter, (bred the liver, a fprig or two of winter favory, a little lemon peel, one anchovy, a little Chyan pepper, half a nutmeg grated, mix them up in a light forcemeat, with a glafs of red wine, and two eggs, put it in the belly of your hare, few it up, put a quart of good milk in your dripping pan, bade your hare with it till it is reduced to half a gill, then dud and bade it well with butter, if it be a large one, it will fequire an hour and half roading* To boil a Tongue, » IF your tongue be a dry one, deep it in water &11 night, then boil it three hours, if you would have it eat hot, dick it with cloves, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, drew over it bread crumbs, bade it with butter, fet it before the lire till it is>a light brown; when you dhh it up, pour a little brown gravy, or red wine fauce, mixed the fame way as for venifon, lay dices of currant jelly round it.- —N. B. If it be a pickled one, only wafh it out of water. To boil a Ham. STEEP your ham all night in water, then boil it; if it be of a middle fize, it will take F 3 three70 THE EXPERIENCED . three hours boiling, and a fmall one two hours and a half ^ when you take it up, pull off the fkin and rub it all over with an egg, ftrew on bread crumbs, bafie it with butter, fet it to the fire till it be a light brown ; if it be to eat hot, garnifh with carrots and ferveit up. To roafl a Haunch a/'Venjson. WHf N you have fpitted your venifon, lay over it a large fheet of paper, then a thin com- mon pafte with another paper over it, tie it well to keep the pafte from falling, if it he a large one it will take four hours roafcing $ when it is enough take off the paper and pafte, duftit well with flour, and bafteit with butter $ when it is a light brown, difh it up with brown gravy in your difh, or currant jelly fauce, and fend fome in a boat. To. broil Beef Steaks. CUT your Iteaks off a rump of beef about half an inch thick, let your fire be clear, rub your gridiron well with beef fuet, when it is hot lay them on, let them broil until they begin to brown, turn them, and, when the other fide is brown, lay them on a hot difh, with a flice of butter betwixt every fteak ; fprinkle a little pep- per and fait over them, let them Hand two or. three minutes, then flice a fhalot (as thin as pof- fible) into a fpoonful of water, lay on your fleaks again, keep turning them till they are enough, put them on your difh, pour the fhalot and water amongft them, and fend them to the table. AENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 71 A very good way to fry Beef Steaks. CUT your {leaks as for broiling, put them into a ftew-pan with a good Jump of butter, fet them over a very flow fire, keep turning them till the butter is become a thick white gravy, pour it into a bafon, and pour more butter to them > when they are almoft enough, pour all the gravy into your bafon, and put more butter into your pan, fry them a light brown over a quick fire, take them out of the pan, put them in a hot pewter dilb, fiice a ilialot among them, put a little in your gravy that was drawn from them, and pour it hot upon them : I think this is the beft way of dreffing beef fteaks. Half a pound of butter will drefs a large difh. To drefs Beef Steaks a common way. FRY your fteaks in butter a good brown, then put in half a pint of water, an onion fliced, a fpoonful of walnut catchup, a little caper liquor, pepper and fait, cover them clofe with a difh, and let them hew gently; when they are enough, thicken the gravy with flour and butter and ferve them up. To broil Mutton Steaks. CUT your {leaks half an inch thick, when your gridiron is hot, rub it with frefh fuet, lay on your {leaks, keep turning them as quick as poffible, if you do not take great care the fat that drops from the (leak will fmoke them ; when they are enough, put them into a hot difh, rub F 4 them72. THE EXPERIENCED them well with butter, flice a fhalot very thin into a fpoonful of water, pour it on them with a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup and fait, ferve them up hot. To broil Pork Steaks. OBSERVE the fame as for the mutton (leaks* only pork requires more broiling; when they are enough put in a little good gravy; a little fage rubbed very fine flrewed over them gives them a fine tafte. To bajh Beef. CUT your beef in very thin flices, take a little of your gravy that runs from it, put it into a tofling pan with a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, flice a fhalot in, and put it over the fire; when it boils putin your beef; fhake it over the fire till it is quite hot, the gravy is not to be thickened, flice in a fmall pickle cucum- ber; garnifh with fcraped horle-raddifh or pick- led onions. To hajh Venison. CUT your venifon in thin flices, put a large glafs of red wine into a toiling pan, a fpoonful of mufliro m catchup, the fame of browning, an onion ftuck with cloves, and half an anchovy chopped fmall; when it boils, put in your veni- fon, let it boil three or four minutes, pour it into a foup di(h, and lay round it currant jelly, or red cabbage. ToENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 73 Tohajh Mutton. CUT your mutton in flices, put a pint of gravy or broth into a toiling pan, with one fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, and one of browning, flice in an onion, a little pepper and fait, put it over the fire, and thicken it with flour and butter; when it boils put in your mut- ton, keep fhaking it till it is thoroughly hot, put it in a foup diili and ferve it up. Tq bafhVEAL. CUT your veal in thin round flices, thefize of half a crown, put them in a fauce pan, with a little gravy and lemon peel cut exceeding fine, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, put it over the fire, and thicken it with flour and butter ; when it boils put in your veal, juft before you difh it up put in a fpoonful of cream, lay fippits round your difh and ferve it up. To warm up Scotch Collops. WHEN you have any Scotch collops left, put them in a ftone jar till you want them, then put the jar into a pan of boiling water, let it ftand till your collops are quite hot, then pour them into a difh, lay over them a few broiled bits of bacon, and they will eat as well as frefh ones. To mince Veal. CUT your veal in flices, then cut it in little fquarebiU, but do not chop it, put it intoafauce- pan74 THE EXPERIENCED pan with t wo or three fpoonfuls of gravy, a fllce of lemon, a little pepper and fait, a good lump of butter rolled in flour, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, and a large fpoonful of cream ; keep lhaking it over the fire till it boils, but flo not let it boil above a minute, if you do it will make your veal eat hard; put fippits round your difh and ferve it up. To hajh a Turkey. TAKE off the legs, cut the thighs in two pieces, cut off the pinions and bread in pretty large pieces, take off the (kin or it will give the gravy a greafy lade, put it into a dew-pan, with a pint of gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, allice of the end of a lemon, and a little beaten mace; boil your turkey fix or feven minutes ( if you boil it any longer it will make it hard) then put it on your difli, thicken your gravy With flour and butter, mix the yolks of two eggs with a fpoonful of thick cream, put it in your gravy, fhake it over your fire till it is quite hot, but do not let it boil, drain it, and pour it over your turkey : lay fippits round, ferve it up, and garnifh with lemon orparfley. To hajh Fowls. CUT up your fowl as for eating, put it in a toffing pan, with half a pint of gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufhroom catchup, a flice of lemon, thicken it with flour and butter; jufl before you difh it up, put in a fp'ooonfulENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 75 fpoon ui of good cream s lay fippets round your di£h and ferve it up. A nice ’way to drefs a Cold Fowl. PEEL off all the fkin, and pull the flefh off the bones in as large pieces as you can, then dredge it with a little flour, and fry it a nice brown in butter, tofs it up in rich gravy, well feafoned, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour: juft before you fend it up fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. <TohaJh a Woodcock, or Partridge. ■ CUT your woodcock up as for eating, work the entrails very fine with the back of a fpoon, mix it with a fpoonful of red wine, the fame of water, half a fpoonful of allegar, cut an onion in flices and pull it into rings, roll a little butter in flour, put them all in your tolling pan, and fhake it over the fire till it boils, then put in your woodcock, and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it in your difh with fippets round it, ftrain the fauce over the woodcock and lay on the onion in rings -y it is a pretty corner difh for dinner or (upper. *To hajh a Wild Duck. CUT up your duck as for eating, put it in a tcffing pan, with a ipoonfu ofgood gravy, the fame of red wine, a little of your onion fauce, or an onion fliced exceeding thin ; when it has boiled two or three minutes, lay the duck 6 in*6 THE EXPERIENCED in your difh, pour the gravy over it, it muft not be thickened, you may add a tea fpoonful of caper liquor, or a little browning. To hafh a H ARE, CUT your hare in fmall pieces, if you have any of the pudding left, rub it fmall, put to it a large glafs of red wine, the fame quantity of water, half an anchovy chopped fmall, an onion Ruck with four cloves, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, (hake them all together over a flow fire till your hare is thoroughly hot, it is a bad cuftom to let any kind of hafh boil longer (it makes the meat eat hard) fend your hare to the table in a deep difh, lay fippets round it, but take out the onion, and ferve it up. To boil Cabbage. CUT off the outfide leaves,and cut it in quar- ters, pick it well, and wafh it clean, boil it in a large quantity of water, with plenty of fait in it; when it is tender, and a fine light green, lay it on a fieve to drain, but don’t fqueeze it, if you do, it will take off the flavour; have ready fome very rich melted butter, or chop it with cold butter.—Greens muft be boiled the fame wav* To boil a COLLYFLOWER. ) ■ WASH and clean your colly flower, boil it in plenty of milk and water (but no fait) till it be tender j when you difh it up lay greens under it; pour over it good melted butter, and fend it up hot. TeEnglish! hoijse-keeper. y? To boil Brocoli in Imitation of Asparagus. TAKE the fide fhoots of brocoli, firip off the leaves, and with apen-knife take off all the out- rind up to the heads, tie them in bunches* and put them in fait and water, have ready a pan of boiling water, with a handful of fait in it, boil them ten minutes; then lay them in bunches, and pour over them good melted butter. To few Spinage. WASH your fpinage well in feveral waters, put it iri a cullendar, have ready a large pan of boiling water, with a handful of fait, put it in, let it boil two minutes, it will take off the ftrong earthy tafte, then put it into a fieve, fqueeze it well, put a quarter of a pound of but- ter into a toffingpan, put in your fpinage, keep turning and chopping it with a knife until it be quite dry and green, lay it upon a plate, prefs it with another, cut it in the fhape of fippets or diamonds, pour round it very rich melted butter, it will eat exceeding mild, and quite a different tafte from the common way. To boil Artichokes. IF they are young ones, leaveabout an inch of the ftalks, put them in a ftrong fait and water for an hour or two, then put them in a pan of cold water, fet them over the fire, but do not cover them, it will take off their colour; when you difh them up, put rich melted butter, in fmall cups or pots, like rabbits, put them in the difhwith your artichokes, and fend them up. T$7$ THE EXPERIENCED - \ To boil Asparagus. SCRAPE your afparagus, tie them in fmalt bunches, boil them in a large pan of water with fait in it ; before you difh them up toaft fome flices of white bread, and dip them in the boil- ing water, lay the afparagus on your toafts, pour on them very rich melted butter, and ferve them up hot. To boil French Beans. CUT the ends of your beans off, then cut them fiant-ways, put them in a ftrong fait and water, as you do them, let them (land an hour, boil them in a large quantity of water with a handful of fait in it, they will be a fine green; when you difh them up, pour on them melted butter, and fend them up. To boil Windsor Beans. BOIL them in a good quantity of fait and water, boil and chop fome parfley, put it in good melted butter i ferve them up with bacon in the middle if you choofe it. To boil Green Pease. SHELL your peafe juft before you want them, put them into boiling water, with a lit- tle fait and a lump of loaf fugar, when they begin to dent in the middle they are enough, ftrain them in a fieve, put a good lump of but- ter into a mug, give your peafe a fhake, put * themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. y9 them on a dilh, and fend them to the table.— Boil a fprig of mint in another water, chop it fine, and lay it in lumps round the edge of your d,i£h. jTo boil Parsnips, WASH your parfnips very well, boil them till they are loft, then take off the fkin, beat them in a bowl with a little fait, put to them a little cream and a lump of butter^ put them in a tolling pan, and let them boil till they are like a light cuftard pudding, put them on a plate* and fend them to the table. CHAP IV. Obfervations on Made Dishes* E| E careful the tolling pan is well tinned* | quite clean, and not gritty, and put every ingredient into your white fauce, and have it of a proper thicknefs, and well boiled, before you put in eggs and cream, for they will not add much to, the thicknefs, nor Itir them with a fpocn after they are in, nor fet your pan on the fire* for it will gather at the bottom and be in lumps, but hold your pan a good height from the fire, and keep lhaking the pan round one way, it will keep the fauce from curdling and be lure you do not let it boil; it is the beil way to take up your meat, collops, or halh, or any othergo THE EXPERIENCED other kind of difh you are making with afifli flice, and ftrain your fauce upon it, for it is almoft impoffible to prevent little bits of meat from mixing with the fauce, and by this mea- thod the fauce will look clear. In the brown made difhes take fpecial care no fat is on the top of the gravy, but Ikim it clean off, and that it be a fine brown, and tafte of no one thing in particular; if you ufe any wine put it in fome time before your difh is ready, to take off the rawnefs, for nothing can give a made difh a more difagreeable tafte than raw wine, or frefh anchovy: when you ufe fryed forcemeat balls, put them on a fieve to drain the fat from them, and never let them boil in your fauce, it will give them a greafy look and foften the balls; the beft way is to put them in after your meat is difhed up. You may ufe pickled mufhrooms, artichoke bottoms, morels, truffles, and forcemeat balls in almoft every made difh, and in feveral you may ufe a roll of forcemeat inftead of balls, as in the porcupine breaft of veal, and where you can ufe it, it is much handfomer than balls, efpecially in a mock turtle, collared or ragooed breaft of veal, or any large made difh. To make Lemon Pickle. TAKE two dozen of lemons, grate off the out-rinds very thin, cut them in four quarters, but leave the bottoms whole, rub on them equally half a pound of bay fait, and fpread them on a large pewter difh, put them in s' cool oven, or let them dry gradually by thefir$ . tillENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. Si till allthe juice is dried into the peels, then put them into a pitcher well glazed; with one ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves beat fine; one ounce of nutmeg cut in thin dices, four ounces of garlick peeled, half a pint of muf- tard feed bruifed a little, and tied in a muflin bag, pour two quarts of boiling white wine vinegar upon them, clofe the pitcher well up, and let it ftand five or fix days by the fire; fhake it well up every day, then tie it up and let it ftand for three months to take off the bitter; when you bottle it; put the pickle and lemon in a hair fieve, prefs them well to get out the liquor, and let it ftand till another day, then pour off the fine and bottle it; let the other ftand three or four days and it will refine itfelf, pour it off and bottle it, let it ftand again and bottle it, till the whole is refined: it may be putin any white,fapce* and will not hurt the colour; it is ver^goqdcfidr fidi fauce and made diflies, a tea fpodnful is enough for white, and two for brown fauce for a fowl; it is a moft ufeful pickle and gives a pleafant flavour : be fare you put it in before you thicken the fauce, or put any cream;in,d,eft/ the fharpnefs make it curdle. ■ 'J& '*"?* t '4‘ t ru I 17 -*• rt Brpwnmgifor Made Dishes. 'V v ^ / . I . BEAT fmall four ounces of treble refined fugar, put it in a clean iron frying pan, with one ounce of butter, fet it over a clear fire, mix it very well together all the time ; when it begins to be frothy, the fugar is diffolving; hpld it higher over the fire, have ready a pint G of82 THE EXPERIENCED of red wine; when the fugar and butter is of a deep brown, pour iii a little of the wine, flick it well together, then add more wine, and keep flirring it all the time ; put in half an ounce of Jamacia pepper, fix cloves, four fhalots peeled, two or three blades of mace, three fpoonfuls of mufhrocm catchup, alittle fait, the out-rinds of one lemon, boil them flowly for ten minutes, pour it into a bafon, when cold take off the fcum very clean, and bottle it for ufe. 2a drefs a Mock Turtle. TAKE the largcft calPs head you can get* with the fkin on, put it in fcalding water till you find the hair will come off, clean it well, and v/afh it in warm water, and boil it three quarters of an hour, then take it out of the water and flit it down the face, cut off all the meat along with the fkin as clean from the bone as you can, and be careful you do not break the ears off, lay it on a flat difh, and fluff the ears with forcemeat, and tie them round with cloths, take the eyes out, and pick all the reft of the meat clean from the bones, put it in a toiling pan, with the niceft and fatteft part of another calf’s head, without the fkimon, boiled as long as the above, and three quarts of veal gravy, lay the fkin in the pan on the meat with the fleih Tide up, cover the pan clofe, and let it ftew over a moderate fire one hour, then put in three lweetbreads tryed a light brown, one ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, five artichoke bot- toms boiled, one anchovy boned and chopped Itnali,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. S3 fmall, a tea fpoonful of Chyan pepper, a little fait, half a lemon, three pints of Madeira wine, two meat fpoonfuls of mufhroom catchup one of lemon pickle, half a pint of mufflrooms, and let them few (lowly half an hour longer, and thicken it with flourand butter ; have ready the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brains of both heads boiled, cut the brains the fize of nutmegs, and make a rich forcemeat, and fpread it on the caul of a leg of veal, roll it up and boil it in a cloth one hour; when boiled, cut it in three parts, the middle larged, then take up the meat into the di(h, and lay the head over it with the Ikin (ide up; and put the larged piece of forcemeat between the ears, and make the top of the ears to meet round it; (this is called the crown of the turtle) lay the other dices of the forcemeat oppofite to each other at the narrow end, and lay a few of the truffles, morels, brains, mufhrooms, eggs, and artichoke bottoms upon the face and round it, drain the gravy boiling hot upon it, be as quick in difhing it up as poffible, for it foon goes cold. Mock Turtle a fecond way. DRESS the hair off a calf’s head as before, boil it half an hour, when boiled cut it in pieces half an inch thick, and one inch and a half long, put it into a dew-pan with two quarts of veal gravy, and fait to your tade; let it dew one hour, then put in a pint of Madeira wine, half a tea fpoonful of Chyan pepper, truffles and G 2 morels§4 the experienced morels one ounce each, three or four artichoke bottoms boiled and cut in quarters; when the meat begins to look clear, and the gravy ftrong, put in half a lemon, and thicken it with flour and butter, fry a few forcemeat balls, beat four yolks of hard boiled eggs in a mortar very fine, with a lump of butter, and make them into balls the fizeof pigeons eggs; put the forcemeat balls and eggs in after you have difhed it up. N. B. A lump of butter put in the water makes the artichoke bottoms boil white and fboner. V ^ - J. To make an Artificial Turtle. SCALD a calf’s head, cut it in pieces one inch thick, two broad, and four long, parboil a falmon’s liver, cut it in ten or twelve pieces, feafon the whole with beaten mace, fait, and Chyan, put them into a well-lined copper dilh, with a pint and half of gravy made of veal, fix anchovies, a blade of mace, and a fprigof fweet majoram (your gravy muft be very good) a pint of Madeira wine, the juice of four or five lemons (trained from the feeds, the yolks of ten or twelve eggs boiled hard, and about three dozen of forcemeat balls, made as the receipt dire&s ; let it flew gently about an hour, al- ways keep it clofe covered, and ftir in a lump of butter the lize of an orange, with a tea fpoonful of fine flour rolled in it, and let it flew full two hours longer : ff you perceive it wants addition of feafoning, &c. add to it a few mi- nutes before you ferve it up, which mud be in a foupENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 85 a foup difh or tureen, with the yolks and flices of lemon on the top; take care to Ikim off the fat before you difh it up. To make Forcemeat for an Artificial Turtle. TAKE a pound of the fat of a loin of veal, the fame of lean, with fix boned anchovies, beat them fine in a marble mortar, feafon with mace, Chyan, fait, a little flared parfley, fweet mar- joram, fome juice of lemon, and three or four fpoonfuls of Madeira wine, mix thefe well to- gether, and make it into little balls, duft them with a little fine flour, and put them into your difh to flew about half an hour before you ierve it up; the green fkin of a falmon’s head is a very great addition to your turtle; boil it a little, then ftew it amongft the reft of the other things. / To make # Calf’s Head Haflj. CLEAN your calf’s head exceeding well, and boil it a Quarter of an hour : when it is cold cut the meat into thin broad flices, and put it into a tolling pan, with two quarts of gravy ; and when it has ftewed three quarters of an hour, add to it one anchovy, a little beaten mace, and Chyan to your tafte, two tea fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, two meat fpoonfuls of walnut catchup, half an ounce of truffles and morels, a flicepr two of lemon, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a glafs of white wine, mix a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and put it in a few minutes before the head is enough ; take your brains and put them into hot water; it will make them fkin G 3 w fooner.THE EXPERIENCED 86 fooner, and beat them fine in a bafon, then add to them two eggs, one fpoonful of flour, a bit of lemon peel fhred fine, chop fmall a little par- fley, thyme, and iage, beat them very well to- gether, ftrew in a little pepper and fait, then drop them in little cakes into a pan full of boil- ing hog’s lard, and fry them a light brown, then lay them on a fieve to drain; take your hafh out of the pan with afifh flice, and lay it on your difh and ftrain your gravy over it, lay upon it a few muihrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brain cakes ; garnifh with lemon and pickles. It is proper for a top or fide difh. To drefs a Calf’s Heap the bejl way. ' A TAKE a calf’s head with the fkin on, and feald off all the hair and clean it very welhcut it in two, takeout the brains, boil the head very white and tender, take one part quite off the bone, and cut it into nice pieces with the tongue, dredge it v/ith a little flour, apd let it ffew on a flow fire for about half an hour in rich white gravy made of veal, mutton, and a piece of bacon, feafoned with pepper, fait, onion, and a very little mace; it muff be ffrained off before the hafh is put in it, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour: the other part of the head muff be taken off in one whole piece, fluff it with nice forcemeat, and roll it like a collar, and flew it tender in gravy, then put it in the middle of the difh, and the hafh all round, gar- ni fh it with forcemeat balls, fryed oyfters, and theENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 87 the brains made into little cakes dipped in rich butter and fried. You may add wine, morels, truffles, or what you pleafe to make it good and rich. *To drefs a Calf’s Head Surprise. DRESS off the hair of a large calf’s head as directed in the mock turtle, then take a (harp pointed knife and raife off the Ikin, with as much of the meat from the bones as you poffi- bly can get, that it may appear like a whole head when it is fluffed, and be careful you do not cut the fkin in holes, then fcrape a pound of fat bacon, the crumb of two penny loaves, grate * a fmall nutmeg with fait, Chyan pepper, and hired lemon peel to your tafte, the yolks of fix eggs well beat, mix all up into a rich forcemeat, put a little into the ears and ftuff the head with the remainder, have ready a deep narrow pot that it will juft go in, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, two fpoonfuh of - lemon pickle, the fame of walnut and mufti- room catchup, one anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a bundle of lweet herbs, a little fait and Chyan peppep, lay a coarfe pafte over it to keep in the fteam ; and fet it in a very quick oven two hours and a half, when you take it out lay your head in a foup difli, fkim the fat clean off the gravy, and ftrain it through a hair fieve into a toiling pan, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour ; when it has boiled a few mi- nutes, put in the yolks of fix eggs well beat, and mixed with half a pint of cream, but do not G 4 let88 THE EXPERIENCED let it boil5 it will curdle the eggs j you muft have ready boiled a few forcemeat balls, half an ounce of truffles and morels, it would make the gravy too dark a colour to flew them in it; pour your gravy over vour head, and garniffl with the truffles, morels, forcemeat balls, mufhrooms, and barberries, and ferve it up.——This is a handfome top diffl atafmall expence. "To grill a Calf’s Head. WASH your calf’s head clean and boil it al- moft enough, then take it up and hafh one half, the other half rub over with the yolk of an egg, a little pepper and fait, ftrew over it bread crumbs, pariley chopped fmall, and a little grated lemon peel, fet it before the fire and keep baking it all the time to make the froth rife: when it is a fine light brown difh up your hafh, and lay the grilled fide upon it. Blanch your tongue, flit it down the middle, and lay it on a foup plate : 1km the brains, boil them with a little fage and pariley j chop them fine, and mix them with fome melted butter, andafpoonful of cream, make them hot, and pour them over the tongue, ferve them up, and they are fauce for the head. To collar a Calf’s Head. TAKE a calf’s head with the Ikin on and fcald it, clean it well, then bone it, feafon it with pepper, fait, cloves, mace, and a little ginger all ground very fine, take fome cochi- neal, dilfolve it in fome water, rub it on the 6 " inlideENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. S9 infide of the head with a little bay fait and a large handful of chopped parfley, roll it up light in a cloth, and boil it till you think it is enough in a pickle made of all forts of fweet herbs, fpices, and fome red wine, then unrol the cloth and roll it tight again, and put weights upon it as it lies in the pickle to prefs it dole till it is cold, then boil fome bran and water with fome bay and common fait, (train it off, and when they are both cold put it in the head, and let it lie three or four days before you ufe it. 1To make a Porcupine of a Breast ofV eal. BONE the fined and larged bread of veal you can get, rub it over with the yolks of two eggs, fpread it on a table, lay over it a little bacon cut as thin as pofiible, a handful of parfley fhred fine, the yolks of five hard bdled eggs chopped fmall, a little lemon peel cut fine, nut- meg, pepper, and fait to your tade, and the crumb of a penny loaf deeped in cream, roll the bread dole, and ikewer it up, then cut fat bacon and the lean of ham that has been a little boiled, or it will turn the veal red, and pickled cucumbers about two inches long to anfwer the other lardings, and lard it in rows, fird ham, then .bacon, then cucumbers, till you have larded it all over the veal; put it in a deep earthen pot, with a pint of water, and cover it and let it in a flow oven two hours j when it comes from the oven (kim the fat off, and drain the gavy through a fieve into a dew-pan, put in a glafs of white wine, a little lemon pickle andTHE EXPERIENCED and caper liquor; a fpoonful of mufti room catch- up, thicken it with a little butter, rolled in flour, lay ycurporcupine on the difh, and pour it hot upop it, cut a roll of forcemeat in four flices, lay one at each end, and the other at the Tides; have ready your fweet bread cut in flices and fried, lay them round it with a few mufnrooms. It is a grand bottom difh when game is not to be had. N. B. Make the forcemeat of a few chopped oyfters, the crumbs of a penny loaf, half a pound of beef fuet Aired line, and the yolks of four eggs, mix them well together with nutmeg, Chyan pepper, and fait to your palate, fpread it on a veal caul, and roll it up clofe like a collared eel,-bind it in a cloth and boil it one hour. Toragooa Breast of Veal* HALF roaft a bread: of veal, then bone it and put it in a tolling pan, with a quart of veal gravy, one ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, ftew it till tender, and juft before you thicken the gravy, put in a few oyfters, pickled mufti- rooms, and pickled cucumbers, cut in fmall fouare pieces, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, cut your fweetbread in flices, and fry it a light brown, difh up your veal and pour the gravv hot over it, lay your fweetbread round, morels, truffles and eggs upon it: garnifh with pickled barberries; this is proper for either top for tide for dinner, or bottom for fupper.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 9% To collar a Breast of Veal. TAKE the fineft bread of veal, bone it, and mb it over with the yolks of two eggs, and drew over it fome crumbs of bread, a litne grated lemon, a little pepper and fait, a handful of chopped parfiey, roll it up tight and bind it hard with twine, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it one hour and a half, then take it up to cool, when a little cold take off the cloth, and clip oft the twine carefully, left you open the veal, cut it in five flices, lay them on a difh with the fweetbread boiled and cut in thin Dices and laid round them, with ten or twelve forcemeat bails 1 pour over your white fauce, and gamifh with barberries or green pickles. The white fauce mu ft be made thusTake a pint of good veal gravy, put to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, half an anchovy, a tea fpoon- ful of mufhroom powder, or a few pickled mu ill - rooms, give it a gentle boil ; then put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs beat fine, fhake it over the fire after the ep^s and cream is in, but donot let it boil, it will curdle the cream. It is proper for a top difh at nignt or a iide difh for dinner. A boiled Breast of Veal. SKEWER your bread of veal that it will lie fiat in the difh, boil it one hour ( if a large one an hour and a quarter) make a white fauce as before-mentioned for the collared one, pour it over* and garni(h it with pickles. ATHE EXPERIENCED ^Neck o/Y-eal Cutlets. CUT a neck of veal into cutlets, fry them a fine brown, then put them intoa tolling pan, and few them till tender in a quart of good gravy, then add one fpoonful of browning, the fame of catchup, fome fryed forcemeat balls, a few truffles, morels and pickled mufhrooms, a lit- tle fait, and chyan pepper, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, let it boil,a few minutes, lay your cutlets in the difh, with the top of the ribs in the middle, pour your fauce over them, lay your balls, morels, truffles, and muferooms over the cutlets, and lend them up. A Neck qfVe al a4a-royal. CUT off the ferag-end and part of the chine- bone to make it lie flat in the difh, then chop a few mufhrooms, fhalots, a little parfley and thyme, all very fine, with pepper and fait, cut middle fized lards of bacon and roll them in the herbs, &c. and lard the lean part of the neck, put it intoa ftew-pan with fome lean bacon or (hank of ham, and the chine-bone and ferag cut in pieces, with three or four carrots, onions, a head of celery, and a little beaten mace, pour in as much water as will cover the pan very clofe, and let it flew flowly for two or three hours, till tender, then ftrain half a pint of the liquor out of the pan through a fine fieve, fet it over a (love, and let it boil, keep ftirring it till it is dry at the bottom, and of a good brown; be fure you do not let it burn, then add more of the liquor drained freeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 93 free from fat, and keep flirring it till it becomes a fine thick broWn glaze, then take the veal out of the flew pan, and wipe it clean, and put the larded fide down upon the glaze, fet stover a gentle fire five or fix minutes to take the glaze, then lay it in the difh with the glazed fide up, and put into the fame ftew-pan as much flour as will lie on a fix-pence, ftir it about well, and add fome of the braife liquor, if any left $ let it boil till it is of a proper thicknefs, ftrain it and pour it in the bottom of the difh, fqueeze in a little juice of lemon and ferve it up. Bombarded Veal. CUT the bone nicely out of a fillet, make a forcemeat of the crumbs of a penny loaf, half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, a little lemon peal or lemon thyme, parfley, two or three fprigs of fweet majoram, one anchovy, chop them all very well, grate a little nutmeg, Chyan pep- per and fait to your palate, mix all up together with egg and a little cream, and fill up the place where the bone came out with the forcemeat, then cut the fillet acrofs, in cuts about one inch from another all round the fillet, fill one nick with forcemeat, a fecond with boiling fpinage, that is boiled and well fqueezed, a third with ‘ bread crumbs, chopped oyfters, and beef mar- row, then forcemeat, and fill them up as above all round the fillet, wrap the caul dole round it and put it in a deep pot with a pint of water, make a coarfe pafie to lay over it, to keep the oven from giving it a fiery tafle * when it comes out$4 THE EXPERIENCED out of the oven, fkim off the fat and put the gravy in a flew-pan, with a fpoonful of lemon pickle, and another of mufhroom catchup, two of browning, half an ounce of morels, and truf- fles, five boiled artichoke bottoms cut in quar- ters, thicken the fauce with flour and butter, give it a gentle boil, and pour it upon the veal into your difh. To make a Frycando of Veal. CUT fteaks half an inch thick, and fix inches long, out of the thick part of a leg of veal, lard them with fmall cardoons, and dull them with flour, put them before the fire to broil a fine brown, then put them into a large tolling pan with a quart of good gravy and let it flew half an hour, then put in two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, a meat fpoonful of walnut catch- up, the fame of browning, a flice of lemon, a little anchovy and Chyan, a few morels and truffles; when your fricandos are tender, take them up, and thicken your gravy with flour and , butter, ftrain it, place your fricandos in the difh, pour you/ gravy on them : garnifh with lemons and barberries. You may lay round them forcemeat balls fried, or forcemeat rolled in a veal caul, and yolks of eggs boiled hard. To make Veal Olives. CUT the thick part of a leg of veal in thin flices, flatten them with the broad fide of a cleaver, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, ftrevrENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 9s ftrew over every piece a very thin flice of bacon, ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, a little lemon peel, and parfley chopped final], pepper, fait, and nutmeg* roll them up clofe and fkewer them tight, then rub them with the yolk of eggs, and roll them in breadcrumbs and par- lley chopped fmall, put them into a tin drip- ping pan to bake or fry them; then take a pint of good gravy, add to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, the lame of walnut catchup, and one of browning, a little anchovy and Chyan pepper, thicken it with flour and butter, lerve them up with forcemeat balls, and ftrain the gravy hot upon them : garnilh with pickles, and ltrew over them a few pickled mufhrooms.—-You may drefs veal cutlets the fame way, but not roll them. To makeVeal Olives a fscond Way. CUT large collops off a fillet of veal, and hack them very well with the back of a knife, fpread forcemeat very thin over every one, roll them up and roaft them, or bake them in an oven, make a ragoo of oyfters and fweet-breads diced, a few morels and mufhrooms, and lay them in the difh with the rolls of veal; if you have oyfters enough, chop and mix fome with the forcemeat, it makes it much better ; force- meat balls look very pretty round them; tijere muft be nice brown gravy in the difh, and they mu ft be fent up hot. To 1THE EXPERIENCED 96 ■ : y ■ • • • ( To drejs Scotch Collops white. CUT them off the thick part of a leg of veal? the fize and thicknefs of a crown piece, put a lump of butter into a tolling pan, and fet it over a flow fire or it will difcolour your collops \ be- fore the pan is hot lay the collops in, and keep turning them over till you fee the butter is turned to thick white gravy ; put your collops and gravy in a pot, and fet them upon the hearth, to keep warm, put cold butter again into your pan every time you fill it, and fry them as above and fo continue till you have finhhed when you have fried them pour your gravy from them into your pan, with a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, mufhroom catchup, caper liquor, beaten mace, Chyan pepper, and fait, thicken with flour and butter, when it is boiled five minutes, put in the yolks of two eggs well beat and mixed with a tea cupful of rich cream $ keep fhaking your pan over the fire till your gravy looks of a fine thicknefs, then put in your collops and {hake them, when they are quite hot, put them on your difh with forcemeat balls, ftrew over them pickled muflirooms: garnifh with barberries and kidney-beans. To drefs Scotch Collops brown. CUT your collops the fame way as the white ones, but brown your butter before you lay in your collops, fry them over a quick fire, {hake and turn them, and keep them on a fine froth, when they are a light brown, put them into a potENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER? 97 pot, and fry them as the white ones ; when you have fried them all brown, pour all the gravy from them into a clean toffing-pan, with half a pint of gravy made of the bones and bits you cut the collops off, two tea fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, a large one of catchup, the fame of browning, half an ounce of morels, half a le- mon, a little anchovy, chyan and fait to your tafte, thicken it with flour and butter, let it boil five or fix minutes, then put in your col- lops, and fhake them over the fire ; if they boil it will make them hard; when they have fim- mered a little, take them out with an egg fpoon and lay them on yourdifh, ftrain yourgravy and pour it hot on them, lay over them force- meat balls, and little dices of bacon curled round a fkewer and boiled, throw a few mufh-» rooms over : garnilh with lemon and barberries,, and ferve them up, \ 4To drefs Scotch Collops the French Way, TAKE a leg of veal, and cut your collops pretty thick, five or or fix inches long, and three inches broad, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, put pepper and fait, and grate a little nutmeg on them, and a little flared parfley; lay them on an earthen difh, and fet them before the fire, bade them with butter, and let them be a fine brown, then turn them on the other fide, and rub themas above; bafteand brown them the fame way; when they are thoroughly enoughs make a good brown gravy with truffles and mo- rels, difh up your collops, lay truffles and morels H9S THE EXPERIENCED and the yolks of hard boiled eggs over them: garnifh with crifp parfley and lemon. Sweet-Breads d-la-daub. TAKE three of the largefl and finefl fweet- breads you can get, put them in a fauce pan of boiling water for five minutes, then take them out, and when they are cold lard them with a row down the middle, with very little pieces of bacon, then a row on each fide with lemon peel cut the fize of wheat flraw, then a row on each fide of pickled cucumbers, cut very fine, put them in a tolling pan, with good veal gravy, a littlejuice of lemon, a fpoonful of browning, flew them gently a quarter of an hour; a little before they are ready thicken them with flour and butter, di(h them up and pour the gravy over, lay round them bunches of boiled celery, or oyfter patties : garnifh with Hewed fpinage, green coloured parfley, flick a bunch of barber- ries in the middle of each fweet-bread,-—It is a pretty corner difh for either dinner or fupper. Forced Sweet-Breads. PUT three fweetbreads in boiling water five minutes, beat the yolk of an egg a little, and rub it over them with a feather, ftrew on bread crumbs, lemon peel, and parfley fhred very fine, nutmeg, fait, and pepper to your palate, let them before the fire to brown, and add to them a little veal gravy, put a little mulhroom pow- der, caper liquor, or juice of lemon and brown- ing, thicken it with fiour and butter, boil it a little, and pour it on your dill), lay in your fweet-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 99 fweetbreads and lay over them lemon peel in rings, cut like ftraws : garnifli with pickles* Tofricajfee Sweet-Breads brown SCALD three fweet-breads, when cold cut them indices the thicknefsofa crown piece, dip them in batter, and fry them in frefli butter a nice brown, make a gravy for them as the laft, flew your fweet-breads ilowly in the gravy eight or ten minutes, lay them on your diflh, and pour the gravy over them: garnifli with lemon or barberries* To fricajfee Sweet-Breads white. SCALD and flice three fweet-breads as before, put them in a tolling pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a fpoonful of white wine, the fame of mufhroom catchup, a little beaten mace, ftew them a quarter of an hour, thicken your gravy with flour and butter a little before they are enough; when you are going todifh them up, mix the yolk of an egg with a tea cupful of thick cream, and a little grated nutmeg, put it into your tolling pan, and fliake it well over the fire, but do not let it boil, lay your fweetbreads on your difh, and pour your fauce over them : gar- nifti with pickled red beet-root and kidney- beans. To ragoo Sweet-Breads0 RUB them over!with the yolk of an egg, ftrewover them bread crumbsand parfley,thyme H % and100 THE EXPERIENCED and fweet marjoram fhred final], and pepper and fait, make a roll of forcemeat like a fweet- bread, and put it in a veal caul, and roafl them in a Duch oven, take fome brown gravy, and put to it a little lemon pickle, mufhroom catch- up, and the end of a lemon, boil the gravy, and when the fweet-breads are enough, lay them in a difh, with a forcemeat in the middle, take the end of the lemon out, and pour the gravy Into the difh and ferve them up. To Jlew a Fillet of Veal. TAKE a fillet of a cow calf, fluff it well under the elder, at the bone, and quite through to the fhank, put it in the oven with a pint of water under it, till it is a fine brown, then put it in a flew- pan with three pints of gravy, flew it tender, put in a few morels, truffles, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of brown- ing, and one of catchup, and a little Chyan pep- per, thicken with a lump of butter rolled in flour, difh up your veal, flrain your gravy over, lay round forcemeat balls : garnifh with pickles and lemon. Toragoo a Fillet of Veal. LARD your fillet and half roafl it, then put it in a tolling pan, with two quarts of good gravy, cover it clofe and let it flew till tender, then add one fpoonful of white wine, one of browning, one of catchup, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little caper liquor, half an ounceENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. i0l of morels, thicken with flour and butter* lfjr round it a few yolks of eggs. A good Way to drefs a Midcalf* TAKE a calf's heart, fluff it with good forcemeat and fend it to the oven in an earthen difli with a little water under it, lay butter over it, and dredge it with flour, boil half the liver and all the lights together half an hour, then chop themfmall, and put them in a toiling pan with a pint of gravy, one fpoonful of lemon pickle and one of catchup, fqueeze in half a le- mon, pepper and fait, thicken with a good piece of butter rolled in floury when you difh it up, pour the minced meat in the bottom, and have ready fried a fine brown the other half of the liver cut in thin flices, and little bits of bacon, fet the heart in the middle, and lay the liver and bacon over the minced meat, and ierve it up. To difguife a Leg ofYeal. LARD the top fide of a leg of veal in rows with bacon, and fluff it well with forcemeat made of oyflers, then put it into a large fauce- pan with as much water as will cover it, put on a clofe lid to keep in the fleam, flew it gently till quite tender, then take it up and boil down the gravy in the pan to a quart, fldm off the fat and add half a lemon, a fpoonful of mufhroomi catchup, a little lemon pickle, the crumbs of half a penny loaf grated exceeding fine, boil it in your gravy till it looks thick, then add half a pint of oyfters, if not thick enough, roll a H 3 lump102 THE EXPERIENCED lump of butter in flour and put it in, with hal a pint of good cream, and the yolks of three eggs, fhake your fauce over the fire, but do not let it boil after the eggs are in left it curdle; put your veal in a deep difli, and pour the fauce over- it : garnifh with Crifpedparfley and fried oyfters. It is an excellent difh for the top of a large table. f / Haricq of a Neck ^Mutton. CUT the bed end of a neck of mutton into chops, in fingle ribs, flatten them, and fry them a light brown, then put them into a large fauce- pan with two quarts of water, a large carrot cut in flices, cut at the edge like wheels; when they have ftewed a quarter of an hour, put in two turnips cut in fquare flices, the white part of a head of celery, a few heads of afparagus, two cabbage lettuces fried, and Chyan to your tafte5 boil them all together till they are tender, the gravy is not to be thickened; put it in to a tureen, or foup difli. It is proper for a top difli. 7o drefs a Neck a/'Mutton to eat likb Venison. b CUT a large neck before the fhoulder is taken off, broader than ufual, and the flap of the fhoulder with it, to make it look handfomer; flick your neck all over in little holes with a fharp penknife, and pour a bottle of red wine upon it, and let it lie in the wine four or five days, turn and rub it three or four times a day, then take it out andhang it up for three days inENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, io-* FI 4 it the open air out of the fun, and dry it often with a cloth to keep it from mufting; When you roaft it bafte it with the wine it was fteeped in if any left, if not freih wine, put white paper three or four folds to keep in the fat, roaft it thoroughly, and then take off the fkin, and froth it nicely, and ferveit up. ^To make French Steaks of a Neck of Mutton. LET your mutton be very good and large, and cut off moft part of the fat of the neck, and then cut the fteaks two inches thick, make a large hole through the middle of the fiefhy part of every fteakwitha penknife, and ftuffit with forcemeat made of bread crumbs, beef fuet, a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, mixed up with the yolk of an egg; when they are fluffed, wrap them in writing paper, and put them in a Dutch oven, i'et them before the fire to broil, they will take near an hour, put a little brown gravy in your difh, and ferve them up in the papers. A Shoulder ^Muttqn furprized. HALF boil a fhoulder, then put it in a to fi- fing pan with two quarts of veal gravy, four ounces of rice, a tea fpoonful of mu£hroom powder, a little beaten mace, and flew it one hour, or till the rice is enough, then take up your mutton and keep it hot, put to the rice half a pint of good cream, and a lump of butter rolled in flour, fhake it well and boil it a^ few minutes; lay yoyr mutton on the dhb and popr104 THE EXPERIENCED it over: garnifh with barberries or pickles, and fend it up. To drefs a Shoulder c/'Mutton called Hen and Chickens. HALF rcaft a fhoulder, then take it up, and cut oft the blade at the firft joint, and both the flaps to make the blade round, fcore the blade, round in diamonds, throw a little pepper and fait over it, and fet it in a tin oven to broil, cut the flaps and the meat off the fbank in thin flices into the gravy that runs out of the mutton, and put a little good gravy to it, with two fpoonfuls of walnut catchup, one of browning, a little Chyan pepper, and one or two fhalotsj when your meat is tender, thicken it with flour and butter, putyourmeatin your difh with the gravy, and lay the blade on the top, broiled a dark brown: garnifh with green pickles, and ferve it up. To boil a Shoulder g/'MuTTON with Onion Sauce. PUT your fhoulder in when the water is cold, when enough fmother it with onion fauce, made the fame as for boiled ducks.—You may drefs a fhoulder of veal the fame way. I > A Shoulder ^Mutton and Celery Sauce. BOIL it as before till it is quite enough, pour over it celery fauce, and fend it to the table.— N.B.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 105 JV. B. The fauce—Wafh and clean ten heads of celery, cat off the green tops, and take off the outfide ftalks, cut them into thin bits, and boil it in gravy till it is tender, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over your mutton.—A fhoulder of veal roafted with this fauce is very good. Mutton kebobed. CUT a loin of mutton in four pieces, take off the fkin, and rub them with a yolk of an egg, ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and a little flared parfley, turn them round and fpit them, roaft them and keep bailing all the while with frefh butter, to make the froth rife ; when they are enough, put a little brown gravy under* and ferve them up: garnifh with pickles. To gr/7/^BREAST 0/" Mutton. SCORE a bread: of mutton in diamonds, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then ftrew on a few bread crumbs and fhred parfley, put it in a Dutch oven to broil, bafte it with frefh but- ter, pour in the difh good caper fauce, and ferve it up. •.. Split Leg Mutton and Onion Sauce. SPLIT the leg from the fhank to the end, flick a fkewer in to keep the nick open, bafte it with red wine till it is half roafted, then take the wine out of the dripping-pan, and put to it one anchovy, fetit over the fire till the anchovy is diffolved, rub the yolk of a hard egg in a little coldio6 THE EXPERIENCED cold buttter, mix it with the wine, and put it in your fauce-boat, put good onion fauce over the leg when it is roafted, and ferve it up. To force a Leg o/Mutton. RAISE the fkin and take out the lean part of the mutton, chop it exceeding fine, with one anchovy, fhred a bundle of fweet herbs, grate a penny loaf, half a lemon, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to year tafte, make them into a force- meat, with three eggs and a large glafs of red wine, fill up the fkin with the forcemeat, but leave the bone and fhank in their place, and it will appear like a whole leg, lay it on an earthen difh with a pint of red wine under it, and fend it to the oven; it will take two hours and a half; when it comes out takeoff all the fat, firain the gravy over the mutton, lay round it hard yolks of eggs and pickled mufhrooms ; garnifh with pickles and ferve it up. To drefs Sheeps’ Rumps and Kidneys. ROIL fix fheeps’ rumps in veal gravy, then lard your kidneys with bacon, and fet them be- fore the fire in a tin oven; when the rumps are tender, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, a little Chyan and grated nutmeg, fkim the fat off the gravy, put it in a clean tofiing pan, with three ounces of boiled rice, a fpocnful of good cream, a little mufhroom powder or catchup, thicken it with flour and butter, and give it a gentle boil, fry your rumps a light brown ; when you difh them up, lay them round on your rice, faENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 107 fo that the fmall ends meet in the middle, and Jay a kidney between every rump, garnifh with red cabbage or barberries, and ferve it up. It is a pretty fide or corner difh. To drefs a Leg ^Mutton to eat like Venison. GET the largeft and fattefl: leg of mutton you can get, cutoutlikeahaunch of venifon, as foon as it is killed, whilft it is warm, it will eat the tenderer; take out the bloody vein, flick it in feveral places in the under fide with a (harp- pointed knife, pour over it a bottle of red wine, turn it in the wine four or five times a day for live days, then dry it exceeding well with a clean cloth, hang it up in the air with the thick end up per moft for five days, dry it night and morn- ing to keep it from being damp, or growing mufty; when you roaft it, cover it with paper, and pafte as you do venifon; ferve it up with venifon fauce. —-It will take four hours roafling. ^Basqjje ^/Mutton. TAKE the caul of a leg of veal, lay it in a copper difh the fize of a fmall punch bowl take the lean of a leg of mutton, that has been kept a week, chop it exceeding fmall, take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny loaf, the yolks of four eggs, two anchovies, half a pint of red wine, the rind of half a lemon grated, mix it like faufage meat, and lay it in your caul in the iniideofyour diih, dole up the £aul, and bake it in a quick oven; when it comes 1 ou £10$ THE EXPERIENCED out lay your difh upiide down and turn the whole out, pour over it brown gravy, and fend venifon faucein a boat: garnifh with Oxford John. TAKE a ftale leg of mutton, cut it in as thin eollops as you poffibly can, take out all the fat fibews, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait, ftrew among them a little fibred parfley, thyme, and two or three fhalots, put a good lump of butter into a .flew pan ; when it is hot put in all your eollops, keep ftirring them with a wooden fpoon till they are three parts done, then add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, thicken it a little with flour and butter, let them iimmer four or five minutes, and they will be quite enough, if you let them boil, or have them ready before you want them, they will grow hard : ferve them up hot, with fried bread cut in dices, over and round them. To boil a Leg y Lamb and Loin fried. CUT your leg from the loin, boil the leg three quarters of an hour, cut the loin in hand* fome fleaks, beat them with a cleaver, and fry them a good brown, then flew them a little in ftrong gravy, put your leg on the difh, and lay your fleaks round it, pour on your gravy, lay round lumps of ftewed fpinage, and crifped par- fley on every fteak, fend it to the table with goofeberry fauce in a boat, Tc It up % pickleENGLISH HOUSE- KEEPER. 105 To force a Quarter of Lamb. TAKE a hind quarter and cut oft the (hank, raife the thick part of the fiefh from the bone, ■with a knife, fluff the place with white force- meat, and fluff it under the kidney, half roaft it, then put it in a toiling pan, with a quart of mutton gravy, cover it clofe up* and let it flew* gently : when it is enough take it up and lay it on your difh, fkirn. the fat off the gravy, and ftrain it, then put in a glafs of Madeira wine, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, two of brown- ing, half a lemon, a little Chyan, half a pint of cyfters, thicken it with a little butter rolled in Sour, pour your gravy hot on your iamb and ferve it up. To drefs a Lamb's Head and Purtenance, SKIN the head and fplit it, take the black part out of the eyes, then waih and clean it exceeding well, lay it in warm water till it looks white, wafli and clean the purtenance, take off the gall, and lay them in water, boil it half an hour, then mince your heart, liver, and lights, very finalJ, put the mincemeat in a toiling pan with a quart of mutton gravy, a little catchup, pepper and fait, half a lemon, thicken it.with flour and butter, a fpoonful of good cream, arid juft boil it up -■> when your head is boiled, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, ftrew over it bread crumbs, a little fhred pariley, pepper and fait, bkfte it well with butter, and brown it before the 1 fire.no THE EXPERIENCED fire, or with a falamander, put the purtenance on your difh, and lay the head over it: garnifh with lemon or pickle, and ferve it up. To fricajfee Lamb Stones. SKIN fix lamb Rones, or what quantity you pleafe, dip them in batter, and fry them in hog’s- lard a nice brown, have ready a little veal gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, put in a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufh- room catchup, a flice of lemon, a little grated nutmeg, beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with two fpoonfuls of thick cream, put in your gravy, keep {baking it over the fire till it looks white and thick, then put in the lamb ftones, and give them a {hake; when they are hot, difh them up, and lay round them boiled forcemeat balls. To roajla Pig in Imitation {/’Lamb* LET your pig be a month or five weeks old, divide it downthe middle, take off*the fhoulder, and leave the reft to the hind part, then take the fkin off, draw fprigs of parlley all over the out- fide, which muft be done by running a fkewer or larding pin, and flicking the ftalk of thepar- fley in it; fpit it and roaft it before a quick fire, dredge and bafte it well with frefh butter, roaft it a fine brown, and fend it up with a froth on it; garnifh with green parfley, it will eat and look like fat lamb.— It is.eat with fallad. 6ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, nt K To barbecue a Pig. DRESS a pig of ten weeks old as if It were to be roafted, make a forcemeat of two ancho- vies, fix fage leaves, and the liver of the pig, all chopped very fmall; then put them into a marble mortar, with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, tour ounces of butter, half a tea fpoonful of Chyan pepper, and half a pint of red wine, beat them all together to a pafte, put it in your pig’s belly and few it up, lay your pig down at a good diftance before a large brifk fire, finge It well, put in your dripping pan three bottles of red wine, balle it with the wine all the time it is roafting, when it is half roafted, put under your pig two penny loaves, if you have not wine enough, put in more, when your pig is near enough, take the loaves and fauce out of your dripping pan, put to the fauce one anchovy chopped fmall, a bundle of fweet herbs, and half a lemon, boil it a few minutes, then draw your pig, put a fmall lemon or apple in the pig’s mouth, and a loaf on each fide, ftrain your fauce and pour it on them boiling hot, lay bar- berries, and dices of lemon round it, and fend it up whole to the table. —It is a grand bottom difti. It will take four hours roafting. To barbecue a Leg 0/ P o r k . LAY down your leg to a good fire, put into the dripping pan two bottles of red wine, bafte your pork with it all the time it is roafting, when it is enough, take up what is left in the pan, put to112 THE EXPERIENCED to it two anchovies, the yolks of threeeggs hoiled hard and pounded fine, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a lemon, a bunch ot fweet herbs, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a fpoon- ful of catchup, and one of tarragon vinegar, or a little tarragon fhred fmall, boil them a few minutes, then draw your pork, and cut the dun down from the bottom of the fhank in rows an inch broad, raife every other row and roll it to the (hank, (train your fauce and pour it on boiling hot, lay oyder patties all round the pork, and lprigs of green parfley. To fluff a Chine 0/Tork. TAKE a chine that has been hung about a month, boil it half an hour, then take it up and make holes in it all over the lean part, one inch from another, (tuff them betwixt the joints with (bred parfley, rub it all over with the yolk of eggs, drew over it bread crumbs, bade it and (et it in a Dutch oven, when it is enough lay round it boiled brocoli, or dewed fpinage; garnilh with parfley. \To roafi a Ham or a Gammon Of B ACON. HALF boil your ham or gammon, then take off the ikin, dredge it with oatmeal fifted very fine, bade it with fre(h butter, it will make a dronger froth than either flour or bread crumbs, then road it ; when it is enough difh it up and pour brown gravy on your dith : garni(h with green parfley and fend it to the table. TeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 113 Toforce the Injide of a Surloin of Beef. SPIT your furloin, then cutoff from thein- fide all the fkin and fat together, and then take off all the flefh to the bones, chop the meat very fine with a little beaten mace, two or three fhalots, one anchovy, half a pint of red wine, a little pepper and fait, and put it on the bones again, lay your fat and fkin on again, and fkewer it clofe and paper it well, when roafled take off the fat and difh up the furloin, pour over it a fauce made of a little red wine, a fhalot, one anchovy, two or three dices of horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. To drefs the Infide of a cold Surloin a/'Beef. CUT out all the inlide (free from fat) of the furloin in pieces as thick as your finger andabout two inches long, dredge it with a little flour, and fry it in nice butterof alight brown, then drain it, and tofs it up in rich gravy that has been well feafoned with pepper, fait, fhalot, and an an- chovy ; juft before you fend it up, add twofpoon- fuls of vinegar taken from pickled capers : gar* nifh with fried oyflers, or what you pleafe. Bouillie Beef. TAKE the thick end of a brifket of beef, put it into a kettle of water quite covered over, let it boil faff for two hours, then keep dewing it "clofe by the fire for fix hours more, and as the water waftes fill up the kettle, put in with the beef fome turnips cut in little halls, carrots, and I \ fome114 THE EXPERIENCED fome clary cut in pieces: an hour before it is done take out as much broth as will fill your foup difh, and boil in it for that hour turnips and carrots cut out in balls or in little fquare pieces with fome celery, fait and pepper to your tafte, ferve it up in two difhcj?, the beefy by itfelf, and the foup by itfelf; you may put pieces of fried bread, if you like it, in your foup, boil in a few knots of greens, and if you think your foup will not be rich enough, you may add a pound or two of fried mutton chops to your broth when you take it from the beef, and let it ftew for that hour in the broth, but be fure to take out the mutton when you fend it to the tablet the foup muft be very clear* 'ToJIew a Rump^Beef. HALF roaft your beef, then put it in a large faucepan or cauldron, with two quarts of water, and one of red wine, two or three blades of mace, a fhalot, one fpoonful of lemon pickle, two of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte, let it ftew over a gentle fire, clofe covered for two hours, then take up your beef, and lay it on a deep difh, Ikim off the fat, and ftrain the gravy, and put in one ounce of morels, and half a pint of muftiroomsp thicken your gravy and pour it over your beef, lay round it forcemeat balls: garnifh with horfe- radifh, and ferve it up.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 115 5To Jlew a Rump c/*Beef a fecond Way. STUFF your beef with three cloves of gar- lick in different parts, make a hole with a fkewer, and get in the garlick as far as about one half your finger can reach, fluff it likewife in feveral places with forcemeat, in the making of which put fome fat bacon cut in very fmall dices, then put your beef into the pot the right fide under, cut about a pound of fuet over it, five or fix ounces of bacon fliced, and as much water as will cover it, then fet the pot over the fire, let it boil for three quarters of an hour, then cover the pot quite clofe, and let it flew for four hours over a moderate fire, after which take it up, and pour every drop of liquor from it, and put a quart of claret over it, and fet it on a very flow lire while you are preparing the fauce, which is to be either of turnips, or carrots, or pallets, cut as for a ragoo; put in as much broth as you think fufficient with fome of the clear gravy free from fat that you poured off the beef, in a flew- pan •, boil them a little with morels, truffles and a giafs of claret, and a little butter rolled in flour, which muft be tofled up together, and difh it up very hot. N A FrICANDO g/'BEEF. CUT a few flices of beef five or fix inches long, and half an inch thick, lard it wTith bacon, dredge it well with flour, and fet it before a brifk fire to brown, then put it in a tolling pan, with a quart of gravy, a few morels and truffles, 12 halfij6 THE EXPERIENCED i half a lemon, and flew them half an hour, then add one fpoonful of catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and a little Chyan, thicken your fauce and pour it over your fricando, lay round them force- meat balls, and the yolks of hard eggs. To a-la-mode Beef. TAKE the b one out of a rump of beef, lard the top with bacon, then make a forcemeat of lour ounces of marrow, two heads of garlick, the crumbs of a penny loaf, a few fweet herbs fail 1, nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte, and the yolks of four eggs well beat, mix it up, and (tuff your beef where the bone came out, and in feveral places in the lean part, fkewer it round and bind it about with a fillet, put it in a pot with a pint of red wine, and tie it down with ftrong paper, bake it in the oven for three hours; when it comes out, if you want to eat it hot, fidrn the fat off the gravy, and add half an ounce of morels, a fpoonful of pickled mu(h- rooms, thicken it with flour and butter; difh up your beef and pour on the gravy, lay round it forcemeat balls, and fend it no. To make a Porcupine of the Plat Ribs of Beef. BONE the fiat ribs, and beat it half an hour with a pafte pin, then rub it over with the yolks of eggs, firew over it bread crumbs, parfley, leeks, fweet marjoram, lemon peel fibred fine, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, roll it up very clofe, and bind it hard, lard it acrofs with bacon, then a rowENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 1x7 a row of cold boiled tongue, a third row of pickled cucumbers, a fourth row of lemon peel, do it all over in rows as above till it is larded all round, it will look like red, green* white, and yellow-dices, then fplit it or put it in a tin pot with a pint of water, lay over the caul of veal to keep it from fcorching, tie it down with fti ong paper, and fend it to the oven, when it comes out fkim off the fat, and drain your gravy into a faucepan, add to it two fpoonfuls of red wine, the fame of browning, one of mufhroom catch- up, half a lemon, thicken it with a lump of but- ter rolled in flour, diflh up the meat, and pour the gravy on the difli, lay round forcemeat balls : garnifli with horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. To make Brisket tf/" Beef a-la-royah BONE a hrifket of beef, and make holes in it with a knife, about an inch one from another, fill one hole with fat bacon, a fecond with chop- ped parfley, and a third with chopped oyfters, feafoned with nutmeg, pepper, and lair, till you have done the brifket over, then pour a pint of red wine boiling hot upon the beef, dredge it well with Hour, fend it to the oven, and bake it three hours or better: when it comes out of § * the oven take off the fat, and drain the gravy over your beef: gar nidi with pickles, and ferve it up. Beef Olives. CUT dices off a rump of beef about fix inches long and half an inch thick, beat them I 3 wuS THE EXPERIENCED with a Dade pin, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg, a little pepper, fait, and beaten mace, the crumbs of halt a penny loaf, two ounces of marrow fliced fine, a handful ofparfley chopped fmall, and the out-rind of half a lemon grated, drew them all over your (leaks, and roll them up, (kewer them quite clofe, and fet them before the fire to brown, then put them into a tolling pan with a pint of gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour : lay round forcemeat balls, mufh- rooms, or the yolks of hard eggs. To make Mock Hare of a Beast’s Heart. WASH a large bead’s heart clean, and cut off the deaf ears, and duff it with fome force- meat, as you do a hare, lay a caul of veal, or paper over the top, to keep in the duffing, road it either in a cradle fpit or hanging one, it will take an hour and a half before a good fire, bade it with red wine; when roaded take the wine out of the dripping pan, and (kim off the fat, and add a glafs more of wine, when it is hot put in fome lumps cf red currant jelly, and pour it in the diffi, ferve it up, and fend in red cur- rant jelly cut in dices on a faucer. Beef Heart larded. TAKE a good bead’s heart, duff it as before, and lard it all over with little bits of bacon, dud itENGLISH HO U S E-K E E P E R. 119 it with flour, and cover it with paper, to keep it from being too dry, and fend it to the oven; when baked put the heart on your diflh, take off the fat and ftrain the gravy through a hair fieve, put it in a faucepan with one fpocnful of red wine, the fame of browning, and one of lemoh pickle, half an ounce of morels, one anchovy cut fm'all, a little beaten mace, thicken it with flour and butter, pour it hot on your heart, and ferve it up : garnifli with barberries. ToJlew Ox Palates. WASH four ox palates in feveral waters, and then lay them in warm water for half an hour, then wafh them out and put them in a pot, and tie them down with ftrong paper, and fend them to the oven with as much water as will cover them, or boil them till tender, then {kin them, and cut them in pieces, half an inch broad and three inches long, and put them in a toffing pan with a pint of veal gravy, one {poonful of Madeira wine, the fame of catchup and brown- ing, one onion ftuck with cloves, and a flice of lemon, flew them half an hour, then take out the onion and lemon, thicken your fauce nd put them in a diih ; have ready boiled artichoke bottoms, cut them in quarters, and lay them over your palates, with forcemeat balls and mo- rels : garnifh with lemon, and ferve them up. Tofricando Ox Palates. WHEN you have wafhed and cleaned your palates as before, cut them in fquare pieces, lard I 4 them120 THE EXPERIENCED them with little bits of bacon, fry them in hog’s lard, a pretty brown, and put them in a fieve to drain the fat from them, then take bet- ter than half a pint of beef gravy, one fpoonful of i*ed wine, half as much of browning, a lit- tle lemon pickle, one anchovy, a fhalot, and a bit of horfe radifh ; give them a boil, and drain your gravy, then put in your palates, and flew them half an hour, make your fauce pretty thick, difh them up, and lay round them dewed fpi- nage preffed and cut like iippets, and ferve them up. Tofricajfee Ox Palates. CLEAN your palates very well as before, put them in a dew-pot, and cover them with water, fet thern in the oven for three or four hours; when they come from the oven drip off the fkins, and cut them in iquare pieces, fealbn them with mace, nutmeg, Chyan, and fait, mix a fpoonful of flour with the yolks of two eggs, dip in your palates, and fry them a light brown, then put them in a fieve to drain; have ready half a pint of veal gravy, with a little caper liquor, a fpoonful of browning, and a few mush- rooms, thicken it well with flour and butter, pour it hot on your difh, and lay in your pa- lates : garnifh with fried parfley and oaiberries* \Tofcew a Turkey with Celery Sauce. TAKE a large turkey, and make a good while forcemeat of veal, and duff the craw of the turkey, fkewer it as for boiling, then boil itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, it in foft water till it is almod enough, and then take up your turkey, and put it into a pot with fome of the water it was boiled in, to keep it hot, put feven or eight heads of celery, that are wafhed and cleaned very well, into the water that the turkey was bailed in, till they are ten- der, then take them up, and putin your turkey with the bread: down, and ftewit a quarter of an hour, then take it up, and thicken your fauce with half a pound of butter and flour to make it pretty thick, and a quarter of a pint of rich cream, then put in your celery; pour the fauce and celery hot upon the turkey’s bread, and ferve it up. -It is a proper difh for dinner or fupper. ToJlew a Turkey brown. WHEN you have drawn the craw out of your turkey, cut it up the back, and takeout the entrails, that the turkey may appear whole, and take all the bones out of the body very carefully, the rump, legs, and wings are to be left whole, then take the crumb of a penny loaf, and chop half a hundred of oyders very (mail, with half a poundof beef marrow, a little lemon peel cut fine, and pepper and fait, mix them well up together with the yolks of four eggs, and duff your tur- key with it, few it up and lard it down each fide with bacon, half road it, then put it into a tof- fmg pan with two quarts of veal gravy, and cover it ciofe up; when it has deweu one hour, add a fpoonful of mulhroom catchup, half an anchovy, a flice or two of lemon, a little Chyan pepper aid a bunch of Iweet herbs cover them dole124 the experienced clofe up again, and flew it half an hour longer, then take it up and Hum the fat off* the gravy, and ftrain it* thicken it with flour and butter, let it boil a few minutes, and pour it hot upon your turkey; lay round it oyfter patties, and ferve it up. \ * “ \ ^Turkey a-la-daub, to befent up hot. \ • . \ \ CUT the turkey down the back juft enough to bone it, without fpoiling the look of it, then fluff it with a nice forcemeat made of oyfters chopped fine, crumbs of bread, pepper, fait, fhalot, a very little thyme, parfley and butter, fill it as full as you like, and few it up with a thread, tie it up in a clean cloth and boil it very white, but not too much. You may ferve it up with oyfter fauce made good, or take the bones with a piece of veal, mutton, and bacon, and make a rich gravy feafoned with pepper, fait, fhalots, and a little bit of mace, ftrain it off through a fieve, and ftew your turkey in it (after it is half boiled) juft half an hour, dilh it up in the gravy after it is well fkimmed, ftrained and thickened with a few muftirooms ftewed white, or ftewed pallets, forcemeat balls, fried oyfters, or fweet-breads, and pieces of le- mon. Difh it up with the breaft upward ; if you fend it up garnifhed with pallets, take care to have them ftewed tender fir ft $ before you add them to the turkey, you may put a few morels and truffles in your fauce if you like it, but take care to wafh them clean. TurkeyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 123 Turkey a-la-daub, to befent up cold. BONE the turkey and feafon it with pepper and fait, then fpread over it fome dices of ham, upon that fome forcemeat, upon that a fowl, boned and feafoned as above, then more ham and forcemeat, then few it up With thread $ cover the bottom of the dew-pan with veal and ham, then lay in the turkey the breafc down, chop all the bones to pieces, and put them on the tur- key, cover the pan and fet it on the fire five minutes, then put in as much clear broth as will cover it, let it boil two hours, when it is more than half done, put in one ounce of iflnglafs' and a bundle of herbs. When it is done enough take out the turkey, and drain the jelly through a hair fieve, fkim off all the fat, and when it is cold lay the turkey upon it the bread down, and cover it with the red of the jelly. Let it ftand in fome cold place; when you ferve it up, turn it on the difh it is to be ferved in : if you pleafe you may fpread butter over the turkey’s bread, and put fome green parfley or flowers, or what you pleafe, and in what form you like. Fowls a da braize* SKEWER your fowls as for boiling, with the legs in the body, then lay over it a layer of fat bacon, cut in pretty thin flices, then wrap it round in beet leaves, then in a caul of veal, and put it into a large faucepan with three pints of water, a glafs of Madeira wine, a bunch of fweet herbs, two or three blades of mace, and 6 half124 THE EXPERIENCED hair a lemon, itew it till quite tender, take it up and fkim oil the fat, make your gravy pretty thick with fiourand butter, and ftrain it through a hair fieve, and put to it a pint of oyfters, a tea-cup full of thick cream, keep (baking your tcffing pan over the fire, and when it has lina- me red a little, ferve up your fowl with the bacon, beet leaves, and caul on, and pour your fauce hot upon it: garnifli with barberries, or red beet root. To force a Fowl. TAKE a large fowl, pick it clean and cut it down the back, take out the entrails and take the ikin off whole, cut the flefh from the bones and chop it with half a pint of oyfters, one ounce of beef marrow, a little pepper and fait, mix it up with cream, then lay the meat on the bones and draw the fldn over it and few up the back, then cut large thin flices of bacon, and lay them over the breaft of your fowl, tie the bacon on with a packthread in diamonds, it will take one hour roafting by a moderate fire, make a good brown gravy fauce, pour it upon your difh, take the bacon off and lay in your fowl, and ferve it up : garnifh with pickles, mufti- rooms, or oyfters^—It is proper fora fide difh for dinner, or top for fupper. To Jiew Pallets and Chickens* TO every pallet or chicken take an anchovy, a little parfley and fhalot, with the liver of the chickens, fhred all thefe together very fine, and faitENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 125 fait to your tafte, and fluff the birds with it, turn them up fhort as for boiling, tie them in cloths, boil the pallets an hour at leaft, the chickens not above fifteen or twenty minutes in milk and water with a little fait in it; make the fauce with a little white gravy and white wine, and with it flew a good many oyflers and fha- lots, beat it up thick with a lump of butter, (you may, if you pleafe, leave out the wine, and mix a little cream in the fauce inflead of it) your gravy muft be made of veal j when the chickens are boiled, and the pallets are flewed tender, tofs them up together in the gravy and oyflers, fend them hot to the table, the chickens in the middle, and the pallets round them, with a few white balls made of veal; you may add fweet-breads.—This is a very good way to flew a turkey. The water the pallets were boiled in will be extremely good to make gravy, adding to it a good piece of veal, mutton, and bacon. 5to fricaffee Chickens. SKIN them and cut them in fmall pieces., wafh them in warm water, and then dry them very clean with a cloth, feafon them with pepper and fait, and then put them into a ftew-pan with a little fair water, and a good piece of butter, a little lemon pickle, or half a lemon, a glafs of white wine, one anchovy, a little mace and nut- meg, an onion {tuck with cloves, a bunch of le- mon thyme and fweet marjoram, let them ftew together till your chickens are tender ,and then lay126 THE EXPERIENCED lay them on your difh, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, ftrain it, then beat the yolks of three eggs a little, and mix them with a large tea-cup full of rich cream, and put it in your gravy, and fhake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, and pour it over your chickens. • . \ !To force Chickens. ROAST your chickens better than half, take off the fkin, then the meat, and chop it fmall with fhred parfley and crumbs of bread, pepper and fait, and a little good cream, then put in the meat and clofe the fkin, brown it with a fala- mander, and ferve it up with white fauce. To make artificial Chickens Pigeons. MAKE a rich forcemeat with veal, lamb, or chickens feafoned with pepper, fait, parfley, a fhalot, a piece of fat bacon, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; work it up in the fhape of pigeons or chickens, putting the foot of the bird you intend it for in the middle, fo as juft to appear at the bottom, roll the forcemeat very well in the yolk of an egg, then in the crumbs of bread, fend them to the oven, and bake it a light brown, do not let them touch each other, put them on tin plates well buttered, as you fend them to the oven : you may fend them to the table dry, or gravy in the difh, juft as you like. To marinate a Goose. CUT your goofe up the back bone, then take out all the bones, and fluff it with forcemeat, andENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 127 and few up the back again, fry the goofe a good brown, then put it into a deep ftew-pan with two quarts of good gravy and cover it clofe and flew it two hours, then take it out and fkim off thefat, add a large fpoonful of lemon pickle, one of browning, and one of red wine, one anchovy fhred fine, beaten mace, pepper and fait to your palate, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, di£h up your goofe, and ftrain your gravy over it.—N. B. Make your fluffing thus, take ten or twelve fage leaves, two large onions, two or three large fharp apples, fhred them very fins, mix them with the crumbs of a penny loaf, four ounces of beef marrow, one glafs of red wine, half a nutmeg grated, pepper, fait, and a little lemon peel fhred fmall, make a light fluffing with the yolks' of four eggs, obferve to make it one hour before you want it. Tojl ew Ducks. TAKE three young ducks, lard them down each fide the breafl, dull them with flour and fet them before the fire to brown, then put them in a ftew-pan with a quart of water, a pint of red wine, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, one anchovy, half a lemon, a clove of garlick, a bundle of fweet herbs, Chyan pepper to your tafle, let them flew flowly for half an hour or till they are tender, lay them on a difh and keep them hot, fkim off the fat, ftrain your gravy through a hair fieve, add to it a few morels and truffles, boil it quick till reduced to little more than half a pint, pour it over you ducks 1THE EXPERIENCED 128 ducks and ferve it up. It is proper for a fide difh for dinner, or bottom for fupper. To flew Ducks with Green Peas. HALF road your ducks, then put them into a dew-pan with a pint of good gravy, a little mint, and three or four fage leaves chopped fmall, cover them clofe and flew them half an hour, boil a pint of green peas as for eating, and put them in after you have thickened the gravy; difh up your ducks and pour the gravy and peas over therm Ducks ii-la-braize* DRESS and finge your ducks, lard them quite through with bacon rolled in fhred par- ley, thyme, onions, beaten mace, cloves, pepper and fait, put in the bottom of a dew-pan a few flices of fat bacon, the fame of ham or gammon of bacon, two or three flices of veal or beef, lay your ducks in with the bread: down, and cover the ducks with flices the fame as put under them, cut in a carrot or two, a turnip, one onion, a head of celery, a blade of mace, four or five cloves, a little whole pepper, cover them clofe down, and let them fimmer a little over a gentle dove till the bread is a light brown, then put in feme broth or water, cover them as clofe down again as you can, flew them gently betwixt two and three hours till enough, then take parfley, onion, or fhalot, two anchovies, a few gherkins or caper^, chop them all very fine, put them in a dew-pan with part of the liquor from the ducks, a little browning, and the juice of half a lemon, boil it iENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 129 it up, and cut the ends of the bacon even with the bread: of your ducks* lay them on your difh, pour the fauce hot upon them, and ferve them up $ fomeput garlick inftead of onions. Ducks a-la-mode« SLIT two ducks down the back, and bone them carefully, make a forcemeat of the crumbs of a penny loaf, four ounces of fat bacon fcraped, a little parfley, thyme, lemon peel, two fhalots, or onions flared very fine, with pepper, fait and nutmeg to your tafte, and two eggs, fluff your ducks with it and few them up, lard them down each fide of the breaft with bacon, dredge them well with flour, and put them in a Dutch oven to brown, then put them into a Aew-pan with three pints of gravy, a glafs of red wine, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of walnut and mufliroom catchup, one of browning, and one anchovy, with Chyan pepper to your tafte, flew them gently over a flow fire for an hour, when enough, thicken your gravy, and put in a few truffles and morels, ft rain your gravy and pour it upon them.—You may a-la-mode a goofe the fame way. Pigeons compote. TAKE fix young pigeons and fkewer them as you do for boiling, put forcemeat into the craws, lard them down the breaft, and fry them brown, then put them into aftrong brown gravy, and let them flew three quarters of an hour, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, K whenijo THE EXPERIENCED Iv'beiT you di(h them up, lay forcemeat balls round them* and ftrain th-e gravy over them,—* The forcemeat mu ft be made thus : grate the crumbs of half a penny loaf, and fcrape a quar- ter of a pound of fat bacon, in (lead of fuet, chop a little parfley, thyme, two fhalots oran onion, grate a little nutmeg, lemon peel, fome pepper and fait, mix them all up with eggs.— It is proper fora top difh for a fecond courfe, or afide difli for the firft. Pigeons in a hole. PICK, draw, and wafh four young pigeons, flick their legs in the belly as you do boiled pigeons, feafon them with pepper, fait, and beaten mace, put into the belly of every pigeon a lump of butter the fze of a walnut, lay your pigeons in a pye difih, pour over them a batter made of three eggs, two fpoonfuia of flour, and half a pint of good milk, bake it in a moderate oven, and ferve them to table in the fame dilh* Pigeons tranfmagnified. PICK, and clean fix fmall young pigeons, but do not cut off their heads, cut off their pi- nions, and boil them ten minutes in water, then cut off the ends of fix large cucumbers and fcrape out the feeds, put in your pigeons, but let the heads be cut at the ends of the cucumbers, and flick a bunch of barberries in their bills, and then put them into a tolling pan with a pint of veal gravy, a little anchovy, a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of browning, a little flice of lemon, ChyanENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 131 Chvan and fait to your tafte, (lew them feven minutes, take them out, thicken your gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, boil it up and ftrain it over your pigeons, and ferve them up. *To broil Pigeons. TAKE young pigeons, pick and draw them, fplit them down the back, and feafon them with pepper and fait, lay them on the gridiron with the breafl: upward, then turn them, but be care- ful you do not burn the Ikin, rub them over with butter, and keep turning them till they are enough, difli them up, and lay round them ' crifped parfley, and pour over them melted but- ter, or gravy, which you pleafe, and fend them up. 2$ boil Pigeons in Rice. WHEN you have picked and drawn your pi- geons, turn the legs under the wings and cut off the pinions, then lay over every pigeon thin dices of bacon, and a large beet leaf, wrap them in clean cloths feparately, and boil them till enough, have ready four ounces of rice boiled foft, and put into a fieve to drain, put the rice into a little good veal gravy thickened withrflour and butter, boil your rice a little in the gravy, and add two fpoonfuls of good cream, take your pigeons^out of the cloths and leave on the bacon and beet leaves, pour the rice over them and ferve them up. K 2132 THE EXPERIENCED <To fricando Pigeons. PICK, draw, and wafh your pigeons very clean, fluff the craws, and lard them down the fide of the breaft, fry them in butter a fine brown, and then put them into a toffing-pan with a quart of gravy, flew them till they are tender, then take off the fat, and put in a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large fpoonful of browning, the fame of walnut catchup, a little Chyan and fait, thicken your gravy and add half an ounce of morels, and four yolks of hard eggs ; lay the pigeons in your difh, and put the morels and eggs round them, and flrain your fauce over them : garniih with barberries and lemon peel, and ferve it up. / Jugged Pigeons, TAKE fix pigeons, pluck and draw them, wafh them clean and dry them with a cloth, feafon them with beaten mace, white pepper, and fait, put them in a jug, and put half a pound of butter upon them, flop up your jug clofe with a cloth that no fleam can get out, fet it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it boil one hour and a half, then take out your pigeons, and put the gravy that is come from the pigeons into a pan, and put to it one fpoonful of wine, one of catchup, a flice of lemon, half arr an- chovy chopped fmall, and a bundle of fweet herbs, boil it a little, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, lay your pigeons on the difh, and flrain the gravy on them : garnifh with parfleyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 133 parfley and red cabbage, and ferve them up, you may lay mufhrooms or forcemeat balls, —It is a pretty fide or corner difh. Boiled Pigeons and Bacon. TAKE fix young pigeons, wafh them clean as before, turn their legs under their wings, boil them in milk and water by themfelves twenty minutes, have ready boiled a fquare piece of bacon, take off the fkin and brown it, put the bacon in the middle of your diih, and lay the pigeons round it, and lumps of ftewed fpinage, pour plain melted butter over them, and fend parfley and butter in a boat. Pigeons fricajfee. CUT your pigeons as you would do chick® ens for fricaflee, fry them a light brown, thpn put them into fome good mutton gravy, and flew them near half an hour, and then put in half an ounce of morels, a fpoonful of browning, and a flice of lemon, take up your pigeons, and thicken your gravy, (train it over your pigeons, and lay round them forcemeat balls, andgarnifii with pickles. Partridge in panes. HALF roaft two partridges, and take the fiem from them, and mix it with the crumbs of a penny loaf fteeped in rich gravy, fix ounces of beef marrow, or half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, ten morels boiled foft and cut fmall, two artichoke bottoms boiled and hired fmall.\ f34 THE EXPERIENCED or the yolks of three eggs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, and fhred lemon peel to your palate, work them together, and bake them in moulds the drape of an egg, and ferve them up cold or in jelly : gar- ni fh with curled parfley. Tdojlew Partridges. TRUSS your partridges as for roafling, Huff the craws, and lard them down each fide of the bread, then roll a lump of butter in pepper, fait, and beaten mace, and put it into the bellies, few up the vents, dredge them well and fry them a light brown, then put them into a dew-pan with a quart of good gravy, a fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame of mufhroom catchup, a tea- fpoonfui of lemon pickle, and half the quantity of mufhroom powder, one anchovy, half a le- mon, a fprig of fweet marjoram, cover the pan clofe, and flew them half an hour, then take them out and thicken the gravy, boil it a little and pour it over the partridges, and lay round them artichoke bottoms boiled and cut in quar- ters, and the yolks of four hard eggs, if agree*# able. / eToJl ew Partridges^fecond Way. TAKE three partridges when dreffed, dnge them, blanch and beat three ounces of almonds, and grate the fame quantity of fine white bread, chop three anchovies, mix them with fix ounces of butter, duff the partridges, and few them up at both ends, trufs them, and wrap dices of fat bacon round them, half road them, then take oneENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 135 one and puli the meat off the bread:, and beat it in a marble mortar, with the forcemeat it was fluffed with, have ready a ftrong gravy made of ham and veal, ftrain it into a ftew-pan, then take the bacon off the other two, wipe them clean, and put them into the gravy with a good deal of fhalots, let them flew till tender, then take them out, and boil the gravy till it is almoft as thick as bread fauce, then add to it a glafs of fweet oil, the fame of Champagne, and the juice of a China orange, put your partridges in, and make them hot: garnifh with flices of bacon and lemon. T0Jlew a Hare, WHEN you have paunched and cafed your hare, cut her as for eating, put her into a large fauce-pan with three pints of beef gravy, a pint of red wine, a large onion ftuck with cloves, a bundle of winter favory, a flice of horfe radifh, two blades of beaten mace, one anchovy, a fpoonful of walnut Gr mum catchup, one of browning, half a lemon, Chyan and fait to your tafte, put on aclofe cover, and fet it over a gentle Sre, and flew it for two hours, then take it up into a foup difh, and thicken your gravy with a lump of butter rolled in flour, boil it a little, and ftrain it over your hare: garnifh with lemon peel cut like ftraws, and ferve it upc To jug a Hare. CUT the hare as for eating, feafon it with pepper, fait, and beaten mace, put it into a jug K 4 or136 THE EXPERIENCED or pitcher, with a clofe top, pat to it a bundle of fweet herbs, and fet it in a kettle of boiling water, let it ftand till it is tender, then take it lip and pour the gravy into a tolling pan, with a glafs of red wine, one anchovy, a large onion ftuck with cloves, a little beaten mace, and Chyan pepper to your tafle, boil it a little and thicken it: diih up your hare and fcrain the gravy over it, then fend it up. To for en dine a Hare. * TAKE a grown hare, and let her hang up four or five days, then cafe her, and leave on the ears, and take out all the bones except the head which rnoft be left on whole, lay your hare flat on the table, and layover the infidea forcemeat, and then roll it up to the head, flcewer it with the head and ears leaning back, tie it with pack- thread as you would a collar of veal, wrap it in a cloth and boil it an hour and a half in a fauce- pan, with a cover on it, with two quarts of water; when your liquor is reduced to one quart put in a pint of red wine, a fpoonful of lemon pickle, and one of catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and flew it till it is reduced to a pint, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, lay round your hare a few morels, and four flices of forcemeat, boiled in a caul of a leg of veal : when you difi it up, draw the iaw bones, and (tick them in the eyes for horns, let the ears lie back on the roll; and ftick a fprig of myrtle in the mouth, ftrain over your lauce, and ferve it up : garnifh with barberries and parfley.———Forcemeat for the hare;ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 137 hare: take the crumb of a penny loaf, the liver Hired fine, half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, a glafs of red wine, one anchovy, two eggs, a little winter favory, fweet marjoram, lemon thyme, pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your tafte. To hodge-podge a Hare, CUT the hare in pieces as you do for feew- ing, and put it in the pitcher, with two or three onions, fome fait and a little pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs and a piece of butter: Hop the pitcher very clofe, that no fleam may get out, fet it in a kettle full of boiling water, keep the kettle filled upas the water wades, let it flew four or five hours at lead. You may when you firdput in the hare into the kettle put in lettuce, cucumbers, celery, and turnips if you like it better. To jlorendine R a b b i t s . TAKE three young rabbits, fkin them, but leave on the ears, walk and dry them with a cloth, takeout the bones carefully, leaving the head whole, then lay them flat, make a force- meat of a quarter of a pound of bacon ("craped, it anfwers better than fuet, it makes the rabbits eat tenderer and whiter; add to the bacon the crumbs of a penny loaf, a little lemon thyme, or lemon peelfhred fine, parfley chopped fmall, nutmeg,Chyan, and fait toyourpalate: mix them up together with tin egg, and fpread it over the rabbits, roll them up to the head, fkewer them ftraight, and clofe the ends to prevent the force- meat112$ THE EXPERIENCED meat from coming out, fkewer the ears back, and tie them in feparate cloths, and boil them half an hour : when you difh them up take out the jaw-bones, and flick them in the eyes for ears, put round them forcemeat balls and mufh- rooms, have ready a white fauce made of veal gravy, a little anchovy, the juice of half a le- mon, or a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, ftraia it, take a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, fo as to make the fauce pretty thick, keep flirring it whilft the flour is diffolving, beat the yolk of an egg, put to it fome thick cream, nutmeg, and fait, mix it with the gravy, and let it fimmer a little over the fire, but not boil, for it will curdle the cream, pour it over the rab- bits, and ferve it up* R A b b i t s fur prized. TAKE young rabbits, fkewer them, and put the famepuddingas for theroafted rabbits, when they are roafted, draw out the jaw-bones and flick them in the eyes to appear like horns, then take off all the meat from the back clean from the bones, but leave them whole, chop the meat exceeding fine with a little fhred parfley, lemon peel, one ounce of beef marrow, a fpoonful of good cream, and a little fait, beat the yolks of tv/o hard eggs, and a piece of butter the fixe of a walnut, in a marble mortar, very fine, then mix all together, and put it in a tolling-pan, when it has dewed five minutes, lay it on the rabbit when you take the meat off, and put it clofe down with your hand, to appear like a whole aENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. _ 139 whole rabbit, then heat a falamander, and brown it all over, pour a good brown gravy made as thick as cream in the difh, ftick a bunch of myrtle in their mouths, and ferve them up with their livers broiled and frothed. Eh frica[fee Rabbits brown. CUT your rabbits as for eating, fry them in butter a light brown, put them into a toffing- pan, with a pint of water, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, the fame of browning, one anchovy, a flice of lemon, Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte, ftew them over a flow fire till they are enough, thicken your gravy, and ftrain it, difh up your rabbits, and pour the gravy over. Eh fricajfee Rabbits white. CUT your rabbits as before, and put them into a toffing-pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, one anchovy, a flice of lemon, a little beaten mace, Chyan pep- per and fait, ftew them over a flow fire, when they are enough, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, ftrain it, then add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a large tea-cupful of thick cream, and a little nutmeg grated in it, do not let it boil, and ferve it up. Eh make a nice Whet before Dinner. , CUT fome dices of bread half an inch thick, fry them in butter, but not too hard, then fplit fomei4o THE EXPERIENCED fome anchovies, takeout the bones, and lay half an anchovy on each piece of bread, have ready fome Chedsire checfe grated, and fome chopped parfley mixedtogether, lay it pretty thick over the bread and anchovy, bafte it with butter, and brown it with a falamander : it muft be done on the difh in which you fend it to table. A fine Harico, by way of Soup. GET a large neck of mutton, cut it in two parts, put the fcrag part into a ftew-pan with four large turnips and four carrots in a gallon of water, let it boil gently over a flow fire till all the goodnefs is out of the meat, but not boiled to pieces, then bruife the turnips and two of the carrots fine intothefoup, by way of thickening it, cut and fry fix onions in nice butter, and put them in, then cut the other part of the mutton in very good chops not too large^ fry them in butter, and put them to thefoup, and let it flew very flow till the chops are very ten~ der, cut the other two carrots that were boiled into any fhape, and put them in juft before you take it off the fire, and feafon it to your tafte with pepper and fait, and ferveit up very hot in a foup difli. A Harico /Mutton Lamb. CUT a neck or loin of mutton or lamb in nice fteaks and fry them a light brown, have ready fome good gravy made of the fcrag of the mutton, and fome veal with a piece of lean bacon and a few capers, feafon to your tafte withENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 14* with pepper, fait, rhyme, and onions, which mu ft be ftrainedoff and added to the (leaks, juft one hour before you fend them to the table; take care to do it on a flow fire, difh them up handfomely with turnips and carrots cut in dice, with a good deal of gravy thickened with a piece of butter rolled in a very little flour; if they are not tender they will not be good. Send them up very hot. To Harico a Neck of Mutton a fecondWay. TAKE a neck of mutton and cut it into chops, flour them, and put them into a flew- pan, fet them over the fire, and keep them turning till brown, then take them out and put a little more into the fame pan, and keep it ftir- ring till brown over the fire, with a bunch of fweet herbs, a bay leaf, an onion, and what other fpice you pleafe ; boil them well together and then ftrain the broth through a fieve into an earthen pan by itfelf, and fkim the fat off, which done, is a good gravy, then add turnips and carrots, with two fmall onions, a little celery, then place your mutton in a ftew-pan with the celery and other roots, then put the gravy to them, and as much water as will cover them : keep it over a gentle fire till ready to ferve up. A Lodge podge of Mutton. CUT a neck or loin of mutton into fleaks, takeoff all the fat; then put the (leaks into a pitcher, with lettuce, turnips, carrots, two cu- 7 cumbers142 THE EXPERIENCED cucumbers cut in quarters, four or five onions, and pepper and fait; you muft not put any Hvater to it, and ftop the pitcher very clofe, then let it in a pan of boiling water, let it boil four hours, keep the pan fupplied with frefh boiling water as it waftes. To drefs Cucumbers with Eggs. TAKE fix large young cucumbers, pare, quarter, and cut them into fquares, about the fize of a dice, put them into boiling water, let them boil up, and take them out of the water, and put them into a flew-pan, with an onion Ruck with cloves, a good Dice of ham, a quar- tern of butter, and a little fait, fet it over the fire a quarter of an hour, keep it clofe covered, feum it well, and fhake it often, as it is apt to burn; then dredge in a little flour over them, and put in as much veal gravy as will juft cover the cucumbers, and ftir it well together and keep a gentle fire under it till no fcum will rife; then take out the ham and onion, and put in the yolks of two eggs beat up with a tea cupful of good cream, ftir it well for a minute, then take it off the fire, and juft before you put it in the difh fqueeze in a little lemon juice : have ready- five or fix poached eggs to lay on the top. ToJiew Peas. TAKE a quart of young peas, wafh them and put them into a ftew pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, three cabbage lettuces cut fmall, five or fix young onions, with a little thyme, * *ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 143 / , thyme, parfley, pepper and fait, and let them flew all together for a quarter of an hour, then put to them a pint of gravy, with two or three ilices of bacon or ham, and let them flew all together till the peas are enough, then thicken them up with a quarter of a pound of butter, rolled in flour. To fricaffee Mushrooms, PEEL and fcrape the infide of the mufh- rooms, throw them into fait, and water, if but- tons, rub them with flannel, take them out and boil them with frefh fait and water, when they are tender putin a little fhred parfley, an onion flock Vvith cloves, tofs them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour; you may put in three fpoonfuls of thick cream, and a lit- tle nutmeg cut in pieces, but take care to take out the nutmeg and onion before you ferve it to table; you may leave out the parfley, and flew in a glafs of wine, if you like it. CHAP, Va Obfer'nations on Pies. RAISED pies fhould have a quick oven, and well clofed up, or your pie will fall in the lides; it fhould have no water put in, till the minute it goes to the oven, it makes the cruft fad.144 THE experienced fad, and is a great hazard of the pie running.— Light pafte requires a moderate oven, but not too flow, it will make them fad, and a quick oven will catch and burn it, and not give it time to rife; tarts that are.iced require a flow oven or the icing will be brown, and the pafte not be near baked.—Thefe fort of tarts ought to be made of fugar pafte, and rolled very thin. Tomake crifp Paste for Tarts. TAKE one pound of fine flour mixed with one ounce of loaf fugar beat and lifted, make it into a ftirf pafte with a gill of boiling cream, and three ounces of butter in it, work it well, roll it very thin, when you have made your tarts beat the white of an egg a little, rub it over them with a feather, lift a little double refined fugar over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Icing a fecond Way. BEAT the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, put in by degrees four ounces of double refined fugar, with as much gum as will lie on a fix- pence, beat and fifted fine, beat them half an hour, then lay it over your tarts the thicknefs of a ftraw. To make alight Paste for Tarts. TAKE one pound of fine flour, beat the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, mix it with as much water as will make three quarters of a poundENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 145 pound of flour into a pretty ftiff pafte, roll it out very thin, lay the third part of half a pound of butter in thin pieces, dredge it with part of the quarter of your flour you left out for that pur- pofe, roll it up tight, then with your pafle-pin roll it out again, do fo until all your half pound of butter and flour is done, cut it in lquare pieces, and make your tarts ;it requires a quicker oven than crifp pafte. To make an Apple Tart. SCALD eight or ten large codlins, when cold (kin them, take the pulp and beat it as fine as you can with a filver fjpoon, then mix the yolks of fix eggs and the whites of four, beat all together as fine as poffible, put in grated nut- meg and fugar to your tafte, melt fome fine frefh butter, and beat it till it is like a fine thick cream, then make a fine puff pafte, and cover a tin petty-pan with it, and pour in the ingre- dients, but do not cover it with the pafte ; bake it a quarter of an hour, then flip it out of the petty-pan on a difh, and ftrew flue fugar finely beat and lifted all over it. To make Paste for a Goose Pye. TAKE eighteen pounds of fine flour, put fi# pounds of frefh butter, and one pound of ren- dered beef fuet in a kettle of water, boitittwo or three minutes, then pour it boiling hot upon your flour, work it well into a pretty ftiff pafte, pull it in lumps to cool, and raife your pye, bake L iti46 THE EXPERIENCED it in a hot oven $ you may make any raifed pye the fame way, only take a fmailer quantity in proportion. To make a cold Paste for Dish Pies. V TAKE a pound of fine flour, rub it into half a pound of butter, beat the yolks of two eggs, put them into as much water as will make it a ftiff pafte, roll it out, then put your butter on in thin pieces, dull it with flour, roll it up tight, when you have done it fo for three times, roll it out pretty thin, and bake it in a quick oven* To make Paste for Custarts. PUT half a pound of butter in a pan of wa- ter, take two pounds of flour, when your but- ter boils, pour it on your flour, with as much water as will make it into a good pafte, work it well, and when it has cooled a little raife your cuftards, put a paper round the infide of them, when they are half baked fill them.—When you make any kind of dripping pafte, boil it four or five minutes in a good quantity of water to take the ftrength off it \ when you make a cold cruft with fuet, fhred it fine, pour part of it into the flour, then make it into a pafte, and roll it out as before (only ftrew in it fuet inftead of butter). To make a French Pye. TO two pounds of flour put three quarters of a pound of butter, make it into a pafte, and raifeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 147 raife the walls of the pye, then roll out foms pafle thin as for a lid, cut it into vine leaves, or the figures of any moulds you have, if you have, do moulds, you may make ufe of a crocran, and pick out pretty fhapes, beat the yolks of two eggs, and rub the outfide of the walls of the pye with it, and lay the wine leaves or fhapes round the walls, and rub them over with the eggs, fill the pye with the bones of the meat, to keep the fleam in, that the cruft may be well foaked; it is to go to table without a lid. TAKE a calf’s head, wafh and clean it well, boil it half an hour, when it is cold cut it in thin llices, and put it in a toffing-pan with three pints of veal gravy, and three fweet-breads cut thin, and let it flew one hour, with half an ounce of morels, and half an ounce of truffles, then have ready two calves feet boiled and boned, cut them in i'mall pieces, and put them into your tolling pan, with a fpoonful of lemon pickle and one of browning, Chyan pepper, and a little fait, when the meat is tender thicken the gravy a little with flour and butter, drain it, and put in a few pickled muihrooms, but frefh ones if you can get them ; put the meat into the pye you take the bones out, and lay the niceft part at the top, have ready a quarter of an hun- dred of afparagus heads, ftrew them over the top of the pye and ferve it up*i'4S THE EXPERIENCED / A Yorkjhire Goose Pye. TAKE a large fat goofe, fplit it down the back, and take all the bones out, bone a turkey and two ducks the fame way, feafon them very well with pepper and fait, with fix woodcocks, lay the goofe down on a clean difh, with the fkin-fide down and lay the turkey into the goofe with the fkin down, have ready a large5 hare cleaned well, cut in pieces, and flewed in the oven, with a pound of butter, a quarter of an ounce of mace beat fine, the fame of white pepper and fait to your tafte, till the meat will leave the bones, and fcum the butter off the gravy, pick the meat clean off, and beat it in a marble mortar very fine, with thebutteryou took off, and lay it in the turkey ; take twenty-four pounds of the fineft flour, fix pounds of butter, half a pound of frefh rendered fuet, make the pafte pretty thick, and raife the pye oval, roll out a lump of pafte, and cut it in vine leaves, or what form you pleafe, rub the pye with the yolks of eggs, and put your ornaments on the walls, then turn the hare, turkey, and goofe upfide- down, and lay them in your pye, with the ducks at each end and the woodcocks on the lides, make your lid pretty thick and put it on; you may lay flowers, or the fhape of the fowls in pafte, on the lid, and make a hole in the mid- dle of your lid; the walls of the pye are to be one inch and a half higher than the lid, then rub it all over with the yolks of eggs, and bind it round with three fold paper, and lay the fame overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 149 over the top; it will take four hours baking in a brown bread oven, when it comes out, melt two pounds of butter in the gravy that comes from the hare, and pour it hot in the pye through a tun difh, clofe it well up, and let it be eight or ten days before you cut it; if you fend it any diftance, make up the hole in the middle with cold butter to prevent the air from getting in. A Hare Pye. CUT a large hare in pieces, feafon it well with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, put it in a jug with half a pound of butter, cover it clofe up with a pafte or cloth, fet it in a copper of boiling water, and let it ftew one hour and a half, then take it out to cool, and make a rich forcemeat of a quarter of a pound of fcraped bacon, two onions, a glafs of red wine, the crumb of a penny l&af, a little winter favory* the liver cut fmall, a little nutmeg, feafon it high with pepper and fait, mix it well up with the yolks of three eggs, raife the pye and lay the forcemeat in the bottom, lay in the hare, with the gravy that came out of the hare, lay the lid on, and put flowers or leaves on it; it will take an hour and a half to bake it.—It is a handfome fide difh for a large table. A Salmon Pye. BOIL your falmon as for eating, take off the ikin, and all the bones out and pound the meat in a mortar very fine, with mace, nutmeg, pep- per, and fait to your tafte, raife the pye and put flowers or leaves on the walls, put the falmon in L 3 and150 THE EXPERIENCED and lid it, bake it an hour and a half, when it comes out of the oven take off the lid, and put in four ounces of rich melted butter, cut a lemon in Dices, and lay over it, flick in two or three leaves of fennel, and fend it to table without a lid. A Beef Steak Pye. BEAT five or fix rump (leaks very well with a pafle pin, and feafon them well with pepper and fait, lay a good puff pafle round the difh and put a little water in the bottom, then lay the fleaks in, with a lump of butter upon every fleak, and put on the lid, Cota little pafle in what form you pleafe, and lay it on. ^Thatched House Pye. TAKE an earthen difh that is pretty deep, rub the in fide with two ounces of butter, then fpread over it two ounces of vermicelli, make a good puff pafle, and roll it pretty thick, and lay it on the difh ; take three or four pigeons, feafon them very well with pepper and fait, and put a good lump ot butter in them, and lay them in the difh with the breafl down, and put a thick lid over them, and bake it in a moderate oven ; when enough take the difh you intend for it, and turn the pye on it, and the vermicelli will appear like thatch, which gives it the name of thatched houie pye.——-—It is a pretty fide or corner difh for a large dinner, or a bottom for fupper. EggENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 151 Egg ^WBacon Pye to eat cold. STEEP a few thin flices of bacon all night in water to take out the fait, lay your bacon in the di(h, beat eight eggs, with a pint of thick cream, put in a little pepper and fait, and pour it on the bacon, lay over it a good cold pafte, bake it a day before you want it in a moderate oven. A Calf’s Head Pye. PARBOIL a calf’s head, when cold cut it in pieces, fealon it with pepper and fait, put it in a raifed cruft, with half a pint of firong gravy, bake it an hour and a half, when it comes out of the oven, cut off the lid, and chop the yolks of three hard eggs fmall, ftrew them over the top of the pye, and lay three or four flices of lemon, and pour on fome good melted butter, and fend it to the table without a lid. Afavoury Chicken Pye. LET your chickens be fmall, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait, put a lump of but- ter into every one of them, lay them in a difli with the breads up, and lay a thin ILce of bacon over them, it will give them a plealant flavour, then putin a pint of ftrong gravy, and make a good puff pafte, lid it and bake it in a moderate oven : French cooks generally put morels and yolks of eggs chopped fmall. L 4 ATHE EXPERIENCED «5* A Mince Pye. BOIL a neat’s tongue two hours, then fkin It, and chop it as fmall as poffible, chop very fmall three pounds of frefh beef fuet, three pounds of good baking apples, four pounds of currants cleaned wafhed, picked, and well dried before the fire, one pound of jar raifins ftoned, and chopped fmall, and one pound of powder fugar, mix them all together with half an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmeg grated, cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce of each, and one pint of French brandy, and make a rich puff pafte $ as you fill the pye up, put in a little candied citron and orange cut in little piece! ; what you have to fpare put clofe down in a pot and cover it up; put no citron or orange in till you ufe it* To make a Mince Pye without Meat. CHOP fine three pounds of fuet, and three pounds of apples,, when pared and cored, wafh and dry three pounds of currants, ftone and chop one pound of jar raifins, beat and fift one pound and a half of loaf fugar, cut fmall twelve ounces of candied orange peel, and fix ounces of citron, mix all well together w ith a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, half a quarter of an ounce of cin- namon, fix or eight cloves, and half a pint of French brandy, pot it clofe up, and keep it for ufesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 153 I A Codling Pye. GATHER fmall codlings, put them In a clean, brafs pan with fpring water, lay vine leaves on them, and cover them with a cloth wrapped round the cover of a pan to keep in the fteam, when they grow foftdh peel off the fkin, and put them in the fame water with the vine leaves, hang them a great height over the fire to green, when you ice them a fine green, take them out of the water and put them in a deep diih, with as much powder or loaf lugar as will fweetea them, make the lid of iich puff pafte, and bake it; when it comes from the oven take off the lid, and cut it in little pieces like fippits, and itick them round the infide of the pye with the points upward, pour over your codiins a good cuftard made thus. Boil a pint of cream, with a (tick of cinnamon, and iugar enough to make it a little Iweet, let it Hand till cold, then put in the yolks of four eggs well beaten, fetit on the fire and keep ftirring it till itgrows thick, but do not let it boil, left it curdle, then pour it into your pye, pare a little lemon thin, cut the peel like ftraws, and lay it on your codhnsover the top. An Here Pye for Lent. TAKE lettuce, leeks, fpinnage, beets, and parfley, of each a handful, give them a boil, then chop them fo all, andhaveready boiled in a cloth one quart of groats, with two or three onions in them, put them in a frying pan with the herbs154 the experienced and a good deal of fait, a pound of butter, and a few apples cot thin, flew them a few minutes over the fire, fill your difh or railed cruft with it j one hour will bake it j then ferve it up. ^Venison Pasty. BONE a breaft orfhoulder of venifon, feafon it well with mace, pepper, and fait, lay it in a deep pot with the beft part of a leg of mutton, cut in dices, and laid over the venifon, pour in a large glafs of red wine, put a coarfe pafte over it and bake it two hours in an oven, then lay the venifon in a difh, and pour thegravy overit, and put one pound of butter over it; make a good puff pafte, and lay it near half an inc'h thick, round the edgeof the difh, rollout the lid, which muftbe a little thicker than thepafteon the edge cf the difh, and lay it on, then roll out another Kd pretty thin and cut in flowrs, leaves, or whatever form you pleafe, and lay it on the lid ; ifyoudo not want it, it will keep in the pot that it was baked in eight or ten days, but keep the cruft on to prevent the airfromgetting into it.— A breaft and fhouider of venifon is the moft proper for apafty. An Hottentot Pye. BOIL and bone two calves feet, clean very well acalPs chitterling, boil it and chop it fniall, take two chickens and cut them up as for eat- ing, put them in a ftew-pan, with two fweet- breads, a quart of veal or mutton gravy, half an ounce of morels, Chyan pepper and fait to your 7 palate,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. *5$ palate, few them all together an hour over a gentle fire, then put in fix forcemeat balls that. have been boiled, and the yolks of four hard eggs, and put them in a good raifed cruft that has been baked for it, ftrew over the top of , your pye a few green peas boiled as for eating; or peel, and cut fome young green brocoli ftalks about the fize of peas, give them a gentle boil, and ftrew them over the top of your pye, and fend it up hot without a lid, the fame way as the French pye. A Bride's Pye. BOIL two calves feet, pick the meat from the bones, and chop it very fine, (hred fmall one pound of beef fuet, and a pound of apples, wafh and pick one pound of currants very fmall, dry them before the fire, ftone and chop a quarter of apound of jar raifins, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, the fame of mace and nutmeg, two ounces of candied citron, two ounces of candied lemon cut thin, a glafs of brandy and one of champagne, put them in a China difh with a rich puff pafte over it, roll another lid and cut it in leaves, flowers, figures, and put a glafs ring in It. An Eel Pye. SKIN and wafh your eels very clean, cut them in pieces one inch and a half long, feafon them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage rubbed fmall, raife your pies about the fize of the inlide of a plate, fill your pies with eels, layi5S THE EXPERIENCED lay a lid over them, and bake them in a quick oven : they require to be well baked. To make ^ Lobster Pye. TAKE two or three good frefh lobfters, take out all the meat and cut it in large pieces, put a fine puff pafte round the edge of your difh, then put in a layer of lobfters, and a layer of oyfters, with bread crumbs and fiices of but- ter, a little pepper and fait, then a layer of lob- fters, &c. till your difh is full, then take the red part of the lobfter, pound it fine with chopped oyfters, crumbs of bread, and a little butter; make them intofmall balls and fry them, then lay them upon the top of your pye; boil the {hells of your oyfters to make a little gravy, put to it a little pepper and fait and the oyfter liquor, ftrain it through a fieve, and fill your pye with it, then lay on your cruft, and ftick a few finall claws in the middle of your pye, and fend it to the oven.—It is a genteel corner difh for dinner. A Torkfhire Giblet Pye. WHILST the blood of your goofe is warm put in a teacup-ful of groats to fwell, grate the crumbs of a penny loaf, and pour a gill of boil- ing milk on them, fhred half a pound of beef fuet very fine, chop two leaks, and four or five leaves of fage fmall, three yolks of eggs, pepper, fait, and ilutmeg to your palate, mix them all up together, have ready the giblets feafoned very well with pepper and fait, and lay them round a deep difh, then put a pound of fat beef overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 157 the pudding in the middle of the dift, pour in half a pint of gravy, lay on a good pafte, ;ind bake it in a moderate oven. A Rook Pye. SKIN and drawfixyoung rooks, and cut out the back bones, feafon them well with pepper and fait, put them in a deep dift with a quar- ter of a pint of water, lay over them half a pound of butter, make a good puff pafte, and cover the difti, lay a paper over, for it requires a good deal of baking. Afweet Veal Pye. LAY marrow or beef fuet fhred very fine in the bottom of your dift, cut into fteaks the beft end of a neck of veal, and lay them in, ftrew over them fome marrow or fuet, it makes them eat tenderer, ftone a quarter of a pound of jar raifins, chop them alittle, waft half a pound of currants and put them over the fteaks, cut three ounces of candied citron, and two ounces of candied orange, and lay them on the top, boil half a pint of fweet mountain or fack, with a ftick of cin- namon, and pour it in, lay alight pafte round the difti, and then lid it, an hour will bake it; when it comes out of the oven, put in a glafs of French brandy orftirub, and ferve it up. An Olive Pye* CUT a fillet of veal in thin flices, rub them over with yblks of eggs, ftrew over them a few crumbsI5S THE EXPERIENCED crumbs of bread, fhred a little lemon peel very1 fine, and put it on them with a little ^rated nut- meg, pepper, and fait, roll them up very tight, and lay them in a pewter difh, pour over them half a pint of good gravy made of bones, put half a pound of butter over it, make a light pafte, and lay it round the difh, roll the lid half an inch thic k, and lay it bn.—Make a beef olive pye the fame way. Afavoury Veal Pye. CUT a loin of veal into fteaks, feafon it with beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, lay the meat in your difh with Iweet-breads feafoned with the meat, and the yolks of fix hard eggs, a pint of oyflers, and half a pintof good gravy, lay round your difh a good puff' pafte, half an inch thick, and cover it with a lid the fame thicknefs, bake it in a quick oven an hour and a quarter ; when you take it out of the oven, cut off the lid, then cut the lid in eight or ten pieces, and flick it round the inline of the rim, cover the meat with flices of lemon, and ferve it up. Tfo makefdvoury Patties. TAKE one pound of the inftde of a cold loin of veal, or the fame quantity of cold fowl, that have been either boiled or roafted, a quarter of a pound of bed fuel, chop them as frnali as pof- fible, with fix or eight fprigsof parfley, leafon them well with half a nutmeg grated fine, pep- per and /alt, put them in a toiling pan, with half a pint of veal gravy, thicken the gravy with a ' littleENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 159 little flour and butter, and two fpoonfuls of cream, and (hake them over the fire two minutes, and fill your patties. You muft make your patties thus: Raife them of an oval form, and bake them as for cuftaras, cut fome long nar- row bits of pafte, and bake them on a duffing box, but not togoround, they are for handles; fill your patties when quite hot with the meat, then fet your handies a-crofs the patties; they will look like bafkets if you have nicely pinched the walls of the patties, when you raifed them ; five will be a difb; you may make them with fugar and currants in Head of parfley. Fried Patties. CUT halfa pound of a leg of veal very final!, with fix oyfters, put the liquor of the oyfliers to the crumb of a penny loaf, mix them to- gether with a little fait, put it in a tofiing pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and keep ftirring it for three or four minutes over the fire, then make a good puff pafte, roll it out, and cut it in little bits about the iize of a crown piece, fome round, fquare, and three cornered, put a little of the meat upon them, and lay a lid on them, turn up the edges as you would a pafty, to keep the gravy in, fry them in a pan full of hog’s lard; they are a pretty corner difh for din- ner or fupper : if you want them for garnifh to a cod’s head, put in only oyfters ; they are very pretty for a calf s head hafh* Sweeti6o THE EXPERIENCED Sweet Patties. TAKE the meat of a boiled calf's foot, two large apples, and one ounce of candied orange, chop them very fmall, grate half a nutmeg, mix them with the yolk of an egg, a fpoonful of French brandy, and a quarter of a pound of currants clean wafhed and dried, make a good puff pafle, roll it in different lhapes, as the fried ones, and fill them the fame way; you may either bake or fry them.—They are a pretty fide difh for fupper. Common Patties. TAKE the kidney part of a very fat loin of veal, chop the kidney, veal, and fat very fmall all together, feafon it with mace, pepper, and fait, to your tafte, raife little patties tbefizeof a tea-cup, fill them with your meat, put thin lids on them, bake them very crifp, five is enough for a fide difh. To make fine Patties. SLICE either turkey, houfe lamb, or chicken, with an equal quantity of the fat of lamb, loin of veal, or the infide of a furloin of beef, a little parfley, thyme, and lemon peel fhred, put it all in a marble mortar, and pound it very fine, fea- fon it with white pepper and fait, then make a fine puff pafte, roll it out in thin fquare fheets, put the forcemeat in the middle, cover it over, clofe them all round, and cut the pafte even. Juft beforeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 161 before they go into the oven wafh them over with the yolk of an egg, and bake them twenty minutes in a quick oven ; have ready a little white gravy feafoned with pepper, fait, and a little fhalot, thickened up with a little cream or butter; as foon as the patties come out of the oven, make a hole in the top and pour in fome gravy, you muft take care not to put too much gravy in, for fear of its running out at the fides and fpoiling the patties* 5Vo make common Fritters* TAKE half a pint of ale and two eggs, beat in as much flour as will make it rather thicker than a common pudding, with nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, let it ftand three or four minutes to rife, then drop them with a fpoon into a pan of boiling lard, fry them a light brown, drain them on a fieve, ferve them up with fugar grated over them, and wine fauce in a boat* To make AppleTritters* PARE the iargeft baking apples you can get, take out the core with an apple fcraper, cut them in round flices, and dip them in batter, made as for common fritters, fry them crifp, ferve them up with fugar grated over them, and wine fauce in a boat.—They are proper for a fide difh for fupper* To make Clary Fritters. BEAT two eggs exceeding well with one Ipoonful of cream, one of ratafia water, one M ounce.THE EXPERIENCED ounce of loaf fugar, and two fpoonfuls of flour, grate in half a nutmeg, have ready wafhed and dried clary leaves, dip them in the batter and fry them a nice brown; ferve them up with quarters of Seville oranges, laid round them, and good melted butter in a boat. To make Raspberry Fritters. GRATE two Naples bifcuits, pour over them half a gill of boiling cream, when it is almofl cold, beat the yolks of four eggs to a ftrong froth, beat the bifcuits a little, then beat both together exceeding well, put to it two ounces of fugar, and as much juice of rafpberry as will make it a pretty pink colour, and give it a pro- per (harpnefs, drop them into a pan of boiling lard, the fize of a walnut; when you di(h them up, ftick bits of citron in fome, and blanched almonds cut lengthways in others j lay round them green and yellow fweetmeats and ferve them up. They are a pretty corner difh for either dinner or fupper. To make a Tansey Fritter. TAKE the crumb of a penny loaf, pour on it half a pint of boiling milk, let it Hand an hour, then put in as much juice of tanfey as will give it a flavour, but not to make it bitter, then make it a pretty green with the juice of fpinage, put to it a fpoonful of ratafia water, or brandy, fweeten it to your tafte, grate the rind of half a lemon, beat the yolks of four-eggs, mix them all together, put them in a toffing-pan with four ouncesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 16? ounces of butter, ftir it over a flow fire till it is quite thick, take it off, and let it ftand two or three hours, then drop them into a pan full of boiling lard, a fpoonful is enough for a fritter, ferve them up with .dices of orange round them, grate fugar over them, and winefauce in a boat. To make Plumb Fritters with Rice* GRATE the crumbs of a penny loaf, pour over it a pint of boiling cream, or good milk, let it ftand four or ftve hours, then beat it ex- ceeding fine, put to it the yolks of five eggs, four ounces of fugar, and a nutmeg grated 3 beat them well together, and fry them in hog’s lard ; drain them on a fie-ve, and ferve them up with white wine fauce under them, N. B. You may put currants in if youpleafe* To make Water Fritters. n * » TAKE a quart of water, five or fix fpoonfuls of flour (the batter mud be very thick) and a little fait; mix all thele together, and beat the yolks and white of eight eggs with a little brandy, then ftrain them through a hair fieve, and put them to the other things; the longer they ftand before you fry them the better. Juft before you fry them, melt about half a pound of butter very thick, and beat it well in 5 you muft not turn them, and take care not to bum them : the beft thing to fry them in is fine lard. Uz ~ 3f164 THE EXPERIENCED "To make French Bancees. TAKE half a pint of water, a bit of lemon peel, a bit of butter the bignefs of a walnut, a little orange-flower water; let thefe boil three or four minutes; then take out the lemon peel, and add to it a pint of flour, keep the water boiling and ftirring all the while till it is ftiff, then take it off the fire and put in fix eggs, leaving out the whites of three; beat thefe well for about half an hour, till they come to a ftiff pafte, drop them into a pan of boiling lard with a tea-fpoon ; if they are of a right lightnefs they will be very nice keep (baking the pan all the time till they are of a light brown. A large difli will take fix or feven minutes boiling ; when done enough, put them into a difh that will drain them, fet them by the fire, and ftrew7 fine fugar over them. To make German Puffs* PUT half a pint of good milk into a tolling- pan, and dredge it in flour till it is thick as hafty- pudding, keep ftirring it over a flow fire till it is all of a lump, then put it in a marble mortar ; when it is cold put to it the yolks of eight eggs, four ounces of fugar, a fpoonful of rofe water, grate a little nutmeg, and the rind of half a le- mon, beat them together an hour or more, when it looks light and bright, drop them into a pan of boiling lard with a tea-fpoon, the lize of a large nutmeg, they will rife and look like a large yellow7ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 165 yellow plumb if they are well beat: as you fry them, lay them on a fieve to drain, grate fugar round your difh, and ferve them up with fack for fauce.—It is a proper corner difh for dinner, or fupper. 1 ■To make Gofers. BEAT three eggs well, with three fpoonfuls of flour and a little fait, then mix them with a pint of milk, an ounce of fugar, and half a nut- meg grated, beat them well together, then make your gofer tongs hot, rub them with frefih but- ter, fill the bottom part of your tongs, and clap the top up, then turn them, and when a fine brown on both fides, put them in a difh, and pour white wine fauce over them, five is enough for a difh, do not lay them one upon another, it will make them foft.—You may put in currants if you pleafe. To make Wafer Pancakes. BEAT four eggs well with two fpoonfuls of fine flour, and two of cream, one ounce of loaf fugar, beat and lifted, half a nutmeg grated, put a little cold butter in a clean cloth, and rub your pan well with it, pour in your batter and make it as thin as a wafer, fry it only on one fide, put them on a difh, and grate fugar betwixt $very pancake, and fend them hot to the table® To make Cream Pancakes. TAKE the yolks of two eggs, mix them with Jhalf a pint of good cream, two ounces ot fugar, M 3 rubi66 THE EXPERIENCED rub your pan with lard, and fry them as thin as poffible, grate fugar over them, and ferve them up hot. To make Clary Pancakes. BEAT three eggs with three fpoonfuls of fine flour, and a little fait, exceeding well, mix them with a pint of milk, and put lard into your pan ; when it is hot, pour in your batter as thin as poffible, then lay in your clary leaves, and pour a little more batter thin over them, fry them a fine brown, and ferve them ud. To make Batter Pancakes. BEAT three eggs with a pound of flour, very well, put to it a pint of milk, and a little fait, fry them in lard or butter, grate fugar over them, cut them in quarters, and ferve them up. To make fine Pancakes. TAKE a pint of cream, eight eggs, (leave out twTo of the whites) three lpoonfuls of fack or orange-flower water, a little fugar if it be agreeable, a grated nutmeg; the butter and crearn muft be melted over the Are $ mix all to- gether with three fpoonfuls of flour; butter the frying-pan for the firfl, let them run as thin as you can in the pan, fry them quick, and fencj them up hot* To make Tansey Pancakes. BEAT four eggs, and put to them half a pint <pf cream, four fpoonfpls of flour, and two of fineENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 167 .fine fugar, beat them a quarter of an hour, then put in one fpoonful of the juice of tanfey, and two of the juice of fpmage, with a little grated nutmeg, beat all well together, and fry them in frefh butter : garnifh them with quarters of Seville oranges, grate double refined fugar over them, and lend them up hot. To make a pink-coloured P a n cake. BOIL a large beet root tender, and beat it fine in a marble mortar, then add the yolks of four eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, and three fpoonfuls of good cream, fweeten it to your tafte, and grate in half a nutmeg, and put in a gtafs of brandy; beat them ail together half an hour, fry them in butter, and garnifh them with green fweetmeats, preferved apricots, or green fiprigs of myrtle.—-It is a pretty corner difh for either dinner or fupper. CHAP. VI. Obfer vat ions on Puddings. TlREAD and cuftard puddings require time, " and a moderate oven, that will raife, and not burn them ; batterand rice puddings a quick oven, and always butter the pan or difh before you pour the pudding in; when you boil a pud- ding, take great care your cloth is very clean, dip it in boiling water, and flour it well, and give your cloth a fhake; if you boil it in a bafon, M 4 butter168 THE EXPERIENCED To butter it, and boil it in plenty of water, and turn it often, and do not cover the pan; when enough take it up in the15afon, let itfland a few minutes to cool, then untie the firing, wrap the cloth round the bafon, lay your difli over it, and turn the pudding out, and take the bafon and cloth off very carefully, for very often a light pudding is broke in turning out. -^Hunting Pudding. BEAT eight eggs, and mix them with a pint of good cream, and a pound of flour, beat them well together, and put to them a pound of beef fuet chopped very fine, a pound of currants well cleaned, half a pound of jar raifins floned and chopped fmall, a quarter of a pound of powdered fugar, two ounces of candied citron, the fame of candied orange cut fmall, grate a large nutmeg, and mix all well together* with half a gill of brandy, put it in a cloth, and tie it up clofej it will take four hours boiling. To make a baked Almond Pudding, BOIL the fkins of two lemons very tender, and beat them very fine, beat half a pound of almonds in rofe water, and a pound of fugar very fine, melt half a pound of butter and let it fland till quite cold* beat the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four, mix them, and beat them all together with a little orange-flower water, and bake it in the oven.ENG LIS FI HOUSE-KEEPER. 16$ To make a baked Apple Podding. % ♦» HALF a pound of apples well boiled and pounded, half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, and mixed with the apples before they are cold, and fix eggs with the whites well beaten and fixained, half a pound of fugar pounded and fifted, the rinds of two lemons, well boiled and beaten ; fhift the peel into clean water twice in the boiling, put a thin cruft in the bottom and rims of your dijfih. Half an hour will bake it. A boiled Custard Pudding. BOIL a flick or two of cinnamon in a quart of thin cream, with a quarter of a pound of fugar ‘y when it is cold put in the yolks of fix eggs well beat, and mix them together ; fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it round one way, till it grows pretty thick, but do not let it boil, take it off and let it (land till it be quite cold, butter a cloth very well, and dredge it with flour, put in your cuftard, and tie it up very clofe, it will takethree quarters of an hour boilings when you take it up put it in a round bafon to cool a little, then untie the cloth, and lay the difh on the bowl and turn it upfide down ; be careful how you take off the cloth, for a very little will break the pudding, grate over it a little fugar; for fauce, white wine thickened with flour and butter put in the difib. A Le-THE EXPERIENCED IJO A Lemon Podding. * BLANCH and beat eight ounces of Jordan almonds, with orange flower water, add to them half a pound of cold butter, the yolks of ten eggs, the juice of a large lemon, half the rind grated fine, work them in a marble mortar, or wooden bafon till they look white and light, lay a good puff pafie pretty thin in the bottom of a China difh, and pour in your pudding; it will take half an hour baking. 'To make a Lemon Pudding afecondWay. GRATE the rinds of four lemons, and the juice of two or three, as they are in flze, then take two bifcuits grated, three quarters of a pound of boiled butter, with half a pound of fugar diffolved in the yolks of twelve eggs, and four whites well beat, with a little fait and a quarter of a nutmeg grated ; mix all together very well and put it into a difh; put a nice pafie round the edge before it goes into the oven. Half an hour will bake it. \ *To make a Lemon Pudding a third Way. TAKE a pound of flour well dried and fifted, a pound of fine fugar beat and fifted, the rind of a lemon grated, twelve eggs, the yolks beat a little by themfelves, and the whites beat till they are all froth, then gently mix all together, put it in a pan, and bake it juft half an hour. A groundENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 171 Aground Rice Pudding. BOIL four ounces of ground rice in water, till it be foft, then beat the yolks of four eggs and put to them a pint of cream, four ounces of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter, mix them all well together> you may either boil or bake it. An Orange Pudding. BOIL the rind of a Seville orange very foft. Beat it in a marble mortar, with the juice, put to it two Naples bifcuits grated very fine, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of fix eggs, mix then'), well to- gether, lay a good puff pafte round the edge of your China difh, bake it in a gentle oven, half an hour; you may make a lemon pudding the fame way, by putting in a lemon inftead of the orange. To make an Orange Pudding afecond Way TAKE the rinds of fix oranges, boil them till they are tender, changing the water as often as you find it bitter, cut them very fine, then pound and fift three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, wadi very well three quarters of a pound of butter, then take twelve eggs, leaving four of the whites out; mix all well together, but- ter the bottom of the difji well, and make a rich cruft, which mult be put at the bottom. Bake it nicely 5 it mult not be too brown. Calf’s17a THE EXPERIENCED 9 Calf's Foot Pudding. BOIL a gang of calPs feet, take the meat from the bones and chop it exceeding fine, put to it the crumb of a penny loaf, a pound of beef fuet fhred very fmali, half a pint of cream, eight eggs, a pound of currants well cleanfed, four oiinces of citron cut fmali, two ounces of candied orange cut like draws, a large nutmeg grated, and a large glafs of brandy, mix them all very well together, butter your cloth, and dull it with flour, tie it clofe up, boil it three hours; when you take the pudding up it is bed to put it in a bowl that will juft hold it, and let it ftand a quarter of an hour, before you turn P : ut, lay your difh upon the top of the bafoil r turn it upfide down, A boiled Rice Pudding, BOIL a quarter of a pound of rice in water till it be foft, and put it in a hair fieve to drain, beat it in a marble mortar, with the yolks of five eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, the fame of fugar, grate a fmali nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon, work them well together for half an hour, then put in half a pound of currants well wafhed and cleaned, mix them well together, butter your cloth and tie it up ; boil it an hour, and ferve it up with white wine fauce. BreadENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 173 To Bread Pudding. TAKE the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour on it a pint of good milk boiling hot, when it is cold, beat it very fine, with two ounces of butter and fugar to your palate, grate half a nutmeg in it, beat it up with four eggs, and put them in and beat all together near half an hour, tie it in a cloth and boil it an hour, you may put in half a pound of currants for change, and pour over it white wine fauce. *To make a boiled Bread Pudding a fecrnd Way. TAKE the in fide of a penny loaf, grate it fine, add to it two ounces of butter, take a pint and a half of milk, with a fiick of cinamon; boil it and pour it over the bread, and cover it clofe till it is cold, then take fix eggs beat up very well with role water, mix them all well together, fweeten to your tafte, and boil it one hour. To make a Nice Pudding. BOIL half a pint of milk with a bit of cin- namon, four eggs with the whites well beaten, the rind of a lemon grated, half a pound of fuet chopped fine, as much bread as will do; pour your milk on the bread and fuet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon peel, eggs, a little fugar, and fome nutmeg grated fine. Either bake or boil it, as you think proper.174 THE EXPERIENCED T0 make a Plain Pudding. BEAT the yolks and whites of three eggs,, with two large fpoonfuls of flour, a little fait, and half a pint of good milk or cream* make it the thicknefs of a pancake batter, and beat all very well together. Half an hour will boil it. "To make a Sippet Pudding. CUT a penny loaf as thin as poflible, put a layer of bread in the bottom of a pewter difh, then ftrew over it a layer of marrow, or beef fuet, a handful of currants, then lay a layer of bread, and fo on till you fill your difh : as the firfi lay, let the marrow or fuet, and currants be at the top, beat four eggs and mix them with a quart of cream, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and a large nutmeg grated, pour it on your difh, and bake it in a moderate oven, when it comes out of the oven, pour over it wine fauce. An Apricot Pudding,, TAKE twelve large apricots, pare them, and give them a fcaldin w ter, till they are foftj then take out the ftones, grate the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour on it a pint of cream boiling hot, letitftand till half cold, then add a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four eggs, mix all together with a glafs of Madeira wine, pour it in a difh. With thin puff pafte round; bake it half an, hour in a moderate oven. A TransENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 175 A Transparent Pudding. BEAT eight eggs very well, and put them in. z pan, with half a pound of butter, and the fame weight of loaf fugar beat fine, a little grated nut- meg, fet it on the fire and keep ftirring it till it thickens like buttered eggs, then put it in a bafon to cool, roll a rich puff pafte very thin, lay it round the edge of a China difh, then pour in the pudding, and' bake it in a moderate oven half an hour, it will cut light and clear.—It is a. pretty pudding for a corner for dinner and a middle for fupper. -^.Vermicelli Pudding. BOIL four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till it is foft, with a flick or two of cinnamon, then putin half a pint of thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four beaten eggs.—Bake it in an earthen difh without a A red Sago Pudding. ^ TAKE two ounces of fago, boil it in water, with a flick of cinnamon till it be quite foft and thick, let it ftand till quite cold, in the mean time grate the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, and pour over it a large glafs of red wine, chop four ounces of marrow, and half a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four beaten eggs, beat them all together for a quarter of an hour, lay a puff 6 pafte176 THE EXPERIENCED pafte round your difh, and fend it to the oven; when it comes back flick it over with blanched almonds cut the long way, and bits of citron cut the fame; fend it to table. A boiled Tansey Pudding. GRATE four Naples bifcuits, put as much cream boiling hot as will wet them, beat the yolks of four eggs, have ready a few chopped tanfey leaves, with as much fpinage as will make it a pretty green, be careful you do not put too much tanfey in, it will make it bitter, mix all together when the cream is cold with a little fugar, and fet it over a flow fire till it grows thick, then take it off ,and when cold put it in a cloth, well buttered and floured, tie it up clofe and let it boil thrse quarters of an hour, take it up in a bafon, and let it fland one quarter, then turn it carefully out, and put white wine fauce round it. A Tansey Pudding with Almonds. BLANcH four ounces of almonds, and beat them very fine with rofe water, flice a French roll very thin, put on a pint of cream boiling hot, beat four eggs very well, and mix with the eggs when beaten a little fugar and grated nut- meg, a glafs of brandy, a little juice of tanfey, and the juice of fpinage to make it green, put all the ingredients into a flewpan, witha quar- ter of a pound of butter, and give it a gentle boil; you may either boil it or bake it in a difh, either with a cruft or writing paper, £ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 177 -^Tansey Pudding of ground Rice. BOIL fix ounces of ground rice in a quart of good milk, till itisfoftj then put in half a pound of butter, with fix eggs very well beat, and fugar and rofe water to make it palateable ; beat fome fpinage in a mortar, with a few leaves of tanfey, fqueeze out the juice through a cloth, and put it in ; mix all well together, cover your difli with writing paper well buttered, and pour it in; three quarters of an hour will bake it; when you difh it up flick it all over with a Seville or fweet orange in half quarters. A Sago Pudding another Way. BOIL two ounces of fago till it is quite thick in milk, beat fix eggs, leaving out three of the whites, put to it half a pint of cream , two fpoonfuls of fack, nutmeg and fugar to you£ tafie j. put a pafle round your difh. Little Citron Puddings. TAKE half a pint of cream, one fpoonful of fine flour, two ounces of fugar, a little nut- meg, mix them all well together, with the yolks of three eggs, put it in tea-cups, and flick in it . two ounces of citron cut very thin, bake them in a pretty quick oven, and turn them out upon a China difh.—-Five is enough for a fide difh. A bakedTansey Pudding. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf, pour on it a pint of boiling milk, with a quarter N of27S THE EXPERIENCED of a pound of butter in it, let it ftand till alrnoft: cold, then beat five eggs, and put them in with a quarter of a pound or fugar, a large nutmeg grated, and a glafs of brandy, ftir them about and put them in a toffing pan, with as much juice of fpinage as will green it, and a little ^anfey chopped fmall, ftir it about over a flow life ti 11 it grows thick, butter a (beet of writing paper and lay it in the bottom,of a pewter difh, pin the corners of the oaper to make it ftand one inch above the difh, to keep the pudding from fpreading,- and let it ftand three quarters of an hour in the oven ; when baked, put the difh over it you fend it up in, and turn it out upon it, take off the paper, ftlck it round with a Seville orange cut in half quarters, flick one quarter in the middle, and ferve it up with wine fauce. It will look as green as if it had not been baked when turned out. A green Codling Pudding. ■ GREEN a quart of codlings, as for a pye, rub them through a hair iieve with the back of a wooden fpoon, and as much of the juice of beets as will green your pudding, put in the crumbs of half a penny loaf, half a pound of butter and three eggs well beaten ; beat them all together with half apound of fugar, and two fpoonfuls of cyder; lay good pafte round the rim of the difh, and pour it in.-—Half an hour will bake it.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 179 cTo make a common Rice Pudding. WASH half a pound of rice, put to it three pints of good milk, mix it well with a quarter of a pound of butter, a flick or two of cinamon beaten fine, half a nutmeg grated, one egg well beat, a little fait and fugarto your tafle.— * One hour and a half will bake it in a quick oven ; when it comes out take off the top, and put the pudding in breakfaft cups, turn them into a hot difli like little puddings, and ferve it up* A Marrow Pudding, POUR on the crumb of a penny loaf a pint of cream boiling hot, cut a pound of beef mar- row very thin, beat four eggs very well, then add a glafsof brandy, with fugar and nutmeg to your taile, and mix them all well up together ; you may either boil or bake it, three quarters of an hour will do it, cut two ounces of citron very thin, and flick them all over it when you difh it up. Marrow Pudding a fecondWay* HALF boil four ounces of rice, fhred half a pound of marrow very fine, (lone a quarter of a pound of raifins, chop them very fmali with two ounces of currants well cleanfed, heat four eggsacluarter °^an boor, mix it all together with apint ofgoodcream,a fpoonful of brandy, fii^ar and nutmeg to your tafte j you may either bake it or put it in hogs {kins. N a Marrow!$0 THE EXPERIENCED Marrow Pudding a third V/av. * BLANCH half a pound of almonds, put them in cold water all night, and next day beat them in a marble mortar very fine, with orange flower, or role water, take the crumb of a penny loaf; and pour on them a pint of boiling cream, whilil the cream is cooling, beat the yolks of four eggs and two whites a quarter of an hour, ad’d a little fugar, and grate nutmeg to your pa- late, have ready ihred the marrow of two bones, and mix them all well together with a little can- died orange cut final 1, this is ulually made to fill in (kins, but it is a good baked pudding; if you put it in ikins, do not fill them too full, for it will fwell, but boil them gently. White Puddings in Skins. WASH half a pound of rice in warm water, boil it in milk till it is foft, put it in a fieve to drain, blanch and beat half a pound of Jordan almonds very fine, with rofe water, wadi and dry a pound of currants, then cut in fmall bits a pound of hog5s lard, take fix eggs and beat them well, half a pound of fugar, a large nut- meg grated, a ftick of cinnamon, a little mace, and a little fait, mix them very well together, fill your fkins and boil them. To make a Quaking Pudding. BOIL a quart of cream and let it (land till almoftcold, then beat four eggs a full quarter of an hour, withafpoonful and a half of flour, then mix them with your cream, add fugar and nut- meg to your pakte, tie it clofeup in a cloth well buttered. \ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 181 buttered, and let it boil an hour and turn it care- fully out. To make <2 Quaking Pudding afecond Way* TAKE a pint of good cream, the yolks of ten eggs and fix whites, beat them very well, and run them through a fine fieve; then take two heaped fpoopfuls of flour, and a fpoorjful or two of cream, beat it with the flour till it be fmooth, then mix all together, and tie it clofe up in a difii or bafon well rubbed with butter, and dredged with flour, the water muft boil when you put in the pudding. One hour will boil it; (erve it up with wine fauce in a boat. To make a Yorkshire Pudding to bake under Meat. BEAT four eggs with four large fpoonfulsof fine flour, and a little fait, for a quarter of an hour, put to them one quart and a half of milk, mix them well together, then butter a dripping- pan and fet it under beef, mutton, or a loin of veal when roafting, and when it is brown cut it in fquare pieces and turn it over; when well browned on the under fide, fend it to table on a difii.—You may mix a boiled pudding the fame way. A boiled Milk Pudding. POUR a pint of new milk boiling hot on three fpoonfuls of fine flour, beat the flour and milk for half an hour, then put in three eggs and beat ita little longer, grate in half a tea-fpoonful of ginger, dip the cloth in boiling water,butter it well, and flour it, put in the pudding and tie. it clofe up and boil it an hour; it requires great N 3 wci8s THE EXPERIENCED care when you turn it out 5 pour over it thick melted butter. EIerb Pudding. OF fpinage, beets, parfley and leeks take each a handful, wafh them and give them afcald in boiling water, then Aired them very fine, have ready a quart of groats fteeped in warm water halt an hour, and a pound of hog’s lard cut in little bits, three large onions chopped fmall and three fags leaves hacked fine, put in a little fait, mix all well together, and tie it clofe up it will require to be taken up in boiling to fiacken the firing a little. T0 make a Yam Pudding. TAKE a middling white yam, and either boil or roaftit, then pare off the (kin and pound it very fine, with three quarters of a pound cf butter, half a pound of fugar, a little mace, cinnamon, and twelve eggs, leaving out half the whites, beat them with a little rofe water. You may put in a little citron cut fmall, if you like it, and bake it nicely. Gooseberry Pudding. SCALD half a pint of green goofeberries in water till they are foft, put them into a fieve to drain, when cold work them through a hair fieve with the back of a clean wooden fpoon, add to them half a pound of fugar, and the fame of butter, four ounces of Naples bifcuits, beat fix eggs very well, then mix all together, and beat them a quarter of an hour, pour it in an earthen di£h without pafte 5 half an hour will bake it*I ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. jSj To?nake Raspberry Dumplins. MAKE a good cold pafte, roll it a quarter of an inch thick, and fpread over it rafpberryjam to your own liking, roll it up, and boil it in a cloth one hour at lead, take it up, and cut it in five dices, and lay one in the middle and the other four round it, pour a little good melted butter in the difh, and grate fine fugar round the edge of the difli.—It is proper for a corner or fide for dinner. To make Damson Dumplins. MAKE a good hot pafte cruft, roll it pretty thin, lay it in abafon, and put in what quantity of damfons you think proper, wet the edge of the pafte, and clofe it up, boil it in a cloth one hour and fend it up whole, pour over it melted butter, and grate fugar round the edge of the difh:Note, you may make any kind of pre* ferved fruit the fame way. To make Apple Dumplins. PARE your apples, takeout the core with an apple fcraper, fill the hole with quince or orange marmalade, or fugar, which fuitsyou, then take a piece of cold pafte, and make a hole in it, as if you was going to make a pye, lay in your ap- ple, and put another piece of pafte in the famfe form, and clofe it up round the fide of your ap- ple, it is much better than gathering it in a lump at one end, tie it in a cloth, and boil it three quarters of an hour, pour melted butter over them, and ferve them up, five are enough for a dilli. N 4 T®THE EXPERT ENCED 184 To ^ Sparrow Dumpling. MIX half a pint of good milk, with three eggs, a little fait, and as much flour as will make it a thick batter, put a lump of butter rolled in pepper and fait in every fparrow, mix them in the batter, and tie them in a cloth, boil them one hour and a half, pour melted butter over them and ferve them up. To make a Barm Pudding. TAKE a pound of flour, mix a fpoonful of barm in it, with a little fait, and make it into a light pafle with warm water, let it lie one hour, then make it up into round balls * and tie them up in little nets, and put them in a pan ot boiling water, do not cover them, it will make them fad, nor do not let them boil fo faft as to let the water boil over them, turn them when they have in been fix or feven minutes, and they will rife through thenetsand look likediamonds, twenty minutes will boil them * ferve them up and pour fweet fauceover them. To make a Hanover Cake or Pudding, TAKE half a pound of almonds blanched, and beat fine with a little rofe water, half a pound of fine fugar, pounded and fifted, fifteen eggs, leaving out half the whites, the rind of a lemon grated very fine* put a few almonds in the mortar at a time, and put in by degrees about a tea cupful of rofe water* keep throwing in the fugar * when you have done the almonds and fugar together a little at a time till they are all uled up, then put it into your pan with the eggs: beat them very well together. Half an hour will bake it * it mail be a light brown. .aCHAP. VII* Obfervations on making Decorations for a Table. WHEN you fpin a filver web for a defert, always take particular care your fire is clear, and a pan of water upon the fire to keep the heat from your face and fto- mach, for fear the heat (hould make you faint; you muft not fpin it before a kitchen fire, for ithefmaller the grate ir, fo that the fire be clear and hot, the better able you will be to fit a long time before it, for if you fpin a whole defert, you will be feveral hours in fpinningit; be fure to have a tin box to put every bafket in as you 4pin them, and cover them from the air, and keep them warm, until you have done the whole as your receipt diredls you. If you fpin a gold web, take care your chafing difh is burnt clear ; before you let it upon the table where your mould is, fet your ladle on the fire and keepftirring it with a wooden fkewertill it juft boils, then let it cool a little for it will not fpin when it is boiling hot, and if it grows cold it is equally as bad, but as it cools on the lides of your ladle, dip the pint of your knife in and begin to fpin round your mould as long as it will draw, then heat it again ; the only art is to keep it of a proper heat, and it will draw out like a fine thread, and of a good colour; it is a great fault to put in too much fugar at a time.i$6 THE EXPERIENCED for often heating takes the moifture out of the fugar, and burns it; therefore the be ft way is to put in a little at a time, and clean out your ladle. When you make a hen or bird's neft let part of your jelly be fet in your bowl before you put on your flummery, or ftraw, for if your jelly is warm they will fettle to the bottom, and mix together. If it be a fifh pond, or a tranfparent pudding, put in your jelly at three different times, to make your difh or fruit keep at a proper diftance one from another, and be lure your jelly is very clear and ft iff, or it will not fhew the figures, nor keep whole; when you turn them out, dip your bafon in warm water, as your receipt directs, then turn your difh or falver upon the top ofycur bafon and turn your bafon upflde down. When you make flummery, always obferve to have it pretty thick, and your moulds wet in cold water before you putin your flummery, or your jelly will fettle to the bottom, and the cream fwim at the top, fo that it will look to be two different colours. If you make cuftards, do not let them boil after the yolks are in, hut ftir them all one way and keep them of a good heat till they be thick enough, and the rawnefs of your eggs is gone oft. When you make whips or fyllabuhs, raiie your froth with a chocolate mill, and lay it upon a fieve to drain, it will be much prettier, and will lie upon your glaffes, without mixing with your wine or running down the fides of your glafies; and when you have made any of the before mentioned things, keep them in a cool 3 airyI ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER 1S7 airy place, for a clofe place will give them a bad fade, and foon fpoil them. i 7o fpin a Silver Web for covering Sweet- Meats. TAKE a quarter of a pound of treble-refined fugar in one lamp, and let it before a moderate fire on the middle of a filver falver, or pewter plate, fet it a little allant, and when it begins to ran like clear water to the edge of the plate or falver, have readv a tin cover, or china bowl fet on a ftool, with the mouth downward, clofe to your fugar, that it may not cool by carrying too far, then take a clean knife, and take upas much of the fyrup as the point of a knife will hold, and a fine thread will come from the point: which you mu ft draw as quick as poflible back- wards and forwards and alfo round the mouldy as long as it will fpin from the knife; be very careful you do not drop the fyrup on the web, if you do it will fpoil it, then dip your knife into the fyrup again, and take up more, and fo keep fpinning till your fugar is done, or your web is thick enough; be fare you do not let the knife touch the lump on the plate that is not melted it will make it brittle, and not fpin at all, if your fugar is fpent before your web is done, put freih fugar on a clean plate or a falver, and do not fpin from the fame plate again ; ifyou do not want the web to cover the fweetmeats immediately, fet it in a deep pewter difh, and cover it with a tin cover, and lay a cloth over it, to prevent the air from getting to it, and fet it before the fire (it requires to be kept warm, or it will fall) when yourit* THE EXPEDIENT CED your dinner or fupper is difhed, have ready a plate or difh the {ize of your web, filled with different coloured fweetmeats, and fet your web over it. It is pretty for a middle, where the difhes are few, or corner where the number is large. To/pin a Go Lp Web for covering Swe et- Meats. BEAT four ounces of treble-refined fugar in a marble mortar, and fift it through a hair fieve, then put in a filver or brafs ladle, but filver makes the colour better, fet it over a chafing difh of charcoal, that is burnt clear, and fet it on a table, and turn a tin cover or china bowl upfide down upon the fame table, and when your fugar is melted, it will be of a gold colour, take your ladle off the fire, and begin to fpin it with a knife, the fame way as the filver web; when the fugar begins to cool and fet, put it over the fire to warm, and fpin it as before, but do not warm it too often, it will turn the fugar a bad colour; if you have not enough fugar; clean the ladle before you put in more, and fpin it till your web is thick enough, then take it off and fet it over the fweetmeats as you did the filver web. To make Gum Paste for Desert Baskets or Covers. TAKE one ounce of gum dragon, fteep it in a tea cupful of cold water all night, the next morning have ready a pound of treble refined fugar, beat and fift it through a filk fieve, rub your gum through a hair fieve, then mix yourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 189 iugar and gum together with a ftrong hand, and in working it will become as white as fnow; then take a little fine hair powder, and make it into a very ftiff pafte, and cut it into balkets or crocrans, iwans, or any kind of mould or figure you pleafe; dry it in a very cool ftove or oven, or before the fire, and it will be quite white and hard and fit for ufe, either to cover fweetmeatS or to let off a defart. To make a Chinese Temple or Obelisk. TAKE four ounces of fine flour, half an ounce of butter, one ounce of fine fugar, boil the fugar and butter in a little water, when It is cold beat an egg and put to the water, fugar, and butter, mix it with the flour, and make it into a very ft iff pafte, then roll it as thin as poflible, have a fet of tins the form of a temple, and put the pafte upon them, and cut it in what form you pleafe, upon the feparate parts of your tins, keeping them feparate till baked, but take care to have the pafte exa&ly the fize of the tins ; when you have cut all the parts, bake them in a flow oven, when cold take them out of the tins and join the parts with ftrong ifinglafs and water with a camel’s hair bruih, and fet them one. upon the other, and the forms of the tin moulds will direct you ; if you cut it neat, and the pafte be rolled very thin, it is a beautiful corner fora large table ; if you have obelilk moulds you may make them the fame way for an oppofite corner. Take care to make the pillars ftronger than the top, fo as to bear the weight; you may cut the form19o THE EXPERIENCED form of covers with this pafte for wet or dry fweetmeats, or creams for fupper difhes. To make a Desert of Spun Sugar. Spin two large webs, and turn one upon the other to form a globe, and put in the infide of them a few fprigs of fmall dowers and myrtle* and fpin a little more round to bind them toge- ther, and fet them covered clofe up before the fire, then fpin two more on a leffer bowl and put in a fprig of myrtle, and a few fmall flowers, and bind them as before, fet them by, and fpin two more lefs than the laft, and put in a few flowers, bind them and fet them by, then fpin twelve couple on tea-cups of three different fizes in proportion to theglobes, to reprefent bafkets, and bind them two and two as the globes with fpun fugar ; fet the globes on a iilver falver, one noon ancthver, the largeft at the bottom, and fmalleft at the top 5 when you have fixed the globes, run two fmall wires through the middle O ^ of the largeft globes acrofs each other j then take a large darning needle and filk, and run it through the middle of the largeft baileets, crofs it at the bottom, and bring it up to the top and make a loop to hang them on the wire, and do fb with the reft of your bafkets, hang the largeft bafkets on the wires, then put two more wires a little fhorter acrofs, through the middle of the fecond globes, and put the ends of the wires out betwixt the balkets, and hang on the four mid- dle ones, then run two more wires fhorter than the laft, through the middle of the top globes and hang the bafkets over the loweft,5 flick a fprig 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 19* 5f myrtle on the top of your globes, and fet it on the middle of thetable*—*Qbferve you do not put too much fugar down at a time for a iilvef web, becaufe the fugar will lofe its moifture, and run in lumps inflead of drawing out •, nor too much in the ladle, for the gold web will lofe its colour by heating too oft.—You may make the bafkets a filver, and the globes a gold co- lour if you choofe them.— It is a pretty defer £ for a grand table* To make Calf’s Foot Jelly, PUT a gang of calves feet well cleaned into a pan, with fix quarts of water, and let them boil gently till reduced to two quarts, then take out the feet* fcum off the fat clean, and clear the jelly from the fediment, beat the whites of five eggs to a froth, then add one pint of Lifbon, Madeira, or any pale made wine, if you choofe it, then fqueezein the juice of three le- mons \ when your flock is boiling, take three fpoonfuls of it, and keep ftiring it with your wine and eggs to keep it from curdling, then add a little more flock, and hill keep flirring it, and then put it in the pan, and lweeten it with loaf fugar to your tafle, a giafs of French brandy will keep the jelly from turning blue in frofly air, put in the outer rind of two lemons, and let it boil one minute all together, and pour it into a flannel bag, and let it run into a bafon, and keep pouring it back gently into the bag nil it runs clear and bright, then fet your glafies under the bag, and cover it leil dull gets in. If you would have the jelly ior a fifh pond, tranlparent pud- ding,192 THE EXPERIENCED ding, or hen's neft, to be turned out of the mould, boil half a pound of ifinglafs in a pint of water, till reduced to one quarter, and put It into the flock before it is refined. To make Savoury Jelly. SPREAD fome flices of lean veal and ham, in the bottom of a flew pan, with a carrot and turnip or two or three onions*, cover it, and let it fweat on a flow fire, till it is as deep a brown as you would have it, then put to it a quart of very clear broth; fome whole pepper, mace, a very little ifinglafs, and fait to your tafte; let this boil ten minutes, then flrain it through a French ftrainer, fcum off all the fat and put it to the whites of three eggs, run it feveral times through a jelly bag as you do other jellies. To make Savoury Jelly for cold Meat. BOIL beef and mutton to a ftiff jelly, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, a blade or two of mace, and an onion, then beat the whites of four eggs, put it to the jelly, and beat it a little, then run it through a jelly bag, and when clear pour it on your meat or fowls in the difh you fend it up on. To m^Hartshokn Jelly afecond Way. TAKE half a pound of hartfhorn, and put to it two quarts of water, let it ftand in the oven all night, then flrain it from the hartfhorn, and put to it a pint of rhenifh wine, the whites of four ✓ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 193 four eggs," a little mace, the juice of three lemons, and fugar to your tafte ; boil them to- gether, and ftrain it through a jelly bag ; when it is fine put it in your glaffes for ufe. N. B.—if you have no Rhenifh wine, white wine will do. To make Flummery. PUT once ounce of bitter and one of fweet almonds into a bafon, pour over them fome boiling water, to make the (kins come off, which is called blanching, ftrip off the fkins, and throw the kernels into cold water, then take them out, and beat them in a marble mortar with a little rofe water to keep them from oil- ing; when they are beat, put them into a pint of calf's foot flock, fet it over the fire, and fweeten it to your tafle with loaf fugar, as foon as it boils ftrain it through a piece of mufiin or gaufe, when a little cold put it into a pint of thick cream, and keep flirring it often till it grows thick and cold, wet your moulds in cold water, and pour in the flummery, let it ftan.d five or fix hours at leaft before you turn them out ; if you make the flummery fluff, and wet the moulds, it will turn out without putingit into warm water, for water takes off the figures of the mould, and makes the flummery look dull.—N. B. Re carefulto keep flirring it till cold, or it will run in lumps when you turn it out of the mould. O To*94 THE EXPERIENCED To make Colouring for Flummery W Jellies. TAKE two penny-worth of cochineal, bruize it with the blade of a knife, and put it into half a tea-cupful of the beft French brandy, and let it Hand a quarter of an hour; filter it through a fine cloth, and put in as much as will make the jelly or flummery a fine pink; if yellow* take a little faflfron, and tie it in a rag, diffolve it In cold water; if green, take fome fpinage, boil It, take off the froth, and mix it with the jelly i if white, put in fome cream. To make a Fish-Pond. FILL four large fifh moulds with flummery, and fix fmall ones, take a China bowl, and put in half a pint of ftiflf clear calfs foot jelly, let it ftand till cold, then lay two of the fmall fifhes on the jelly, the right fide down, put in half a pint more jelly, let it Hand till cold, then lay in the four fmall fifties acrofs one another, that when you turn the bowl upfide down the heads and tails may be feen, then almoft fill your bowl with jelly, and let it ftand till cold, then lay in the jelly four large fifhes, and fill the ba~ fon quite full v/ith jelly, and let it ftand till the next day ; when you want to ufe it, fet your bowl to the brim in hot water for one minute, take care that you do not let the water go into the bafon, lay your plate on the top of the ba- fon, and turn it upfide down, if you want it for the middle, turn it out upon a falverj be fure you make your jelly very ftiflf and clear, TqENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. i9$ \To make a Hen's Nest. TAKE three or five of the fmalieft pullet eggs you can get, fill them with flummery, and when they are fliff and cold peel off the (hells, pare off the rinds of two lemons very thin, and boil them in fugar and water, to take off the bitternefs, when they are cold cut them in long direds to imitate draws, then fill a bafon one third full of diff calf’s foot jelly, and let it {land till cold, then lay in the (hred of the le- mons, in a ring about two inches high in the middle of your bafon, drew a few corns of fago to look like barley, fill the bafon to the height of the peel, and let it dand till cold, then lay your eggs of flummery in the middle of the ring that the draw may be feen round, fill the bafon quite full of jelly, and let it dand, and turn it out the fame way as the fifh pond. ffb make Blanc-mange ^Isinglass, BOIL one ounce of ifingiafs in a quart of water till it is reduced to a pint, then put in the whites of four eggs, with two fpoonfuls of rice water, to keep the eggs from poaching, and fugar to your tade, and run it through a jelly— bag, then put to it two ounces of lweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, give them a feald in your jelly, and put them through a hair lieve, put it in a China bowl, the next clay turn it out, and dick it all ever with almonds, blanched and cut lengthways : garnifh with green leaves or flowers, O z GREEN196 THE EXPERIENCED Green Blanomange of Isinglass. DISSOLVE your ifinglafs, and put to it two, ounces of iweet and two ounces of bitter al- monds, with as much juice of fpinage as will make it green, and a fpoonful of French brandy, fet it over a ftove fire till it is aimed: ready to boil, then drain it through a gauze fieve, when It grows thick, put it into a lemon mould, and the next day turn it out—garoiflh it with red afid white flowers. Clear Blanomange. TAKE a quart of drong calf's foot jelly, fkim off the fat and drain it, beat the whites of four eggs, and put them to your jelly, fet it over the fire, and keep during it till it boils, then pour it into a jelly bag, and run it through feveral times till it is clear, beat one ounce of fweet almonds and one of bitter, to a pade, with a fpoonful of rofe water fqueezed through a cloth, then mix- it with the jelly, and three fpoonfuls of very good cream, fet it over the fire again, and keep dirring it till it is almod boiling, then pour it into a bowl, and dir it very often till it is almoft cold, then wet your moulds and fill them. Yellow Flummery. TAKE two ounces of ifinglafs, beat it and ©pen it, put it into a bowl, and pour a pint of boiling water upon it, cover it up till almoft cold, and add a pint of white wine, the juice- ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.- *97 'of two lemons, with The rind of one, the yolks of eight eggs beat well, fweeten it to your tafte* put it in a toffing-pan and keep ftirring it, wrhen it boils ftrain it through a fine fieve, when al- moftcold, put it into cups and moulds. A good Green. Lay an ounce of gambouge in a quarter of a pint of water, put an ounce and a half of good ftoneblue in a little water, when they are both diffolved mix them together, add a quarter of a pint more water, and a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, boil it alittle, then put it into a galli- pot, cover it cloft and it will keep for years; be careful not to make it too deep a green, for a very little will do at a time. Fruit in Jelly* PUT half a pint of clear ft iff calPs foot ieliy into a bafon, when it is fet and ftifflay in three fine ripe peaches, and a bunch of grapes with the ftalks up, put a few vine leaves over them* then fill up your bowl with jelly, and let it ftand till the next day ; then fet your baton to the brim in hot water, and as foon as you find it leaves the bafon, lay yourdifh over it, and turn your jelly carefully upon it—garnifli with flowers. Green Melon in Flummery. MAKE a little ft!Sr flummery, with a good deal of bitter almonds in it, add to it as much juice of fpinage as will make it a fine pale green, O 3 when15* THE EXPERIENCED when it is as thick as good cream wet your me- Ion mould and put it in, then put a pint of clear calf s foot jelly into a large bafon, and let them ftand till the next day, then turn out your me- lon, and lay it the right fide; down in the mid- dle of your bafon of jelly 5 then fill up your bafon with jelly that is beginning to fet, let it ftand all night, and turn it out the fame way as the fruit in jelly : make a garland of flowers, and put it in your jelly.—It is a pretty difh for middle at fupper, or corner fora fecondcourfe at dinner. Gilded Fish in Jelly. MAKEalittleclear blanc-mangeas is direded m the receipt, then fill two large fifh moulds with it, and when it is cold turn it out, and gild them with gold leaf, or ft Few them over with gold and fllver bran mixed, then lay them on a foup difh, and fill it with clear thin calf’s foot jelly, it muft be fo thin as they will fwim in it 5 if you have no jelly, Lifbon wine, or any kind of pale made wines will do. Hen and Chickens in Jelly, MAKE fome flummery with a deal of fweet almonds in it, colour a little of it brown with chocolate, and put it in a mould the fhape of a hen 3 then colour fome more flummery with the yolk of a hard egg beat as fine as poflible, leave part of your flummery white, then fill the mould of feven chickens, three with white flummery and three with yellow, and one the colour of the hen %ENGLISH HOtTSE-KEEPEft. 199 hen; when they are cold turn them into a deep difh j put under and round them lemon peel, boiled tender and cut like ftraw, then put a little clear calfs foot jelly under them, to keep them in their places, and let it ftand till it is ftiff, then fill up your difh with more jelly. They are a pretty decoration for a grand table. Tomakea Transparent Pudding* MAKE your calf s foot jelly very ftiff, and when it is quite fine put a gill into a China ba« fon, let it ftand till it is quite fet; blanch a few Jordan almonds, cut them and a few jar raifins lengthways, cut a littlecitron and candied lemon in little thin dices, ftick them all over the jelly and throw in a few currants, then pour more jelly on till it is an inch higher ; when your jelly is fet, ftick in your almonds, raifins, citron and candied lemon, with a few currants ftrewed in, then more jelly as before, then more almonds, raifins, citron, and lemon in layers, till your bafon is full; let it ftand all night, and turn it out the fame way as the filh-pond. To make a Desert Island* TAKE a lump of pafte, and form it into a rock three inches broad at the top, colour it, and fet it in the middle of a deep China difh, and fet a caft figure on it with a crow on its head, and a knot of rock candy at the feet; then make a roll of pafte an inch thick, and ftick it on the inner edge of the difh, two parts round, and cut eight pieces of eringo roots, about three Inches O 4 long.2c© THE EXPERIENCED long, and fix them upright to the roll of parte or! the edge; make gravel walks of fhot comfits* from the middle of the end of the difh, and fet fmall figures in them, roll out fome parte, and outfit open like Chinefe rails; bake it, and fix it on either fide of one of the gravel walks with gum, have ready a web of fpun fugar, and fet it on the pillars of eringo root, and cut part of the we bofif, to form an entrance where the Chinefe rails are.—It is a pretty middle difii for a fecond courfe at a grand table, or a wedding fupper, only fet two crowned figures on the mount inftead of one. To make #Floating Island. GRATE the yellow rind of a large lemon into a quart of cream, put in a large glals of Madeira wine, make it pretty fweet with loaf fugar, mill it with a chocolate mill to artrong froth, take it offasit rifes, then lay it upon a fieve to drain all night, then take a deep glafs difh, and lay in your froth, with a Naples bifcuit, in the middle of it, then beat the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, and roll a fprig of myrtle in it to imitate fnow, flick it in the Naples bifcuit, then lay all over your froth currant jelly cut in very thin dices, pour over it very fine ftrong calf's foot jelly, when it grows thick lay it all over, till it looks like a glafs, and your difh is full to the brim; let it fcand till it is quite cold and ftiff, then lay on rock candied-fweetmeats upon the top of your jelly, and fheep and fwans to pick at the myrtle ,* flick green fprigs in two orENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 291 or three places on the top of your jelly, amongfi your fhapes; it looks very pretty in the middle of a table for a fupper. You muft not put the fhapes on the jelly till you are going to fend it to the table. s To make a Floating Island afecond Way, TAKE calfs foot jelly that is fet, break it a little, but not too much, for it will make it frothy, and prevent it from looking clear, have ready a middle fized turnep, and rub it over with gum water, or the white of an egg, then drew it thick over with green fbot comfits, and hick on the top of it a fprig of myrtle, or any other pretty green fprig, then put your broken jelly- round it, fet lheep or fwans upon your jelly, with either a green leaf or a knot of apple pafte under them, to keep the jelly from diffolving 5 there are fheep and fwans made for that purpofe, you may put in fnakes, or any wild animals of the fame lbrt. To make a Rocky Island. MAKE a little ft'iff flummery, and put it into five Aih moulds, wet them before you put it in, when it is ft iff, turn it out, and gild them with gold leaf, then take a deep China diflh, fill it near full of clear calf’s foot jelly, and let it ftand till it is fet, then lay on your fiihes, and a few Dices of red currant jelly cut very thin round them, then rafp a fmall French roll, and rub it over with the white of an egg, and ftrevv all*o! THE EXPERIENCED all over it filver bran and glitter mixed together, Hick a fprigof myrtle in it, and put it into the middle of your difh, beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, then hang it on your fprig of myrtle like fnow, and fill your difh to the brim with clear jelly * when you fend it to table put lambs and ducks upon your jelly, with either green leaves or mofs under them, with their heads towards the myrtle. Ho make Moonshine. TAKE the fhapes of half a moon, and five or feven ftars, wet them and fill them with flum- mery, let them ftand till they are cold, then turn them into a deep China difh, and pour lemon cream round them, made thus: Take a pint of fpring water, put to it the juice of three lemons, and the yellow rind of one lemon, the whites of five eggs well beaten, and four ounces of loaf fu^ar, then fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it one way till it looks white and thick, if you let it boil it will curdle, then (train it through a hair fieve, and letit ftand till itis cold,beatthe yolks of five eggs, mix them with your whites, fet them over the fire, and keep ftirringit till it is almoft ready to boil, then pour it into a bafon $ when it is cold pour it among your mcon and ftars : garnifh with flowers.—It is a proper difh for a fecond courfe, either for dinner or flipper* Ho make Moon and Stars ///Jelly. TAKE a deep Chinadifh, turn the mould of a half moon, and feven ftars, with the bottom fideENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 203 fide upward in the difh; lay a weight upon every mould to keep them down, then make fome flummery, and fill your difh with it; when it is cold and ft iff, take your moulds carefully out, and fill the vacancy with clear calf's foot jelly ; you may colour your flummery with cochineal and chocolate to make it look like the fky, and your moon and ftars will fhew more clear: gar- nifh with rock candy fweetmeats. It is a pret- ty corner difh, or a proper decoration for a grand table. 1 ' To make Eggs and Bacon in Flummery, TAKE a pint of fliff flummery, and make part of it a pretty pink colour with the colour- ing for the flummery, dip a potting pot in cold water and pour in red flummery the thicknefs of a crown piece, then the fame of white flum- mery, and another of red, a'nd twice the thick- nefs of white flummery at the top $ one layer muff be fliff and cold before you pour on ano- ther, then take five tea cups, and put a large fpoonful of white flummery into each tea-cup, and let them fland all night, then turn your flummery out of your potting pots on the back of a plate, with cold water, cut your flum- mery into thin Dices; and lay it on a China difh, then turn your flummery out of the cups on the difh, and take a bit out of the top of every one, and lay in half a preferved apri- cot ; it will confine the fyrupfrom difcolouring the flummery, and make it like the yolk of a poached204 THE experienced poached egg; garni fh with flowers.—It is a pret- ty corner difli for dinner, or fide for fupper. * Solomon’s Temple in Flummery, MAKE a quart of ft iff flummery, divide it it into three parts, make one part a pretty thick colour, with a little cochineal bruifed fine and fteeped in French brandy, fcrape one ounce of chocolate very fine, diftblve it in a little ftrong coffee, and mix it with another part of your flummery, to make it a light ftone colour, the laft part muft be \yhite, then wet your temple mould, and fix it in a pot to (land even, then fill the top of the temple with red flummery for the fteps, and the four points with white, then fill it up with chocolate flummery; let it ftand till the next day, then loofen it round with a pin andfhakeitloofe very gently, butuonot dip your mould in warm water, it will take off the glofs and fpoil the colour ; when you turn it out ftick a fmall fprig or a flower ftalk down from the top of every point, it will ftrengthen them, and make it look pretty, lay round it rock candy fweetmeats.—-It is proper for a corner difh for a large table. To make Oatmeal Flummery. TAKE a pint of bruifed groats, and put three pints of fair water to them early in the morn- ing, and let it ftand till noon, then pour all the water off, and put in the fame quantity of water as before upon them, ftir it well and let it ftand till four o’ clock, then run it throueh a fieve or cloth*ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 205 cloth, then boil it, and keep ftirring it all the while, put-in a fpoonfni of water now and then as it boils, when it begins to thicken drop a little on a plate ^ when it leaves the plate it is enough : put it in glafles to turn out. To make Cribbage Cards in Flummery. FILL five fquare tins the fize of a card with very ftiff flummery, when you turn them out have ready a little cochineal diiTolvedin brandy^ and ftrain it through a muflin rag, then take a camel’s hair pencil, and make hearts and dia- monds with your cochineal, then rub a little cochineal with a little eating oil upon a marble flab till it is very fine and bright, then make clubs and fpades ; pour a little Lifbon wineinro the difh and fend it up. To make a Dish of Snow. TAKE twelve large apples, put them in acid Water, and fet them over a very flow fire, and when they are foft pour them upon a hair fieve, take off the fkin and put the pulp into a bafon, then beat the whites of twelve eggs into a very ftrong froth, beatand fift halfa pound of double refined fugar, and ftrewit into the eggs, beat the pulp of your apples to a ftrong froth, then beat them all together till they are like a ft iff fnow, then lay it upon a china difh, and heap it up as high as you can, and fet round it green knots of pafte in imitation of Chinefe rails, ftick a fprig of myrtle in the middle of the difh, and ferve it up.—It is a pretty corner difh for a large table. 3 &THE EXPERIENCED ao6 To make Black Caps. f TAKE fix large apples, and cut a dice cff the bloffom end, put them in a tin, and fet them in a quick oveji till they are brown, then wet them with ,rofe water, and grate a little fugar over them, and fet them in the oven again till they look bright, and very black, then take them out, and put them into a deep China difh or plate, and pour round them thick cream cuftard, or white wine and fugar, \ To make Green Caps. TAKE codlins juft before they are ripe, green them as you would for preferving, then rub them over with a little oiled butter, grate double lefined fugar over them, and fet them in the o\en till they look bright, and fparkleiike froft, then take them out, and put'them into a deep Chrja difh, make a very fine cuftard, and pour it round them ftick fingle flowers in every apple \nd ferve them up.—It is a pretty corner difh for either dinner or fupper. \ ToJlew Pears. PARE the largeft ftewing pears, and ftick a clove in the bloffom end, then put them in a well tinned faucep'a.n, with a new pewter fpoon in the middle, fill it with hard water, and fet it over a flow fire for three or four hours, till your pears are foft, and the water reduced to a fmall quantity, then put in as much loaf fugar as will makeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 207 make it a thick fyrup, and give the pears aboil in it, then cut Tome lemon peel like ftraws and hang them about your pears, and ferve them up with the fyrup in a deep difh. To make Lemon Syllabubs. To a pint of cream put a pound of double refined fugar, the juice of feven lemons, grate the rinds of two lemons into a pint of white wine, and half a pint of fack, then put them all into a deep pot, and wiik them for half an hour, put it into glaffes the night before you want it; It is better for Handing two or three days, but it will keep a week if required. 2*o make Lemon Syllabubs a fecond Way. PUT a pint of cream to a pint of white wine, then rub a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar upon the out rind of two lemons, till you have got out all the eflence, then put the fugar to the cream and fqueeze in the juice of both lemons, let it ftand for two hours, then mill them with a chocolate mill, to raife the froth and take it off with a fpoon as it rifes, or it will make it heavy, lay it upon a hair fieve to drain, then fill your glades with the remainder, and lay on the froth as high as you can, let them (land all night and they will be clear at the bottom * fend them K> the table upon a falver, with jellies. To make Solid Syllabubs. Take a quart of rich cream, and put in a pint of white wine, the juice of four lemons, 7 and208 THE EXPERIENCED and fugar to your tafte, whip it up very well, and take off the froth as it rifefe, put it upon a hair fieve, and let it ftand till the next day in a cool place, fill your glades better than half full with the thin, then put on the froth, and heap it as high as you can ; the bottom will look clear and keep feyeral days. To make Whip Syllabubs. TAKE a pint of thin cream, rub a lump of loaf fugar on the outfideof thelemon, andfwceten it to your tafte, then put in the juiceof a lemon and aglafs of Madeira wine, or French brandy, mill it to a froth with a chocolate mill, and take it off as it rifes, and lay ituporia hair lieve, then fill one half of your polTet glades a little more than half full with white wine and the other half of your glades a little more than half full of red wine, then lay on your froth as high as you can, but obferve that it is well drained on your lieye? or it will mix with your wine,, and fpoil your iyllabnbs. To make a Syllabub under the Cow, PUT a bottle of ftrong beer and aroint of cyder into a punch-bowl, grate in a fmall nut- meg, and fweeten it to your tafte ; then milk as much milk from the cow as will make a ftrong froth, and the ale look clear, let it ftand an hour^ then ftrew over it a few currants, well walked, picked, and plumped before the lire, then fend it to the table, • < 1 - • ’ C H AP 9ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 209 CHAP. VII. Obfervations upon Preserving. WHEN you make any kind of jelly* take care you do not let any of the feeds from the fruit fall into your jelly, nor fqueeze it too near, for that will prevent your jeily from being fo clear; pound your fugar, and let it diffolve in the fyrup before you fet it on the fire, it makes the fcum rife well, and the jelly a better colour : it is a great fault to boil any kind of jellies too high, i t makes them of a dark colour; you mu ft never keep green fweetmeats in the firft fyrup longer than the receipt directs, left you fpoil their colour; you muft take the fame care with the oranges and lemons as to cherries, damfons, and moft fort of ftonefruit, put over them either mutton fuet rendered, or a board to keep them down, or they will rife out of the fyrup and fpoil the whole jar, by giving them a four bad tafte ; obferve to keep all wet fweetmeats in a dry cool place, for a wet damp place will make them mould, and a hot place will dry up the virtue, and make them candy ; the beft diredion I can give is to dip writing paper in brandy, and lay it clofe to your fweetmeats, tie them well down with white paper, and two folds of thick cap- paper to keep out the air, for nothing can be a greater fault than bad tying down, and leaving the pots open. P To210 THE EXPERIENCED To make Orange Jelly. TAKE half a pound of hartfliorn fhavings, and two quarts of fpring water, let it boil till it be reduced to a quart, pour it clear off, let it ftand till it is cold, then take half a pint of fpring water, and the rind of three oranges pared very thin, and the juice of fix, let them ftand all night, ftrain them through a fine hair fieve, melt the jeny and pour the orange liquor to it, fweet- en it to your tafte with double refined fugar, put to it a blade or two of mace, four or five cloves, half a fmall nutmeg, and the rind of a lemon, beat the whites of five eggs to a froth, mix it ' well with your jelly, fet it over a clear fire, boil it ibreeor fourminutes, run it through your jelly bags feveral times till it is clear, and when you pour it into your bag, take great care you d» not (hake it. # i * To make Hartshorn Jelly. PUT two quarts of water into a clean pan, »rith half a pound of hartfhorn {havings, let it iimmer till near one half is reduced, ftrain it off, then put in the peel of four oranges, and t.wo lemons pared very thin, boil them five minutes, potto it the juice of the before-mentioned le- mons and oranges, with about ten ounces of ' double refined fugar, beat the whites of fix eggs to a froth, mix them carefully with your jelly, that you do not poach the eggs, juft let it boil up, and run it through a jelly bag till it is clear.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. lit To make Red Currant Jelly. GATHER your currants when they are dry and full ripe, drip them off the dalks, put them in a large dew-pot, tie the paper over them, and let them dand an hour in a cool oven, drain them through a cloth, and to every quart of j uice add a pound and a half of loaf fugar, broken in fmall lumps, ftir it gently over a clear fire till your fugar is melted, fkim it well, let it boil pretty quick twenty minutes, pour it hot into your pots ; if you let it dand it will break the jelly, it will not fet fo well as when it is hot; put brandy papers over them, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. N. B. .You may make jelly of half red and half white currants the fame way. To make Black Currant Jelly. GET your currants when thy are ripe and dry, pick them off the dalks, and put them in a large dew-pot; to every ten quarts of currants put a quart of water, tie a paper over them, and fet them in a cool oven for two hours, then fqueeze them through a very thin cloth ; to every quart of j uice add a pound and a half of loaf fugar broken in fm<ail pieces, dir it gently till the fugar is melted; when it boils fkim it well, let it boil pretty quick for half an hour over a clear fire, then pour it into pots; put brandy papers over them, and keep them for ufe* P 2 ToTHE EXPERIENCED 212 1To make Apricot Jam. PARE the ripeft apricots you can get, cut them thin, infufe them in an earthen pan till they are tender and dry; then to every pound and a half of apricots put a pound of double re- fined fugar, and three fpoonluls of water; boil your fugar to a candy height, then put it upon your apricots, ftir them over a flow fire till they look clear and thick, but do not let them boil, only fitnmer; put them in glafles for ufe. "To make Red Raspberry Jam. GATHER your rafpberries when they are ripe and dry, pick them very carefully from the jftalks and dead ones, crufli them in a bowl with a filver or wooden fpoon, pewter is apt to turn them a purple colour; as foon as you have crufhed them, ftrew in their own weight of loaf fugar, and half their weight of currant juice, baked and drained as for jelly, then fet them over a clear flow fire, boil them half an hour, fkim them well, and keep them ftirring at the time, then put them into pots or glafles with brandy papers over them and keep them for ufe.—N. B. As foon as you have got your ber- ries, ftrew in your fugar, do not let them ftand long before you boil them ; it will preferve their flavour. To iENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 213 To make White Raspberry Jam. GET your rafpberries dry and full ripe, crufli them fine, and flrew in their own weight or loaf fijgar, and half their weight of the juice of white currants, boil them half an hour Gver a clear flow fire, fkim them well, sand put them into pots or glaffes, tie them down with brandy papers, and keep them dry for ufe.—2V. B, Strew in your fugar as in the red rafpberry jam, To make Red Strawberry Jam. GATHER the fcariet ftrawberries very ripe bruifethem very fine, and put to them a little juice of ftrawberries, beatand lift their weight in fugar, ftrew it among them, and put them in the pref'erving pan, fet them over a clear flow fire, fkim them, and boil them twenty minutes, then put them in pots and glaffes for ufe. To make Green Gooseberry Jam. TAKE the green walnut goofeberries when they are full grown, but not ripe, cut them in two and pick out the feeds, then put them in a pan of water, green them as you do the goofeber- ries, in imitation of hops, and lay them no a fieve to drain, then beat them in a marble mor- tar, with their weight in fugar, then take a quart of goofeberries, boil them to mafli in a quart of water, then fqueeze them, and to every pint of liquor put a pound of fine loaf fugar, boil and fkim it, then put in yourgreen goofeberries, P 3 boilan TBE EXPERIENCED boil them till they are very thick, clear, and a pretty green, then put them in glalles for ufe. To make Black Currant Jam. GET your blackcurrants when they are full 'ripe, pick them clear from the ftalks, and bruife them in a bowl with a wooden mallet, to every two pounds of currants put a pound and a half of loaf fugar beat fine, put them into a preferv- ing pan, boil them full half an hour, fkim it and ftir it all the time, then put it in the pots, and keep it for ufe. To preferve Red Currants in Bunches. STONE your currants, and tie fix or feven bunches together with a thread to a piece of fplit deal, about the length of your finger, weigh the currants, andput their weight of double refined fugar in your preferving pan, with a little water, and boil it till the fugar flies, then put the cur- rants in, and juft give them a boil up, and cover them till next day, then take them out, and either dry them or put them in glalfes with the fyrup boiled up with a little of the juice of red currants ; put brandy paper over them, and tie them clofe down with another paper, and fet them in a dry place. To preferve White Currants in Bunches. STONE your currants, and tie them in hunches as before, andput themin thepreferving i panENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2,15 pan with their weight of double refined fugar* beat and fifted fine, let them ftand all night® then take fome pippins, pare, core and boil them, but do not ftir the apples, only prefs them down with the back of your fpoon, when the water is ftrong of the apple, add to it the juice of a lemon, drain it through a jelly bag till it runs quite clear, to every pint of your liquor put a pound of double refined fugar, boil it up to a firong jelly, put it to your currants, and boil them till they look clear, cover them in the preferving pan with paper till they are almoft cold, then put a bunch of currants inyour glades, and fill it up with jelly ; when they are cold wet papers in brandy, and lay over them, tie another on, and fet them in a dry place. Topreferve Currants for Tarts, GET your currants when they are dry, and pick them ; to every pound and a quarter of cur- rants, put a pound of fugar into a preferving-pan with as much juice of currants as will diffoive it, when it boils fkim it, and put in your cur- rants and boil them till they are clear; put them into ajar, lay brandy paper over, tie them down, and keep them in a dry place, • ' " rv. / it To preferve Cucumbers, TAKE fmall cucumbers and large ones that will cut into quarters, the greened: and mod free from feeds you can get, put them in a iirong fait and water, in a flrait mouth jar with a cab« P 4 bageTHE EXPERIENCED 216 bage leaf to keep them down, tie a paper over them, fet them in a warm place till they are yellow, wafh them out, and fet them over the fire in frefh water, with a little fait in, and a frefh cabbage leaf over them, cover the pan very clofe, but take care they do not boil; if they are not a fine green, change your water (and it will help them) and make them hot, and cover them as before; when they are a good green, take them off the fire, let them ftand till they are cold, then cut the large ones in quarters, take out the feeds and foft part, then put them in cold water, and let them hand two days, but change the water twice each day to take out the fait, take a pound of fingle refined fugar, and half a pint of water, fet it over the fire ; when you have fkimmed it clear, put in the rind of a lemon, one ounce of ginger, with the outfide fcraped off: when your fyrup is pretty thick, take it off, and when it is cold, wipe the cu- cumbers dry, and put them in, boil the fyrup once in two or three days for three weeks, and ftrengthen the fyrup, if required, for the great- eft danger of fpoiling them is at fir ft.—The fyrup is to be quite cold when you put it to your cucumbers, cfo preferve Grapes in Brandy. TAKE fome clofe bunches of grapes, but not too ripe, either red or white, put them into a jar, with a quarter of a pound of fugar-candy, and fill the jar with common brandy, tie it clofe with a bladder, and fet them in a dry place. Morello cherries are done the fame way.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 217 !f) preferve Kentish or Golden Tiffins*- BOIL the rind of an orange very tender, then lay it in water for two or three days, take a quart of golden pippins, pare, core, quarter, and boil them to a ftrong jelly, and run it through a jelly bag, then take twelve pippins, pare them and fcrape out the cores; put two pounds of loaf fugar into a (lew-pan with near a pint of water, when it boils (Limit, and put in your pippins, with the orange rind in thin dices, let them boil fad till the fugar is very thick and will almod candy, thenput them in a pintqf thepippin jelly; boil the m fail till the jelly is clear, then fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, give it one boil, and put them into pots or glades with the orange peek cfo preferve Green Codlings that will keep all the Tear. TAKE codlins about the fize of a walnut, with the daiks and a leaf or two on, put a hand- ful of vine leaves into a brafs pan of fpring wa- ter, then a lay of codlings, then vine leaves, do fo till the pan is full, cover it clofe that no deam can get out, fet it on a (low fire ; when they are (oft take off the (kins with a pen knife, then put them in the fame water with the vine leaves j it mud be quite cold or it will be apt to crack them, put a little roach allum, and let tfyem over a very (low fire till they are green (which will be in three or four hours) then take them2i$ THE EXPERIENCED them out and lay them on a fieve to drain.— Make a good fyrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days, then put them in fmall jars; put brandy paper over them, and keep them for ufe. lo prefer ve Green Apricots. GATHER your apricots before the ftones are hard, put them into a pan of hard water, with plenty of vine leaves, fet them over a flow Ere till they are quite yellow, then take them out and rub them with a flannel and fait to take off the lint, put them into the pan to the fame water and leaves, cover them dole, fet them a great diftance from the fire till they are a fine light green, then take them carefully up, pick out all the bad coloured and broken ones, boil the bed gently for two or three times in a thin fyrup, let them be quite cold every time; when they look plump and clear, make a fyrup of double refined iugar, but not too thick, give your apricots a gentle boil in it, then put them into pots or glaffes, dip paper in brandy, lay it over them, and keep them for ufe, then take all the broken and bad coloured ones and boil them in the firft fyrup for tarts. 5Topreferve Gooseberries green. TAKE green walnut goofeberries when they are full grown, and take out the feeds, put them in cold water, cover them clofe with vine leaves, and fet them over a flow fire^ when they are hotENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2x9 take them off, and let them ftand, and when they are cold fet them on again till they are a pretty green, then put them on a fieve to drain,, and have ready a fvrup made of a pound of double refined fugar, and half a pint of fpring water ; the fyrup is to be cold when the goofcberries are put in, and boil them till they are clear, then fet them by for a day or two, then give them two or three fcalds, and then put them into pots, or glafies for ufe. fopreferveGreen Gooseberries in Imitation of Hops. TAKE the largeft green walnut goofeberries you can get, cut them at the ftalk end in four quarters, leave them whole at the blofionx end, then take out all the feeds, and put five or fix one in another, take a needleful of flrong thread, with a large knot at the end, run the kneedle through the bunch of goofeberries, and tie a knot to fallen them together (they referable hops) and put cold fpring water in your pan, a large handful of vine leavesin the bottom, and three or four lays of goofeberries, with plenty of vine leaves between every lay, and over the top of your pan, cover it fo that no fleam can get out, and fet them on a flow fire ; when they are (bald- ing hot take them and let them ftand till they are cold, then let them on again till they are a good green, then take them off and let them ftand till they are quite cold, then put them in a fieve to drain, make a thin fyrup; to every pint of water put in a pint of common2 20 THE EXPERIENCED loaf fugar, boil it and fkini it well: when it is about half cold, putin your goofeberries, and let them ftand till the next day, then give them one boil a day for three days, the-nmake a fyrup, to every pintof water, put in a pound of fine fugar, a Hice of ginger, and a little lemon peel cut length- ways exceeding fine, boil and Ikim it well, give your goofeberries a boil in it, when they are cold put them into glalTes or pots, lay papers dipped in brandy over them, tie them up, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Sprigs green. GATHER the fprigs of muftard when it is going to feed, put them in a pan of fpring water, with a great many vine leaves under and over them, put to them one ounce of roach allum, fet it over a gentle Ere, when it is hot take it off, and let it Hand till it is quite cold, then cover it very clofe, and hang it a great height over a flow Ere; when they are green, take out the fprigs and lay them onafieveto drain, then make a good fyrup, boil your fprigs in it once a day for three days, put them in, and keep them for ufe.—They are very pretty to Rick in the middle of a preferved orange, or garnifh a fet of falvers.—You may preferve young peas when they are juft come into pod the fame way. \ To preferve Green Gage Plums, TAKE the fineft plums you can get juftbe^ fore they are ripe, put them in a pan with a lay of vine leaves at the bottom of your pan, then a lay of plums, do fo till your pan is almcfi: full, then fill it with water, let them on a flow fire-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 221 fire ; when they are hot, and their lkins begin to rife, take them off, and take the lkins carefully off, put them on a fieve as you do them, then lay them in the lame water, with a lay of leaves betwixt, as you did at the firft, cover them very clofe fb that no fleam can get out, and hang them a great diftance from the fire till they are green, which will be five or fix hours at leaft, then take them carefully up, lay them on a hair fieve to drain, make a good fyrup, give them a gentle boil in it twice a day, for two days, take them out and put them into a fine clear fyrup ; put paper dipped in brandy over them, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Walnuts black. TAKE the fmall kind of walnuts, put them in faltand water, change the water every day for nine days, then put them into a fieve, let them ftand in the air until they begin to turn blacky then put them into ajug, and pour boiling wa- ter over them, and let them ftand till the next clay, then put them in a fieve to drain, flick a clove into each end of your walnut, put therm into a pan of boiling water, let them boil five minutes, then take them up *, make a thin fyrup, fcald them in it three or four times a day till your walnuts are black and bright, then make a thick fyrup with a few cloves and a lit- tle ginger cut in Dices, fkim it well, putin your walnuts, boil them five or fix minutes, and then put them in your jar ; wet your paper with brandy, lay it over them, and tie them down with226 THE EXPERIENCED with bladders. The firft year they are a little bitter, but the fecond year they will be very good. To ^r^rwWALNUTS green. TAKE large French walnuts when they are a little larger than a good nutmeg, wrap every walnut in vine leaves, tie it round with a firing, then put them into a large quantity of fait and water, let them lie in it for three days, then put them in frefh fait and water, and let them lie in that for three days longer, then take them out, and lay a large quantity of vine leaves in the bottom of your pan, then a lay of walnuts, then vine leaves, do fo till your pan is full, but take great care the walnuts do not touch one another; fill your pan with hard water, with a little bit of roach allum, fet it over the fire till the water is very hot, but do not let it boil, take it off, let them ftand in the water till it is quite cold, then fet them over the fire again ; when they are green take the pan off the fire, and when the water is quite cold take out the walnuts, lay them on a fieve a good diftance from each other, have ready a thin fyrup boiled and fkimmed ; when it is pretty cool putin your walnuts, let them ftand all night, the .next day give them feveral fcalds, but do not let them boil, keep vour preferving pan clofe covered, and when you fee that they look bright, and a pretty colour, have ready made a rich fyrup, of fine loaf iugar, with a few dices of ginger, and two or three blades of mace, fcald your walnuts in it, put them in f'malljars, with paper dipped in brandy overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER 223 over them, tie them down with bladders, and keep them for ufe. ktopreferve Walnuts white„ TAKE the large French walnuts full grown* but notfhelled, pare them till you fee the white appear, put them in fait and water as you do them, have ready boiling a large faucepan full of foft water, boil them in it five minutes, take them up, and lay them betwixt two cloths till you have made a thin fyrup, boil them gently in it for four or five minutes, then put them in a jar, ftop th em up clofe that no fleam can get out, if it does it will fpoil the colour, the next day boil them again, when they are cold, makeafrefh thick fyrup, with two or three flices of ginger and a blade of mace, boil and fkim it well, then give your walnuts a boil in it, and put them in glafs jars, with papers dipped in brandy laid over them, and tie bladders over them to keep out the air* To make Orange Marmalade* TAKE the cleared Seville oranges you can get, cut them in two, then take out all the pulp and juice into a baton, pick all the feeds and fkinsout of it, boil the rinds in hard water till they are tender (change the water two or three times while they are boiling) then pound them in a marble mortar, add to it the juice and pulp, and put them in the preferving pan, with double its weight of loaf fugar, fet it over a flow fire.224 THE EXPERIENCED boil it a little more than half an hour, then put it into pots with brandy papers over them. To make Transparent Marmalade. TAKE very pale Seville oranges, cut them in quarters, take out the pulp, and put it into a bafon, pick the fkins and feeds out, put the peels in a little fait and water, let them Hand all night, then boil them in a good quantity of fpring water till they are tender, then cut them in very thin llices, and put them to the pulp; to every pound of marmalade put a pound and a half of double refined fugar beaten fine, boil them toge- ther gently for twenty minutes ; if it is not clear and tranfparent, boil it five or fix minutes longer, keep ftirring it gently all the time, and take care you do not break the flices; when it is cold, put it into jelly or fweetmeat glaffes, tie them down with brandy papers over them.—- They are pretty for a defert of any kind. To make Quince Marmalade. GET your quinces when they are full ripe, pare them and cut them into quarters, then take out the core, and put them into a faucepan that is well tinned, cover them with the parings, fill the faucepan near full of fpring water, cover it clofe and let them flew over a flow fire till they are loft, and of a pink colour, then pick out all your quinces from the parings, beat them to a pulp in a marble mortar, take their weight of fine loaf fugar, put as much water to it as will diffolve it, boil and fidrn it well, then put in your6NGLISH HOUSE-fCEfiPER, 225 yourquincesand boil them gently three-quarters of an hour, keep ftirring it all the time, or it will flick to the pan and burn j when it is cold put it into flat fweetmeat pots, and tie it down with brandy paper. To make Apricot Marmalade. WHEN you preferve your apricots, pick oiit all the bad ones, and thofe that are too ripe for keeping, boil them in the fyrup till they will mafh, then beat them in a marble mortar to a pafte ; take half their weight of loaf fugar, and put as much water to it as will diffolve it, boil and fkim it well, boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup thick like a fine jelly, then put it into your fweetmeat gaffes* and keep them for ufe. Topreferve Green Pine Apples. GET your pine apples before they are ripe^ and lay them in flrong fait and water five days, then put a large handful of vine leaves in the bottom of a large faiicepan, and put in your pine apples, fill your pan with vine leaves, then pour on the fait and water it was laid in, cover it up very clofe, and fet it over a flow fire, let itfland till it is a fine light green* have ready a thin fyrup, made of a quart of water and a pound of double refined fugar; when itisalmoft cold put it into a deep jar and put in the pine apple with the top on, let it fland a week, and take care that it is well covered with the fyrup,:226 THE EXPERIENCED then boil your fyrup again, and pour it carefully into your jar, leix you break the top of your pine apple, and let it Rand eight or ten weeks, and give the fyrup two or three boils to keep it from moulding, let your fyrup ftand till it is near cold, before you pour it on •, when your pine apple looks quite full and green, take it out of the fyrup, and make a thick fyrup of three pounds of double refined fugar, with as much water as will diflolve it, boil and fkimit well, put a few flicesof white ginger in it; when it is near cold pour it upon your pine apple, tie it down with a bladder, and the pine apple, will keep many years, and not fhrink, but if you put it into thick fyrup at the fir ft, it will fhrink, for the ftrength of the fyrup draws out the juice and fpoils it.*—-A7*. B. It is a great fault to put any kind of fruit that is preierved whole into thick fyrup at fir ft. To preferve Red Gooseberries. TO every quart of rough red goofeberries, put a pound of loaf fugar, put your fugar into a preferving pan with as much water as will dif- lolve it, boil and fkimit well, then put in your goofeberries, let them boil a little, and fet them by till the next day, then boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup thick, then put them into pots or glaffes, cover them with brandy papers, and keep them for ufe*ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 227 To preferve Strawberries whole. GET the fineft fcarlet ftrawberties with their ftalks on, before they are too ripe, then lay them feparately on a china difh, beat and fift twice their weight of double refined fugar, aiid ftrew it over them, then take a few ripe fcarlet ftraw- berries, crufh them, and put them into a jar* with their weight of double refined fugar beat Small, cover them clofe, arid let them ftand in a kettle of boiling water till they are fofr, and the fyrup is come out of them, then ftrain them through a muflin rag into a tolling pan, boil and fkimit well, when it is cold put in your whole ' strawberries, and fet them over the fire till they are milk warm, then take them off, and let them ftand till they are quite cold, then fet them on again, and make them a little hotter, do fo Se- veral times till they look clear, but do not let them boil, it will fetch the ftalks off when the Strawberries are cold, put them into jelly glailes with the ftalks downwards, and fill up your glaffes with the fyrup $ tie them down with brandy papers over them.—They are very pretty amongft jellies and creams, and proper for Set- ting out a defert of any kind. Topreferve White Raspberries whole* GET your rafpberries when they are turning tvhite, with the ftalks on about an inch long^ lay them Angle on a difh, beat and fift their weight of double refined fugar, ftrew it over 0^.2 them*22S the experienced them, to every quart of rafpberries take a quart of white currant juice* put to it its weight of double refined fugar, boil and fkim it well, then putin your rafpberries and give them a fcald, take them off and let them itand for two hours* then fet them on again and make them a little hotter, do fo for two or three times, till they look clear, but do not let them boil, it will make the ftalks come off; when they are pretty cool, put them into jelly glaftes v/ith the (talks down, and keep them for ufe.—2V. B. You may pre- fer ve red rafpberries the fame way, only take red currant juice inftead of white. To preferve Morello Cherries. GET your cherries when they are full ripe, take out the ftalks and prick them with a pin * to every two pounds of cherries put a pound and a half of loaf fugar, t>qa|v|part of your fugar and- ilrew it over them $ let them Hand all night, dif- folve the reft of your fugar in half a pint of the juice of currants, fet it over a flow fire, and put in the cherries with the fugar, and give them a gentle fcald, let them Hand all night again, and give them another Raid, then take them care- fully out, and boil your fyrup till it is thick, then pour it upon your cherries, if you find it be too thin boil it again. To preferve. Barberries in Bunches• - TAKE the female barberries, pick out all the largeft bunches, then pick the reft from the ftalks, put them in as much water as will make 3 a fJ«PENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 229 a fyrup of your bunches, boil them till they are foft, then flrain them through afieve; to every pint of the juice put a pound and a half of loaf fugar, boil and Hum it well* and to every pint of fyrup put half a pound of barberries in bunches, boil them till they look very fine and clear, then put them carefully into pots and glades ; tie brandy papers over, and keep them for ufe. 1 Topreferve Barberries for Tarts. PICK the female barberries clean from the Ralks, then take their weight in loaf fugar, put them in a jar and fet them in a kettle of boiling water till the fugar is melted, and the barberries quite foft, the next day put them in a pre- ferving pan, and boil them fifteen minutes, then put them in jars? and keep them in a dry cool place. To preferve Damsons, TAKE the fmall long damfons, pick oft the ftalks, and prick them with a pin, then put them into a deep pot, with half their weight of loaf fugar pounded, fet them in a moderate oven till they are foft, then take them off, and give the fyrup a boil, and pour it upon them, do fo two or three times, then take them care- fully out, and put them into the jars you intend to keep them in, and pour over them rendered mutton fuet; tie a bladder over them and keep them for ufe in a very cool place® 0^3 us£30 THE EXPERIENCED you *?o preferve Magnum Bonum Plums. TAKE the large yellow plums, put them la a pan full of fpring water, fet them over a flow Are, keep putting them down -with a fpoon till you find the fldn will come oft, then take them up and peel the fkin off with a penknife, put them in a fine thin fyrup and give them a gentle boil, then take them off, and turn them pretty often in the fyrup, or the outfide will turn brown ; when they arequite cold, fet them over the fire again, let them boil five or fix minutes, then take them off and turn them very often in the lyrnp till they are near cold, then take them out and lay them feparately on a fiat china difh, flrain the fyrup through a muflin rag, add to it the weight of the plums of fine loaf fugar, boil and fkim it very well, then put in your plums, boil them till they lock clear, then put them carefully into jars or glaffes, cover them well with the fyrup, or they will loofe their colour, * put brandy papers and a bladder over them. Tt0 prefervs W1 n e Sou R s ♦ TAKE the fineft wine fours you can get. pick off the ffalks, run down the feam with a pin only fldn deep, then take half their weight of loaf fugar pounded, and lay it betwixt your plums in layers till your jar is full, let them in a kettle of boiling water till they are loft, then drain the fyrup from them, and give it aboil ^nd pour it on them, do fo for feveral times, tillENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 231 you fee the (kin look hard and the plums clear, let them ftand a week, then take them out one by one and put them into glades, jars, or pots, give your fyrup a boil, if you have not fyrup enough, boil a little clarified fugar with your fyrup and fill up your glaffes, jars, or pots, with it, and put brandy papers over, and tie a bladder oyer them to keep out the air, or they will loofe their colour and grow a purple. They are pretty with either fteeple cream, any kind of flummeries, or under a filver web. To preferve Apricots. PARE your apricots, and thruft out the ftones with a fkewer, to every pound of apricots put a pound of loaf fugar, ftrew part of it over them, and let them ftand till the next day, then give them a gentle boil three or four different times, let them go cold betwixt every time; take them out of the fyrup one by one, the laft time as you boil them, Ikim your fyrup well, boil it till it looks thick and clear, then pour it over your apricots, and put brandy papers over thern? - To preferve Peaches. GET the [larged peahes before they are too ripe, rub off the lint with a cloth, then run them down the feam with a pin, /kin deep, cover them with French brandy, tie a bladder over the&, and let them ftand a week, then take them out, and make a ftrong fyrup for them, boil aqd /kim it well^ put in your peaches, and - 0^4 v boiA232 The experienced boil them till they look clear, then take them put, and put them into pots or glades'; mix the fyrup with the brandy, when it is cold pour it on your peaches; tie them clofe down with a bladder that the air cannot get in, or the peaches will turn black, ■To prefer vs Quinces whole* PARE vour quinces very thin and round* that they may look like a fcrew, then put them into a well tinned faucepan, with a new pewter fpoon in the middle of thems and fill your faucet- pan with hard water, and lay the parings over your quinces, to keep them down ; cover your faucepan fo clofe that the fleam cannot get out $ fet them over a flow fire till they are foft, and a fine pink colour, let them ftand tiil they are cold, and make a good fyrup of double refined iugar, boil and fkim it well, then put in your quinces, let them boil ten minutes, take them off, and let them Hand two or three hours, then boil them till the fyrup looks thick, and the quinces clear, then put them into deep jars, with brandy papers and leather over them ; keep them in a dry place for ufe. -N. B. You may pre«* ferve quinces in quarters the fame way. Toreferve Oranges carved\ TAKE the faireft Seville oranges you can get, cut the rinds with a penknife in what form you pleafe, draw out the part of your peel as you cut them, and put them into fait and hard waterENGLISH HO US E-KE E P E R. 233 water, let them (land for three days to take out the bitter, then boil them an hour in a large faucepan of frefh water, with fait in it, but do not cover them, it will fpoil the colour, then take them out of the fait and water, and boil them ten minutes in a thin fyrup for four or .five days together, then put them into a deep jar, let them hand two months, and then make a thick fyrup, and juft give them a boil in it, let them "(land till the next day, then put them in your jar with brandy papers over 1 tie them down with a bladder, and keep them for ufe. N, B. You may preferve whole oranges with- out carving the fame way, only do not let them boil fo long, and keep them in a very thin fyrup at fir ft, or it will make them (brink and wither. —Always obferve to put fait in the water for either oranges preferved, or any kind of orange 2*0 preferve Oranges in Jelly. TAKE Seville oranges, and cut a hole Cut at the ftalk as large as a fixpence, and fcoop out the pulp quite clear, tie them feparately in muflin, and lay them in fpring water for two days., change the water twice a day, then boil them in the muflin till tender upon a flow fire, as the water wafteth put hot water into the pan, and keep them covered, weigh the oranges before you fcoop them, and to every pound put two pounds of double refined fugar, and one pint of water, boil the fugar and water with the juice of the oranges to a fyrup, Ikim it very well, let it ftand2J4 THE experienced Hand till cold, then put in the oranges and boil them half an hour, if they are not quite clear* boil them once a day for two or three days, pare and core fome green pippins, and boil them till the water is flrong of the apple, but do not ftir the apples, only put them down in the water, with the back ofafpoon, ftrain the water through a jelly bag till quite clear, then to every pint of water, put one pound of double refined fugar, and the juice of a lemon drained fine, boil it up to a flrong jelly, drain the oranges out of the fyrup, put them into glafs jars, or pots of the fizeofan orange, with the holes upward, and pour the jelly over them, cover them with brandy papers, and tie them clofe down with bladders,— JY. B. You may do lemons the fame way. *Ta preferve Lemons. CARVE or pare your lemons very thin, and make a round hole on the top the fize of a (hil- ling, take out all the pulp and fkins, rub them with fait, and put them in fpring water as you do them, to prevent them from turning black, let them lie in five or fix days, then boil them in frefh fait and water fifteen minutes, have ready made a thin fyrup of a quart of water, and a pound of leaf fugar, boil them in it five minutes, once a day for four or five days, then put them in a large jar, let them Hand for fix or eight weeks, and it will make them look clear and plump, then take them out of that fyrup, or they will mould; make a fyrup of fine fugar, put as much water to it as will dif«ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 23; folve it, boil and fkim it, then put in your lemons, and boil them gently till they are clear, then put them into ajar with brandy papers over; tie them clofe down, and keep them in a dry place for ufe0 To preferve Oranges Marmalade, PARE your oranges as thin as you can, then cut a hole in the flalk end, the fize of a fix- pence, take out all the pulp, then put your oranges in fait and water, boil them a little more than an hour, but do not cover them, it will turn them a bad colour, have ready made a fyrup of a pound of fine loaf fugar, with a pint of water, put in your oranges, boil them till they look clear, then pick all the fkins and pippins out of your pulp, and cut one of your oranges into it, as thin as poflible, and take its weight of double refined fugar, boil it in a clean toiling— pan over a flow clear fire, till it looks quite clear and tranfparent, when it is cold take your oranges out and fill them with your marmalade, and put on your top, and put them in your fyrup again, let them ftand for two months, then make a fyrup of double refined fugar, with as much water as will diffolve it, boil and fkim it well, then give your oranges a boil in it; put brandy papers over, and tie them down with 4 gladder; they will keep for feveral years.Cl36 THE EXPERIENCED 7o make Bullace Cheese. TAKE your bullace when they are full ripes put them into a pot, and to every quart of bul- lace put a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar beat fmall, bake them in a moderate oven till they are foft, then rub them through a hair fieve ; to every pound of pulp add half a pound of loaf fugar beat fine, then boil it an hour and a half over a flow fire, and keep ftirring it all the time, then pour it into potting pots, and tie brandy papers over them, and keep them in a dry place; when it has flood a few months it wilt cut out very bright and fine.—N, B* You may make floe cheefe the fame way. "To make Elder Rob. GATHER your elder berries when they are full ripe, pick them clean from the ftalks, put them in large flew pots, and tie a paper over them, put them in a moderate oven, let them Rand two hours, then take them out, and put them in a thin coarfe cloth and fqueeze out all thej uice you can get, then put eight quarts into a well-tinned copper, fet it over a flow fire, let it boil till it be reduced to one quart, when it grows near done, keep ftirring it topreventits burning to the bottom, thenputiti nto potting pots, let it ftandtwo or three days in the fun, then dip a paper in fweet oil the fize of your pot, and lay it on, tie it down with a bladder, and keep it in a very dry place for ufe.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 237 To make Black Currant Rob. GET your currants when they are ripe, pick* bake, and fqueeze them the fame as you did the elder berries, then put fix quarts of the juice into a large tolling pan, boil it over a flow fire, till it is pretty thick, keep ftirring it till it is reduced to one quart, pour it into flat pots, dry it, and tie it down the fame way as you did your elder rob. To few Pippins whole. PARE and core your pippins and throw them into fair water as you pare them, then take the weight of the fruit of double refined fugar, and diflfolve it in a quart of water, then boil it up, and fcum it clean, then put in the fruit, let them flew gently till they are tender, and look clear, then take them out and fqueeze in the juice of a large lemon and let it boil up, fcum it and run it through a jelly bag upon the fruit 1 you may flick the pippins with candied oranges and lemons cut in thin flices, if you pleafe. * CHAP. IX. t)ire£lions for Drying and Candying. BEFORE you candy any fort of fruit, pre~ ferve them firfl, and dry them in a Rove, or before the fire, till the fyrup is run out of them2J8 THE EXPERIENCED them, then boil your fugar, candy height, dip in the fruit, and lay them in difhes in your ftove till dry, then put them in boxes, and keep them in a dry place. To make Apricot Paste. PARE and ftone your apricots, boil them in water till they will mafh quite fmall, put a pound of double refined fugar in your preserving pan, with as much water as will diffolve it, and boil it to fugar again, take it ofif the ftove, and put in a pound of apricots, let itftand till the fugar is melted, then make it Raiding hot, hut do not let it boil, pour it into China difhes, or cups, fet them in a ftove, when they are ftiff enough to turn out, put them on glafs plates, turn them as you fee occafion till they are dry. To make Raspberry Paste. MASH a quart of rafpberries, ftrain one half, and put the juice to the other half, boil them a quarter of an hour, put to them a pint of red currant juice, let them boil all together till your berries are enough, put a pound and a half of double refined fugar into a clean pan, with as much water as will difiolve it, and boil it to a fugar again, then put in your berries and juice, give them a fcald, and pour it into glaffts or plates, then put them into a ftove to dry, and turn them as you fee occafion.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 239 To make Gooseberry Paste. TAKE a pound of goofeberries when the/ are full grown and turned, but not ripe, cut them in halves, pick out all the feeds* have ready a pint of currant juice, boil your goofeberries in it till they are tender, put a pound and a half of double refined fugar into your pan, with as much water as will diffolve it, and boil it to fugar again, then put it all together and make it Raiding hot, but it mull not boil, pour it in to plates or glaffea the thicknefs you like, then dry it in a Hove, To make Currant Paste either red or white. \ STRIP your currants, put a little juice to them to keep them from burning, boil them well and rub them through a hair lieve, then boil it a quarter of an hour: to a pint of juice put a pound and a half of double refined fugar, lifted, Ihake in your fugar, when it is melted, pour it on plates, dry it as the other paftes, and turn it into what form you pleafe. To make Currant Clear Cake. STRIP and walh your currants, to four quarts of currants put one quart of water, boil them Very well, then run it through a jelly bag, to a pint of jelly put a pound and a half of double refined fugar, pounded and lifted through a hair fieve, fet your jelly on the fire, when it has juft boiled up, ihake in the fugar, ftir it well, then fet it on the fire again, make it Raiding hot■HO THE EXPERIENCED hot to melt the fugar, but do not let it boil,' then pour it on clear cake glafies or plates, when it is jellied, before it is candied, cut it in rounds or half rounds, this will not knot; and dry then the fame way as you did the apricot pafte. White currant clear cakes are made the fame way, but obferve, that as foon as the jelly is made, you mu ft put the fugar to it, or it will change the colour. To make Violet Cakes. TAKE the fineft violets you can get, pick off the leaves, beat the violets fine in a mortar, with thcjuice of a lemon, beat and lift twice theif weight of double refined fugar, put your fugar and violets into a Giver fauce-pan, or tankard, let it over a flow fire, keepftirring it gently till all your fugar is diffolved, if you let it boil it wilL difcolour your violets, drop them in china plates j when you take them oft, put them in a box with paper betwixt every layer. To dry Cherries, TAKE Morello cherries, flone them, and to every poundof cherries put a pound and a quar- ter of fine fugar, beat and fift it over your cher- ries, let them ftand all night, take them out of your fugar, and to every pound of fugar put two fpoonfuls of water, boil and fcum it well, then put in your cherries, let your fugar boil over them, the next morning ftrain them, and to every pound of the fyrup put half a pound more fugar, let it boil a little thicker, then putin yourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 24s your cherries, and let them boil gently, the next day flrain them, and dry them in a ftove, and turn them every day. A fecond way to dry Cherries, STONE a pound and a half of cherries, put them in a preferving pan, with a little water, when they are fcalding hot, put them in a fieve, or on a cloth to dry, then put them in your pan again, beat and lift half a pound of double refined fugar, drew it betwixt eyery lay of cherries, when it is melted fet them on the fire, and make them fcalding hot, let them ftand till they are cold, do To twice more, then drain them from the fy- rup, and lay them feparately to dry ; dip them in cold water, and dry them with a cloth, fet them in the hot fun to dry as before, and keep them in a dry place till you want to ufe them, To dry Green Gage Plumbs, MAKE a thin fyrup of half a pound of Angle refined fugar, Admit well, flit a pound of plumbs down the feam, and put them in the fyrup,keep them fcalding hot till they are tender, they mult be well covered with fyrup, or they will lofe their colour, let them ftand all night, then make a rich fyrup ; to a pound of double refined fu- gar put two fpoonfuls of water, fkim it well and boil it alrnoft to a candy, when it is cold, drain your plumbs out of the firft fyrup, and put them in the thick fyrup, be fare let the fyrup cover them, fet them on the fire to fcald till they look clear, then put them in a china bowl, when they have flood a week take them out, and lay R them242 THE EXPERIENCED ^aem on china difhes, dry them in a ftove, and turn them once a day till they are dry.—If you would have them green, fcald them with vine leaves, the fame way as the green gages are done. To make Apricot Cakes. TAKE a pound of nice ripe apricots, fcald them, and as foon as you find the Ikin will come off, peel them and takeout the ftones, beat them in a marble mortar to a pulp, boil half a pound of double refined fugar, with a fpoonfulof wa- ter, fkim it exceeding well, then put in the pulp of your apricots, let them fimmer a quar- ter of an hour over a (low fire, ftir it foftly all the time, then pour it into (hallow fiat glafles, turn them out upon glafs plates, put them in a ftove, and turn them once a day till they are dry. To burn Almonds. TAKE two pounds of loaf fugar, two pounds of almonds, put them in a ftew-pan with a pint of water, fet them over a clear coal fire, let them boil till you hear the almonds crack, take them off and ftir them about till they are quite dry, then put them in a wine fieve and fift all fhe fugar from them, put the fugar into the pan again with a little water, give it a boil, put four fpoonfuls of fcraped cochineal to the fugar to colour it, put the almonds into the pan, keep flirring them ever the fire till they are quite dry, put them into a glafs and they will keep twelve months. To dry Damsons. GET your damfons when they are full ripe, fpread them on a coarfe cloth, let them in a very coolENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 243 cool oven, let them ftand a day or two : if they are not as dry as a frefh prune, put them in an- other cool oven for a day or two longer, till they are pretty dry, then take them out, and lay them in a dry place, they will eat like frefh plums in the winter. "To candy Ginger. BEAT two pounds of fine loaf fugar, put one pound in a toiling pan, with as much water as will diffolve it, with one ounce of race ginger grated fine, ftir them well together over a very flow fire till the fugar begins to boil, then (Hr in the other pound, and keep ftirring it till it grows thick, then take it off the fire, and drop it in cakes upon earthen difiles, fet them in a warm place to dry, and they will look white, and be very hard and brittle, T<? make Orange Chips. TAKE the beft Seville oranges, pare them aflant, a quarter of an inch broad, if you can keep the paring whole it looks much prettier, when you have pared them all, put them in fait and fpring water for a day or two, then boil them in a largequantity of fpring water, till they are tender, then drain them on a fieve, have ready a thin fyrup, made of a quart of water, and a pound of fine fugar, boil them (a few at a time to keep them from breaking) till they look clear, then put them into a fyrup made of fine loaf fu- gar, with as much water as will diffolve it, and boil them to a candy height, when you take them up,lay them on Sieves, and grate double refined fu- gar all over them,and put them in a Rove,or by the fire to dry, and keep them in a dry place for uf~THE EXPERIENCED 2J4 To dry Currants in bunches. WHEN the currants aie ftoned and tied up in bunches, to every pound of currants take a pound and a half of fugar, and to every pound offugar put half a pint of water, boil the fyrup very well, lay your currants in it, fet them on the fire, and let them juft boil, take them oft, cover it clofe with a paper, let them ftand till the next day, then make them fcalding hot, let them ftand for two or three days, with a paper clofe to them, then lay them on earthen plates, and fift them well over with fugar, put them in a ftove to dry, the next day lay them on fieves, but do not turn them till the upper fide is dry, then, turn them, and fift the other fide well with fugar $ when they are quite dry, lay them be- twixt papers. To dry Apricots. TAKE a pound of apricots, pare and ftone them, put them in your toiling pan, pound and fift half a pound of double refined fugar, ftrew a iittle amongft them, and lay the reft over them; let them ftand twenty four hours, turn them three or four times in the fyrup, then boil them pretty quick till they look clear, when they are cold take them out, and lay them on glafies, put them into a ftove, and turn them every half hour, the next day every hour*, and after as you fee occafion. To make Lemon Drops. DIP a lump of treble refined loaf fugar in water, boil it ftiffifh, take it oft, rub it with the back of a filver fpoon to the fide of your pan, then grate in feme lemon-peel, boil it up, and dropENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 245 drop it on paper; if you want it red putin a little cochineal. 1 » To mtike Lemon Drops afecond Way. TAKEthejuice of three frelh lemons /Trained fine, and mix it with a pound of treble refined fugar beaten and fifted through a lawn fieve, beat them together for an hour, it will make them white and bright, then drop them upon writing paper, and dry them before the fire or in the fun. They are a pretty ornament for a defert. To make Peppermint Drops to carry in the Pocket. A TAKE one pound of treble refined fugar, beat it fine and fift it through a lawn fieve., then mix it with the whites of two eggs, beat it to a thick froth, then add fixty drops of the oil of peppermint and beat them all well together, then with a tea fpoon drop it upon fine cap paper, the fize of half a nutmeg, and put them upon the hearth to dry, the next day take them off- and they are fit for ufe. To make Raspberry or Currant Drops. TAKEthejuice of rafpberries or red cur- rants, add as much treble refined fugar beaten and finely fifted as will make it into a thin pafte, drop them upon fine cap paper with a tca-fpoon, dry them before the fire, the next day take them off, and keep them in a glafs jar, it will preserve the flavour. They are a great ornament to a deleft. R 3 To24-6 THE EXPERIENCED To dry Peaches. PARE and ftone the largeft Newington peaches, have ready a faucepan of boiling water, put in the peaches, let them boil tili they are tender, lay them on a fieve to drain, then weigh them, and put them in the pan they were boiled in, and cover them with their weight of fugar, let them lie two or three hours, then boil them till they are clear,, and the fyrup pretry thick, let them hand all night covered clofe, feald them very well, then take them off to cool, then let them on again till the peaches are tho- roughly hot, do this for three days, lay them on plates to dry, and turn them every day. To candy Angelica. TAKE it when young, cut it in lengths, cover it clofe, and boil it till it is tender, peel it, and put it in again, let it fimmer and boil till it is green, then take it up and dry it with a cloth $ to every pound of ftalks put a pound of fugar •> put your ftalks into an earthen pan, beat the fugar and frrew over them, let it hand two days, then boil it tijl it is clear and green, put it in a cullender to drain ; beat a pound of fugar to powder again, ftrew it on your angelica, lay it on plates to dry, and fet them in the oven after ahe pies are drawn*—Three pounds and a half of fugar is enough to four pounds of ftalks. To candy Lemon or Okange Peel. CUT your lemons or oranges long-ways, and takeout all the pulp, and put the rinds into a prettyENGLISH HOUSEKEEPER.^ pretty flrong fait and hard water fix days, then boil them in a large quantity of fpring water till they are tender, then take themoutand lay them on a hair fieve to drain, then make a thin fyrup of fine loaf fugar, a pound to a quart of water ; put in your peels and boil them half an hour, or till thy look clear, have ready a thick lyrup made of fine loaf fugar, with as much, water as will diffolve it, put in your peels, and boil them over a flow fire till you fee the fyrup candy about the pan and peels, then take them out, and grate fine fugar all over them, lay them on a hair fieve to drain, and fet them in a (love, or before the fire to dry, and keep them in a dry place for ufe,—N. B. Do not cover your fauce- pan when you boil either lemons or oranges. To boil Sugar candy height. PUT a pound of fugar into a clean toffing pan, with half a pint of water, fet it over a very clear flow fire, take off the fcum as it rifes, boil it till it looks fine and clear, then take out a lit- tle with a filver fpoon $ when it is cold, if it will ) draw a thread from your fpoon, it is boiled high* enough for any kind of fweetmeat, then boil your fyrup, and when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. N. B. It is a great fault to put any kind of fweetmeats into too thick a fyrup,* efpeciaily at the fir ft, for it withers vour fruit, and takes off both the beauty and flavour. R 4 C H A P.*4* THE experienced CHAP. X. Qbfervations upon Creams, Custards, and Cheese-cakes. WHEN you make any-kind, of creams and cuftards, take great care your tolling pan be weH tinned, put a fpoonful of water in it to prevent the cream from flicking to the bottom of your pan, then beat the yolks of eggs, and ftrain out the threads, and follow the directions ofyour receipt.—As to cheefe-cakes, they fhouid not be made long before you bake them, parti- cularly almond or lemon cheefe-cakes, for Hand- ing makes them oil and grow fad, a moderate oven bakes them beft, if it is too hot it burns them and takes off the beauty, and a very flow oven makes them fad and look blacky make your cheefe-cakes up juft when the oven is of a pro- per heat, and they will rife well and be of a proper colour. To make Pistacho Cream. TAKE half a pound of piilacho nuts, take out the kernels, beat them in a mortar with a fpoonful of brandy, put them into a toiling pan, with a pint of good cream, and the yolks oi two eggs beat fine, flir it gently over a very flow lire till it grows thick, then put it into a china foup plate, when it grows cold flick it all over with fmall pieces, and ferve it up. , To make Chocola^te Cream*. SCRAPE fine a quarter of a pound of the belt chocolate, put to it as much water as will dif- folveENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2.49 folve it, put it in a marble mortar, beat it half an hour, put in as much fine fugaras will fweeten it and a pint and a half of cream, mill it, and as the froth rifes lay it on a fieve, put the re- mainder part of your cream in pofiet glades, and lay the frothed cream upon them.—It makes a pretty mixture upon a let of falvers. To make Spanish Cream. DISSOLVE in a quarter of a pint of rofe water three quarters of an ounce of ifinglafs cut fmall, run it through a hair fieve, add to it the yolks of three eggs, beat and mixed with half a pint of cream, two forrel leaves, and fugar to your tafte, dip the difh in cold water before you putin the cream, then cut it out with a jigging iron, and lay it in rings round different coloured fweetmeats. To make Ice Cream. PARE, ftone, and fcald twelve ripe apricots, beat them fine in a marble mortar, put to them fix ounces of double refined fugar, a pint of fcalding cream, work it through a hair fieve, put it into a tin that has a clofe cover, fet it in a tub of ice broken fmall, and a large quantity of fait put amongft it, when you fee the cream grow th ick round the edges of your tin, ftir it, and fet it in again till it grows quite thick, when your cream is all froze up, take it out of your . tin, and put it into the mould you intend it to be turned out of, then put on the lid, and have ready another tub with ice and fait in as,before,, put your mould in the middle, and lay your ice under2$o THE EXPERIENCED under and over it, let it Rand four or five hour*, dip your tin in warm water when you turn it , out; if it be fummer, you rnuft not turn it out till the moment you want it; you may ufe any fori of fruit if you have not apricots, only ob- ferve to work it fine. To make Clotted Cream. PUT one tea-fpoon of earning into a quart of good cream, when it comes to a curd break it very carefully with a filver fpoon, lay it upon a fieve to drain a little, put it into a china foup plate, pour over it fome good cream, with the juice of rafpberries, damfons, or any kind of fruit to make it a fine pink colour, fweeten it to your tape, and lay round it a few ftrawberry leaves.—It is proper for a middle at Tapper, or a corner at dinner. To make Hartshorn Cream. TAKE four ounces of hartfhorn fhavings, boil them in threepints of water till it is reduced to half a pint, run it through a jelly bag, put to it a pint of cream, let it juft boil up, then petit in to jelly glares, let it ftand till it is cold, by dipping your glades into fcalding water it will flip out whole, then ftick them all over with flices of almonds cut length-ways: it eats well with white wine and fugar, like flummery* To make Ribband Cream. TAKE eight quarts of new milk, fet it on the fire, when it is ready to boil put in a quart of good cream, earn it. and pour it into a large bowl, let it ftand all night, then take off the cream*ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 251 cream, and lay it on a fieve to drain, cut it to the fize of your glafles, and lay red, green, or co- loured fweetmeats between every layer of cream. To make Lemon Cream. TAKE a pint of fpring water, the rinds of two lemons pared very thin, and the juice of three, beat the whites of fix eggs very well, mix the whites with the water and lemon, put fugar to your tafte, then fet it over the fire, and keep ilirring it till it thickens, but do not let it boil, ilrain it through a cloth, beat the yolks of fix eggs, put it over the fire till it be quite thick, then put it into a bowl to cool, and put it in your glafies. a- To make Steeple Cream *with Wine Sour, TAKE one pint of ftrong clear calfs-foot jelly, the yolks of four hard eggs, pounded in a mortar exceeding fine, with the juice of a Seville orange, and as much double refined fugar as will make it fiweet, when your jelly is warm put it in, and keep ilirring it till it is cold and grows as thick as cream, then put it into jelly glalTes, the next day turn it out into a difh with preserved wine fours, (tick a fprigof myrtle in the top of every cream, and lerve it up with flowers round it. To make Raspberry Cream. 1 , . f,' . TAKE a quart of rafpberries, or rafpberry jam, rub it through a hair fieve to take out the feeds, mix it well with your cream, put in as muchT FIE EXPERIENCED much loaf fugar as will make it pleafant, fhen put it into a milk pot to raife a froth with a cho- colate mill ; as your froth rifes take it off with a fpoon, lay it upon a hair fieve, when you have got what froth you have occafion for, put the remainder of your cream into a deep china difli or punch bowl, put your frothed cream upon it as high as it will lie on, then flick a light flower in the middle and fend it up.*—-It is proper for a middle at flipper, or a corner at dinner. Lemon Cream with Peel. BOIL a pint cf cream, when it is half cold put in the yolks of four eggs, ftir it till it is cold, then fet it over the Are, with four ounces of loaf fugar, a tea fpoonful of grated lemon peel, ftir them till it is pretty hot, take it off the fire and put it in a bafon to cool, when it is cold put it in fweetmeat glaffes, lay pafte knot, or lemon peel cut like long ftraws over the tops of your glaffes.— It is proper to be put upon a bottom falver amongft jellies and whips. Orange Cream. TAKE the juice of fourSeville oranges, and the out-rind of one pared exceeding fine, put them into a toffing-pan with one pint of water and eight ounces of fugar, beat the whites of five eggs, let it over the fire, ftir it one way till it grows thick and white, ftrain it through a gauze fieve, ftir it till it is cold, then beat the yolks of five eggs exceeding well, put it in your toiling 6 panENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 253 ban with thecream, ftirit overa very flow fire till it is ready to boil, put it into a bafon to cool* and ftir it till it is quite cold, then put it into jelly glades : fend it in upon a falver with whips and jellies. To make Burnt Cream. BOIL a pint of cream with fugar, and a lit- tle lemon peel flared fine, then beat the yolks of fix and the whites of four eggs feparately, when your cream is cooled, put in your eggs, with a fpoonful of orange flower water, and one of fine .flour, fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it till it is thick, put it into a difin ; when it is cold fifi a quarter of a pound of fugar all over, hold a hot falamander over it till it is very brown., and looks like a glafs plate over your cream. To make La PompadourCream. BEAT the whites of five eggs to a ftrong froth, put them into a toiling pan, with two fpoonfuls of orange flower water, two ounces of fugar, ftir it gently for three or four minutes, then pour it into your di£h, and pour good melted butter over it, and fend it in hot*—- It is a pretty corner difh for a fecond coorfe at dinner* To make Tea Cream* TO half a pint of milk put a quarter of am ounce of fine hyfon tea, boil them together,, ftrain the leaves out, and put to the milk half a pint 1a54 THE EXPERIENCED pint of cream, and two fpoonfuis of rennet % fet it over fome hot embers m the difh vou fend J it to table in, and cover it with a tin plate ; when it is thick it is enough. Garnifh with fweetmeats and lend it up. To make King William’s Cream* BEAT the whites of three eggs very well, then fqueeze out the juice of two large or three fmail lemons , take two ounces more than the weight of the juice of double refined fugar, and mix it together with two or three drops of orange ^flower water ; and five or fix fpoonfuis of fair fpring water; when all the fugar is melted, put in the whites of the eggs into the pan and the juice, fet it over a flow' fire and keep ftirringit till you find it thicken, then drain it through a coarfe cloth quick into the difh. Snow and Cream, a pretty Sapper di/h. MAKE a rich boiled cuftard and put it in the bottom of your china or glafs difh, then take the whites of eight eggs beat with rofe water and a fpoonful of treble refined fugar, till it is a firong froth ; put fome milk and wa- ter into a broad ftew-pan, and when it boils take the froth off the eggs and lay it on the milk and water, and let it boil once up ; take it off carefully, and lay it on your cuftard. ToENGLSH HOUSE-KEEPER. 155 To make Cream Cheese. PUT one large fpoonfui of fteep to five quarts of afterings, break it down light, put it upon a cloth in a fieve bottom, and let it run till dry, break it, cut and turn it in a clean cloth, theii put it into the fieve again, and put on it a two pound weight, fprinkle a little fa.lt on it and let it Hand all night, then lay it on a board to dry, when dry lay a few ft raw berry leaves on it, and ripen it between two pewter difhes in a warm place, turn it, and pot on frefli leaves every day. To make ^Trifle* PUT three large maccaroons in the middle of your diih, pour as much white wine over them as they will drink, then take a quart of cream, put in as much iugar as will make it fweet, rub your fugar upon the rind of a lemon to fetch out the eflenoe, pat your cream into a pot, mill it to a firong froth, lay as much froth upon a fieve as will fill the dilh you intend to put your trifle in, put the remainder of your cream into a tolling pan, with a flick of cinnamon, the yolks of tour eggs well beat, and fugar to your tafte, fet them over a gentle fire, ftir it one way till it is thick, then take it oft* the fire, pour it upon your maccaroons, when it is cold put on your frothed cream, lay round it different coloured fweetmeats, and fmali fhot comfits in, and fi- gures or flowers. ALMOND256 THE EXPERIENCED Almond Custards* PUT a quart of cream into a toffing pan, a flick of cinnamon, a blade or two of mace, boil it and fet it to cool, blanch two ounces of al- monds, beat them fine in a marble mortar with rofe water, if you like a ratafia tafle, put in a few apricot kernels or bitter almonds, mix them with your cream, fweeten it to your tafle, fet it on a flow fire, keep ftirring it till it is pretty thick, if you let it boil it will curdle, pour it into cups, &c. To m&Lemon Custards. TAKE a pint of white wine, half a pound of double refined fugar, the juice of two lemons, the out~rind of one pared very thin, the inner- rind of one boiled tender and rubbed through a fieve, let them boil a good while, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor, fet it to cool, pour the reft into the difh you intend for it; beat four yolks and two whites of eggs, mix them with your cool liquor, flrain them into your difh, Air them well up together, fet them on a flow fire, or boiling water to bake as a cuftard, when it is enough, grate the rind of a lemon all over the top ; you may brown it over with shot falamander.-—It may be eat either hot or cold. To make Orange Custards* BOIL the rind of half a Seville orange very tender, beat it in a marble mortar till it is very fine.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 257 fine, put to it one fpoonful of the bell: brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf fugar and the yolks of four eggs* beat them all together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream, keep beating them till they are cold, put them in cuftard cups, and fetthem in an earthen difh of hot water, let them (land till they are fet, then take them out, and flick preferved orange on the top, and ferve them up either hot or cold.—It is a pretty cor- ner difli for dinner, ora fide difh for fupper* To make a common Custard* TAKE a quart of good cream, fet it over a flow fire, with alittlecinnamon, and four ounces of fugar *, when it has boiled take it off the fire ^ beat the yolks of eight eggs, put to them a fpoonful of orange flower water, to prevent the cream from cracking, flir them in by degrees your cream cools, put the pan over a very flow fire, flir them carefully one way till it is al~ mofc boiling, then put it into cups, and ferve them up. To make a Beest Custard. TAKE a pint of beefl, fet it over the fire, with a little cinnamon, or three bay leaves, let it be boiling hot, then take it off, and have ready mixed one fpoonful of flour, and a fpoonful of thick cream, pour your hot beefl upon it by degrees, mix it exceeding well together, and fweeren it to your tafte ; you may7 either put it in crufts or cups, or bake it. S To258 THE EXPERIENCED !To make an Apple Floating Island. BAKE fix or eight very large apples, when they are cold peel and core them, rub the pulp through a fieve with the back of a wooden fpoon, then beat it up light with fine fugar, well lifted, to your tafte; beat the whites of four eggs with orange flower water in another bowl till it is a light froth, then mix it with your apple a little at a time till all is beat together and exceeding light; make a rich boiled cuf- tard, and put it in a china or glafs difh, and lay the apples all over it. Garnifh with currant jelly, or what you pleafe. To make Fairy Butter. i TAKE the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, a quarter of a pound of butter, beat two ounces of fugar in a large fpoonful of orange flower water, beat them all together to a fine pafte, let it ftand twoor three hours, then rub it through a cullendar upon a plate; it looks very pretty. To make Almond Cheese Cakes. TAKE four ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch and put them into cold water, beat them with rofe water in a marble mortar, or wooden bowl, with a wooden peftle, put to it four ounces of fugar, and the yolks of four eggs beat fine, work it in the mortar or bowl till it becomes white and frothy, then make a rich pufif pafte, which mufi be made thus : Take half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 259 rub a little of the butter into the flour, mix it ftiff with a little cold water, then roll your pafle ftraight out, ftrew over a little flour, and lay over it in thin bits one third of your butter, throw a little more flour over the butter, do fo for three times, then put your pafle in your tins. All them, and grate fugar over them, and bake them in a gentle oven. To make Bread Cheese Cakes. SLICE a penny loaf as thin as poflible, pour on it a pint of boiling cream, let it ftand two hours, then take eight eggs, half a pound of butter, and a nutmeg grated, beat them well together, put in half a pound of currants well wafhed and dried before the fire, and a fpoon- ful of brandy, or white wine, and bake them In raifed crufts, or petty pans. To make Citron Cheese Cakes. BOIL a quart of cream, beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them with your cream when it is cold, then fet it on the fire, let it boil till it curds, blanch fome almonds, beat them with orange flower water, put them into the cream with a few Naples bifcuits, and green citron fhred fine, fweeten It to your taite, and bake hem in tea-cups. To make Rice CheeseCakes. BOIL four ounces of rice till tender, put it upon a fieve to drain,put in four eggs well beat~ en, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, S 2 fix26q THE EXPERIENCED fix ounces of lugar, a nutmeg grated, and a glafs of ratafia water, or brandy : beat them all to- gether, and bake them in raifed crufts. To make Curd Cheese Cakes. TAKE half a pint of good curds, beat them with four eggs, three fpoonfuls of rich cream, half a nutmeg grated, one fpoonful of ratafia, rofe or orange water, put to them a quarter of a pound of fugar, half a pound of currants well walhed and dried before the fire, mix them all well together, and bake in petty pans, with a good cruft under them. To make Orange Crumpets, TAKE a pint of cream, and a pint of new milk, warm it, and put in it a little runner, when it is broke, ftir it gently, lay it on a cloth to drain all night, and then the rinds of three oranges, boiled as for preferving in three different waters, pound them very fine, and mix them with the curd, and eight eggs, in a mortar, a little nut-* meg, juice of lemon or orange, and fugar to your tafte, bake them in tin pans rubbed with butter, when they are baked turn them out, and put fick and fugar over them.—-Some put dices of preffed oranges among them. To make Cheese Cakes. SET a quart of new milk near the fire, with a fpoonful of runner, let the milk be blood warm, when it is broke, drain thecurd through acoarfe cloth, now and then brake the curd gently withENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 26* your fingers, rub into the curd a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, a nutmeg, and two Naples bifcuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one egg, one ounce of almonds well beat, with two fpoonfuls of rofe water, and two of fack, clean fix ounces of Currants very well, put them into your curd, and mix them all together. To make Curd Puffs. TAKE two quarts of milk, put a little run-* net in ir, when it is broke, put it in a coarfe cloth to drain, then rub the curd through a hair fieve with four ounces of butter heat, ten'ounces of bread, half a nutmeg, and a lemon peel grated, a fpoonful of wine, and fugar to your tafte, rub your cups with butter, and bake them a little more than half an hour. To make Egg Cheese. BEAT fix eggs well, put them into three gills of new milk, fugar, cinnamon, and lemon peei to your tafte, let it over the fire, keep ftirring it, and fquetze a quarter of a lemon in it to turn it to cheefe, let it run into what fhape you would have it, when it is cold, turn it out, pour over it a little almond cream, made of fweet almonds beat fine with a little cream, then put them into a pint of cream, let it boil and ftrain it, put to it the yolks of three eggs well beat, fee it over th-e fire, and make it like a cuftard. S 3 ?0THE EXPERIENCED 262 To make a Love Royal, TAKE a French roll, rafp it, cut off the hot- tom cruft, lay it in a pan, with the bottom upwards, boil a pint of cream, put to it the yolks of two eggs, a little cinnamon, orange flower water and fugar to your tafte, when it is cold pour it upon the roll, let it ftand in all night to fteep, then make a very good cuftard of cream, a little fack, orange flower water, and fugar, put the roll into a difh, with forpe good pafte round the edge, and pour your cuftard upon it $ you may lay lumps of marrow in the cuftard, and ftick long flips of citron and orange peel in the loaf, then fend it to the oven, a little time will bake it. To make a Prince Loaf. TAKE fmall French rolls, about the fize of an egg, cut a fmall round hole in the top, take out all the crumb, fill them with almond cuf- tard, layover it currant jelly, in ihinflices, beat the white of an egg, and double refined fugar to a froth, and ice them all over with it 5 five is a pretty difh. To make a Drunken Loaf. TAKE a French roll hot cut of the oven, rafp if, and pour a pint of red wine upon it, and cover it up clofe for half an hour, boil one ounce of maccaroni in water till it is foft, and lay it upon a fieve to drain, then put the iize of a wal- nutENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 263 nut of butter into it, and as much thick cream as it will take, then fcrape in fix ounces of Par- mefan cheefe, fhake it about in your tolling- pan, with the maccaroni till it be like a fine cuftard, then pour it hot upon your loaf; brown it with a falamander, and ferve it up.—It is a dretty difh foijfupper. ^To make Snow Balls. PARE fi ve large baking apples, take out the cores with a fcoop, fill the holes with orange or quince marmalade, then make a little good hot pafte, and roll your apples in it, and make your cruft of an equal thicknefs, and put them in a tin-dripping-pan, bake them in a moderate oven, when you take them out, make iceing for them the fame way as for the plum-cake, and ice them all over with it, about a quarter of an inch thick, fet them a good diftance from the fire till they are hardened, but take care you do not let them brown, put one in the middle of a China difh, and the other five round it. Garnifh them with green fprigs and fmall flowers. They are pro« per for a corner either for dinner or (upper. "To make Fjued Toast. CUT a dice of bread about half an inch thick, fteep it in rich cream, with fugar and nutmeg to your tafte, when it is quite loft, put a good lump of butter into a toffing-pan, fry it a fine brown, lay it on a difh, pour wine fauce over it, and ferve it up. £ 4 CHAP.THE EXPERIENCED 2&4 CHAP. XI. Ohfervalions upon Cakes. WHEN you make any kind of cakes, be- fore that you get the things ready be- fore you begin, then beat your eggs well, and do not leave them till you havefinilhed the cakes, or elfe they will go back again, and your cakes will no!: be light; if your cakes are to have but- ter in, take care you beat it to a fine cream be- fore you put in your fugar, for if you beat it twice the time, it will not anfwer fo well : as to plum-cake, feed-cake, or rice-cake, it is bell to bake them in wooden garths, for if you bake them in either pot or tin, they burn the outfide of the cakes, and confine them fo that the heat cannot penetrate into the middle of your cake, and prevents it from fifing: bake all kinds of cake in a good oven, according to the fijzecf your cake, and follow the directions of your receipt, for though care hath been taken to weigh and meaiure every article belonging to every kind of cake, yet the management and the oven muft be left to the maker’s care. To make a Bride Cake. TAKE four pounds of fine flour well dried, four pounds of frefh butter, two pounds of loaf fugar, pound and fift fine a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmegs, to every pound of flour pot eight eggs, wafh four pounds of currants, pick them well, and dry them beforeENGLISH HO USE-KEEPER. 2€g the fire, blanch a pound of fweet almonds, and cut them lengthways very thin, a pound of citron, one pound of candied orange, the fame of candied lemon, half a pint of brandy ; firft work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your iugar a quarter of an hour, beat the whites of your eggs to a very flrong froth, mix them with your fugar and butter, beat youryolkg half an hour at lead:, and mix them with vour cake, then put in your flour, mace, and nut* meg, keep beating it well till your oven is ready, put in your brandy, and beat your currants and almonds lightly in, tie three fheets of paper round the bottom of your hoop to keep it frorn running out, rub it well with butter, put in your cake and lay your fweemeats in three lays, with cake betwixt every lay, after it is rifen and co* loured, cover it with paper before your oven i§ flopped up : it will take three hours baking. To make Almond-Icing for the Bride Cake. BEAT the whites of three eggs to a ftrong froth, beat a pound of Jordan almonds very fine withrofe water, mixyour almonds with the eggs lightly together, a pound of common loaf fugar beat fine, and putin by degrees; when your cake is enough, take it out, and lay your icing on9 then put it into brown. To make Sugar IeiNcyir the Bride Cake. BEAT two pounds of double refined fugar, with two ounces of fine ftarch, fift it through ^ gauze fieve, then beat the whites of five eggs witha66 THE EXPERIENCED To with a knife upon a pewter difh half an hour; beat in your fugar a little at a time, or it will make the eggs fall, and will not be fo good a colour, when you have put in all your fugar, beat it half an hour longer, then lay it on your almond iceing, and fpread it even with a knife ; if it be put on as foon as the cake come out of the oven it will be hard by the time the cake is cold. To make a good Plum Cake. TAKE a pound and a half of fine flour well dried, a pound and a half of butter, three quar- ters of a pound of currants wafhed and well picked, flonehalf a pound of raiflns, and flice them, eighteen ounces of fugar heat and flfted, fourteen eggs, leave out the whites of half of them, Aired the peel of a large lemon exceed- ing fine, three ounces of candied orange, the fame of lemon, a tea fpoonful of beaten mace, half a nutmeg grated, a tea-cupful of brandy or white wine, four fpoonfuls of orange flower water; firfl: work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat your fugar well in, whifk your eggs for half an hour, then mix them with your lugarand butter, and put in your flour and fpices, when your oven is ready, mix your brandy, fruit, and fweetmeats lightly in, then put it in your hoop, and fend it to the oven; it will require two hours and a half baking.'—It will take an hour and a half beating.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 267 To make a rich Seed Cake. TAKE a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, a pound of loaf fugar beat and lifted, eight eggs, two ounces of carraway feeds, one nutmeg grated, and its weight of cinnamon ; firft beat your butter to a cream, then put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat the yolks half an hour, put to it the whites, beat in your flour, fpices, and feeds, a little before it goes to the oven, put it in the hoop and bake it two hours in a quick oven, and let it ftand two hours.—It will take two hours beating. To make a White Plum Cake, TO two pounds of flour well dried, take a pound of fugar beat and fifted, one pound of butter, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmegs, fixteen eggs, two pounds and a half of currants, picked and wafhed, half a pound of candied lemon, the fame of fweet al- monds, half a pint of fack or brandy, three fpoonfuls of orange flower water, beat your but- ter to a cream, put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat your yolks half an hour, mix them with your whites, it will take two hours beating, putin your flour a little be- fore your oven is ready, mix your currants and all your other ingredients lightly in, juft when j?ou put it in your hoop.— Two hours will bake it. l ToTHE EXPERIENCED To To make little Plum Cakes. TAKE a pound of fl our, rub it into half a pound of butter, the fame of fugar, a little beaten mace, beat four eggs very well (leave out half the whites ) with three fpoonfuls of yell, put to it a quarter Of a pint of warm cream, ftrain them into your flour, and make it up light, fet it before the fire to rife ; juft before you fend it to the oven, put in three quarters of a pound of currants, \ To make OrAnSe Cakes. TAKE Seville oranges that have very good rinds, quarter them, and boil them in two or three waters until they are tender, and the bit* ternefs is gone off, fcum them, then lay them on a clean napkin to dry, take all the feeds and fidlts out of the pulp with a knife. Hired the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine fugar into a toiling pan, with juft as much water as will diffolve it, boil it till it becomes a per- fect fugar5 then by degrees put in your orange peels and pulp, ftir them well before you fet them on the fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and thick, then put them into flat bottomed glafles, fet them in a ftove, and keep a coiiftant moderate heat to them, when they are candied on the top, turn them out upon glafifes. N. B> You may make lerhon cakes the fame Way,. *ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 269 To make Lemon Cake a fee on d Way, BEAT the whites of ten eggs with a whifk for one hour with three fpoonfuls of role or orange flower water, then put in one pound of loaf fugar beat andfifted, with the yellow rind ofa lemon grated into it; when it is well mixed putin t'he juice of half a lemon and the yolk§ of ten eggs beat fmooth, and jud before you put it into the oven dir in three quarters ofa pound of flour ; butter your pan, and one hour will bake it in a moderate oven. To make Rice Cake, TAKE fifteen eggs* leave out one half of the whites, beat them exceeding well near an hour with a whilk, then beat the yolks half m hour, put to your yolks tea ounces of loaf fugar fifted fine, beat it well in, then put in half a pound of rice flour, a little orange water or brandy, the rinds of two lemons grated^ then putin your whites, beat them all well together for a quarter of an hour, then put them in a hoop and fet them in a quick oven for half an hourfi To make Ratafia Cakes, \ TAKE half a pound of fweet almonds, th© fame quantity of bitter, blanch and beat them fine in orange, rofe, or clear water, to keep them from oiling, pound and fift a pound pf fipg fugar, mix it with your almonds, have ready very well beat, the whites pf four eggs, them270 THE EXPERIENCED them lightly with almonds and fugar, put it in a prelerving pan, and fet it over a moderate lire, keep ftirring it quick one way until it is pretty hot, when it is a little cool roll it in fmall rolls, and cut it in thin cakes, dip your hands in flour and (hake them on it, give them each a light tap with your finger, put them on fugar papers, and fife a little fine fugar over them juft as you are putting them into a flow oven, T? make Ratafia Cakes a fecond Way. TAKE one pound and a half of fwee t al- monds, and half a pound of bitter almonds, beat them as fine as poffible with the whites of two eggs, then beat the whites of five eggs to a ftrong froth, fhake in lightly two pounds and a half of fine loaf fugar beat and lifted very fine, drop them in little drops the lize of a nutmeg, on cap paper, and bake them in a flack oven. To make Shrewsbury Cakes. TAKE half a pound of butter, beat it to a cream, then put in half a pound of flour, one egg, fix ounces of loat fugar beat and lifted, half an ounce of carraway feeds mixed into a pafte, roll them thin, and cut them round with a Imall glafs, or little tins, prick them, and lay them on fheets of tin, and bake them in a flow oven. To make Shrewsbury Cakes a fecond Way, TO a pound of butter, beat and lift a pound of double refined fugar, a little mace, and four eg?8ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 271 To eggs, beat them all together with your hand till it is very light and looks curdling, then (hake in a pound and a half of fine flour, roll it thin, and cut it into little cakes with a tin, and bake them. To make Bath Cakes. RUB half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and one fpoonful of good barm, warm fome cream, and make it into a light pafte, fet it to the fire to rife, when you make them up take four ounces of carraway comfits, work part of them in, and ftrew the reft on the top, make them into a round cake, the fize of a French roll, bake them on fheet tins, and fend them in hot for breakfaft. To make Queen Cakes, TAKE a pound of loaf fugar, beat and fift it, a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of currants wafhed and picked, grate a nutmeg, the fame quantity of mace and cinnamon, work your butter to a cream, then put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs near half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat your yolks near half an hour, and put them to your butter, beat them exceeding well together, then put in your flour, fpices, anil the currants, v/hen it is ready for the oven, bake them in tins, and duft a little fugar over them.THE EXPERIENCED 2 To make a common Seed Cake. TAKE two pounds of flour, rub it into half a pound of powdered lugar, one ounce of carraway feeds beaten, have ready a pint of milk, with half a pound of butter melted in it, and two fpoonfuls of new barm, make it up into a pafte, fet it to the fire to rife, flour your tin, and bake it in a quick oven. To make Crerm Cakes. i BEAT the whites of nine eggs to a fliff froth, then ftir it gently with a fipoon, for fear the froth fhouid fall, and grate the rinds of two lemonc, to every white of an egg, fhake in foftly a fpoonful of double refined fugar fifted fine, lay a whet fheet of paper on a tin, and drop the froth in little lumps on it with a fpoon, a fmall diftance from each other, and fift a good quantity of fugar over them, fet them in an oven after brown bread, make the oven clofe up, and the froth will rife, when they arejuft coloured they are baked enough, take them out and put two bottoms together, and lay them on a fievc, then fet them in a cool oven to dry.—You may lay rafpberry jam, or any other fort of fweet- meats betwixt them before you clofe the bot- toms together to dry. To make little Currant Cakes. TAKE one pound and a half of fine flour, dry it well before the fire, a pound of butter, halfENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 273 half a pound of fine loaf fugar well beat and lifted, four yolks of eggs, four fpoonfuls of rofe water, four fpoonfuls of fack, a little mace and one nutmeg grated : beat the eggs very well and put them to the rofe water and fack, then put to it the fugar and buttery work them all together, ftrew in the currants and the flour, being both made warm together before*—This quantity will make fix or eight cakes; bake them pretty crifp, and a fine brown. jVo make Prussian Cake, TAKE a pound of fugar beat and lifted, half a pound of flour dried, feven eggs, beat the yolks and whites feparate, the juice of one lemon, the peel of two grated very fine, half a pound of almonds beat fine with rofe water; as foon as the whites are beat to a froth, put in all the things except the flour, and beat them to- gether for half an hour, juft before you fet it in the oven, fhake in the flour.—N. B. The whites and yolks mu ft be beat feparate, or it will be quite heavy* To make a Cake without butter• BEAT eight eggs half an hour, have ready pounded and lifted a pound of loaf fugar, fhake it in, and beat it half an hour more, put to it a quarter of a pound of fvveet almonds beat fine, with orange flour water, grate the rind of a lemon into the almonds, and fqueeze in the juice of the lemon, mix them all together, and keep T beatinga74 THE EXPERIENCED beating them till the oven is ready, and juft: be- fore you let it in, put to it three quarters of a pound of warm dry fine flour; rub your hoop with butter: an hour and a half will bake it, To make Barbadoes Jumballs. BEAT very light the yolks of four eggs and the whites of eight, with a fpoonful of rofe water, and dufl: in a pound of treble refined lb gar, then put in three quarters of a pound of the beft fine flour, ftir it lightly in, greafe your tin iheets, and drop them in the flhape 6f a macaroon, and bake them nicely. 5To make Cracknels. TO a pint of blue milk put about two ounces of butter and a good fpoonful of yeft, make it full warm, and mix into it as much fine flour as will make it a light dough, roll it out very thin, and cut it into long pieces two inches broad, prick them well, and bake them in a flow oven upon tin plates. To make Light Wigs, TO three quarters of a pound of fine flour put half a pint of milk made warm, mix in it two or three fpoonfuls of light barm, cover it up, fet it half an hour by the fire to rife, work in the pafte four ounces of fugar, and four ounces of butter, make it into wigs with as little flour as pofiible, and a few feeds, fet them in a quick oven to bake. TaENGLiSH HOUSE-KEEPER. 27$ To make Macaroons. TO one pound of blanched and beaten fweet almonds, put one pound of fugar, and a little rofe water to keep them from oiling, then beat the wfiites of feven eggs to a froth, put them in and beat them well together, drop them on wafer paper, grate fugar over them, and bake them. To make Spanish Biscuits. BEAT the yolks of eight eggs near half an hour, then beat in eight fpoonfuls of fugar, beat the whites to a ftrong froth, then beat them very well with your yolks and fugar near half an hour, put in four fpoonfuls of flour, and a little lemon cut exceeding fine, and bake them on papers. To make Sponge Biscuits . > BEAT the yolks of twelve eggs half an hour, put in a pound and a half of fugar beat and A fl- ed, whifk it well till you fee it rife in bub- bles, beat the whites to a ftrong froth, jvhifk them well with your fugar and yolks, beat in fourteen ounces of flour, with the rinds of two lemons grated, bake them in till moulds but- tered, or coffins ; they require a hot oven, the mouth muft not be flopped ; when you put them into the oven duft them with fugar ; they will take half an hour baking. T 2 To27 THE EXPERIENCED To To make Lemon Biscuits. BEAT very well the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of five, with four fpoonfuls of orange flower water till they froth up, then put in a pound of loaf fugar lifted, beat it one way for half an hour or more, put in half a pound of flour with the rafpings of two lemons and the pulp of a fmall one, butter your tin, and bake it in a quick oven, but do not ftop up the mouth at firft for fear it fhouid fcorch, dlift it with fugar before you put it in the oven y it is foon baked. To make Drop Biscuits. BEAT the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of fix, with one fpoonful of rofe water, halfan hour, then put in ten ounces of loaf fugar beat and fifted, whifk them well for half an hour, then add one ounce of carraway feeds crufheda little, and fix ounces of fine flour, whifk in your flour gently, drop them on wafer papers, and bake them in a moderate oven. To make common Biscuits. BEAT eight eggs half an hour, put in a pound of fugar beat and fifted with the rind of a lemon grated, whifk it an hour till it looks light, then put in a pound of flour, witha lit- tle rofe water, and bake them in tins, or on papers, with fugar over them.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 277 To make Waters. TAKE two fpoonfuls of cream, two fugar, the fame of flour, and one fpoonful of orange flower water, beat them well together for half an hour, then make your wafer tongs hot, and pour a little of your hatter in to cover your irons, bake them on a flove fire, as they are baked roll them round a flick like a fpig- got, as foon as they are cold, they will be very crifp ; they are proper for tea, or to put upon a falver to eat with jellies. ‘To make Lemon Puffs. BEAT a pound of double refined fugar, lift it through a finefleve, put it in a bowl, with the juice of two lemons, beat them well together, then beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, put it in your bowl, beat it half an hour \ then put in three eggs, with two rinds of lemons grated, mix it well up, duft your papers with fugar, drop on the puffs in fmall drops, and bake them in a moderate ovefl. « To make Chocolate Puffs. BEAT and lift half a pound of double refined fugar, ferape into it one ounce of chocolate very fine, mix them together, beat the white of an egg to a very hign froth, then ffrew in your fugar and chocolate ; keep beating it till it is as ftiffas pafte, fugar your papers, and drop them bn about the fize of a fixpence, and bake them in a very flow oven. T 3 ft27 S THE EXPERIENCED To make Almond Puffs. BLANCH two ounces of fweet almonds, beat them fine with orange flower water, beat the whites of three eggs to a very high froth, then ftrew in a little lifted fugar, mix.your al- monds with your fugar and eggs, then add more iugar till it is as ftiff as a pafte, lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool ovenf To make Picklets. TAKE three pounds of flour, make a hole in the middle with your hand, then mix two fpoonfuls of barm, with as much milk and a little fait as will make it into a light pafte, pour your milk and barm into the middle of your flour and ftir a little of your flour into it, then let it ftand all night, and the next morning work all the flour into the barm, and beat it well for a quarter of an hour, then let it ftaud an hour; after that take it out with a large fpoon, and lay it on a board well dufted with flour, and dredge flour over them ; pat it with your hand, and bake them upon your bake- ftone. To make French Bread. TAKE a quarter of a peck of flour, one ounce of butter melted in milk and water, mix two or three fpoonfuls of barm with it, ftrain it through a fieve, beat the white of an egg, , ' , put HENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 279 put it in your water with a little fait, work it up to a light paftes put it into a bowl, then pull it into pieces, let it ftand all night, then work it well up again, cover it and lay it on a dreffer for half an hour, then work all the pieces fepa- rate and make them into foils, and fet them in the oven. To make White Bread. TO a gallon of the heft flour, put fix ounces of butter, half a pint of good yeft, a little fait, break two eggs into a bafon, but leave out one of the whites, put a fpoonful or two of water to them, and beat them up to a froth, and put them in the flour, have as much new milk as will whet it, make it juft warm and mix it up, lay a handful of flour and drive it about, holding one hand in the dough, and driving it with the other hand till it is quite light, then put it in your pan again, and put it near the fire and cover it with a cloth, and let it ftand an hour and a quarter; make your rolls ten minutes before you fet them in the oven, and prick them with a fork 3 if they are the bignefs of a French roll, three quarters of an hour will bake them. To make Tea Crumpets. * BEAT two eggs very well, put to them a quart of warm milk and water, and a large fpoonful of barm; beat in as much fine flour as will make them rather thicker than a common ‘ - T 4 batter2So THE EXPERIENCED batter pudding, then make your bake-flone very hot, and rub it with a little butter wrapped in a clean linen cloth, then pour a large fpoon- ful of batter upon your ftone, and let it run to the lize of a tea faucer; turn it, and when you want to ufe them toaft them very crifp and but- ter them. CHAP. XII. LITTLE SAVORY DISHES, To ragoo Piggs Feet and Ears. BOIL your feet and ears, then fplit your feet down the middle, and cut the ears in nar- row flices, dip them in batter, and fry them a good brown, puta little beef gravy in a tolling-* pan, with a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of mufhroom catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and a little fait, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and put in your feet and ears, give them a gentle boil, and then lay your feet in the middle of your difh, and the ears round them ; ftrain your gravy and pour it over ; Garnilh with curled parfley. It is a pretty corner difh for dinner. To make Solomon-gundy. V TAKE the white part of a roafted chicken, the yolks of four boiled eggs, and the whites of the fame, two pickled herrings, and a handful of parfley*ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2Sr parfley, chop them feparately exceeding fmall, take the fame quantity of lean boiled ham fcraped fine, turn a china bafon upfide down in the mid- dle of a difh, make a quarter of a pound of butter in the fhape of a pine apple and let it on the bafon bottom, lay round your bafon a ring of fhred parfley, then a ring of yolks of eggs, then whites, then ham, then chicken, then herring, till you have covered your bafon andufed all the ingredients, lay the bones of the pickled herrings upon it with the tails up to* the butter, and the heads lie on the edge of the difh i lay a few capers, and three or four pickled oyflers round >our difh, and fend it up. Solomon-gundy aJecond Way. CHOP all the ingredients, as for the firft* mix them well together, and put in the middle of your difh a large Seville orange, and your ingredients round it, rub a little cold butter through a fieve, and it will curl, lay it in lumps on the meat $ flick a fprig of curled parfley on your butter and ferve it up. To roajl a Calf’s Heart. MAKE a forcemeat with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet fhred final], or butter, chop a little parfley, fweet marjoram, and lemon peel, mix it up with a little nutmeg, pepper, fait, and the yolk of an egg, fill your heart and lay over the fluff- ing a caul of veal, or writing paper, to keep it2Si THE EXPERIENCED in the heart, lay it in a Duch oven, keep turn- ing it and roaftit thoroughly; when you difh it up, pour over it good melted butter, and lay flices of lemon round it, and fend it to table. To drefs a Dip of Lambs Bits. SKIN the Hones and fplit them, lay them on a dry cloth with the fweetbreads and liver, and dredge them well with flour, and fry them in boiling lard, or butter, a light brown, then lay them on a fieve to drain, fry a good quantity of parfley, lay your bits on thedifh, and the parfley in lumps over it, pour melted butter round them. To fricaJfceC alf’s-Feet. BOIL your feet, take out the bones and cut the meat in thin flices, and put it into a toffing- pan, with half a pint of good gravy, boil them a little, and then put in a few morels, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufhroom powder or pickled mufhrooms, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and a little fait, thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, mix the yolk of an egg with a tea cupful of good cream and half a nutmeg grated, put it in, and (hake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, it will curdle the milk: garnifh with lemon, and curled Chickens in Savory Jelly, ROAST two chickens, then boil a gang of c'alf’s-feet to a ftrong jelly, take out the feet, ikimENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 283 ftim off the fat, beat the whites of three eggs very well, then mix them with half a pint of white wine vinegar, the juice of three lemons, a blade or two of mace, a few pepper corns, and a little fait, put them to your jelly ; when it has boiled five or fix minutes, run it through a jelly bag feveral times till it is very clear, then put a little in the bottom of a bowl that will hold your chickens, when they are cold, and the jelly quite fet, lay them in with their breafts down, then fill up your bowl quite full with the reft of your jelly, which you mu ft take care to keep from letting (fo that when you pour it into your bowl it will not break) let it ftand all night, the next day put your bafoninto warm water, pretty near the top; as foon as you find it loofe in the bafon, lay your dilh over it, and turn it out upon it. Pigeons in Savory Jelly. ROAST your pigeons with the head and feet on, put a fprig of myrtle in their bills, make a jelly for them the fame way as for the chickens, pour a little into a bafon, when it is fet lay in the pigeons with the breafts down, fill up your bowl with your jelly, and turn it out as before. Small Birds in Savory Jelly. TAKE eight fmall birds with their heads and feet on, put a good lump of butter in them apd few up their vents, put them in a jug, cover it dole with a cloth, fet them in a kettle of boilingsS4 THE experienced boiling water till they are enough, drain them, make your jelly as before, put a little into a bafon, when it is fet, lay in three birds with their breads down, cover them with the jelly, when it is fet put the other five with the heads in the middle, fill up your bowl with jelly as before, and turn it out the fame way* Smelts in Savory Jelly, GUT and waih your fmelts, feafon them with mace and fait, lay them in a pot with butter over them, tie them down with paper, and bake them half an hour, take them out, and when they are a little cool, lay them feparately on a board to drain, when they are quite cold, lay them on adeep plate in what form you pleafe, pour cold jelly over them, and they will look like live fid}.—-Make your jelly as before. Craw-Fish //z Savory Jelly, BOIL your craw-fifli, then put a little jelly in a bowl, made as for the chickens, when it it fet, put in a few craw-fifh, then cover them with jelly, when it is cold, put in more lays till your bow] is full, let it flandall night, and turn them out the fame as the chickens. Craw-Fish in Jelly. BOIL half a dozen large craw fidi, and let them cool, wipe them clean, lay them in a punch bowl with their backs downwards, pour on them feme nice calFs-foot jelly, when it is coldENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 285 cold turn it out upon a glafs difh ; it makes a very pretty fide difh for either dinner or fupper. ?i^MACcARONi W^Parmesan Cheese* BOIL four ounces of macearonitill it be quite tender, and lay it on a fieve to drain, then put it into a toffing pan, with about a gill of good cream, a lump of butter rolled in flour, boil it five minutes, pour it on a plate, lay all over it Parmefan cheefe toaded ; fend it to table on a water plate for it foon goes cold. To flew Cheese with Light Wigs. CUT a plateful of cheefe, pour on it a glafs of red wine, flew it before the fire, toad alight wig, pour over it two or three fpoonfuls of hot red wine, put it in the middle of your difh, lay the cheefe over it, and ferve it up. ToJlew Cheese. CUT your cheefe very thin, lay it in a loader, fet it before the fire, pour a glafs of ale over it, let it dand till it is all like a light cudard, then pour it on toads or wigs, and fend it in hot. To Jlew Chardqons* TAKE the infide of your chardoons, wafh them well, boil them in fait and water, put them into a toffing pan with a little veal gravy, a tea fpoonful cf lemon pickle, a large one of mufhroom catchup, pepper and fait to your tafte,286 THE EXPERIENCED tafte, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little and ferve it up in a foup plate. Tofry Chardoons, BOIL your chardoons as you did for flowing, then dip them in batter made of a fpoonful of flour and ale, fry them in a pan of boiling lard, pour melted butter over them, and ferve them up. To ragoo Celery, TAKE off all the outfides of your heads of celery, cut them in pieces, put them in a tof- iing pan, with a little veal gravy or water, boil them till they are tender, put to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, a meat fpoonful of white wine and a little fait $ thicken it with flour and but- ter, and ferve them up with Appels. To fry Celery. BOIL your celery as for a ragoo, then cut it and dip it in batter, fry it a light brown in hogs lard, put it on a plate, and pour melted butter upon it. To few Celery. TAKE off the outflde and the green ends of your heads of celery, boil them in water till they are very tender, put in a flice of lemon, a little beaten mace, thicken it with a good lump of butter and flour, boil it a little, beat the yolks i ofENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 287 of two eggs, grate in half a nutmeg, mix them with a tea-cupful of good cream, put it to your gravy, fhake it over the fire till it be of a fine thicknefs, but do not let it boil; ferve it up hot. To fcollop Potatoes. BOIL your potatoes, then beat them fine in a bowl with good cream, a lump of butter and fait, put them into fcollop (hells, make them fmooth on the top, fcore them with a knife, lay thin dices of butter on the top of them, put them in a Dutch oven to brown before the fire. Three (hells are enough for a difh. ToJlew Mushrooms. TAKE large buttons, wipe them with a whet flannel, put them in a (lew pan with a little water, let them flew a quarter of an hour, then put in a little fait, work a little flour and butter to make it as thick as cream, let it boil five minutes, when you difh it up put two large fpoonfuls of cream mixed wi th the yolk of an egg, (hake it over the fire about a minute or two, but do not let it boil for fear of curdling ; put fippits round the infide of the rim of the difh but not loaded, and ferve it up.—It is proper for a fide difh for fupper, or a corner for dinner. Another Way to Jlew Mushrooms. PUT your mufhrooms in fait and water, wipe them with a flannel, and put them again in faltand water.m THE EXPERIENCED To water* then throw them into a faucepan by them® felves, and let them boil up as quick as poffible, then put in a little Chyan pepper, a little mace if you like the flavour, let them flew in this a quarter of an hour, then add a tea cupful of cream with a little flour and butter the fize of a walnut; let them be ferved up asfoon as donec To make Mushroom Loaves. TAKE fmall buttons, wafh them as for pick-* ling, put them in a tofling pan with a little white bread crumbs that have been boiled half an hour in water, then boil your mufhroomsin the bread and water five minutes, thicken it with flour and butter, and two fpoonfuls of cream, but no yolks of eggs, put in a little fait, then take five fmall French rolls, make holes in the * tops of them about the fize of a fhilling, and fcrape out all the crumb, and put in your mufh- rooms; flick a bay leaf on the top of every roll. Five is a handfome difh for dinner, and three for fupper„ To ragoo Mushrooms. TAKE large mufhrooms, peel, and takeout the infide, broil them on a gridiron, when the outlide is brown put them into a tofling pan, with as much water as will cover them, let them ftand ten minutes, then put to them a fpoonful of white wine, the fame of browning, a very little allegar, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, lay fippets round your difh, and ferve it up. 7English house-keeper. 2s9 U To Tojiew Peas with Lettuces. SHELL your peas, boil them in hard watef With fait in it, drain them in a fieve, then cut your lettuces in flices, and fry them in frefh bum ter, put your peas and lettuces into a toiling pan, with a little good gravy, pepper, and fait, thicken it with flour and butter, put in a little Ihred mint, andferve it up in a foup difih. To poach Eggs with Toasts. PUT your water on in a flat bottom pan, with a little fait, whenit boils break your eggs carefully in, and let them boil two minutes* then take them up with an egg fpooh, and lay them on buttered toafls. 1 To drefs Eggs and Spinage^ PICK and wafh yourfpinage in feveral waters, fet a pan over the fire with a large quantity of water, throw a handful of fait in, when it boils put your fpinage in, and let it boil two minutes, take it up with a fifli dice, and lay it on the back of a hair fieve, fquee^e the water out, and put it in a tolling pan, with ^quarter of a pound of butter, keep turning and chopping it with a knife, till it is quite dry, then prefs it a little betwixt two pewter plates, cut it in the ihape of fippets, and fome in diamonds* poach your eggs as before* and lay them on your fpinage* and ferve them up hot;—N. B. You may boil brocoli inftead of fpinage, and lay it in bunches betwixt every egg.290 THE EXPERIENCED To To drefs Eggs with Artichoke Bottoms BOIL your artichoke bottoms in hard water? if dry ones in foft water, put in a good lump of butter in the water, it will make them boil in half the time, and theywill be white and plump* when you put them up put the yolk of anhard egg in the middle of every bottom, and pour good melted butter upon them, and ferve them up $ you may lay afparagus, or brocoli, betwixt every bottom. To make africaffee of Eggs. BOIL your eggs pretty hard, cut them in round fiices, make a white fauee the fame way as for boiled chickens, pour it over your eggs, lay fippets round thern/and put a whole yolk in the middle of your plate.-—It is proper for a corner di(h at fupper* To fry Sausages. CUT them in fingle links, and fry them in frefh butter, then take a like of bread and fry it a good brown in the butter you fried the fan- fages in, and lay it in the bottom of your difh, put the faulages on the toaft, in four parts, and lay poached eggs betwixt them; pour a little good melted butter rbtmd them, and ferve them up, 'ENGLISH H0USE4CE£PEK. To jlew Cucumbers. PEEL off the out-rind, flice the cucumbers pretty thick, fry them in frefh butter, and lay them on a fieve to drain, put them into atof- fing pan with a large glafs of red wine* the fame of drong gravy* a blade or two of mace, make It pretty thick with flour and butter, and when it boils tip put in your cucumbers, keep fhaking them, and let them boil five minutes, be care- ful you do not break them; pour them into a dilh, and ferve them up. To 7nake an Amulet. PUT a quarter of a pound of butter into ? frying pan, break fix eggs and beat them a little, drain them through a hair fieve, put them in when your butter is hot, and drew in a little fhred parfiey and boiled ham fcraped fine, with nutmeg, pepper, and fait, fry it brown on the under-fide, layit on your difh, but do not turn it* hold a hot faiamander half a minute over it to take off the raw look of the eggs; flick curled parfiey in it, and ferve it up.—N, B. You may put in clary and chives, or onions if you like it* To make an Amulet of Asparagus. TAKE fix eggs, beat them up with cream, boil fome of the larged and fined afparagus,when boiled cut off all the green in final! pieces, and mix them with the eggs, and fome pepper and fait i make your pan hot, and putin a Dice ot butter, then put them in, and fend them up hot.—You may ferve them up hot on buttered toads , U 2 <IoTHE EXPERIEN CED 392 To make Panada* 4 . . : - ? 4 . / GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil it in a pint of water, with one onion and a few pepper corns, till quite thick and foft, then put in two ounces of butter, a little fait, and half a pint of thick cream, keep ftirring it till it is like a fine cuftard -y pour it into a foup plate and ferve it up.—N. B. You may ufe fu- gar and currants, iriftead of onions and pepper- corns if you pleafe. . i . To make a Ramequin of Cheese. •# TAKE fome old Chefhire cheefe, a lump of butter, and the yolk of a hard boiled egg, and beat it very well together in a marble mor- tar, fpread it on fome dices of bread toaftedand buttered; hold a falamander over them, and fend them up. PART§#X ART IIL CHAP. Ill, Obfervations on Potting and Collaring COVER your meat well with butter, and tie over it ftrong paper, and bake it well*, when it comes out of the oven piqk out all the jlcins quite clean, and drain tlie meat from the gravy, or the flans will hinder it from looking well, and the gravy will foon turn it four, beat your feafoning well before you put in your meat, aad put it in by degrees as you are beat- ing; when you put it into your pots, prefs it well, and let it be quite cold before you pour the clarified butter over it.—In collaring, be careful you roll it up, and bind it clofe, boil it till it is thoroughly enough, when quite cold put it into pickle with the binding on, next day take off the binding, when it will leave the fldn clear; make frefh pickle often and your Ipeat will keep good ^ long time. pot Beef. RUB twelve pounds of beef with half a , pound of brown fugar, and one ounce of fait— petre, let it lie twenty-four hours, then wafhit clean and dry it well with a cloth, feafon it with a little beaten mace, pepper, and fait, tq your U 3 tafte,294 THE EXPERIENCED tafte, cut it in five or fix pieces, and put it in an earthen pot, with a poundof butter in lumps upon it, fet it in an hot oven, and let it ftand three hours, then take it out, cut off the hard out-fides, and beat it in a mortar; add to it a lit- tle more mace, pepper, and fait : oil a pound of butter in the gravy and fat that came from your beef, and put it in as you fee it requires it, and beat it exceeding fine, then put it into your pots and prefs it clofe down; pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place, To pot Beef fo eat like Venison, PUT ten pounds of beef into a deep difh, pour over it a pint of red wine, and let it lie in it for two days, then feafon it with mace, pep- per, and fait, and put it into a pot with the wine it was fteeped in, add to it a large glals more of wine, tie it down with paper, and bake it three hours in a quick oven ; when you take it out beat it in a mortar or wooden bowl, clarify a poundof butter, and put it in as you fee it re- quires it, keep beating it till it is a fine pafte, then put it into your pots, lay a paper over it and fet on a weight to prefs it down; the next day pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place for ufe. Topot Ox Cheek. WHEN you (lew an ox cheek, take fome of the flelhy part, and feafon it well with fait and pepper, and beat it very fine in a mortar with a little clear fat Ikimmed off the gravy, then putENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 295 it clofeinto your potting pots, and pour over it clarified butter, and keep itforufe. STo pot Venison, IF your venifoq he dale rub it with vinegar, and let it lie one hour, then dry it clean with a cloth and rub it all over with red wine, feafon it with beaten mace, pepper, and fait, put it 011 an earthen difh, and pour over it half a pint of red wine, and a pound of butter, and fet it in the oven ; if it be a (boulder put a coarfe pafle over it, and bake it all night in a brown bread oven ; when it comes out, pick it clean from the bones, and beat it in a marble mortar, with the fat from your gravy; if you find ft not feafoned enough, add more feafoning and clarified butter* and keep beating it till it is a fine pafle, then prefs it hard down into yourpots, and pour clari- fied butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. To pot Veal, CUT a fillet of veal in three or four pieces, feafon it with pepper, fait, and 4 little mace, put it into pots with half a pound of butter, tie a paper over it, and fet it ina hot oven, and bake it three hours, when you take it out cut off all the out-fides, then put the v$al in a marble mor- tar, and beat it with the fat from your gravy, then oil a pound of frefh butter, and put it in, a little at a time, and keep beating it till you fee it is like a fine pafle, then put it clofe down into your pottingpots, put a paper upon it, and fet on a weight to prefs it hard; When your veal u4 •s9S THE EXPERIENCED is cold and ft iff, pour over it clarified butter, thq thicknefsof a crown piece, and tie it down. To pot Marble Veal. BOIL a dried tongue, fkin it, and cut it as thin as poffible, and beat it exceeding well with pear apound of butter and a little beaten mace, till it is like a pafte, have ready veal ftewed and beat the fame way as before, then put fame veal Into your potting pots, then home tongue in jumps over the veal : fill your pot clofe up with veal, and prefs it very hard down, and pour cla- rified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. N* B, Do not lay on your tongue in any form but in lumps, and it will cut like marble ; when you fend it to the table cut it out in llices, and garnifh it with curled parfley. To pot Tongues. TAKE a neafis tongue, and rub it with an ounce of falt-petre, and four ounces of brown fugar, and let it lie two days, then boil it till it is quite tender, and take off the fkin and tide— bits, then cut the tongue ip very thin llices, and beat it in a marble mortar, with one pound of clarified butter, mace, pepper, and fait to your tafte, beat it exceeding fine, then put it clofe down in.to fmallpotting pots, and pour plarified butter over them*ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 297 To pot a Hare. HANG up your bare four or five days with the fkin on, then cafe it, and cut it up as for eat- ing, put it in a pot, and feafon it with mace, pepper, and fait, put a pound of butter upon it, tie it down, and bake it in a bread oven ; when it comes out, pick it clean from the bones, and pound it very fine in a mortar, with the fat from your gravy, then put it clofe down into your pots, and pour clarified butter over it, and keep if in a dry place. To pot Ham with Chickens, TAKE as much lean of boiled ham as you pleafe, and half the quantity of fat, cut it as thin as poffible, beat it very fine in a mortar, with a little oiled butter, beaten mace, pepper, and fait, put part of it into a china pot, then beat the white part of a fowl with a very little feafoning; it is to qualify the ham, put a lay of chicken, then one of ham, then chicken at the top, prefs it hard down, and when it is cold, pour clarified butter over it; when you fend it to the table cut put a thin flice in the form of half a diamond, ^rid lay it round the edge of your pot. To pot Woodcocks, PLUCK fix: woodcocks, draw out the train, fkewer their bills through their thighs, and put the legs through each other, and their feet upon their breads, feafon them with three or four blades29S THE EXPERIENCED blades of mace, and alittle pepper and fait, then put them into a deep pot, with a pound of but- ter over them, tie a ftrong paper over them, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when they are enough, lay them on a difh to drain the gravy from them, then put them into potting pots and take all the clear butter from your gravy, and put it upon them, and fill up your pots with clarN fied butter, and keep them in a dry place, To pot Moor .Game, PICK and draw your moor game, wipe them clean with a cloth, and feafon them pretty well with mace, pepper and fait, put one leg through the other, roaft them till they are quite enough and a good brown; when they are cold put them into potting pots, and pour over them clarifies butter, and keep them in a dry place.—-IV, B. Ob ferveto leave their heads uncovered with butter. To pot Pigeons, PICK your pigeons, cutoff the pinions, wafh them clean, and put them into a fieve to drain, then dry them with a cloth, and feafon them with pepper and fait, roll a lump of butter in chop- ped parfley, and put it into the pigeons, few up the vent, then put them into a pot with butter over them, tie them down, and fet them in a moderate oven *, when they come out, put them into potting pots, and cover them well with clarified butter.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 299 To Topot all Kinds offrnallBirds. PICK and gut your birds, dry them well with a cloth, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait, then put them into a pot with butter, tie your pot down with paper, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when they come out, drain the gravy from them, and put them into potting pots, and cover them with clarified butter. To make a ^4/Porcupine a/Beef, SALT a flank of beef the fame way as you did the round of beef, and turn it every dav for a fortnight at lead, then lay it flat upon a table, beat it an hour, or till it is foft all over, then rub it over with the yolks of three eggs, drew over it a quarter of an ounce of beaten mace, the fame of nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your tade, the crumb of two penny loaves, and two large handfuls of parfley flared frnall, then cover it with thin flices of fat bacon, and roll your beef up very tight, and bind it well with packthread, boil it four hours, when it is cold, lard it all over, one row with the lean of ham, a fecond with cucumbers, a third with fat bacon, cut them in pieces about the thicknefs of a pipe, fhank, and lard it fo that it may appear red, green and white; fend it to the table with the pickles and fcraped horfe-radifli roundit, keepitinfalt andwater and a little vinegar.—You may keep it four or five days without pickle.THE EXPERIENCED 3P° To collar a Breast ofYeal. EONE your veal, and beat it a little, then rub it over with the yolk of an egg, Arew over it a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, a large handful of parfley chopped fmall, with a few fprigs of fw.eet marjoram, a little le-* rnon peel cut exceeding fine, one anchovy wafh- ed, boned, and chopped very fmall, and mixed with afew bread crumbs, then roll it up very tight, bind it hard with a fillet, and wrap it in a clean cloth, then boil it two hours and a half in foft water, when it is enough, hang it up by one end, and make a pickle for it 3 to one pint cf fait and water, put half a pint of Vinegar $ when you fend it to the table, cut a flice off one end : garni (h with pickles and parfley. To collar a Calf's Head, TAKE a calf's head with the fkin on, and drefs off the hair, then rip it down the face, and take all the bones carefully from the meat, andfieep it in warm blue milk, till it is white, then lay it flat, and rub it with the white of an egg, and ftrew over it a tea fpoonful of white pepper, two or three blades of beaten mace, and one nutmeg, a fpoonful of fait; two feore of oyfters chopped Imall, half a pound of beef marrow, and a large handful of parfley, lay them all over the infide of the head, cut off the ears, and lay them in a thin part of the head, then roll it up tight, bind it up with a fillet, and wrapENGLISH HO USE-KEEPER. 301 To wrap it up in a clean cloth, boil it two hours, and when it is aimoft cold, bind it up with a frefh fillet, and put it in a pickle made as above, and keep it for life. To collar a Breast of Mutton, BONE your mutton, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then grate over it a little lemon peel, and a nutmeg, with a a little pepper and fait, then chop fmall one tea-cupful of capers, two anchovies, fhred fine a handful of parfley, a few fweet herbs, mix them with the crumb of a penny loaf, and drew it over your mutton, and roll it up tight, boil it two hours, then take it up, and put it in a pickle made as for the calfsUiead. To collar a Pig. KILL your pig, drefs off the hair, and draw out the entrails, and wafh it clean, take a fharp knife, rip it open, and take out all the bones, then rub it all over with pepper and fait beaten fine, a few fage leaves, and fweet herbs chopped fmall, then roll up your pig tight, and bind it with a fillet, then fill your boiler with foft water, one pint of vinegar, and a handful of fait, eight or ten cloves, a blade or two of mace, a few pep- per corns, and a bunch of fweet herbs; when It boils put in your pig, and boil it till it is ten- der, then take it up, and when it is almoflcoid bind it ever again, and put it intoan earthen pot, and pour the liquor your pig was boiled in upon it, keep it covered, and it is fit for ufe.J02 THE EXPERIENCED To To collar Swine's Face. CHOP the face in many places, and walh it in feveral waters, then boil it till the meat will leave the bones, take out the bones, cut open the ears, and take out the ear roots, cut the meat in pieces, and feafon it with pepper and fait % while It is hot put it into an earthen pot, but put the ears round the outfide of the meat, put a board on that will go in the infide of the pot, and fet a heavy weight upon it, and let it hand all night, the next day turn it out, cut it round ways, and It will look clofe and bright. To make Mock Brawn. TAKE apiece of the belly part, and the head of a young porker, rub it with falt-petre, and let it lie three days, then wafh it clean, fplit the head and boil it, then take out the bones, and cut it in pieces, then take four ox feet boiled tender and cut in thin pieces, lay them in your belly piece with the head cut fmall, then roll it up tight with (beet tin, that a trencher will go in at each end, boil it four or five hours; when it comes out, fet it upon one end and prefs the trencher down with a large lead weight, let it ftand all night, and in the morning take it out of your tin, and bind it with a white fillet, put it into cold fait and water, and it will be fit for ufe. N. B. You mull make frefh fait and water every four days, and it will keep a long time.ENGLIStJ HOUSE-KEEPER. 303 To collar IFlat Ribs of Beef. BONE your beef, lay it flat upon a table, and beat it half ai\ hour with a wooden mallet till it is quite foft, then rub it with fix ouncesof brown fugar, four ounces of common fait, and one ounce of falt-petre beat fine, let it lie then for ten days, and turn it once every day, take it out, then put it in warm water for eight or ten hours, then lay it flat upon a table, with the out- ward fkin down, and cut it in rows, and a-crofs, about the breadth of yout finger, but take care you do not cutthe outfide fkin ; then fill one nick with chopped parfley, the fecond with fat pork, the third with crumbs of bread, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, then parfley, and fo on till you have filled all your nicks; then roll it up tight, and bind it round withcoarfe broad tape, wrap it in a cloth and boil it four or five hours $ then take it up, and hang it up by one end of the firing to keep it round, fave the liquor it was boiled in, the next day fkim it, and add to it half the quantity of allegar as you have liquor, and a little mace, long pepper, and fait, then put inyour beef, and keep it for ufe.AT. B.Whert you fend it to the table cut a little off both ends, and it will be in diamonds of different colours, and look very pretty, let it upon a difh as you do brawn ; if you make a frefh pickle every week it will keep a long time* To collar Beef. SALT your beef, and beat it as before, then rub it over with the yolks of eggs, ftrew over it two304 THE EXPERIENCED two large handfuls of parfley flared fmall, half an ounce of mace, black pepper and fait to your tafte, roll it up tight, and bind it about with a coarfe broad tape, and boil it till it is tender $ make a pickle for it the fame way as before. ¥0force a Round of Beef. TAKE a good round of beef, and rub it over foraquarter of an hour with two ounces of falt- petre, the fame of bay fait, half a poundof brown fugar, and a pound of common fait, let it lie in it for ten or twelve days, turn it once every day in the brine, then waft it well, and make holes in it with a penknife about an inch one from another, and fill one hole with hired parfley, a fecond with fat pork cut in fmall pieces, and a third with breadcrumbs, beef marrow, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait,mixed together, then parfley, and fo on till you have filled all the holes, then wrap your beef in a cloth, and bind it with a fillet, and boil it four hours j when it is cold, bind it over again, and cut a thin flice off before you fend it to the table: garnifli with parfley and red cabbage. To foufe a Turkey, KILL your turkey and let it hang four or live days in the feathers, then pick it and flit it up the back, and takeout the entrails, bone it* and bind it with a piece of matting like ffurgeorx or Newcaftle falmon, fet over the fire a clean faucepan, with a pint of ftrong allegar, a fcore of cloves, three or four blades cf mace, a nut- meg.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 305 To meg diced, a few pepper corns, and a handful of fait, when it boils put in the turkey, and boil it one hour, then take it up, and when cold, put it into an earthen pot, and pour the liquor over it, and keep it for ufe 3 when you fend it to table Jay fprigs of fennel over it. To foufeViGs Feet and Ears* CLEAN your pigs feet and ears * and boil them till they are tender, then fplit the feet and put them into fait and water with the ears 3 when you ufe them dry them well with a cloth, and dip them in batter made of flour and eggs, fry them a good brown, and fend them up with good melted butter.—N. B, You may eat them cold 3 make frefli pickle every two days, and hey will keep fome time. To foufe Tripe. WHEN your tripe is boiled, put it into fait and water, change the fait and water every day till you ufe it, dip it in batter and fry it as the pigs feet and ears, or boil it in freih fait and water, with an onion diced, and a few fprigs of parlley, and fend melted butter for lauce. To hang tfSuRLoiN of Beef to roaft* TAKE the fuet out of a furloin, and rub it half an hour with one ounce of falt-petre, four ounces of common fait, and half a pound of brown fugar, hang it up ten or twelve days, then wafh it, and roaft it 3 you may eat it either hot or cold. /3°6 THE EXPERIENCED Tt? fait Hams. AS foon as your hams are cut out, rub them very well with one ounce of falt-petre, half an ounce of fait prunella pounded, and one pound of common fait to every ham, lay them in lead or earthen fait pans for ten days, turn them once in the time, then rub them well with more com- mon fait, let them lie ten days longer, and turn them every day, then take them out, and fcrape them exceeding clean, and dry them well with a clean cloth, and rub it (lightly over with a lit- tle fait, and hang them up to dry. rfo fmoke Hams. WHEN you take your hams out of the pic- kle, and have rubbed them dry with a coarfe cloth, hang them'in a chimney, and make a fire of oak (havings, and lay over it horfe litter, and one pound of juniper berries, keep the fire fmo- thered down tor two or three days, and then hang them up to dry. To fait Chops. THROW over your chops a handful of fait, and lay them fkin fide down aflant on a board, to let all the blood run from them ; the next day pound to every pair of chops one ounce of bay fait, the fame of fait petre, two ounces of brown fugar, and half a pound of common fait, mix them together, and rub them exceeding well, let them lie ten days in your falting ciftern, then rubENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 307 rub them with common fait, and let them lie a week longer, and rub them clean, and hang them to dry in a dry place. To fait Bacon. WHEN your pig is cat down, cut off the hams and head, if it be a large one cut out a chine, but leave in the fpare ribs, it keeps the bacon from rufting, and the gravy in, fait it with common fait, and a little falt-petre, (but neither bay fait nor fugar) let it lie ten days on a table, that will let all the brine run from it, then fait it again ten or twelve days, turning it every day after the fecond faking, then fcrape it very clean, rub a little dry fait on it, and hang it up.—Ah B. Take care to fcrape the white froth off very clean that is on it, which iscaufed by the fait to work out of the pork, and rub on if a little dry fait, it keeps the bacon from rail- ing , the dry fait will candy and fhine like dia- monds on your bacon. To fait Tongues, SCRAPE your tongues, and dry them clean with a cloth, and fait them well with common fait, and half an ounce of falt-petre to every tongue, lay them in a deep pot, and turn them every day fora week often days, fait them again, and let them lie a week longer, take them up, dry them with a cloth, flour them, and hang them up. X 2 *1®3o3 THE EXPERIENCED To fait a Leg a/'Mutton. POUND one ounce of bay fait, and half an ounce of falt-petre, and rub it all over your leg of mutton, and let it lie all night; the next day fait it well with common fait, and let it lie a week or ten days, then hang it up to dry. To pickle Pork. CUT your pork in fuch pieces as will be mod convenient to lie in your powdering tub, rub every piece all over with lalt-petre, then lake one part bay fait, and two parts common fait, and rub every piece well, lay the pieces as clofe as poffible in your tub, and throw a little fait over. To pickle Beef. TAKE fixteen quarts of cold water and put to it as much fait as will make it bear an egg, then add two pounds of bay fait, half a pound of fait-pet re pounded fmall, and three pounds of brown fugar; mix all together, then put your beef into it, and keep it in a dry cool place. C H A P. XIV. Objervations on Possets, Gruels, &c. IN making pellets, always mix a little of the hot cream or milk with your wine, it will keep the wine from curdling the reft, and take the cream off the fire before you mix all toge- ther.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 309 ther.—Qbferve in making gruels, that you boil them in well tinned faucepans, for nothing will fetch the verdigreafe out of copper fboner than acids or wine, which are the chief ingredients in gruels, fagos, and wheys; do not let your gruel or fago fkim over, for it boils into them and makes them a muddy colour. To make a Sack Posset. GRATE two Naples bifcuits into a pint of thin cream, put in a flick of cinnamon, and fet it over a flow fire, boil it till it is of a proper thicknefs; then add half a pint of fack, a flice of the end of a lemon, with fugar to your tafte ; flir it gently over the fire, but do not let it boil left it curdle, ferve it up with dry toafL To make a Brandy Posset. BOIL a quart of cream over a flow fire, with a flick of cinnamon in it, take it off to cool, beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, and mix them with the cream, add nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it one way$ when it is like a fine thincuftard, take it off, and pour it into your turene or bowl, with a glafs of brandy, ftir it gently together, and ferve it up with tea wafers round it. To make a Lemon Posset. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf very fine, and put it into rather more than a pint of water, with half a lemon peel grated, or fugar rubbed upon it to takeout theefience, boil them X 3 together3io THE EXPERIENCED together till it looks thick and clear, then beat it very well;—to the juice of half a lemon put in a pint of mountain wine, three ounces of Jordan almonds, and one ounce of bitter, beat fine with a little orange flower, or French brandy, and fugar to your tafte, mix it well and put it in your poffet, ferve it up in a turene or bowl.— N .B. An orange poffet is made the fame way*. To make ^Almond Posset. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf very fine, pour a pint of boiling milk upon it, let it (land two cr three hours, then beat it ex- ceeding well, add to it a quart of good cream, four ounces of almonds blanched and beat as fine as poflible, with role water, mix them all- well together, and fet them over a very How fire, and boii them a quarter of an hour, then fet it to cool, and beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with your cream; when it is cold fweeten it to your tafte *, then ftir it over a flow fire, till it grows pretty thick, but do not let it boil, it will curdle; then pour it into a china bowl*, when you fend it to table, put in three macaroons to fwim on the top.—It is proper for a top at fupper. To make a Wine Posset, TAKE a quart of new milk, and the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil them till they are foft, when you take it off the fire, grate in half a nut- meg, and fugar to your tafte, then put it into a china bowl, and put in it a pint of Liffaon wine carefully.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 311 carefully, a little at a time, or it will make the curd hard and tough > ferve it up with toafl and butter upon a plate. To make an Ale Posset. PUT a little white bread in a pint of good milk, fet it over the fire, then warm a little more than a pint of good ftrong ale, with nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, then put it in a bowl, when your milk boils pour it upon your ale, let it ftand a few minutes to clear, and the curd will rife to the top. To mull Wine. GRATE half a nutmeg into a pint of wine, and fweeten it to your tafte with loaf fugar, fet it over the fire, and when it boils take it off to cool, beattheyolks of four eggs exceeding well, add to them a little cold wine, then mix them carefully with your hot wine, a little at a time, then pour it backwards and forwards feveral times till it looks fine and bright, then fet it on the fire and heat it a little at a time for feveral times till it is quite hot and pretty thick, and pour it backwards and forwards feveral times $ then fend it in chocolate cups, and Lrve it up with dry toafl cut in long narrow pieces. To mull Ale, TAKE a pint of good ftrong ale, put it into a faucepan, with three or four cloves, nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, fet it over the fire, whe n X 4 it312 THE EXPERIENCED it boils take it off to cool, beat the yolks of four eggs very well and mix them with a little cold ale, then put it to your warm ale, and pour it in and out of your pan for feveral times, then fet It over a flow fire and heat it a little, then take It off again and heat it two or three times till it is quite hot, then ferve it up with dry toaft. To make mulled Wine. BOIL a quart of new milk five minutes with a flick of cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugarto your tafte, then take it off the fire and let it ftand to cool, beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, and mix them with a little cold cream, then mix them with your milk, and pour it backwards and forwards the fame as you do mulled ale, and fend ibfto the table with a plate of bifcuits. To make Beef Tea. TAKE a pound of lean beef, cut it in very thin flices, put it into ajar and pour a quart of boiling water upon it, cover it very clofe to keep in the fleam, let it ftand by the fire, itfls very good for a weak conftitution, it mu ft be drank when it is new milk warm. To make Chicken Broth. JSKIN afmall chicken, and fplit it in two and boil one half in three half pints of water, with a blade or two of mace, a fmall cruft of white bread, boil it over a flow fire till it is reduced to 6 halfENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 313 half the quantity, pour it into a bafon,and take off the fat, and fend it up with a dry toaft. To make Chicken Water, SKIN half a fowl, break the bones, and cut the flefh as thin as poffible, then putit into a jar, and pour a pint of boiling water upon it* cover it clofe up, and fetit by the fire for three hours, and it will be ready to drink. To make Mutton Broth. 1 TAKE the fcrag end of a neck of mutton, chop it into fmall pieces, putit into a faucepan, and fill it with water, fet it over the fire, and when the fcum begins to rile, take it clean off, and put in a blade or two of mace, a little French barley, or a cruft of white bread to thicken it| when you have boiled your mutton that it will (hake to pieces, (train your broth through a hair fieve, fcum off the fat, and fend it up with dry toaft. To make White Wine Whey, PUT a pint of (kimmed milk, and half a pint of white wine into a bafonplet it ftand a few minutes, then pour over it a pint of boiling wa- ter, let it ftand a little, and the curd will gather in a lump, and fettle to the bottom, then pour your whey into a china bowl, and put in a lump of fugar, a fprig of balm, ora flice of lemon.THE EXPERIENCED fTo make Scurvy Grass Whey. 3*4 BOIL a pint of blue milk, take it off to cool then put in two fpoonfu is of the juice of fcurvy grafs, and two ipoonfuls of good old verj ice, fet it over the fire, and it will turn to a fine whey $ it L very good to drink in the fpring for the fcurvy. To make Cream of Tartar Whey. PUT a pint of blue milk over the fire, when it begins to boil, put in two tea fpoonfuis of cream of tartar, then take it off the fire, and let it Hand till the curd fettles to the bottom of the pan, then pour it into a bafan to cool, and drink |t milk warm. To make Barley Water. TAKE two ounces of barley, boil it in two quarts of water till it looks white, and the barley grows foft, then ftrain the water from the bar- ley, add to it a little currant jelly or lemon.— N. B. You may put a pint more water to your barley and boil it over again. To make Groat Gruel. BOIL half a pint of groats in three pints of water or more, as you would have your gruel for thicknefs, with a blade or two of mace in it $ when your groats are foft, put in it white wine and fugar to your tafte, then take it off the fire, put to it a quarter of a pound of currants wafhed and picked, put it in a China bowl, with a toaft of bread round it, cut in long narrow pieces.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 315 To make Sago Gruel. TAKE four ounces of fago, give it a fcald in hot water, then flrain it through a hair fieve, and put it over the fire with two quarts of water and a flick of cinnamon, keep fcumming it till it grows thick and clear, when your fago is enough, take out the cinnamon and put in 3 pint of red wine, if you would have it very ftrong put in more then a pint, and fweeten it to your tafle, then fet it over the fire to warm, but do not let it boil after the wine is put in , it weakens the taile, and makes the colour not io deep a red, pour it into a turene, and put in a flice of lemon, when you are fending it to table. It is proper for a top difh for fupper. To make Sago with Milk. WASH your fago in warm water, and fet it over the fire with a flick of cinnamon, and as much water as will boil it thick and foft, then put in as much thin cream or new milk as will make it a proper thicknefs, grate in half a nut- meg, fweeten it to your tafle and ferve it up in a China bowl or turene,—It is proper for a top difh for fupper. To make Barley Gruel. TAKE four ounces of pearl barley, boil it in two quarts of water with a flick of cinnamon in it, till it is reduced to one quart, add to it a lit- tle more than a pint of red wine, and fugar to your tafle, wafh and pick two or three ounces of currants very clean. To316 THE EXPERIENCED To make Water Gruel, TAKE one fpoonful of oatmeal, boil it in three pints of water for an hour and a half, or till it is fineand fmooth, then take it off the fire and let it ftand to fettle, then pour it in a china* bowl, and add white wine, fugar, and a nut- meg to your tafte, ferve it up hot with a toaft buttered upon a plate. To make a fweet Pan ado. CUT all the cruft off a penny loaf, flice the reft very thin and put it into a faucepan with a pint of water, boil it till it is very foftand looks clear, then put in aglafs of fack or Madeira wine, grate in a little nutmeg, and put in a lump of butter the fize of a walnut, and fugar to your tafte, beat it exceeding fine, then put it in a deep foup difh and ferve it up.——N. B. You may leave out the wine and fugar, and put in a little good cream and a little fait, if you like it better. To make Chocolate. SCRAPE four ounces of chocolate and pour a quart of boiling water upon it, mill it well with a chocolate mill, and Iweeten it to your tafte, give it a boil and let it ftand all night, then mill it again very well, boil it two minutes, then mill it till it will leave a froth upon the top of your cups. CHAP.ENGLISH HOUSE KEEPER. 317 CHAP. XV. Qbfervations on Wines, Catchup, and Vinegar. WINE is a very neceflary thing in moil fa- milies, and is often fpoiled through mil- management of putting together, for if you let it Hand too long before you get it cold, and do not take great care to put your barm upon it in time, it fummer beams and blinks in the tub, fo that it makes your wine Let in the caik, and will not let it fine; it is equally as great a fault to let it work too long in the tub, for that takes off all the fweetnefs and flavour of the fruit or flowers your wine is made from, fo the only caution I can give, is to be careful in following the re- ceipts, and to have your veil els dry, rinfe them with brandy, and clofe them up as foon as your wine has done fermenting. To make Lemon Wine to drink like Citron- Water. PARE five dozen of lemons very thin, put thepeels into five quarts of French brandy, and let them ftand fourteen days, then make the juice into a fyrup with three pounds of Angle refined fugar ; when the peels are ready, boil fifteen gallons of water with forty pounds of Angle re- fined fugar for half an hour, then put it into a tub, when cool add to it one fpoonful of barm; let it work two days, then tun it and put in the brandy, peels, and fyrup, Air them all together, andjxS THE EXPERIENCED sod dofe up your calk, let it (land three months* then bottle it, and it will be pale and as fine as any citron water ; it is more like a cordial than wine. To make Lemon Wine afecond Way. TO one gallon of water put three pounds of powder fugar, boil it a quarter of ah hour; fcum it well, then pour it on the rinds of four lemons pared very thin, make the juice into a thick fyrup, with half a pound of the above fugar, take a flice of bread toafted and fpread on it a fpoonful of new barm, put it in the liquor when luke warm* and let it work two days, then turn it into your cafe, and let it fland three months, and then bottle it. To make Orange Wine. TO ten gallons of water, add twenty-four pounds of lump fugar, beat the whites of fix eggs very well, and mix them when the water is cold, then boil it an hour, fcum it very well, take four dozen of the rougheft and Jargeft Seville oranges you can get, pare them very thin, put them into a tub, and put the liquor on boiling hot, and when you think it is cold enough add toil three or four fpoonfuls of new yeft, with the juice of theoranges, and half an ounceof cochineal beat fine, and boiled in a pint of water, ftir it all to- gether, and let it work four days, then put it in the cafes, and in fix weeks time bottle in for ufe. To make Orange Wine a fecond Way. TO ten gallons of water, add twenty-feven pounds of lump fugar, boil it one hour, feim i • itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 319 it all thetime, then take the peels offive dozenof oranges ; pared very thin, put them into a tub; when you take the liquor off the fire, pour it upon them, and when it is almoft cold add to it three fpoonfuls of goodyeft and free from being bitter, with the juice of all your oranges; let it work two or three days, ftir it twice a day, then put it into a barrel with one quart of mountain wine, and four ounces of the lyrup of citron ; ftir it well in the liquor ; leave the barrel open till it has done working, then clofe it well up, let it ftand fix weeks, and then bottle it. T9 make Orange Wine a third Way* TAKE fix gallons of water, and fifteen pounds of powder fugar, the whites of fix eggs well beat, boil them all three quarters of an hour, and fcum it well; when it is cold for working, take fix fpoonfuls of goodyeft, and fix ounces of the fyrep of lemons, mix them well, and add it to the liquor, with the juice and peel of fifteen oranges ; let it work two days and one night, then tun it, and in three months bottle it. To make Smyrna Raisin Wine. TO one hundred of raifins put twenty gal- lons of water, let it ftand fourteen days, then put it into your cafk ; when it has been in fix months, add to it one gallon of French brandy, and when it is fine then bottle it. $ To make Elder Raisin Wine. TO every gallon of water put fix pounds of Malaga raifins fined final!, put them intoavef- fel.<>20 THE EXPERIENCED fel, pour the water on them boiling hot, and let it ftandnine days, flirringit twice every day, get the elder berries when full ripe, pick them off the (talks, put them into an earthen pot, and fet them in a moderate oven all night, then (train them through a coarfe cloth, and to every gal- lon of liquor add one quart of this juice, (tir it well together, then toaft a flice of bread, and fpread three fpoonfuls of yefton both fides and put it in your wine, and let it work a day or two, then turn it into your calk, fill it up as it works over, when it has done working, dole it up, and let it Hand one year. To make Raisin Wine another Way. BOIL ten gallons of fpring water one hour, when it is milk warm, to every gallon add fix pounds of Malagaraifins, clean picked and half chopped, (tir it up together twice a day for nine or ten days, then run it through a hair fieve, and fqueeze the raifins well with your hands, and put the liquor in your barrel, bung it clofe up, and let it (land three months and then bottle it* To make Ginger Wine. TAKE four gallons of fpring water, and feven pounds of Lilbon fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and keep fcummiogit well; when the liquor is cold fqueeze in the juice of two le- mons, then boil the peel with two ounces of ginger in three pints of water one hour ; when it is cold put it all together into a barrel, with twoENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 321 two fpoonfuls of yed, a quarter of an ounce of ifinglafs beat very thin, and two pounds of jar« raifins, then clofe it up, and let it (land feven weeks, then bottle it $ the bed feafon to make it is the fpring* To make PeArl Gooseberry Wine*, TAKE as many of the bed pearl goofeberries when ripe as you pleafe, bruife them with a wooden pedle in a tub, and let them dand all night, then prefs and fqueeze them through a hair fieve, let the liquor dand feven or eight hours, then pour it clear from the fediments; and to every three pints of liquor add a pound of double refined fugar, and dir it about till it is melted, then put toitfive pintsof water, and two pounds more of fugar, then difiolve half an ounce of ifinglafs in partof the liquor that has been boiled, put all in your calk, dop it well up for three months, then bottle it and put in every bottle a lump of double refined fugar.—« This is excellent wine* To make Gooseberry Wine afecond Way* TO a gallon of water put three pounds of lump fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and fcum it very well, then let it dand till it is a!-* mod cold, and take four quarts of goofeberries when full ripe, bruife them in a marble mor- tar, and put them in your vefiel, then pour in the liquor and let it dand two days, and dir it every lour hours, deep half an ounce of ifinglafs Y in322 THE EXPERIENCED in a pint of brandy two days, ftrain the wine through a flannel bag into a cafk, then beat the ifinglafs in a marble mortar with five whites of eggs, then whifk them together half an hour, and put it in the wine and beat them all together, clofe up the calk and put clay over it, let it ftand fix months, then bottle it off for ufe, put in each bottle a lump of fugar and two raifins of the fun ; this is a very rich wine, and when it has been kept in the bottles two or three years, will drink like champagne. To make Blackberry Wine. GATHER your berries when they are full ripe, take twelve quarts, and crufli them with your hand, boil fix gallons of water with twelve pounds of brown fugar a quarter of an hour, icum it, well, then pour in on the blackberries, and let it ftand all night, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, put into your cafk fix pounds of Malaga raiflns a little cut, then put the wine into the calk with one ounce of ifinglafs, which muft he diifolved in a little cyder, ftir it all up toge- ther, clofe it up, and let it ftand fix months, and then bottle it* To make Raspberry Wine. GATHER your rafpberries when full ripe and’quite dry, cru(h them direftly and mix them with fugar, it will preferve the flavour which they would lofe in two hours j to every quart of rafpberries put a pound of fine powder fugar, whenENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 323 / when you have got the quantity you intend to make, to every quart of rafpberries add two pounds more of fugar, and one gallon of cold water, ftir it well together, and let it ferment three days, ftirring it five or fix times a day, then put it in your calk, and for every gallon put in two whole eggs, take care they are not broke in putting them in, clofe it well up, and let it ftand three months, then bottle it.— N. B. If you gather the berries when the fun is hot upon them, and be quick in making your wine, it will keep the virtue in the rafpberries, and make the wine more pleafant. To make Red Currant Wine. GATHER the currants when full ripe, ftrip them from the ftems, and fqueeze out the j uice; toone gallon ofthejuice put two gallons of cold water, and two Ipoonfuls of yell, and let it work two days, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, at the fame time put one ounce ofifing- glafs to fteep in cyder, and to every gallon of li- quor add three pounds of loaf fugar, ftir it well together, put it in a good calk: to every ten gal- lons of wine put two quarts of brandy, mix them all exceeding well in your calk, clofe it well up, let it ftand fourmonths, then bottleit. To make Currant Wine another Way» TAKE an equal quantity of red and white currants, bake them an hour in a moderate oven, then fqueeze them through a coarfe cloth, what Y a waterj24 THE EXPERIENCED water you intend to ufe have ready boiling* 2nd to every gallon of water putin one quart of juice and three pounds of loaf fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, fcum it well, then put it in a tub, when cool toaft a dice of bread and fpread on both iides two fpoonfuls of yeft, and let it work three days, Hir it three or four times a day, then put it into a calk, and to every ten gallons of wine add a quart of French brandy, and the whites of ten eggs well beat, make the cade clofe up, and let it Hand three months, then bottle it.—-A7”. J3. This is a pale wine, but it is a very good one for keeping, and drinks pleafant. To make Sycamore Wine. TAKE two gallons of the fap and boil it half an hour, then add to it four pounds of fine pow- der fugar, beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, and mix them with the liquor, but if it be too hot, it will poach the eggs, fcum it very well, and boil it half an hour, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and let it Hand till next day, then pour it clean from the Pediments, put half a pint of good yeH toevery twelve gallons, cover it clofe up with blankets till it is white over, then put it into the barrel, and leave the bung hole open till it has done working, then clofe it well up, let it Hand three months, then bottle it, the fifth part of the fugar rnufl be loaf, and if you like raifins, they are a great ad- dition to the wine.-—A7. B. You may make birch wine the fame way.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 325 To make Birch Wine afecond Way. BOIL twenty gallons of birch water half an hour, then put in thirty pounds of baftard fugar, boil your liquor and fugar three quarters of an hour, and keep fcummingit all the while, then put it into a tub and let it Rand till it is quite cold, add to it three pints of yeft, ftir it three or four times a day for four or five days, then put it into a cafk with two pounds of Malaga raifins, and one pound of loaf fugar, and half an ounce of ifinglafs, which mu ft be diffolved in part of the liquor, then put to it one gallon of new ale that is ready for tunning, work it very well in the cafk five or fix days, then clofe it up and let it ftand a year, then bottle it oft. To make Walnut Wine. TO every gallon of water put two pounds of brown fugar and one pound of honey, boil them half an hour, and take oft the fcum, put into the tuba handful of walnut leaves to every gal- lon and pour the liquor upon them, let it ftand all night, then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeft, and let it work fourteen days, beat it four or five times a day, which will take off the fweetnefs, then flop up the cafk, and let it ftand fix months,—This is a good wine againft confumptions, or any inward complaints. To make Cowslip Wine. TO two gallons of water add two pounds and a half of powder fugar, boil them half an hour, Y 3 and326 THE EXPERIENCED and take off* the fcum as it rifes, then pour it intoatub to cool, with the rinds of two lemons > when it is cold add four quarts of cowflip flow- ers to the liquor, with the juice of two lemons, let it Hand in the tub two days, ftirring it every two or three hours ; and then put it in the bar- rel, and let it ftand three weeks or a month, then bottle it, and put a lump of fugar into every bottle. N. B. It makes the beft and ftrongeft wine to have only the tops of the peeps. A fecondWay to make Cowslip Wine. BOIL twelve gallons of water a quarter of an hour, then add two pounds and a half of loaf fugar to every gallon of water, then boil it as long as the fcum rifes till it clears itfelf, when almoft cold pour it into a tub, with one fpoon- ful of yeft, let it work one day, then put in thirty two quarts of cowflip flowers, and let it work two or three days, then put it all into a barrel with the parings of twelve lemons, the fame of oranges, make the juice of them into a thick fyrup, with two or three pounds of loaf fugar; when the wine has done working, add the fyrup to it, then flop up your barrel very well, and let it ftand two or three months, then bottle it. To make Elder Flower Wine. TAKE the flowers of elder, and be careful that you do not let any ftalks in, to every quart of flowers put one gallon of water and threepounds of loaf fugar ; boil the water and fugar a quar- ter of an hour, then pour it on the flowers, andENGLIS H HOUSE-KEEPER. 32.7 let it work three days, then ftrain the wine through a hair fieve, and put it into a calk; to every tengallons of wine add one ounce of ifinglafs dif- folved in cyder ,and fix whole eggs; clofe it up, and let it ftand fix months, and then bottle it. To make Balm Wine. TAKE nine gallons of water to forty pounds of fugar, boil them gently for two hours, fcum it well, then put it into a tub to cool, then take two pounds and a half of the tops of balm, bruife it, and put it into a barrel with a little new yeft, and when the liquor is cold, pour it on the balm, ftir it well together, and let it ftand twenty four hours, and keep ftirring it often, then clofe it up, and let it ftand fix weeks, then rack it off, and put a lump of fugar into every bottle, cork it well, and it will be better the fecond year than the firft.-—N* B. Clary wine is made the fame way. To make Imperial Water. PUT two ounces of cream of tartar into a large jar, with the juice and peels of two lemons, pour on them feven quarts of boiling water, when it is cold, clear it through a gauze fieve, fweeten it to your tafte, and bottle it.—rlt will be fit to ufe the next day. To cure acid Raisin Wine. THE following ingredients muft be propor- tioned to the degrees of acidity or iournefs, if but fmall, you muft ufelefs, if a ftronger acid, a larger quantity, it muft be proportioned to the quantity of wine, as well as the degree of acidity32% THE EXPERIENCED or fournefs; be fure that the calk be near full before you apply the ingredients, which will have this good eftedt, the acid part of the wine will rife to the top immediately, and iftue out at the bung hole, but if the cafk be not full* the part that fhould fly off will continue in the cafk, and weaken the body of the wine, but if your calk be full, it wiil be ready to have a body laid on it in three or four days time.— ] fhall here proportion the ingredients for a pipe ; fup- pofingit to be quite acid, that is juft recoverable. Take two gallons of fkimmed milk, and two ounces of ifinglafs, boil them a quarter of an hour, ftrain the liquor and let it ftand until it is cold, then break it well with your whifk, add to it four pounds of alabafter, and three pounds of whiting, ftir them well together, then put in one ounce of fait of tartar, mix by degrees a little of the wine with it fo as to diffolve it to a thin liquor, put thefe in your cafk, and ftir it well with a paddle, and it will immediately dis- charge the acid part from it as before mentioned; whenithas done fermenting, bungit up for three days, then rack it off, and you will find part of its body gone off by the ftrong fermentation ; to remedy this, you muft lay a frefh body on in proportion to the degree to which it hath been lowered by the above method, always having a fpecial care not to alter its flavour, and this muft be done with clarified lugar, for no fluid will agree with it, but what will make it thinner, or confer its own tafte, therefore the following is the beft method for performing it: to lay a frefh body on wine, take three quarters of hun-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 329 dred of brown fugar, and put it into your cop- per, then put in a gallon of lime water to keep it from burning, flir it all the while till it boils, then mafia three eggs and (hells ail together, add them to the fugar, and keep ftirring it about, and as the fcum or filth rifes take it off very clean, then put it in your can, and let it ftand till it is cold before you ufe it, then break it with your whifk by degrees, with about ten gallons of the wine, and apply it to the pipe, work it with the paddle an hour, then put a quart of fium forcing to it, which will unite their bodies, and make it fine and bright. To make Stum. TAKE a five gallon calk that has been well foaked in water, fet it to drain, then take a pound of roll brimftone and melt it in a ladle, put as many rags to it as will fuck up the melted brim- fione, burn all thofe rags in the calk, cover the bung-hole but let it have a little air, fo that it will keep burning ; when it is burned out, put to it three gallons of the flrcngeft cyder, and one ounce of common alum pounded, mix it with the cyder in the cafk, and roll it about five or fix times a day, for ten days, then take out the bung, and hang the remainder of the rags on a wire in the cafk, as near the cyder as poflible, and fet them on fire as before, when it is burnt out bung the cafk clofe, and roll it well about three or four times a day for two days, then let it ftand feven or eight days, and this liquor will be fo ftrong as to affedt your eyes by looking at it. When you force a pipe of wine take a quart of530 THE EXPERIENCED of this liquor, beat half an ounce of ifinglafs, and pull it in fmall pieces, whifk it together, and it will diffolve in four or five hours, break the jelly with your whifk, add a pound of ala- barter to it and diffolve it a little in the wine* then put it in the pipe and bung it clofe up, and in a day’s time it will be fine and bright. To refine Malt Liquor. TO cure a hogfhead of four ale : Take two ounces of ifinglafs, diffolve it in two quarts of new ale, and fet it all night by the fire, then take two pounds of coarfe brown fugar and boil it Jn a quart of new wort, a quarter of an hour, then put it into a pail, with two gallons of new ale out of the kear, whiff the above ingredients very well for an hour or more till it be all of a white froth, beat very fine one pound of plafter of Paris, and put it into your caflc, with the fermentation, and whifk it very well for half an hour in your cafk with a ftrong hand, until you have brought all thefilth and fediments from the bottom of your calk, and it will look white; if your cafk be not full, fill it up with new ale, and the fermentation will have this good effedl; the acid part of the ale will rife to the top im- mediately, and iffue out at the bung hole, but if the calk be not full, the part that fhould fly out will continue in, and weaken the body of the ale, be fure you do not fail filling up the cafk four or five times a day, until it has done work- ing, and all the fournefs or white muddy part is gone, and when it begins to look like new tun- nedENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 331 tied ale, put in a large handful of fpent hops, clofe it up, and let it ftand fix weeks ; if it be not fine, and cream like bottled ale, let it ftand a month longer, and it will drink brifk like bot- tled ale; this is an excellent method, and I have ufed it to ale that has been both white and four, and never found it to fail. If you have any malt that you fufpe£t is not good, fave out two gal- lons of wort, and a few hours before you want it, add to it half a pint of barm, and when you have tunned your drink into the barrel, and it hath quite done working, make the above fer- mentation, and when you have putitin the bar- rel, whilkit very well for half an hour, and it will fet your ale on working afrefh, and when the two gallons is worked white over, keep fill- ing up your barrel with it four or five times a day, and let it work four or five days, when it has done working clofe it up: if the malt has got any bad fmack or tafte, or be of a fluid nature, this will take it off. To make Sack Mead. TO every gallon of water add four pounds of honey, boil it three quarters of an hour, and fcum it as before, to each gallon add half an ounce of hops, then boil it half an hour and let it ftand till the next day, then put it in your calk, and to thirteen gallons of the above liquor add a quart of brandy or fack, let it be lightly clofed till the fermentation is quite done, then make it up very clofe; if it be a large calk let it ftand a year before you bottle it. ToTHE EXPERIENCED 33a To make Cowslip Mead. TO fifteen gallons of water put thirty pounds of honey, boil it till one gallon is wafted, fcum it, then take it off the fire, have ready fixteen lemons cut in halves, take a gallon of the liquor and put it to the lemons, put the reft of the liquor into a tub, with feven pecks of cowflips, and let them ftand all night, then put in the liquor with the lemons, and eight fpoonfuls of new yeft, a handful of fweet briar, ftir them all well together, and let it work three or four days, then ftrain it, and put it in yGur calk, and \n fix months time you may bottle it, To make Walnut Mead. TO every gallon of water put three pounds and a half of honey, boil them together three quarters of an hour, to every gallon of liquor put about two dozen of walnut leaves, pour your liquor boiling hot upon them, let them ftand all night, then take the leaves out and put in a fpoonful of yeft, and let it work two or three days, then make it up, and let it ftand three months, then bottle it. To make Ozyat. 1 .1ST- ■ BLANCH a pound of fweet almonds, and the fame of bitter, beat them very fine, with fix fpoonfuls of orange flower water, take three ounces of the four cold feeds, if you beat the almonds, but if you do not beat them you muft take fix ounces of the four cold feeds, then with two quarts of fpring water, rub your pounded feedsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 333 feeds and almonds fix times through a napkin $ then add four pounds of treble refined fugar, boil it to a thin fyrup, fkim it well, and when it is cold, then bottle it. To make Ozy at a fecond Way. BOIL two quarts of milk with a flick of cinnamon in it, let it ftand till it be quite cold, « then blanch two ounces of the bell fweet al- monds, and about ten or twelve bitter almonds, pound them together in a marble mortar, with a little rofe water, then mix them well with the milk, fweeten it to your tafte, and giveitone boil, ftrain it through a very fine lieve till it quite fmooth and free from almonds. Send it up in ozyat glaifes with handles, and quite cold, take great care you do net boil it too much, and that the almonds do not turn to oil. L e m q n a d e for the fame Vfe * TO one quart of boiled water, add the juice of fix lemons, rub the rinds of the lemons with loaf fugar to your own tafte; when the water is near cold, mix the juice and fugar with it,'then, bottle it for ufe. To m&Lemonade a fecond Way* PARE fix or eight large lemons, put the peels into a pint of water, give them a boil, when cold fqueeze your lemons into it, and put in one pound of fugar, then ftrain it through a lawn ft eve to as much water as will make it pleafant $334 THE EXPERIENCED pleafant; juft before you fend it up put in a pint of white wine and the juice of an orange if you like it* To make Lemonade a third Way. TAKE the rinds of fix lemons pared very thin, and put them in a pan with about twelve ounces of fugar, with a quart of pump water made not too hot; let it ftand a night, then fqueeze the juice of your lemons into it, with one fpoonful of orange flower water, and run it through a bag till it looks clear. To make a rich Acid for Punch* BAKE red currants and ftrain them as you do for jellies, take a gallon of the juice, put to it two quarts of new milk, crufti pearl goofe- berries when full ripe, and ftrain them through acoarfe cloth, add two quarts of the juice and three pounds of double refined fugar, three quarts of rum and two of brandy, one ounce of ifinglafs diflolved in part of the liquor, mix it all up to- gether, and put it in a little calk, and let it ftand fix weeks, and then bottle it for ufe. It will keep many years and fave much fruit. To make Orange Juice to keep. SQUEEZE your oranges into a pan, then ftrain them through a very coarfe fieve, after that through a very fine fieve; meafure your juice, and to every pint put a pound of fine loaf fugar, let it ftand together all night covered over.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 335 over, then take off the fcum, ftir it well in the pan, and put it in dry pint bottles, put in a fpoonful of brandy, after they are filled tie it over the cork with leather ;if you do not choofe to put fpirits in, a little oil will do, to be taken off* clean before you ufe it; keep it in a dry place, and it will be good for two years. The pulp that will be in your fine fieve will make marmalade. "Tomake Shrub. TAKE a gallon of new milk, put to it two quarts of red wine, pare fix lemons and four Seville oranges very thin, put in the rinds and the juice of twelve of each fort, two gallons of rum and one of brandy, let it ffand twenty-four hours, add to it two pounds of double refined fugar, and ftir it well together, then put it in a ]ug, cover it clofe up and let it Hand a fortnight, then run it through a jelly bag, and bottle it for ufe. To make Sherbet. TAKE nine Seville oranges and three lemons, grate off the yellow rinds and put the rafpings into a gallon of water, and three pounds of double refined fugar, and boil it to a candy height, then take it off the fire, and put in the juice the pulp of the above, and keep flirring it until it isahnofl cold, then put it in a pot for ufe. To make fine Sherbet afiecond Way. PARE four large lemons and boil the peels in fix quarts of water and a little ginger cut fine, boil them a quarter of an hour, then add to it three336 THE EXPERIENCED three pounds of fugar, and when it is cold put in the juice of the lemons and ftrain it, and it is fit for ufe. To make ‘Sherbets third Way. TAKE twelve quarts of water to fix pounds of Malaga raifins, flice fix lemons into it, with one pound of fixpenny fugar, put them all to- gether into an earthen pan, let it Rand three days, ftirring it three times a day, then take them out, and let them drain in a flannel bag, then bottle it; do not fill the bottles too full left they burft, It will befit to drink in about a fortnight, Tomake Raspberry Brandy. GATHER the rafpberries when the fun is hot upon them, and as foon as ever you have got them, to every five quarts of rafpberries put one quart of the beft brandy, boil a quart of water five minutes with a poundofdouble refined fugar in it, and pour it boiling hot on the berries, Pet it ftand all night, then add nine quarts more brandy, ftir it about very well, put it in a ftone bottle, and let it ftand a month or fix weeks j when fine bottle it. To make Black Cherry Brandy. TAKE outtheftones of eight pounds of black chesries and put on them a gallon of the beft brandy, bruife the ftones in a mortar, then put them in your brandy, cover them up clofeandENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 337 let them Rand a month or fix weeks, then pour it clear from the fediments and bottle it, T0 make Orange Brandy. PARE eight oranges very thin, and deep the peels in a quart of brandy forty eight hours in ' a clofe pitcher, then take three pints of water and three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, boil it until it is reduced to half the quantity, then let it Rand till it is cold, then mix it with the brandy; let it Rand fourteen days, and then bottle it. ‘To make Almond Shrub. TAKE three gallons of rum or brandy, three quarts of orange juice, the peels of three lemons, three pounds of loaf fugar, then take four ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and beat them fine, mix them in a pint of milk, then mix them all well together, let it Rand an hour to curdle, run it through a flannel bag feveral times till it is clear, then bottle it for ufe. * To make Currant Shrub. PICK your currants clean from the Aalks when they are full ripe, and put twenty-four pounds into a pitcher, with two pounds of Angle refined fugar, clofe the jug well up, and put it into a pan of boiling water till they are foft, then Rrain them through a jelly bag, and to every quart of juice put one quart of brandy, a pint of red wine, one quart of new milk, a pound of double refined fugar, and the whites of two eggs well beat, mix them all together, 1 Z andTHE EXPERIENCED and cover them clofe up two days, then run it through a jelly bag and bottle it for ufe. To make Walnut Catchup. TAKE green walnuts before the fhell is formed, and grind them in acrab mill, or pound them in a marble mortar, fqueeze out the juice through a coarfe cloth, put to every gallon of juice one pound of anchovies, one pound of bay fait, four ounces of Jamaica pepper, two of long, and two of black pepper, of mace, cloves, and ginger, each one ounce, and a flick of horfe- radifh; boil all together till reduced to half the quantity, put it in a pot, and when cold bottle it; it will be ready in three months. "To make Walnut Catchup another Way, PUT your walnuts in jars, cover them with cold flrong ale allegar, tie them clofe for twelve months, then take the walnuts out from the allegar, and put to every gallon of the liquor two heads of garlick, half a pound of ancho- vies, one quart of red wine, one ounce of mace, one of cloves, one of long, one of black, and one of Jamaica pepper, with one of ginger, boil them all in the liquor till it is reduced to half the quantity, the next day bottle it for ule $ it is good in fifh fauce, or flewed beef. In my opinion it is anexcellent catchup,for the longer it is kept the better it is ; I have kept it five years, and it was much better than when firft made.—N. You may find how to pickleENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 339 the walnuts you have taken out, amongft the other pickles* To make Mum Catchup. TO a quart of old mum put four ounces of anchovies, of mace and nutmegs diced one ounce, of cloves and black pepper half an ounce, boil it till it is reduced one third ; when cold bottle it for ufe. To make a Catchup to keep jeven Tears* TAKE two quarts of the oldeft ftrorig beef you can get, put to it one quart of red wine, three quarters of a pound of anchovies, three ounces of (halots peeled, half an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmegs ; a quarter ojf an ounce of cloves, three large races of ginger cut in dices, boil all together over a moderate fire, till one third is wafted, the next day bottle it for ufe % it will carry to the Baft Indies, To make Mushroom Catchup. TAKE the full grown daps of muftirdams, crufti them with your hands, throw a handful of fait into every peck of mudarooms, and let them ftand all night, then put them into ftew pans, and let them in a quick oven for twelve hours, and drain them through a hair fieve j to every gallon of liquor, put of cloves, Jamaica, black pepper and ginger, one ounce each, and half a pound of common fait, fet it on a dow fire, and let it boil till all the liquor is wafted away; then put it in a clean pot, when cold bottle it for ufe* Z a , To *“*,**Sb«'THE EXPERIENCED 34° To make Mushroom Powder, TAKE the thickeft large buttons you can get, peel them, cut off the root end, but do not wafli them, fpread them feparately on pewter difhes, and fet them in a flow oven to dry, let the liquor dry up into themufhrooms, it makes the powder ftronger, and let them continue in the oven till you find they will powder, then beat them in a marble mortar, and lift them through a fine fieve with a little Chyan pepper, and pounded mace, bottle it, and keep it in a dry clofet. To make Tarragon Vinegar. TAKE tarragon juft as it is going into bloom, ftripoff the leaves, and to every pound of leaves put a gallon of ftrong white wine vinegar in a Hone jug to ferment for a fortnight, then run ic through a flannel bag; to every four gallons of vinegar put half an ounce of ifinglafs diffolved in cyder, mix it well with vinegar, then put it into large bottles, and let it ftand one month to fine, then rack it off, and put it into pint bot- tles for ufe. To make Elder Flower Vinegar. TO every peck of the peeps of elder flowers put two gallons of ftrong ale’ allegar j and fet it in the fun in a ftorie jug for a fortnight, then filter it through a flannel bag ; when you bottle it, put it in fmall bottles, it keeps the flavour much better than large ones.—'—Be careful you do not drop any ftalks among the peeps.——It makesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 341 makes a pretty mixture on a fide table, with tarragon vinegar, lemon pickle, &c. To make Gooseberry Vinegar. TAKE the ripeft goofeberries you can get, crufh them with your hand in a tub, to every peck of goofeberries put two gallons of water, mix them well together, and let them work for three weeks, ftir them up three or four times a day, then ftrain theliquor through a hair fieve, and put to every gallon a pound of brown fugar, a pound of treacle, a fpoonful of frefh barm, and let it work three or four days in the fame tub well wafhed, run it into iron hooped barrels, and let it (land twelve months, then draw it into bottles for ufe.—This far exceeds any white wine vinegar. To make Sugar Vinegar. PUT nine pounds of brown fugar to every fix gallons of water, boil it for a quarter of an hour, then put it into a tub lukewarm, put to it a pint of new barm, let it work four or live days, ftir it up three or four times a day, then tun it into a clean barrel iron-hooped, and fet it full in the fun ; if you make it in February it will be fit for ufe in Apguft ; you may ufe it for moft forts of pickles, except mufhrooms and walnuts. Z 3 C H A P.THE EXPERIENCED 3 42 CHAP. XVI. Obfervatlons on Pickling. PICKLING is a very ufeful thing in a fa- mily, bat is often ill managed, or at lead made to pleafe the eye by pernicious things, which is the only thing that ought to be avoid- ed, for nothing is more common than to green pickles in a brafs pan for the fake of having them a good green, when at the fame time they will green as well by heating the liquor, and keeping them on a proper heat upon the hearth, without the help of brafs, or verdegreafe of any kind, for it is poifon to a great degree, and no- thing ought to be avoided more than uling brafs or copper that is not well tinned ; but the bed way, and the only caution I can give is to be very particular in keeping the pickles from any thing of that kind, and follow ftridly the di- rection of your receipts, as you will find receipts for any kind of pickles, without being put in fait and water at all, and greened only by pouring your vinegar hot upon them, and it will keep them a long time. To pickle Cucumbers TAKE the fmalled cucumbers you can get, and as free from fpots as poflible, put them into a ftrong fait and water for nine or ten days or till they are quite yellow, and dir them twice a day at lead, or they will fcum over, and grow foft j when they are thoroughly yellow pour the wateENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 343 water from them, and cover them with plenty of vine leaves, fet your water over the fire, when it boils pour it upon them, and fet them on the hearth to keep warm, when the Water grows cool, make it boiling hot again, and pour it upon them, keep doing fo till you fee they are a fine green, which will be in four or five times; be fure you keep them well covered with vine leaves, a cloth and difh over the top to keep in the fteam, it helps to green them fooner ; when they are greened, put them into a hair fieve to drain, then make a pickle for them ; to every two quarts of white wine vinegar, put half an ounce qf mace, and ten or twelve cloves, one ounce of ginger cut in flices, the fame of black pepper, and a handful of fait, boil\hem all to- gether five minutes, then pour it hot upon your pickles, and tie them down with a bladder for ufe.-—N. B. You may pickle them with ale alle- gar, or diftilled vinegar; if you ufe vinegar, it muft not be boiled; you may add three or four cloves of garlick or fhalots, they are very good for keeping the pickle from caning. To pickle Cucumbers a fecond JVay. GATHER your cucumbers on a dry day, and put them into a narrow-topped pitcher, put to them a head of garlick, a few white muftard feeds, and a few blades of mace, half an ounce of black pepper, the fame of long pepper, and ginger, and a good handful of fait into your vinegar; pour it upon your cucumbers boiling hot, fet them by the fire, and keep them warm Z 4 for344 THE EXPERIENCED for three days, and boil your allegar once every day, and keep them clofe covered till they are a good green, and then tie them down with a leather, and keep them for ufe. To pickle Cucumbers in Jlices, GET your cucumbers large before the feeds are ripe, flice them a quarter of an inch thick, then lay them on a hair fieve, and betwixt every lay put a ilialot or two, throw on a little fait, let them ftand four or five hours to drain, then put them in a done jar , take as much ftrong ale al- legar as will cover them, boil it five minutes with a blade or two of mace, a few white pep- per corns, a little ginger fliced, and feme horf- radifh feraped, then pour it boiling hot upon your cucumbers, let them ftand till they are cold, do fo tor three times more : let it grow cold betwixt every time, then tie them down with a bladder for ufe. To picklc M A N G o E S . TAKE the larged cucumbers you can get before they are too ripe, or yellow at the ends, then cut a piece out of the fide, and take out the feeds with an apple feraper, or a tea fpoon, and put them in a very flrong lalt and water for eight or nine days, or till they are very yel- low, ilir them well two or three times each day, then put them into a brafs pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves both under and over them, beat a little roach allum very fine, and 6 putENGLISH HOUSE-ICEEPER. put it in the fait and water that they came out of, pour it upon your cucumbers, and fet it upon a very flew fire, for four or five hours, till they are a pretty green, then take them out and drain them on a hair fieve, when they are cold, put to them a little horfe-radifh, then muftard feed, two or three heads of garlick, a few pepper corns, flice a few green cucumbers in fmall pieces, then horfe-radifh, and the fame as before mentioned, till you have filled them, then take the piece you cut out, and few it on with a large needle and thread, and do all the reft the fame way, have ready your pickle; to every gallon of alhgar put one ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, two ounces of ginger iliced, the fame of long pepper, black pepper, Jamaica pepper, three ounces of muftard feed tied up in a bag, four ounces of garlick, and a ftick of horfe- radifh cut in flices, boil them five minutes in the allegar, then pour it upon your pickles, tie them down and keep them for ufe. To pickle Codlings. GET your codlings when they are the fize of a large French walnu t, put a good deal of vine leaves in the bottom of a brafs pan, then put in your codlings, cover them very well with vine leaves, and let them over a very flow fire till you can peel the ikins off, then take them carefully up in a hair fieve, and peel them with a pen- knife, and put them into the fame pan again with the vine leaves and water as before, cover them clofe, and fet them over a flow fire till they are 434<$ THE EXPERIENCED are a fine green, then drrain them through a hair fieve, and when they are cold put them into diftilled vinegar, pour a little meat oil on the top, and tie them down with a bladder,. GET your beans when they are young and fmall, then put them into a ftrongfait and water for three days, ftir them up two or three times eaeh day, then put them into a brafs pan with vine leaves both under and over them, pour on the fame water as they came out of, cover them clofe, and fet them over a very flow fire till they are a fine green, then put them into a hair fieve to drain, and make a pickle for ihem of white wine allegar, or fine ale allegar, boil it five or fix minutes, with a little mace, Jamaica pepper, long pepper, and a race or two of gin^ ger fliced, then pour it hot upon the kidney beans, and tie them down with a bladder. X: WASH your famphire very well in four fmall beer, then put it into a large brafs pan, difiolve a little bay fait, and twice the quantity of com- mon fait in four beer, then fill up ycur pan with it, cover it clofe, and fet it over a flow fire till .it is a fine green, then drain it through a fieve and put it into jars, boil as much fugar vinegar or white wine vinegar, with a race or two of ginger, and a few pepper corns, as will cover it; then pour it hot upon your famphire, and tie it well down* To pickle Kidney Beans. To pickle Samphire. To) ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 347 To fickle Walnuts black. GATHER your walnuts when the fun is hot upon them, and before the fhell is hard, which you may know by running a pin into them, then put them in a Rrong fait and water for nine days, then fiir them twice a day, and change the fait and water every three days, then put them in a hair fieve, and let them Rand in the air till they turn blacky then put them into Rrong Rone jars, and pour boiling allegar over them, cover them up, and let them Rand till they are cold, then boil the allegar three times more, and let it Rand till it is cold betwixt every timej tie them down with paper and a bladder over them, and let them Rand two months, then take them out of the allegar, and make a pickle for them ; to every two quarts of allegar put half an ounce of.mace, the fame of cloves, one ounce of black pepper, the fame of Jamaica pepper, ginger, and long pepper, and two ounces of common lalt, boil it ten minutes', and pour it hot upon your walnuts, and tie them down with a bladder and paper over them. Afecond Way to fickle Walnuts black, WHEN you have got your walnuts as before, put them into a cold ilrong allegar, with a good ueal of fait in it, let them Rand three months, then pour off the allegar, and boil it with a lit- tle more fait in it, then pour it upon your wal- nuts, and let them Rand till they aie cold, make it hot again, and pour it upon your walnuts, and do348 THE EXPERIENCED do fo till they are black, then put them into a hair fieve, and make a pickle for them the fame way as above, keep them in flrong Rone jars, and they will be fit for ufe in a month or fix weeks time. To pickle Walnuts an olive colour. GATHER your walnuts, and put them in a flrong ale ailegar, and tie them down with a bladder and a paper over it, to keep out the air, and let them Hand twelve months, then take them out of that ailegar, and make a pickle for them of flrong ailegar, and to every quart put half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, the fame of long pepper, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, one head of garlick, and a little fait, boil them all together five or fix minutes, then pour it upon your walnuts ; when it is cold, heat it again three times, then tie them down with a bladder, and paper over it ; they will keep feveral years, without either turning colour or growing foftj ifyour ailegar be good.—A7. B. You may make exceeding good catchup of the alle- gar that comes from the walnuts, by adding a pound of anchovies, one ounce of cloves, the fame of long and black pepper, one head of garlick, and half a pound of common fait to every gallon of your ailegar; boil it till it is half reduced away, and fcum it very well, then bot- tle it for ufe, and it will keep a long time. To-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 349 To fickle Walnuts. TAKE the largeft French walnuts, pare them till you can fee the white appear, but take great care you do not cut it too deep, it will make them full of holes, put them into fait and water as you pare them, or they will turn black, when you have pared them all, have ready a faucepan well tinned, full of boiling water, with a little fait, then put in your walnuts* and let them boil five minutes very quick, then take them out, and fpread them betwixt two clean cloths, when they are cold put them into wide mouthed bottles, and fill them up with diftilled vinegar, and put a blade or two of mace, and a large tea fpoonful of eating oil into every bottle 3 the next day cork them well, and keep them in a dry place. jto pickle Walnuts green* TAKE the large double or French walnuts before the fhells are hard, wrap them fingly in vine leaves, put a few vine leaves in the bottom of your jar, fill it near full with your walnuts, take care that they do not touch one another, put a good many leaves over them, then fill your jar with good allegar, cover them clofe that the air cannot get in, let them Hand for three weeks, then pour the allegar from them, put freffi leaves in the bottom of another jar, take out your walnuts, and wrap them feparately in frefh leaves as quick as pofiibly you can, put them intoyour jar with a good many leaves over them, then3J0 THE EXPERIENCED then fill it with white wine vinegar, let them ftand three weeks, pour off your vinegar, and wrap them as before with frefh leaves at the bottom and top of your jar, take frefh white wine vinegar, put fait in it till it will bear an egg, add to it mace, cloves, nutmeg, and gar-» lick if you choofe it, boil it about eight minutes, then pour it on your walnuts, tie them clofe -with paper and a bladder, and fet them by for ufe. Be fure to keep them always covered ; when you take any out for ufe, what is left mufl not be put in again, but have ready a frefh jar, with boiled vinegar and fait to put them in. To pickle Barberries. GET your barberries before they are too ripe, pick out the leaves, and dead ftalks, then put them into jars, with a large quantity of ftrong fait and water, and tie them down with a blad- der.** N. B. When you fee your barberries fcum over put them into frefh fait and water, they need no vinegar, their own fharpnefs is fuf* ficient enough to keep them. To pickle Parsley green. TAKE a large quantity of curled parfley, make a ftrong fait and water to bear an egg, put in your parfley, let it ftand a week, then take it out to drain, make a frefh fait and water as before, let it ftand another week, then drain it very well, put it in fpring water, and change it every day for three days, and fcald it in hard water till it becomes green, take it out and drain it quite dry, boil a quart of diftilled vinegar aENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 351 few minutes, with two or three blades of mace a nutmeg diced, and a fhalot or two; when it is quite cold, pour it on your parfley, with two or three dices of horfe- raddifh, and keep it for ufe. To pickle Nasturtians. GATHER the nadurtian berries foon after the bloffoms are gone off, put them in cold fait and water, change the water once a day for three days, make your pickle of white wine vinegar, mace, nutmeg diced, pepper corns, fait, fha- lots and horfe radifh ; it requires to be made pretty ftrong, as your pickle is not to be boiled when you have drained them, put them into a jar, and pour the pickle over them. To pickle Radish Pods. GATHER your radifh pods when they are quite young, and put them in fait and water all night, then boil the fait and water they were laid in, and pour it upon your pods, and cover your jars clofe to keep in the fleam; when it grows cold, make it boiling hot, and pour it on again; keep doing fo till your pods are quite green, then put them on a fieve to drain, and make a pickle for them of white wine vinegar, with a little mace, ginger, long pepper and horfe radifh, pour it boiling hot upon your pods, when it is almoft cold, make your vinegar twice hot as before, and pour it upon them, and tie them down with a bladder. 1 TvTHE EXPERIENCED 35* To pickle Elder Shoots, GATHER your elder (hoots when they are the thicknefs of a pipe (hank, put them into fait and water all night, then put them into flone jars in layers, and betwixt every layer ftrew a little muftard feed, and fcraped horfe- radifh, a few fhalots, a little white beet root, and cauliflower pulled in fmall pieces, then pour boiling allegar upon it, and fcald it three times, and it will belike piccalillo, or Indian picklei tie a leather over it, and keep it in a dry place. To pickle Elder Buds. GET your elder buds when they are the iize of hop buds, and put them intoaftrong fait and water for nine days, and ftir them two or three times a day-, then put them into a brafs pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour the water on them that they came out of, and fet them over a flow fire till they are quite green, then make a pickle of them of allegar, a little mace, a few fhalots, and fome ginger fliced, boil them two or three minutes, and pour it upon your buds; tie them down, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. To pickle Beet Roots. TAKE red beet roots and boil them till they are tender, then take thefkins off, and cut them in flices, and gimp them in the fhape of wheels, flowers, or what form you pleafe, and put them into a jar, then take as much vinegar as you thinkENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. $$$ think will cover them, and boil it with a little mace, a race of ginger fliced, and a few dices of horfe-radifh, pour it hot upon your roots, and tie them down.—They are a very pretty garnifh for made difhes. pickle Caulyflowkrs. TAKE the clofeft and whitefl caulyfidwer/j you can get, and pull them in bunches, and fpread them on an earthen difh, ana lay fait all over them* let them ftand for three days to bring out all the water, then put them in earthen jars, and pour boiling fait and water upon them, and let them ftand all night, then drain them, on a hair fieve, and put them into glafs jars,, and fill up your jars with diftilled vinegar, and tie them clofe down with leather* Afecond Way to pickle Caulyflowers* PULL your caulyflowers in bunches as be- fore, and give them juft afcald in fait and water, fpread them on a cloth, and fprinkle a little fait over them, and throw another cloth upon them till they are drained, then lay them on fieveS, and dry them in the fun till they are quite dry like fcraps of leather, put them into jars about half full, and pour hot vinegar (with fpice boiled in it to your tafte) upon them ; tie them down with a bladder, and a leather quite clofe.—N* B, White cabbage is done the lame way*J54 TH% EXPERIENCED To pickle Red Cabbage. GET the fined and clofeft red cabbage yon can, and cut it as thin as poffibje, then take fome cold ale allegar, and put to it two or three blades of mace, a few white pepper corns, and make it pretty ftrong with fait, put your cabbage into the allegar as you cut it* tie it clofe down with a bladder, and a paper over it, and it will be fit for ufein a day or two. To pickle Red Cabbage afee on d Way. CUT the cabbage as before, and throw fome fait upon it, and let it lie two or three days till it grows a fine purple, then drain it from the fait, and put it into a pan with beer allegar, and fpice to your liking, and give it a feald * when it iscold,put it into your jars, and tieitclofe up. To pickle Grapes. GET your grapes when they are pretty large, but not too ripe, then put a layer into a done jar, then a layer of vine leaves, then grapes and vine leaves as before, till your jar is full * then take two quarts of water, half a pound of bay fait, the fame of common fait, boil it half an hour, fkim it well, and take it off to fettle, when it is milk warm, pour the clean liquor upon the grapes, and lay a good deal of wine leaves upon the top, and cover it clofe up with a cloth andfet it upon the hearth for two days, then take your grapes out of the jar, and lay them upon a cloth to drain, and cover them with a flannel till they are quite dry* then lay themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER* them in flat bottomed flone jars, in layers, and put frefh vine leaves betwixt every layer, and a large handful on the top of the grapes, then boil 1 a quart of hard water, and one pound of loaf fugar a quarter of an hour, fkim it well, and put to it three blades of mace, a large nutmeg lliced, and two quarts of white wine vinegar, give them all a boil together, then take it old, and when it is quite cold, pour it upon your grapes, and cover them very well with it; put a bladder upon the top, and tie a leather over it, and keep them in a dry place forufe.—N. £. You may pickle them in cold diftilled vinegar* To pickle young Artichokes* GET your artichokes as foon as they are formed, and boil them in a ftrong fait and water for two or three minutes, and lay them upon a hair fieve to drain, when they are cold put them into narrow topped jars, then take as much white wine vinegar as will cover your ar- tichokes, boil with it a blade or two of mace, a few flices of ginger, and a nutmeg cut thin* pour it on hot and tie them down* To pickle Mushrooms* GATHER the fmalleft mufhrooms you can get, and put them into fpring water, then rub them with a piece of new flannel, dipped in fait, and throw them into cold fpring water as you do them to keep their colour, then put them into a well tinned faucepan, and throw a hand- ful of fait over them, cover them elofe, and fet A a a themTHE EXPERIENCED them over the fire four or five minutes, or till you fee they are thoroughly hot, and the liquor is drawn out of them, then lay them between two clean cloths till they are cold, then put them into glafs bottles, and fill them up with diftilled vinegar, and put a blade or two of mace and a tea fpoonful of eating oil in every bot- tle, cork them clofe up, and let them in a cool place. N. B. If you have not any diftilled vinegar, you may ufe white wine vinegar, or ale allegar will do, but it muft be boiled with a little mace, fait, and a few fiices of ginger, it muft be cold before you pour it on your mufli- rooms j if your vinegar or allegar be too iharp it will foften your mulhrooms, neither will they keep fo long, nor be fo white* To pickle Mushrooms brown. TAKE a quart of large mufhroom buttons, wain them in allegar with a flannel,, take three anchovies and chop them fmall, a few bladesof mace, a little pepper and ginger, a fpoonful of fait, and three cloves of fhalots, put them into a faucepan with as much allegar as will half cover them, fet them on the fire, and let them ftew till they ihrink pretty much: when cold put them in fmall bottles with the allegar poured upon them, cork and tie them up clofe. N. B. This pickle will make a great addition in brown fauce. « To pickle Onions* PEEL the fmalleft onions you can get, and put the mint fait and water for nine days, and changeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. #7 A a 2 ale change the water every day, then put them into jars, and pour freflh boiling fait and water over them, let them ftand clofe covered until they are cold ; then make feme more fait and water, and pour it boiling hot upon them, and when it is cold, put your onions into a hair fieve to drain, then put them into wide mouthed bot- tles, and fill them up with diftilled vinegar, and put into every bottle a flice or two of ginger, one blade of mace, and a large tea-fpoonful of eating oil, it will keep the onions white; then corkthem well up.—2V1 JB. If you like the tafte of a bay leaf, put one or two into every bottle, and as much bay fait as will lie ona fix-pence. •Tc? make Indian Pjckle or PIccalillo. GET a white cabbage, one caulyflower, a few fmall cucumbers,radilh-pods,kidney-beans, and a little beet root, or any other thing you commonly pickle; then put them on a hair fieve, and throw a large handful of fait over them, and fet them in the fun-(hine, or before the fire, for three days to dry; when all the water is run out of them, put them into a large earthen pot in layers, and betwixt every layer, put a handful of brown muftard feed, then take as much ale allegar as you think will cover it, and to every four quarts of allegar, put an ounce of turmerick, boil them together, and pour it hot upon your pickle, and let it ftand twelve days upon the hear.th, or till the pickles are all of a bright yellow colour, and mofi of the al- legar fucked up * then take two quarts of ftrong35$ THE EXPERIENCED ale allegar, one ounce of mace, the fame of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the fame of long pepper and nutmeg ; beat them all together, and boil them ten minutes in your allegar,then pour it upon your pickles with four ounces of garlick peeled ; tie it clofe down, and keep it for ufe.—N. JS. You may put in frefh pickles, as the things come in feafon, and keep them covered with vinegar, &c. A fickle in Imitation j/Tndian Bamboe. TAKE the young fhoots of elder, about the beginning or middle of May take the middle of the ftilk, the top is not worth doing, peel off the out-rind, and lay them in a flrong brine of fait and beer one night, dry them in a cloth Angle, in the mean time make a pickle, of half goofeperry vinegar, and half ale allegar j to every quart of pickle put one ounce of long pepper, one ounce of diced ginger, a few corns of Jamaica pepper, a little mace, boil it, and pour it hot upon the fhoots, and (top the jar clofe up, and fet it by the fire twenty-four hours, ftirring it very often. CHAP. XVII. Obfervations on keeping Garden-Stuff and Fruit. r~|p H E art of keeping garden-fluff is to j| keep it in dry places, for damp will not only make them mould, and give again, but takeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 359 take off the flavour, fo it will likewife fpoil any kind of bottled fruit, and fet them on working; the beft caution I can give, is to keep them as dry as poflible, but not warm, and when you boil any dried fluff have plenty of water, and follow ftrkftly the directions of your receipt. Tokeep Green Peas. SHELL any quantity of green peas, and juft give them a boil in as much fpring water as will cover them, then put them in a lieve to drain, pound the pods with a little of the water that the peas were boiled in, and ftrain what juice you can from them, and boil it a quarter of an hour with a little fait and as much of the water as you think will cover the peas in the bottles, fill your bottles with peas, and pour in your water, when cold put rendered fuet over, and tie them clofe down with a blad- der, and leather over it, and keep your bottles in a dry place. 1*0 keep Green Peas another Way. GATHER yotir peas in the afternoon, on a dry day; ihell them and put them into dry clean bottles, cork them clofe, and tie them over with a bladder; keep them in a cool dry place as before. To keep French Beans. LET your beans be gathered quite dry, and not too old, lay a layer of fait in the bottom of an earthen jar, then a layer of beans, then fait, A a 4 then3So THE EXPERIENCED then beans, till you have filled your jar: let the fait be at the top, tiea piece of leather over them, and lay a flag on the top, and fet them in a dry cellar for life. To keep French Beans a fecond Way. MAKE aftrong fait and water that will bear an egg, and when it boils put in your French beans for five or fix minutes, then lay them on a fieve, and put to your fait and water a little bay fait, and boil it ten minutes, fkim it well, and pour it into an earthen jar to cool and fettle, put your French beans into narrow topped jars, and pour your clean liquor over them, tie thern clofedowri, that no air can get in, and keep them in a dry place.——N. B. Steep them in plenty of fpring water the night before you ufe them, and boil them in hard watej% To keep Mushrooms to eat likefrejh onet• WASH large buttons as you would for flaw- ing, lay them on fieves, with the (talk up- wards, throw over them fonie fait to fetch out the water $ when they are drained, put them iji a pot, and fet them in a cool oven for an hour, then take them carefully out, and lay them to cool and drain •, boil the liquor that comes out of them with a blade or two of mace, and boil it half a way; put your muflirooms into a clean jar well dried, and when the liquor is cold, cover your mushrooms in the jar with it, and pour over it rendered fuet > tie a bladder over it, let them in a dry clofet, and they will keep very wellENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 331 well moft of the winter.—When you ufe them take them out of the liquor, pour over them boiling milk, and let them ftand an hour, then f>ew them in the milk a quarter of an hour, thicken them with flour, and a large quantity of butter, and be careful you do not oil it, then beat the yolks of two eggs with a little cream* and put it in, but do not let it boil after theeggs are in ; lay untoafted fippets round the infideof the di(h, and ferve them up; they will eat near as good as frefh gathered mufhrooms; if they do not tafte ftrong enough, put in a little of the liquor : this is a valuable liquor, and it will give all made difhes a flavour like frefh mulhrooms. To keep Mushrooms another Way. SCRAPE large flaps, peel them, take out the inflde, and boil them in their own liquor, and a little fait, then lay them in tins, and fet them in a cool oven, and repeat it till they are dry; put them in clean jars, tie them clofedown* and they will eat very good. To dry Artichoke Bottom^ / PLUCK the artichokes from the ftalks (juft before they come to their full growth) it will draw out all the firings from the bottoms, and boil them fo that you can juft pull off the leaves, lay them on tins, and fet them in a cool oven, and repeat it till they are dry, which you may know by holding them up againft the light, and if you can fee through them, they are dry enough;the; experienced enough; put them in paper bags, and hang them in a dry place. To bottle Damsons to eat as good as frejh ones. GET your dam Tons carefully when they are juft turned colour* and put them into wide- mouthed bott!es, cork them up loofely, and let them ftand a fortnight, then look them over, and if you fee any of them mould or fpot, take them out, and cork the reft clofe down ; fet the bottles in fand, and they will keep till fpring, and be as good as frefh ones. Another Way to bottle Damsons. TAKE your damfons when full grown and coloured, but not foft, have them gathered in dry.weather, get your wide-mouth bottles clean wafhed, and very dry before your damfons are got, have them fitted with corks that your dam- ions may be done as foon as they are gathered, when they are pricked put them into your bottles as foon as you can ; when the bottle is half full put in two table fpoonfuls of Lifbon fugar, then fill the bottles up with damfons, have the corks well beat in and cut clofe, then have a bladder foaked in fold water, and well wiped, which mult be tied clofe over the corks, have the boiler or copper that you intend to do them in ready, and lay a little fhaw very thin at the bottom of your copper, to keep them from breaking, put a little ftraw between each bottle, you may lay another row of bottles , . "3ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 363 To over the firft, if your copper is deep enough, but mind they do not rub again ft each other, there muft be a full inch of water over your bottles, and ftraw ftrewed thin over the top, over which you mu ft get the cover of a hamper, and have it cut to fit the copper, that your bottles may not rife to the top of your water, there muft be a proper weight over the cover of the hamper, to keep the bottles in their places 5 when that is done, you muft have as much cold water put over them as will cover them, have your fire lighted, and ftand by them till you fee them have one boil, then, as quick as you can, have the fire drawn out, and water thrown un- der the copper to cool it, as too much boiling fpoils the fruit, let them ftand in the water three hours in the copper, then have them taken out and wiped dry, but not fhook, let your bottles ftand in a cool and very dry place, they will keep two years 5 they muft not be covered with any clofe cover: this is a very good way to do goofeberries, but leave out the fugar. To bottle Gooseberries. PICK green walnut goofeberries, bottle them, and fill the bottles with fpring water up to the neck, cork them loofely, and fet them in a copper of hot water till they are hot quite through, then take them out, and when they are cold, cork them clofe, and tie a bladder over, and fet them in a dry cool place*364 THE EXPERIENCED To To bottle Goosberries a fecondWay. PUT one ounce of roach alum, beat fine. Into a large pan of boiling hard water, pick your goofeberries, and put a few in the bottom of a hair fieve, and hold them in the boiling water till they turn white; then take out the fieve, and fpread the goofeberries betwixt two clean cloths, put more goofeberries in your fieve, and repeat it till you have done all your berries, put the water into a glazed pot till next day, then put your goofeberries into wide-mouthed bottles, and pick out all the cracked and broken ones, pour your water clear out of the pot, and fill up your bottles with it; then put in the corks loofely, and let them (land for a fortnight, and if they rife to the corks, draw them out, and let them Hand for two or three days un- corked, then cork them clofe, and they will keep two years* To bottle Cranberries* GET your cranberries when they are quite dry, put them into dry clear bottles, cork them up clpfe, and fet them in a dry cool place. To bottle Green Currants, GATHER your currants when the fun is hot upon them, ftrip them from the ftaiks, and put them into glafs bottles, and cork them clofe, fet them over head in dry fand* and they will keep till fpring*ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 36S To keep Grapes. CUT your bunches of grapes, with a joint of the vine to them, hang them up in a dry room, that the bunches do not touch one ano- ther, and the air pafs freely betwixt them or they will grow mouldy and rot; they will keep till the latter end of January, or longer. N. B. The Frontiniac grape is the beft. CHAP. XVIII. Obfervaiions on Distilling* IF your ftill be a limbeck, when you fetiton fill the top with cold water, and make a lit- tle pafte of flour and water, and clofe the bot- tom of your ftill well with it, and take great care that your fire is not too hot to make it boil over, for that will weaken the ftrengthof your water; you muft change the water on the top of your ftill often, and never let it be fcalding hot, and your ftill will drop gradually off; if you ufe a hot ftill, when you put on the top, dip a cloth in white lead and oil, and lay it well over the edges of vour ftill, and a coarfe whet cloth over the top: it requires a little fire under it, but you muft take care that you keep it very clear; when your cloth is dry, dip it in cold water and lay it on again, and if your ftill be very hot, wet another cloth, and lay it round the very top, and keep it of a moderate heat.S66 THE EXPERIENCED fo that your water is cold when it comes off the ftill.—If you ufe a worm ftill, keep your water in the tub full to the top, and change the water often, to prevent it from growing hot; obferve to let all Ample waters ftand two or three days before you workit, to take off the fiery tafle of the ftill. To dijiil Caudle Water. TAKE wormwood, liore-hound, feather- few, and lavender-cotton, of each three hand- fuls, rue, pepper-mint, and Seville orange peel, of each a handful, fteep them in red wine, or the bottoms of ftrcng beer, all night; then diftil them in a hot ftill pretty quick, and it will be 3 fine caudle to take as bitters. To dijiil Milk Water. TAKE two handfuls of fpear or pepper** mint, the fame of balm, one handful of card us, the fame of wormwood, and one of angelico, cut them into lengths a quarter long, and fteep them in three quarts offkimmed milk twelve hours, then diflil it in a cold ftill, with a flow fire under it; keep a cloth always wet over the top of your ftill, to keep the liquor from boiling over, the next day bottle it, cork it well, and keep it for ufe. To make HephnatickWate r for the Gravel• GATHER your thorn flowers in May, when they are in full bloom, and pick them from the ftems iTo \ ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 367 ftems and leaves, and to every half peck of flowers, take three quarts of Lifbon wine, and put into it a quarter of a pound of nutmegs fliced, and let them fleep in it all night, then put it into your (till with the peeps, and kev p a moderate .even fire under it, for if you let it boil over, it will lofe its flrength. To ^//Pepper-Mint Water. GET your peppermint when it is full grown and before it feeds, cut it in fhort lengths, fill your fiill with it, and put it half full of water, then make a good fire under it, and when it is nigh boiling, and the fiill begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, draw a little out from under it, as you fee it requires, to keep it from, boiling over, or your water will be muddy, the flower your ftili drops, the water will be the clearer and ftronger, but do not fpend it too far, the next day bottle it, and let it fiand three or four days, to take the fire off the fiill, then cork it well, and it will keep a long time. To dijlil Elder-Flower Water. GET your elder-flowers when they are in full bloom, fhake the blofibms off, and toevery peck of flowers pat one quart of water, and let them fteep in it all night; then put them in a cold fiill, and take care that your water conies cold off the fiill, and it will be very clear, and draw it nolonger than your liquor is good, then put it into bottles, and cork it in two or three days, and it will keep, a year.THE EXPERIENCE# 368 To diftil Rose Water. GATHER your red rofes when they ard dry and full blown, pick off* the leaves, and to every peck put one quart of water, then put them into a cold ftill, and make a flow fire un- der it, the flower you diftil it the better it is,' then bottle it, and cork it in two or three days time, and keep it for ufe N. B. You may diftil bean-flower the fame way. To dijiil Pen&y-Royal Water* GET your penny-royal when it is full grown and before it is in blofiom, then fill your cold ftill withit.and put it half full of water, make a moderate fire under it, and diftil it off coldy then put it into bottles, and cork it in two or three days time, and keep it for ufe* To dtjiil Lavender Wate*. TO every twelve pounds of lavender-neps put one quart of water, put them into a cold ftill, and make a flow fire under, and diftil it off very flow, and put it into a pot till you have diftilled all your water, then clean your ftill weH out and put your lavender water into it, and diftil it off as flow as before, then put it into bottles and cork it well. To diftil Spirits of Wine. TAKE the bottoms of ftrong beer, and any kind of wines, put them into a hot ftill about threeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 369 three parts full, then make a very flow fire un- der, and if you do not take great care to keep it moderate, it will boil over, for the body is fo ilrong, that it will rife to the top of the ftill; the flower you diftil it the ftronger yourfpirit will be, put it into an earthen pot till you have done diftilling, then clean your flill well out, and put the fpirit into it, and diftil it flow as before, and make it as ftrong as to burn in your lamp, then bottle it, and cork it well, and keep it for ufev( 37° ) A Correct LIST of every Thing in Seafon in every Month of the YEAR. JANUARY. FISH. f^A RP Tench Soles Flounders Smelts Whitings Perch Plaice Lobfters Lampreys Turbot Crabs Eels Thorn back Prawns Craw-fifli Skate Oyfters Cod Sturgeon MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houie-Lamb * P O U L T R T, &c. Pheafant Partridge > Game Hares Rabbits Woodcocks Snipes Turkeys Capons Pullets Fowls Chickens Tame Pigeons ROOTS, &c. Cabbage Savoys Coleworts Sprouts BrocOli purple Chervil and white Celery Spinage Endive Cardoons Beets Fariley Sorrel Lettuces Crefles Muftard Rape Radifh Turnips Tarragon MintENGLISH^HO US E-KEEPER. 371 B b 2 ROOTS Mint Sage Cucumbers in Parfnips * hot houfes Carrots Thyme Turnips Savory Potatoes Pot-Marjoram Scorzonera Hyfop Skirrets Sal fi fie To be bad though not in feafon, Jerufalem Arti- chokes Afparagus Mufhrooms FRUIT Apples Almonds Medlars Pears Services Grapes Nuts F 1 2 B R U A R Y. FISH. Cod Skate Tench Soles Whitings Perch Sturgeons Smelts Carp Plaice Lobfters Eels Flounders Crabs Lampreys Turbot Oyfters Craw-fifh Thornback Prawns MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb p O U L T R r. See. Turkeys Chickens Woodcocks Capons Pigeons Snipes Pullets Pheafants Hares Fowls Partridges Tame RabbitsTHE EXPERIENCED 3?2 ROOTS, &c< Cabage Muftard Afparagus Savoys Rape Kidney-Beans Coleworts Radifhes Carrots Sprouts Turnips Turnips Brocoli, purpleTarragon Parfnips and white Mint Potatoes Cardoons Burnet Onions Beets Tan fey Leeks Parfley Thyme Shalots Chervil Savory Garlick Endive Marjoram Alfa may be had Rocombole Sorrel Salfifie Celery Skirret Chardbeets Scorzonera Lettuces Forced Radifhesjerufalem Ar~ Creffes Cucumbers F RUIT. tichokes Pears Apples Grapes MARCH. MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb A FOUL"! R T &c Turkeys Fowls Pigeons Pullets Chickens Tame Rabbits Capons Ducklings FISH Carp Eels Soles Tench Mullets Whiting TurboENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 373 Turbot Plaice Crabs Thornback Flounders Craw-fifh Skate Lobfters Prawns R 0 0 T S, &cc. Carrots Brocoli Rape Turnips Cardoons Radifhes Parfnips Beets Turnips Jerufalem Ar- Parfley Tarragon tichokes Fennel Mint Onions Celery Burnet Garlick Endive Thyme Shalots Tan fey * Winter-Savory Coleworts Mu ih rooms Pot-Marjoram Borecole Lettuces Ply fop Cabbages Chives Fennel Savoys Creffes Cucumbers Spin age Muftard Kidney-Beans F R U I 7 fears Apples Forced-Strawberries APRIL » MEAT. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb FISH. Carp Salmon Smelts Chub Turbot Herrings Tench Soles O Craps Trout Skate Lobfters Craw-fifh Mullets Prawns - . • POULTRY, I374 THE EXPERIENCED ROOTS, POULTRY &c. Pullets Ducklings Rabbits Fowls Chickens Pigeons Leverets ROOTS# &c„ Coleworts Young onions Lettuces Sprouts Celery All forts of fmall Brocoli Endive Sallad Spinage Sorrel Thyme Fennel Burnet All forts of Pot- Parfley Tarragon herbs Chervil Radifhes FRUIT. • Apples Forced Cher- Apricots for Pear§ ries and Tarts MAY. FISH. Carp Salmon Lobfters Tench Soles Craw-fifli Eels Turbot Crabs Trout Herrings Prawns Chub Smelts MEAT. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb P 0 U L T R r, &c. Pullets • Green Geefe Rabbits Fowls Du> klings Leverets Chickens Turkey PoultsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 375 ROOT, B b 4 R O 0 T S, See. Early Potatoes Balm Carrots Mint Turnips Purflane Radifhes Fennel Early CabbagesLettuces Cauliflowers . Crefles Artichokes Spinage Parfley Sorrel Pears Apples S trawberries Cherries Savory All other fweet Herbs Peas Beans Kidney-Beans Afparagus Ail lortsoffmallTragopogon Sallad Herbs Cucumbers, &c. Thyme FRUIT. Muftard And Melons With Green Apricots Goofeberries And Currants for Tarts J U N E. MEAT. Beef Veal Buck-Venifon Mutton Lamb P 0 U L T R T, &c. Fowls Ducklings Wheat-Ears Pullets Turkey Poults Leverets Chickens Plovers Rabbits Green Geefe FISH. Trout Salmon Herrings Carp Soles - Smelts Tench Turbot Lobfters Pike Mullets Ci^w-fifh Eels Mackarel Prawns37$ THE EXPERIENCED R DOTS, &c. Carrots Afparagus Rape Turnips Kidney-Beans Creffes Potatoes Artichokes All other fmall Par/nips Cucumbers Sallading Radifhes Lettuce Thyme Onions Spinage All forts of Pot- Beans Parfley Herbs Peas Purflane FRUIT. Cherries Apricots Nectarines Straw berries Apples Grapes Goofeberries Pears Melons Currants Mafculine . # Some Peaches Pine Apples T U L Y. Beef Mutton P Pullets Fowls Chickens Pigeons Green Geefe \ Haddocks Mullets Mackarel M E A T. Veal Lamb u l <r r r, Ducklins Turkey Poults Ducks Young Par- tridges FISH. Herrings Soles Plaice Flounders Buck Venifoo &c. Pheafants Wheat-Ears Plovers Leverets Rabbits Skate Thornback Salmon Carp TenchENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 377 Tench Eels Prawns Pike Lobfters Craw-fifh R 0 0 ¥ S, &c. Carrots Cabbages AH forts of fmali Turnips Sprouts Sallad Herbs Potatoes Artichokes Mint Radifhes Celery Balm Onions Endive Thyme Garlick Finocha All other Pot? ■Rocombole Chervil Herbs Scorzonera Sorrel Peas Sal fi fie Purflane Beans Mufhrooms Cauliflowers Lettuce Crefies F R V IT. Kidney Beans Pears Nedtarines Strawberries Apples Plums Rafpberries Cherries Apricots Melons Peaches Goofeberries Pine Appples tmHBBM3SSSSBSSBS^SISBSS^SB0piBlKaaKaaa AUGUST. 3 MEAT. Beef Veal Buck Venifoa Mutton Lamb P 0 U L T R T, &c. Pullets Ducklings Pheafants Fowls Leverets Wild Ducks Chicken Rabbits Wheat-Ears Green Geefe Pigeons Plovers Turkey Poults 3 FISH,.37& THE EXPERIENCED * FISH. Cod Mullets Eels Haddock Mackarel Lobfters Flounders Herrings Craw-fifh Plaice Pike Prawns Skate Carp Oyflers Thornback >) o o s Co w &c. Carrots Beans Pinocha Turnips Kidney-Beans Parfley Potatoes Mushrooms Lettuce Radifhcs Artichokes AJlfortsoffmall Onions Cabbages Sal lads Garlick Cauliflowers Thyme Shalots Sprouts Savory Scorzonera Beets Marjoram Sallifie Celery Allfortsof fweet Peas Endive Herbs F R U I T. Peaches Pears Strawberries Nectarines Grapes Goofeberries Plums Figs Currants Cherries Filberts Melons Apples Mulberries Pine Apples S E P T E M B ER. MEAT. Beef Mutton Pork . Veal Lamb Buck Venifon p o u l r r T9 &c. Geefe Pullets Chickens Veal Fowls Ducks TeakENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. m Teals Hares Pheafants Pigeons Larks Rabbits FISH. Partridges Cod Skate Tench Haddock Soles Pike Flounders Smelts Lobfters Plaice Salmon Oyfters Thprnbacks Carp R 0 0 T S9 &c. Carrots Kidney Beans Finocha Turnips Mufhrooms Lettuce, and all Potatoes Artichokes forts of fmall Shalots Cabbages Sallads Onions Sprouts Chervil Leeks Cauliflowers Sqrrel Garlick Cardoons Beets Scorzonera Endive Thyme, and all Sal fi fie Celery forts of fcup Peas Parlley herbs - F RU 1 \ r. Peaches Filberts Currants Plums Hazel Nuts Morello Cher- Apples Medlars ries Pears Quinces Melons Grapes Lazaroles Pine Apples Walnuts - OCTOBER. MEAT. Beef Lamb Pork Mutton Veal Doe Venifon P 0 UL T R T,3So THE EXPERIENCED P 0 U L T R r, &c. Geefe Rabbits Larks Turkies Wild Ducks Dotterels Pigeons Teals Hares Pullets Widgeons Pheafants Fowls Woodcocks Partridges Chickens Snipes ' FIS FL Dorees Gudgeons Salmon Trout Holobert Pike Lobfters Bear bet Carp Cockles Smelts Tench Mufcles Brills Perch Oyfters R 0 0 T 8, &c„ Cabbages Scorzonera Chardbeets Sprouts Leeks Corn Sallad Cauliflowers Shalots Lettuce Artichokes Garlick All forts of Carrots Rocombole young Salladi Parfnips Celery Thyme Turnips Endive Savory Potatoes Cardoons All forts of Pot-s Skirrets Chervil herbs Salfifie Finocha FRUIT. Peaches Quinces Filberts Grapes Black and white Hazel Nuts Figs Bullace Pears Medlars Walnuts Apples Services * * N O V E M-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 38s N O V EMBER. MEAT. Beef Veal Doe Venifen Mutton Houfe Lamb . - r ' FOULER T; Geefe Wild Ducks Dotterels Turkies Teals Hares Fowl Widgeons Rabbits Chickens Woodcocks Partridges Pullets Snipes Pheafants Pigeons Larks FIS H. Gurnets _ / Salmon Trout Gudgeons Dorees Smelts Lobfters Holoberts Carp Oyfters Bearbet pike Cockles Salmon Tench Mufcles ROOTS, See. Carrots Jerufalem Arti »C reffes Turnips chokes Endive Parfnips Cabbages Chervil Potatoes Cauliflowers Lettuces Skirret Savoys Crefles Salfifie Sprouts AH forts of Scorzonera Coleworts fmall lallad Onions Spinage Herbs Leeks Chardbeets Thyme, and Shalot Cardoons all other Pot- Rocambole Parfley Herbs fruit.THE EXPERIENCED FRUIT: Pears Cheftnuts Medlars Apples Hazel-Nuts Services Bullace Walnuts Grapes D E C E M B E R. Beef MEAT. Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb Doe Venifoft T urbot FISH. Smelts Gudgeons Gurnets Cod Eels Sturgeon Codlings Cockles Dorees Soles Mufcles Holoberts Carp Oyfters Bearbet P O U L 7 R r, See. Geefe Chickens Wild Ducks Turkies Hares Teals Pullets Rabbits Widgeons Pigeons Woodcocks Dotterels Capons Snipes Partridges Fowls Larks Pheafants PROOFS, Sec. Cabbages Potatoes Garlick Savoys Skirrets Rocombole Brocoli purple Scorzonera Celery and white Sallifie Endive Carrots Leeks Beets Parfnips Onions Spinage Turnips Shalots Parfley lettucesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3«j Lettuces Cardoons Thjme C redes Forced Afpara-Allforts of pot- All fortsoffmall gus herbs Sallad FRUIT. Apples Pears Medlars Services Chednuts Walnuts Hazel-nuts Grapes Directions for a Grand Table* JANUARY being a month when entertain- ments are mod ufed, and mod wanted, from that motive I have drawn my dinner at that feafon of the year, and hope it will be of fervice to my worthy friends; not that I have the lead pretenfion to confine any Lady to fuch a particular number of difhes, but to choofe out of them what number they pleafe • being all in feafon, and mod of them to be got without much difficulty; as I from long experience can tell what a troublefome talk it is to make a bill of fare to be in propriety, and not to have two things of the fame kind ; and being defirous of rendering it eafy for the future, have made it my dudy to fet out the dinner in as elegant a manner as lies in my power, and in the modem tade; but finding I could not exprefs myfelf to be underdood by young houfekeepers, in placing the difhes upon the table, obliged me to have two copper-plates; as I am very unwilling to leave even the weaked capacity in the dark, being my greated dudy to render my whole work. 1 384 tHE EXPERIENCED work both plain and eafy. As to French cooks ] and old experienced boufe-keepers, tiiey have no occafion for my abidance, it is not from them I look for any applaufe. I have not engraved a copper-plate fora third courfe, or a cold colla- tion, for that generally confi(Is of things extra- vagant; but I have endeavoured to let outa deifert of fweetmeats, which the induftrious houfe-keeper may lay up in fummer at a fmall expence, and when added to what little fruit is then in feafon, will make a pretty appearance after the cloth is drawn, and be entertaining to the company. Before you draw your cloth, have all your fweetmeats and fruit difhed up in china difhes or fruit bafkets ; and as many difhes as * you have in one courfe, fo many bafkets or plates yourdefert mu ft have ; and as my bill of fare is twenty-five in each courfe, fo muft your deffert be of the fame number, and fet out in the fame manner, and as ice is very often plen- tiful at that time, it will be eafy to make five different ices for the middle, either to he ferved upon a frame or without, with four plates of dried fruit round them ; apricots, green gages, grapes* and pears—the four outward corners* piftacho nuts, prunelloes, oranges, and olives— the four fquares, nonpareils, pears, walnuts, and filberts—the two in the centre, betwixt the top and bottom, cheftnuts and Portugal plums _ for fix long difhes, pine apples, French plums and the four brandy fruits, which are peaches nectarines, apricots, and cherries. INDEX,INDEX. B—BrtPBW—> CID for Punch Ale to mull Almonds to burn Almond Iceing for Bride ) Cakes Amulet to make of Afparagus Angelica to candy Apple-fauce Apple floating Ifland Apple Tarts Apricots to dry Apricot Marmalade Pafte to to preferve Afparagus to boil Artichokes to boil Artichoke Bottoms, drefs with eggs Bottoms to boil white Bottoms to dry Artichokes to pickle B. Page 33* 3*1 24.2 Page J 26s 291 291 246 59 258 H5 244 22c 238 23* 78 77 290 2P9 361 355 Bacon, a Gammon toroaft 112 to fait Bances French 164 Barbadoes Jumballs 274 Beans French to drefs 78 Beans French to keep a fecond way Wind for to drefs Beef a-la-mode Brifket a-Ia-royal to collar flat Ribs toforcelnfideSurloini l ? Infide of Surloin } 1 359 360 7*8 166 Ij7 87 to drefs Bouill Fricando To ha(h Heart larded Heart Mock Hare Olives to make Porcupine fiat Ribs u6 Porcupine to eat cold 299 J3 115 72 118 1 iH 117 Round to force Rump to flew a fecond way Steaks to broil Steaks a good wav to fry Steaks to drefs a common way To bang a Surloin 7 „cr to roaft $ J J Tea 31 2 to pickle 308 Bifcuits common tq make 276 Drops 276 Lemon to make 276 Spanifh to make 275 C c Bifcuits 3°4 205 105 70 71 7lE X. I N D Page Bifcuits Sponge to make 275 Blancmange a fecond way a fehird way Brandy Cherry Orange Rafp berry Brawn Mock Bread French to make white Brocoli to, broil and eggs Browning for made Difhes 81 195 iq6 196 336 337 336 202 278 Cakes Violet Calf’s-Head roafted Calf’s-Head Hafh to drefs to collar to grill 289 Buliace Cheefe Butter to clarify Fairy Cabbage to boil Cakes Apricot to make Bath Bride without Butter, Cream Mock-Turtle A fecond way Surprize 279 CalPs Feet to fricafle 7 Candy Angelica Ginger Lemon, Orange 236 Peel 37 Caps black to make 238 green to make Carp to dew brown to dew white to drefs Sauces Currant Currant Lemon clear 76 242 271 264 27 3 272 239 272 268 Lemon a fecondway269 Orange Good Plum Little Plum White plum Pruflian Queen Ratafia Ratafia a 2d way Rice Common Seed Rich Seed Shrewfbury } Page 240 281 85 86 88 88 82 87 83 281 246 243 246 206 206 29 20 26 27 Mum Mufhroom Walnut 268 266 268 267 267 271 269 269 269 272 267 270 Catchupto keepfeven years 339 339 339 338 Walnut a 2d way 338 76 286 286 285 286 286 258 259 259 260 260 259 236 261 292 236 Cauliflowers to boil Celery to fry to ragoo to dew Chardoons to fry to dew Cheefe-Cakes, Almond Bread Citron Common Cheefe-Cake Curd Rice Buliace to make Egg Cheefe Ramaquin Sloe Shrewfbury 2d way 270 Cheefet) E X, i n 1 ' ' Page Gheefe to ftew 285 Crawfifti in favory Jelly to ftew with light 1 Q in jelly Wigs f Cream Cheefe Cherry Brandy 336 burnt to dry 240 Chocolate to dry afecond way 241 Clotted Chicken-broth to make 312 Hartlhorn Chickens to boil 64 Ice to force 126 King William’s to fricaflee 125 Lemon to roaft 6 s Lemon with Peel in favoury jelly 282 Orange Water to make 313 Piftachio Chickens artificial 126 Pcmpadore and Pullets to ftew 114 Raspberry Chocolate to make 316 Ribband Chops to fait 306 Snow and Cockles to ftew 38 Spanifh Cod’s Head and Should- I 20 Steeple with Wine ers to drefs § ° Sours a fecond way 22 Tea Cod fait to drefs 22 Crumpets Orange to mai Codlings to drefs like \ 0 0 a fecond way Salt-fifti Tea Page 284 284 255 253 248 250 250 249 254 2 5i 252 252 248 253 251 250 254 249 Codfounds to drefs 23 like little Turkies 23 Collar Beef 303 Flat Ribs of Beef 303 Cucumbers to {lew 253 260 260 279 291 with Eggs to drefs 142 Calf’s Head Eels Mackarel 3°° 46 43 Currant clear Cake Drops Green to bottle 239 245 36+ a Breaft of Mutton 301 a Pig Swine’s Face Breaft of Veal to eat hot Breaft of Veal to eat cold Collops Scotch brown French way Cowflip Mead Cracknells Cranberries to bottle 1 1 70I 302 90 300 96 97 332 274 3H £0 dry in Bunches 244 2 37 256 257 257 256 256 Black Rcb Cuftard Almond Beeft Common Lemon Orange D Damfons to bottle 362 to dry 243 Defert Ifland to make 199 of fpun fugar 190 C c 2 Direc-INDEX. Page Directions for fetting 1 n out a grand Table ) 6 ^ Diftil Bean Flower Water 367 To diftil Caudle Water 366 Diftil Elder flower Water 367 Hephnatick Water 366 Lavender Water 368 Milk Water 366 Peppermint Water 367 Pennyroyal Water Rofe Water 368 Spirits of Wine 368 Ducks a-la braife 128 a-la mode 129 to boil with Onion 1 fauce 5^9 wild hafh 75 wild to roaft: 6b tame to roaft: 59 to flew 127 to ftew with green 7 g Peas J Drops Peppermint 245 Lemon 245 Rafpberry 245 Currant 245 Dumplings Apple to make 174 BarmofYeft 184 Damfon 183 Rafpberry 183 Sparrow 184 E Eels to boil to broil to collar to pitchcock to roaft: Eggs to drefs with Arti- choke Bottoms and Brocoli Cheefe to make Page Eggs to fi icafiee 290 Sauce to make 64 AndSpinage to drefs2S9 to poach with toafts 289 Elder Rob 236 194 50 50 Fifti Pond to make to caveach to preferve to ftew a good way 32 Flounders to boil, and all ) Q Kinds of Flat ftfh S & to ftew 31 Flummery to make 193 Colouring for 194 Cribbage Cards 205- Green 197 Eggs and Bacon in 203 Melon in 197 Oatmeal 204 Solomon’s Tem- ) _, pie in j 20+ Yellow 196 37 37 40 37 3° 289 289 201 Forcemeat for Breaft of 1 Q Veal Porcupine j for Hare Florentine 136 Fowls a-la braife 123 to boil 63 to drefs cold 75 to force 124 to hafh 74 large to roaft 64 Fritters Apple to make 161 common ditto ibfr clary ditto 161 Plumb with Rice 7 ^ ditto j ^ Rafpberry ditto 162 Tanfey ditto 162 Water 163 Fruit in Jelly 197 GibletsI N D E X. - Page G Giblets to flew 57 Ginger to candy Good Green to make 243 2 97 Gofers to make 165 Goofe to boil 57 to marinate 126 Stubble to roafl 5i Green to roafl 58 Goofe berries to bottle 3°3 way Goofeberry Dalle Grapes to keep Gravy to draw to make Green Gages to dry Gruel Barley to make Groat Sago Water H Haddocks to broil a -fecond way Ham to boil to roafl to fait to fmoke Hare Florendine to hafh to jug to roafl to flew Hodo-e Podo-e . C5 O riarnco by way of foup of Mutton or Lamb Neck of Aiutton Herrings to bake | 364 239 365 I 5 241 315 3 4 3*5 316 35 35 69 112 206 3°7 136 76 J35 69 i35 *37 140 M-° 141 34 Herrings to boil to fry I. Jam Apricots to make Black Currant Page 33 33 312 214 Green Goofeberry 218 212 212 144 144 265 Red Rafpberry Strawberry Iceing for Tarts a fecond way AlmondforBride 1 Cake j Sugar for BrideCake 265 Jelly Calf’s foot to make igi Savory for cold meat 192 Colouring for 114 Craw nfhin Savory 284 Birds in Savory 283 Chickens in Savory 282 Black Currant to make Red currant White Currant Fifh Pond in Gilded Fifh in Fruit in Hartfhorn to make 210 a fecond way 192 Hen andchickens in 198 Hen’s Neil 195 Floating Ifiand in 200 Ditto a fecond way 201 Rocky Ifiand in 201 Moon and Stars in 203' Pigeons in Savory 283 Smelts in Savory .284 Tranfparent ) „ ^ Pudding 3 99 Moonfhine 2X1 211 214 I94 I98 T97 Cc 3 Orange 202 210 LambINDEX. Pag; Lamb bits to drefs 282 Head and Ptirte-1 nance to drefs j IQ9 Leg boiled, and 1 Q Loin fryed \ 10 a Quarter of forced 109 Stones fricafteed no Lampreys to pot 48 a fecond way 48 to roaft 20 to ftew 31 Larks to roaft 67 Lemonade to make 333 a fecond way 333 Lemon drops 245 Pickle 80 Peel to candy 246 Loaf Drunken t© make 262 Oyflers 40 Princes 262 Royal 262 Lobfters to boil 40 to roaft: 40 to ftew 41 Lebfter Patties to garnifti 7 Ar Fifh i4 Marmalade Tranfparent Mead Cow ft ip to make Sack Walnut Midcalf to drefs Mince Pie without Meat Mock brawn to make Turtle 224 332 33* 332 101 152 302 82 Turtle a fecond way 83 to pot Sauce Pie 49 28 15.6 M 28 Macaroni, with Par.me- fan Cheefe to drefs Maccaroons 275 Mackarel to boil 32 Malt Liquors to refine 330 MarmaladeApricot to make225 Orange 223 Quince 224 292 298 38 287 360 Moonfhine to make Moor Game to pot 52, Mufcles to ftew Mulhroom Loaves to keep to eat 1 likefrefh | Ditto a fecond way 361 Powder to make 340 to ragoq 288 to ftew 287 another way to pickle brown to fricaftee Mulled Ale Wine Ditto a fecond way 312 Mutton a Bafque to make 107 a Breaft to collar 301 a Bread: to grill Broth to make to hafh to harrico Hodge Podge Kebob’d to make Leg to force Leg to drefs, called Oxford John Leg to fait Leg fplit and Onion Sauce Mutton Leg to drefs, to eat like Venifon 287 356 *43 31 r 311 3*3 73 140 »4f 105 100 108 3°$ *°5 107 MuttonINDEX. r-4 ‘ ;r 4 Mutton neck toharico 102 Neck to make French Steaks of Neckto eat like Venifon Shoulder boiled Celery Sauce Shoulder boiled called Hen & Chickens Shoulder boiled 1 Onion Sauce f Shoulder furprized Steaks to broil O Obfervations on boiling and roaifing Beef, Mutton, Veal,, and Lamb on Cakes on Creams Cuf- tards, &c. on Decorations for a Table on Diftillino- on dreffing Fifli on drying and 1 candying on made difhes on Pies and Palfe Jage .141 103 102 14O 104 104 104 71 .52 264 247 185 36S 14 221 79 143 Obfervationson Wines, Catchup, &c. on Soups on keeping Gar- den Stuff and 7 Fruit 3 Orange brandy to make Chips to candy jelly to make Juice Marmalade Peel to candy Ox Pallatrs to fricando to fricaffee to ftew Oyfter fauce to make Soup Oyflers to fry to pickle to lcollop to itew & all Kinds of Shell Fifh Ozyatto make a fecond way Page 317 1 35s 337 2+3 210 334 223 246 1x9 120 119 60 *3 39 42 39 28 1 s 332 333 onPodets,Grue’s&c.3o8 on Potting and 7 collaring y 3°3 on roaifing wild 1 and tame Fowls 3 *4 on roafting Pig, 1 Hare, &c. j 55 on pickling 342 on preferring 209 on Puddings j5- Panada favoury , fweet Pancakes batter Clary Cream Fine Pink coloured Tan fey Wafer Parfnips to boil Partridge to hafh in Panes to {few to ffew a fecon 292 316 166 166 16c 16b l[7 160 163 ■ 79 75 I r:- c way to roaffINDEX. Page Pago Fade for Defert Bafkets 7 Pickle white Cabbage 353 for Covers 3 OO Cauliflowers 353 a Chinefe Temple ] T Cauliflowers, a 1 orObeliik 3 * O9 fecond way \ 353 Apricot to make 228 Cockles 46 Cold for Didr Pies 146 Codlings 325 Red&whitecurrants23Q Cucumber 342 for Cudards I46 Cucumber a fe- > for Goofe Pie M5 cond way 3 343 Goofeberry 239 Cucumbers in dices 344 Crifp for Tarts 144 Elder Buds 352 Light for Tarts 144 Elder Shoots 352 Rafpberry 238 Grapes 354 Pafty a Venifon 145 Kidney Beans 346 Patties common to make 160 Mangoes 344 to fry i59 Mackerel 44 Lobder to garnidi 1 Mufhrooms 355 Fifh Nadurtians 35i Fine 160 Onions 356 Fried *59 Oyders 42 Savory 158 Parfley 351 Sweet 160 Pork 308 Peaches to dry 246 Radidi Buds 35i Pears to ftew 206 Salmon Newcas- Peas Green to boil 78 tle way j 42 to keep 359 Samphire 346 to keep a fecond way 450 Shrimps 51 to dew M2 Smelts or Sparling: s 45 to dew with Lettuc* *289 Walnuts black 347 Peppermint Drops 345 Ditto a fecond way 347 Perch to fry 36 Ditto green O 349 in water Soaky 37 Ditto Olive Colour 348 Pheafant to road 65 Ditto white 349 Pickle Indian to make 357 Pigs Chops to fait 3°2 In Imitation of | 358 Pig to barbecue III Bamboe J todrefsin Imita- 7 ' Artichokes 355 tion of Lamb \ 110 Barberries 35° Feet and Ears to 1 0 Red Beet Root 362 ragoo 3 zo u Red Cabbage 354 FeetandEars 7 Red Cabbage a *1 foufe 3 3°5 fecond way j 354 Petty toes to drefs 56 P‘gINDEX. 7 J3r *3* 129 I XL 133 130 I 72 67 Pig to roaft Pigeons artificial, to boil to boil in Rice to broil to compote to fricando to fricaflee in a Hole jugged to roaft - in favory Jelly 283 to tranfmogrify J30 Pike to boil, with a Pud- ding in the Belly Pikelets to make Pippins to flew whole Plaice to flew Pork to barbecue Chine to fluff to pickle to fait Steaks to broil Poffets Ale to make Page Pot Moor Game Page 55 52, 2.98 156 Ox Cheek 294. 67 Pigeons ,iD 298 1 133 Salmon 44 25 278 237 3* 111 112 308 308 72 311 Almond to make 310 Brandy Lemon Orange Sack 3C9 309 310 3C9 310 287 293 Wine Potatoes to fcollop Pot Beef to Beef to eat like Venifon all kinds of fmall Bir.ds Chars Eels Ham withChickens 297 Hare . 297 Lampreys 48 Lobfters 48 } 29+ } 299 47 47 Shrimps 30 Smelts or Sparlings 45 296 297 295 296 295 231 218 228 228 \ 2I7 215 214 Tongues Woodcocks Veal Marble Veal Venifon Preferve Apricots Apricots green Barberries in Bunches Barberries forTarts 229 Bui lace Cheefe 236 Cherries in Brandy 336 Morello Cherries Codlings tokeep ) all the year Cucumbers Currents redin Bunches Currants white in Blanches Black Currant Rob2 37 Currants for Tarts 215 Dam Tons 229 Elder Rob 236 Grapes in Brandy 216 GreenGage Plums 220 Green Goofeberries2i8 Red Goofeberries 226^ Goofeberries in 7 imitation of hops i 21 ^ Lemons carved 233 Ditto in Jelly 234 Magnum Bo- 11 um Plums Oranges Ditto carved } i 214 } 230 232 232 PreferveINDEX, Page 232 235 231 217 217 230 Preferve ditto in Jelly Ditto with Mar- malade Peaches Golden Pippens Kentifh Pippens Plumbs Green Gage 220 Plums Bonum J Magnum j Pine Apples Quinces whole Ditto in Quarters Red Rafpberries White ditto Sloe Cheefe Sprigs Green Strawberries whole Wine Sours Walnuts black Ditto green Ditto white Puddings Almond Apple Apricot Bread Bread, a fecond Way Calf’s Feet Little Citron Green Codling Boiled Cuftard Goofeberry Hanover Herb Hunting Lemon Lemon, a 2d way Lemon a third way Marrow M arrow a fecond way } 225 230 232 228 227 236 220 227 230 221 222 225 168 369 3/4 173 *73 172 277 178 169 382 184 382 168 170 170 170 379 179 Puddings Marrow, a third way Boiled Milk Nice Orange Orange, a fecond Way j Plain Quaking Quaking a fe- cond way Rice Common Ditto boiled Ditto ground Red Sago Sago another way Sippet Tanfey with AI monds Tanfey baked Tanfey boiled Tanfey with ground Rice Tranfparent Ditto, a fecond way Vermicelli White in Skins Yam Yojkfhire under Meat Almond Chocolate Curd German Lemon Pies Beef-Heak Bride Calf’s-head Codling Chicken a favoury Page i8q 182 J73 171 J7£ i 1 180 181 171 172 179 375 177 i74 176 177 3 Puffs 1 377 175 199. 375 389 182 181 278 277 261 164 277 150 155 35* 353 151pies Eel ,Egg and Bacon to eat cold French Hare Herb for Lent Hottentot Lobfter Mince Olive Rook: Salmon Thatched Houfe Veal Savory Veal fweet Venifon Yorkfhire Goofe Yorkfhire Giblet a Quince Marmalade preferved whole I N D Page 155 } *51 146 149 153 154 152 157 357 149 150 158 *5 7 *54 148 156 224 232 E X. Salmon to pot to pot a fecond way rolled Sauce Apple for Goofe Bread for roaft: Turkey For Cod’s Head and Shoulders ForCod’s Head a fecond way Celery Egg for fait Cod Page 44 45 24 59 62 21 22 103 24 Egg for roafted fowls 68 Lobfter for Green Goofe for Stubble Goofe for moft Sorts of 1 FKh f Onion Onion for boiled 1 Goofe 3 28 59 59 2.8 59 57 R 68 Oyfter for boiled 1 Turkey 3 60 Rabbits to boil for roafted Pig 56 Florendine *37 for roafted Pig a 1 • 56 Fricaffee brown *39 fecond way 3 Fricaffee white *39 for Salmon 24 to roaft 68 Shrimp 21 furprized ?38 for boiled Turkey, } Rafpberry Brandy 336 a fecond way Cream 251 White for fifh 27 Red Jam 2.12 White for fowls 63 [ or White Jam 213 White for boiled ] Pafte '238 breaftofVeal j [ 91 Drops 245 Saufages to fry 29O Ray, or Scate to boil 34 Scate or Ray to boil • 34 Ruffs and Rees to roaft 60 Scotch Collops brown 96 ' Vi' s Collops French way 97 Collops white 96 Sago to make with Milk 3*5 Collops to warm 73 Salmon to boil Crimp Sheeps rumps and Kidneys 106 V,' -* i k - V . I SherbetINDEX* Sherbet to make to make way Shrimps to ilew Sh:ub Almond Currant another way Page 335 fecond} 335 41 337 337 336 Page Stew Cheefe with light ) „ wigs 3 * Carp Ducks Ducks and Peas Green Hare i Snipes to roaft 66 offhell Fifti Snow balls to make 236 Partridge a difh of 3°5 Ditto a fecond way Soles to caveach 50 Pears to fry 35 Peas to marinate 35 Peas with Lettuces Solomongundy to make 280 Rump of Beef a fecond way 281 Tench Soup Almond to make 6 Turkey brown a-la-Reine 7 Ditto with Ce~ 7 Common Peas 10 lery Sauce 3 Oyfter *3 Strawberry Jam to make Craw fifh 13 to preferve whole Gravy with yel- J low Peas j f 11 Stum to make Stuffing for a marinate 7 Green Peas 9 Goofe 3 Green Peas } without Meat j • 1* Sturgeon to drefs to pickle White Peas 11 Sugar to boil candy Height Hare 3 Sugar to fpin Gold Colour Onion 8 Silver Colour Brown Onion 9 Spun Sugar a DefTert of White Onion 8 Sweetbreads a-la-daub Ox Cheek 5 to fricafTee brown Partridge 14 to fricafTee white Peas for Lent 10 forced 1 Portable for Tra- vellers . Rich Vermicella 4 Tranfparent 3 White 12 and 13 Spin age to flew 77 Sprats to bake 34 29 127 128 *35 *34 *34 206 142 288 3 *5 29 I2X 120 329 127 3° 41 188 190 98 99 99 98 99 to ragoo Syllabubs Lemon to make 207 Lemon a fecond 7 way 3 Solid under the Cow Whip 208 207 208 207 TealeI N D E X. Page T Teale to roaft 66 Tench to flew brown £9 to flew 3°7 Toaft fried to make 263 Tongue to boil 69 to fait 3°7 Trifle to make 255 Tripe foufed 305 Trout to fry 36 Turbot to boil 25 Turkey boiled, Oyfter7 ^ S3.GC6 1 a la-daub, hot 5 22 cold 122 to hath 74 to roaft 62 foufed 304 ftewed and Ce- C lery Sauce j 1 120 ftewed brown 12 X } ■» Turtle to drefs xoelb. Weight to drefs a feeond way 19 artificial to make 84 Mock to drefs 82 a feeond way ^3 V breaft to boil 91 a Breaft to collar 94 Ditto to porcupine 89 Ditto to ragoo 00 a Fillet bombarded 93 to ragoo a Fillet ICO to flew a fillet xoo to fricando 94 to hafh 73 to difguife a Leg xox to mince 73 to a-la royal a Neck of 02 * Page Veal Neck of Cutlets gz Olives 94 Ditto a feeond way 3^ Venifon pally 194 to hafh 72 Haunch roafted 70 Vinegar Elder Flower 3^0 Goofeberry 341 Sugar 341 T arragon 340 Violet Cakes 240 277 265 3* 3*4 187 188 3*4 3i3 W Wafers to make Wafer Pancakes Water Imperial Barley Web filver to fpin Gold to fpin Whet before Dinner 139 Whey Cream of Tartar 3*4 Scurvy grafs Wine Whitings to broil 3^ a feeond way 3^ Wigs light to make 274 Wine Balm 327 Blackberry 322 Birch 324 Birch a feeond way 326 Clary _ 327 Cowflip 325 Ditto a feeond way 326 Red Currant 323 Ditto a feeond way32? Elder-Flower 326 Elder raifin ' 319 Ginger 320 Pearl Goofeberry 32x Goofeberry a fe- 7 fond way J 3 • WineINDEX. Wine Lemon to drink like Citron water a fecond way , Orange a fecond way a third way Acid Raifm to care Page } 3r7 3*8 318 318 3r9 327 Wine Smyrna Raifm Raifin another way Rafpberry Sycamore Walnut W oodcock to hafh Ditto to roaft Pag£ 3*9, 320 325 7S 66 f FIN I S*.u. .-.V*-, -w— .*« • *The following vfeful and entertaining BOOKS p#f- by R. Baldwin, No. 47, Pater-Nofter-Row. THE History of John Juniper, Efq. alias Juniper Jack. In three Vols. i2mo. Price 9s. fewed. Publifh- ed by the Editor of the Adventures of a Guinea. Containing the Birth, Parentage, and Education, Life, Adventures, and Character,, of that moft wonderful and furprizing Gentleman. 2. The Adventures of Gil Blas of Santillane. A new tranf- lationby the Author of Roderick Random. Neatly printed in four Vols. i2mo. and adorned with thirty-three beautiful Cop- per-plates. Price 12s. bound, the 6th Edition corrected. 3. The Adventures of Telemachus, the fon of Ulyffes. Written by the Archbifhop of Cambray. To which are added, the Adventures of Ariftonous. Done into Englifh by Mr. Litterbury and Mr. Bowyer. The nineteenth Edition, adorned with a new Map iliultrative of the Work, and a Head of the Author. In 2 Vols. Price 7s. 4. The Adventures of Roderick Random. By T. Smol- let, M. Do 2 Vols. i2mo. Price 6s. 5. The Rambler. By Dr. S. Johnfon. 4 Vols. i2mo. twelfth Edition. Price 12s. 6. The Adventurer. By John Hawkfworth, LL. D. Jofeph Warton, A. M. and others. In 4 Vols. i2mo. Price bound 12s. A new Edition. 7. The Life and ftrange furprifing Adventures of Robin- son Crusoe, of York, Mariner, who lived eight and twenty Years all alone, in an uninhabited llland on the Coaft of America, near the mouth of the great River Oroonoque, having been caft on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the Men perifhed but himfelf; with an Account how he was at laft as ftrangely delivered by Pirates. Written by himfelf. The fixteenth Edition. 2 Vols. i2mo. Price 5s. adorned with Cuts. 8. The Ladies Library : Containing the Sentiments of Chaflity, Modefty, Meeknefs, Charity, Envy, Detraction, Pride, Drefs, Recreation, Religion, Zeal, Szc. with general Rules for a Lady's ConduCl in every circumftance of Life, whether as a Daughter, Wife, Mother, Widow, or Mjftrefs of a Family, 3 Vols. nmo. feventh Edition. Price 9s, bound. 9. TheP aths of Virtue delineated: or. The Hiftory in miniature of the celebrated Pamela, Clarissa Harlowe and Sir Charles Grandison, in the Compafs of a Pocket Volume, neatly printed on fine Paper. “ Great Blehing’s ever wait on virtuous Deeds, “ And though a late, a fure Reward fucceeds. ” Being a very proper prefent for young Ladies and Gentlemen. The feepnd Edition, Price25. 6d, neatly bound.BOOKS printed for R. BALDWIN, 6V. 10. Pamela; or Virtue rewarded. In a Series of Familiar Letters, from a beautiful young Damfel to her Parents. 4 Vols. 13th Edition. Price 14s. 11. Clarissa; or, The Hiftory of a young Lady ; com- prehending the moil important Concerns of private Life, in 8 Vols. i2mo. Price il. 8s. 12. Meditations and Contemplations. Containing Meditations among the Tombs—Reflexions, on a Flower Garden—And, a Defiant on Creation. Contemplations on the Night—Contemplations on the Harry Heavens.—And, A winter Piece. By James Hervey, A. M. Late ReXor of Wefton Flavel!, in Northamtonfhire. In one Vol. fmall OXavo, neatly printed from a Copy correXed by the Author a fhort Time before his Deceafe, and adorned with two Frontifpieces engraved by Grignion. A new Edition Price 5s. The fame in one Volume, large 3vo, Price ys. (C^4 The fame in one Vol. i2mo. Price 3s. 13. R eligious Courtship, being hiftorical Difcourfeson the Necefllty of marrying religious Hufbands and Wives only. As alfo. Of Hufbands and Wives being of the fame Opinions in Religion with one another; with an Appendix on the Neceflity of taking none but religious Servants^ and a Propofal for the better managing Servants, 21ft Edit. i2mo. Price 3s. 14. A Familar Explanation of the Law of Wills and Codicils, and of the Law of Rxecutors and Adminiftra- tors. Alfo the Rules by which Eftates in general defcend, with the Diflribution of perfonal Property, when no Will is made. To which is added. Plain InflruXions for every Per- fon to make his own Will, with the neceflary Forms for that Purpofe ; and the Expence of obtaining Probates and Letters of Adminiflration. By T. E. Tomlins of the Inner Temple. Barrifter at Law. 5th Edit. correXed. 15. A Key to Civil Architecture; or, the Universal British Builder, containing the Principles and Properties of Building, with a Differtation on the Sciences appertaining thereto, as v/ell as the kindred Requifites of Strength, Beauty, Convenience, and Propriety, and a flriX Enquiry into the prefentMode of finifhing ; alfo, A New Criterion, or Univer- fal Eflimator, refpeXing the Quantity and Quality of Ma- terials, the feveral Prices to be charged, be. be. intended for the life of the Gentleman as well as the Mailer and Jour- neyman Artificer. To which are added, fuch Rules in Arith- metic as are mod ufeful in the Building Branches. By Thomas Skaife, P. A. A New Edition, being the third, carefully cor- reXed, with the Addition of two ufeful Plates on the Con- HruXion of Stair Cafes. Price 6s. bound.. ■