5 COMPANY, has been produced, after many FLOR-ADOR FOOD. a delicious product of the Wheat-berry, manu- factured solely by the FLOR-ADOR FOOD expensive experiments, to meet the long-felt want, so often expressed by medical and scientfic men, as well as by the general community, for some light, palatable, wholesome, and nutritive substance to take the place of Corn Flour, Arrowroot, Sago, Tapioca, &c., which possess no flesh-forming constituents whatever, and are, all of them, starch pure and simple. FLOR-ADOR is quite as palatable and easy of digestion as any of these substances ; it can be used in the same form and for the same purposes ; whilst it combines in itself all the dements necessary for the nourishment of the body. It is suited to the robust and the invalid alike. An article of diet, as well as a luxury, for the healthy ; an invaluable adjunct to the sickroom and nursery. FLOR-ADOR is made in three grades or sizes, viz.:—LARGE-GRAINED, MEDIUM-GRAINED, and FINE-GRAINED. LARGE-GRAINED FLOR-ADOR can be used with advantage in clear and Brown Soup instead of Maccaroni or Vermicelli, or as a White Soup without stock. It makes excellent Porridge, having all the strength-giving properties of Oatmeal, whilst being much more easily digested. It makes delicious, sweet, and savoury Omelettes, and is greatly to be preferred to grated bread for Fig and Date Puddings, &c., &c. MEDIUM-GRAINED FLOR-ADOR is best adapted for Baked and Boiled Puddings. By its use Suet Dumplings, with or without fruit, are rendered more easy of digestion. It can be used with advantage in the baking of Bread. FINE-GRAINED FLOR-ADOR is most suitable for Blanc-Manges and Creams of all sorts ; also for thickening Soup and making Sauces ; for making Yorkshire Pudding, Pancakes, Apple Fritters and Dumplings, and for Cakes, Biscuits, Buns, &c., &c. The most digestible Pastry is made by using FINE- GRAINED FLOR-ADOR, with Flour in equal proportions. Taken through the sucking bottle or otherwise — Fine-grained Flor-ador is the perfect Baby’s Food. TRY IT I Sold by Grocers, Corn Merchants, &c., in IJd., 3d , and 6d. packets, by Chemists in Is. tins; and in 7 & 14-lb. bags, large grained, at 4Jd. per lb. Dr. G. B. Clark, M.P., says:—“I have used Flor-ador for some time, and find it to be a very palatable and valuable article of diet. It is a preparation of wheat contain- ing all the elements necessary for nutrition, and will be found of great use in the nursery.” Dr. Wallace, F.R.S.E., F.I.C., F.C.S., Public Analyst for the City of Glasgow, the Counties of Lanark and Renfrew, &c., reports as follows, viz.:—“I have made a careful chemical analysis of a sample of Medium-Grained Flor-ador, and have found It to con- tain 12-94 per cent, of albuminoids (flesh formers). It is evidently a product of Wheat of the finest quality, and is a delicious, readily-digestible, and very nourishing food, equally suitable for Invalids and Children, and for general family use.” Dr. A. B. Griffiths, F.R.S., F.C.S., Member of the Chemical Society of St Peters- burgh, Principal and Lecturer on Chemistry in the School of Science, Lincoln, <fcc., says : “ Flor-ador is an excellent food, especially for those suffering with indigestion and similar disorders of the stomach. I can in every way recommend Flor-ador to the public in general as a most useful and nourishing food." Ask your Grocer for a sample of FLOR-ADOR gratis, or the Flor-ador Food Co., Southampton Street, Hoiborn London, will send three half-pound samples —one of each grade-for 10d., in stamps. Purchasers an requested to see that they gel “ FLOR-ADOR," and not any imitations thereof inferior qualities being often substituted for the sake of extra profit, is c. FLOR - ADOR