RECIPES WITH FLOR-ADOR FOOD. By H. M. YOUNG-. FLOR-ADOR CAKE. Soz. Flor-ador Jlb.butter ilk sugar 6oz. flour 1 teaspoonful “H. M. Young’s” baking powder 4 eggs 3oz. mixed peel finely minced Grated rind of £ a lemon Beat the butter to a cream, add the eggs well beaten alternately with the flour sifted, then the Flor-ador, baking powder, and lemon rind; beat thoroughly 5 minutes, and, last of all, stir in the peel; pour into a plain mould lined with buttered paper ; bake in a moderate oven IJ> hours. }lb. Flor-ador 3oz. butter 1 egg FLOR-ADOR BISCUITS. I A little essence i ilb flour 3oz. sugar teaspoonful “ H. M. Young’s” baking pow- der Rub the butter into the flour, add Flor-ador, sugar, and baking powder, moisten with the egg ; roll out about | inch thick, and stamp out into various shapes, and bake about 10 minutes in a rather slow oven. FLOR-ADOR ICE CREAM. 1 pint milk I £oz. Flor-ador I 1 teaspoonful vanilla 2 eggs | 2oz. sugar | A few drops almond essence Mix the Flor-ador with a little cold milk and pour over remainder boiling ; pour back into pan and boil slowly 5 minutes, then add sugar and eggs beaten, and stir over a very gentle heat until it thickens ; allow this to get quite cold, then freeze. Put into freezing machine about 21b. of broken ice and lib. of rough salt. ALMOND CREAM. 4oz. Flor-ador Food I 4oz. castor sugar I A few drops almond 1 quart milk | 3oz. almonds, roughly chopped | essence Mix the Flor-ador and sugar with a little cold milk, boil the remainder and pour over Flor-ador ; put back into saucepan and boil gently 5 minutes, add essence and 2oz of almonds blanched and roughly chopped ; pour into a wetted china mould, allow to stand until cold and firm, turn out and decorate with the remainder of the almonds blanched, cut lengthways and stuck all over. This may be coloured if liked with a few drops of cochineal. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 4oz Flor-ador I 1 teaspoonful vanilla 14oz. sugar 4oz. grated chocolate | 1 quart milk Mix Flor-ador, sugar, and chocolate with a little cold milk, pour over the remainder of the milk boiling, pour back into the saucepan, and boil 5 minutes; add vanilla, and pour into a wetted china mould ; when quite firm, turn out. 2 eggs 3oz. butter 3oz. castor sugar i pint of cream BASKET A LA CREME. loz. desicated cocoanut 2oz. Flor-ador 2oz. flour A little flavouring A little jam A little angelica, about 2£in. long Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, flour, Flor-ador, and essence; beat a few minutes, butter some small dariol moulds and dust them with castor sugar, then with flour; three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake about twenty minutes in a slow oven, turn out and take out the centres with a small knife, spread round the outside a little jam and sprinkle with the cocoanut, fill centres with jam, whip up the cream until stiff, flavour and sweeten, put into forcing bag and rose tube, force out into rose shape on the top of the jam in each basket. Cut the angelica into thin strips, and arrange to form the handles.