THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 721 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Stc., referred to, see under their special heads. Grilli n g—continued. A fork slionld never he used in grilling, for if the surface of the meat, or fish, or whatever it may he, should be perforated by the tines of the fork, the juice and steam of the interior would find vent, and the meat collapse, instead of being puffy, and possibly be hard and tough. All good grill cooks employ tongs (see Fig. 895), which they use with considerable dexterity and freedom. GRILSE.—A young salmon after its first return from the sea. Not being good for much else, they are usually potted, thus : Cut the heads off six Grilse, take out the bones, chop off the fins and tails, wash them well, and wipe dry on a cloth. Put |oz. of pepper (Jamaica), four cloves, a small piece of ginger, four allspice, Joz. of cayenne, and two chillies in a mortar, and pound them well. Put the fish, belly downwards, in a pie-dish, place the pounded spices, &c., tied up in a bag on the backs of the fish, sprinkle over with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and pour over Jib. of warmed butter. Cover the dish with several thicknesses of paper, tie down, and put it in a moderate oven for two hours. Take it out of the oven, let the fish get gold, remove the bag of spices, put the Grilse into a jar, cover with clarified butter, and they will be ready for use. See Salmon. GRISKIN.—The spine, chine, or backbone of a pig, which is cut away when preparing sides for bacon, and is considered by some to be a tid-bit when baked, grilled, or roasted. GROATS.—Dried grain, such as oats or wheat, hulled and coarsely broken or crushed. This is generally done in a mill that by the same action cuts the grain into coarse pieces. Sometimes they are known as Grits, or Grouts, the term having been originally derived from the Icelandic grautr, signifying what we now call por- ridge. There are many qualities of Groats in the market, some good enough for any purpose, such as the flat Embden Groats, and others not fit to feed pigs with. Out of sixteen samples recently analysed, only two were positively unadulterated and genuine. See Oatmeal. Tried Groats.—Bake the Groats, spread them out on a flat dish in a layer about jin. thick, and leave till next day ; then cut it into pieces of a convenient size, and fry them in boiling lard. Groat Gruel.— (1) Mix 2 dessert-spoonfuls of Groats in a basin with only sufficient water to form a cream, pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, stirring all the time, and keep it over the fire until sufficiently thick. When done, sweeten to taste, add either 1 wineglassful of white wine, brandy, or spirits, with a little grated ginger or nutmeg, and serve hot. (2) Put |lb. of Groats into a saucepan with £gall. of water and a blade of mace, put the pan on the fire, and boil until the Groats are quite soft; then add a little white wine and sufficient sugar to taste. Pour the gruel into a basin, and serve with sippets of toast. Groat Pudding’.—(1) Put 1 pint of Groats into a little cold water to soak for a few hours. Take them out, carefully remove the husks, tie them up loosely in a cloth, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil for three hours. Take them out, untie the cloth, sweeten with moist sugar, add 1 table- spoonful of well-washed currants, tie up the cloth very tightly, place the pudding in the pan again, and boil for another hour, when the pudding should be quite done. Turn it out of the cloth, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. (2) Take 1 pint of the juice squeezed from boiled rasp- berries or red currants, add an equal quantity of red wine and sugar to sweeten, and put the mixture in a saucepan over a moderate fire ; when the liquor begins to boil, sprinkle in 4oz. of Groats, and stir until it thickens. Pour it into a mould dipped in water, and when quite cold turn it out; pour fruit- sauce over, and serve. (3) Wash Jib. of Groats, tie them up in a cloth, leaving room for them to swell, put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and boil for two or three hours. When quite soft, turn the Groats into a basin, and mix with them J teacupful of weak gravy, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Press the whole firmly in a basin, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. GROCERY.—This term is used to signify all kinds of tea, coffee, sugars, dried fruits, spices, and other foods sold by Grocers, the word itself being probably an adaptation of the French grosserie, meaning wholesale; from which also we get our word gross. In the United States, Grocery is the popular name for spirit stores. GROG. — “It would scarcely be necessary,” says Kettner, “ to say anything about this, but that the French have seized upon the word, and given it a currency which it was fast losing in England.” The story of its invention is to the effect that there was once a certain Admiral Vemon who was called “ Old Grog ” by the sailors, because he was in the habit of wearing a surtout made of grogram, or grosgrain, a coarse stuff made of silk and mohair. To him the sailors were indebted for the practice of mixing their rum with water. Hence the term should be one of derision. GROSEILLES.—Fr. for gooseberries. GROUND RICE.—See Rice. GROUPER.—This fish is found chiefly in Florida and the Gulf of Mexico; the term being a corruption of the Portuguese Garrupa. There are some few varieties of it which are known as Red Grouper, or brown snapper, and Black Grouper. In California the name of Grouper is given generally to rock fish. GROUSE.—Although it is said that varieties of this bird are to be found in all parts of the world, even to the Arctic regions, there is only one kind of Grouse that is known under this name in kitchen parlance, and that is the Scotch Red Grouse, or Hazel Grouse as it is some- times called, which has probably more than once found a substitute in the ptarmigan, or White Grouse of Norway. The Scotch Grouse is shot extensively over the North British moors and heath lands from the middle of August to the end of January, those first coming to market being rarely so good as those of a later date. Whether young or old, the bird has a very fine flavour, which it is the pride of the cook to preserve and improve upon. Alexis Soyer is said to have entertained some very original ideas of the quality of Grouse, as shown in the following, which is attributed to him : “ Ah, Sir, Grouse to be well enjoyed should be eaten in secret; and take my experience as your guide : do not let the bird you eat be raw and bloody, but well roasted, and drink with it at intervals a little sweet champagne. Never mind your knife and fork; suck the bones, and dwell upon them. Take plenty of time; that is the true way to enjoy a game bird. Some gentle- men here (Reform Club) think they can teach me the mode of my art. I hear them; but they are as mere children in their methods of eating: they follow the super- stitions of their fellows. Bah! ” One of his favourite dishes was Grouse a la Rob Roy, which was simply a roasted Gi’ouse wrapped in slices of fat bacon and sprigs of heather. Fig. 896. Braised Grouse. Braised Grouse.--(1) Pluck, draw, and singe one or two Grouse, wash them inwardly with soda and water, rinse them, and wipe dry. Truss without stuffing them, and tie into shape. Put a few thin slices of fat salted pork 3 i