925 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. powder, cover the pan, and fry until the Meat is quite brown, giving the pan a vigorous shake every now and then to mix in the powder. Put it into the pan with the stock in which the pieces were cooked, boil for a few minutes longer, add a little lemon-juice, and serve very hot with a little rice on a separate dish. (2) Put in a frying-pan a little butter, and fry a minced . onion in it till brown ; then add some cold Meat cut in dice, stir together over the fire till the Meat is well heated, then sift over 1 teaspoonful of curry powder and salt to taste. When the powder is 'well mixed with the Meat, pour over it 1 table-spoonful of milk, and stir over the lire till the moisture has dried up. A squeeze of lemon- juice gives a pleasant flavour to the curry. (3) Peel an onion, cut it in slices, and fry in butter; then add, without draining off the butter, Mb. of Meat chopped very fine, 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, hoz. of butter, a slice of bread well soaked in milk, the strained juice of a lemon, eight sweet almonds, blanched and grated, and two eggs beaten up in J pint of milk; mix all these very well together. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. (4) Put £lb. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, and when brown add the heart of a small hard cabbage, and two large fried onions or a sour apple chopped up small. Add 1^ table-spoonfuls of curry powder, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, J teaspoonful of cayenne, and 1 teacupful of gravy. Put in any cold Meat cut up into small pieces, cover the pan, and simmer gently for about three hours, stirring frequently. Just before taking it oft" the fire, add the juice of half a lemon, turn all out on to a dish, and serve. (5) Boil lib. of rice, together with lqt. of water, 2 good table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, two good-sized finely-chopped onions, and two sour baking apples, peeled, cored, and also chopped fine. Mince about lib. of cold Meat, and mix with it chopped parsley to taste. When the rice is cooked, and while still hot, stir in the chopped Meat and parsley, mix in a beaten egg, and form into balls; roll these in flour, and fry in hot dripping, or bake in a well- greased baking-tin in a moderate oven. (6) Peel an onion, cut it into slices, fry in butter till a light brown colour, then add 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, J pint of good gravy, £ pint of water, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and let all this simmer together. Cut lib. of cold Meat into slices; put any trimmings or loose pieces of Meat into the saucepan until the curry and gravy, and let them stew in it; they will make the gravy richer. Ten minutes or so before the curry is served, add the slices of Meat, and let them get hot. (7) Indian.—Cut some cold Meat into middling-sized pieces, dredge with flour, and put them in a stewpan with two sliced onions and a lump of butter. Fry the meat and onions till browned, then put them in a stewpan, with 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and mushroom ketchup, one large chopped potato, one chopped apple, the strained juice of a small lemon, and about 2oz. of butter. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till well mixed, then add gradually 1 pint of rich beef gravy. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the curry out on to a hot dish, and garnish with crofitons or a rice border; or serve with rice in a separate dish. Curried Cold Meat with. Vegetables.—Cut up any remains of cold cooked Meat and vegetables into small pieces, and roll them in curry powder. Peel two moderate-sized onions, and thinly slice them ; put them into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, fry for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of Meat and vegetables, and fiy the whole until nicely browned. Next pour in sufficient water to cover the ingredients, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep simmering gently at the side'of the fire until tender. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice in with the curry, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. Meat—continued. Devilled Cold Meat.—(1) Mix together \ saltspoonful of cayenne, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, a little piece of butter, 1 teaspoonful each of good salad-oil, lemon-juice, and chilli vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls each of ketchup and Wor- cestershire sauce, and 1 wineglassful of claret. Cut slices of any cold Meat, lay them in a dish, and pour the above mixture over. Put it in a hot oven for a-quarter-of-an- hour, stirring occasionally. Serve mashed potatoes with it. (2) Mix together 2 dessert-spoonfuls of made mustard, loz. of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful each of curry paste, salt, vinegar, and ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cold gravy ; when this is all mixed quite smooth, dip some slices of cold Meat into the mixture, rub it all over them, and grill in front of a good fire. If any of the mixture the slices of Meat were covered with is left, make it very hot, and pour it over the Meat when dished. Tried. Cold Meat.—(1) Cut some cold Meat into rather small squares; any kind of Meat can be used, provided it is not too fat. Peel and slice two or three onions, put them in a flat stewpan with 2oz. of lard or dripping and two or three chillies, and fry for a few minutes ; then put in the Meat, dredge lightly with salt, and fry until the onions are tender, adding more dripping if required. Turn the Meat and onions on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Separate the yolk and white of one egg; put the yolk in a basin with 4oz. of flour, \ dessert-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, and 1 teacupful of milk. Beat the mixture thoroughly, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and mix it in last. Cut about Mb. of cooked meat into thin slices, and dip them in the batter. Put a lump of clarified fat in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the pieces of Meat and fry. When nicely browned, drain, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Hashed Cold Meat.—(1) Peel and wash two small carrots and one turnip, and boil them in salted water for twenty minutes. Cut about lib. of any kind of cold Meat into slices, and dredge well with flour. Peel and slice one large Spanish onion, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry until beginning to brown; then add the slices of Meat, toss about until lightly browned, moisten to height until stock, add \ table-spoonful each of Harvey sauce and mushroom ketchup, and leave it over the fire till on the point of boiling, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Thoroughly drain the carrots and turnips, and chop them. Turn the Meat and gravy on to a hot dish, pile the chopped carrot and turnip on the top, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (2) Cut any cold Meat into small pieces, removing all the fat, skin, and sinews, and put the pieces into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey and tomato sauces, and another of any other sauce desired, and mix them up with \ wineglassful of port wine, two capsicums cut very fine, cayenne, pepper, and salt to taste. Put the pan on the side of the' fire, pour in a little gravy, and simmer gently until the Meat is thoroughly warm. If not thick enough, add a little flour. Turn the hash when done on to a dish, and serve hot. (3) Take some cooked Meat and mashed potatoes either in equal parts or one-third Meat and two-thirds potatoes. Chop the Meat fine, remove the skin and gristle, and leave a little fat, say about quarter the total quantity of Meat. Mix the Meat with the potatoes, which should be quite hot, and add a little salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a spider, with sufficient water to cover the bottom, and place it over the fire; when the butter has melted, remove the pan to the side of the fire, put in the mince, and let it simmer gently until all the water is absorbed and a brown crust is formed. It must not be stirred. Fold it like an omelet, and serve. Potted Cold Meat.—Any cold roasted or boiled Meat can be used for potting. Trim away the gristle, skin, and fat, and cut the lean up small; put it in a mortar with a lump of butter, and pound to a smooth paste. Next mix with it a small quantity of stiffly-reduced gravy and a