TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 852 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemon. Mix 1 teaspoonful of flour with 1 wineglassful of sherry, mix it with the syrup, and stir over the fire till thick. Turn the pudding out on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks and whites of eight eggs separately, then mix them, and stir in 4 lai’ge table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the thinly-peeled rinds of two Lemons, and the strained juice of one; pour it into a buttered souffle-dish, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Peel the rinds very thinly off three Lemons, and boil it in 1 pint of milk and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then take it off the fire and leave till cold. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat into it sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Take the peel out of the milk, add the strained juice of one Lemon, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and the beaten butter and flour. Stir all over a clear tire for seven or eight minutes, then leave it to cool. Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a stiff froth, stir them gradually in to the souffle, pour into a well-buttered souffle-dish, tie a wide strip of buttered paper round the top to prevent the preparation coming over as it rises, and bake for half-an- liour in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the paper off, and serve. Sec Souffles. (4) Separate the yolks and whites of twelve eggs, then beat the yolks together with the grated rinds and strained juice two Lemons and ill*, of caster sugar. Whisk the whites of of the eggs to a stiff snow, mix them in quickly with the above, and turn the whole into a mould that has been made hot and buttered. Bake the souffle in a brisk oven until well risen and slightly browned. When cooked, Fig. 1069. Lemon SouffliL serve it at once in the same mould with a napkin pinned round it (see Fig. 1069). (5) Warm Jib. of butter and beat it until soft; then mix in gradually the yolks of ten eggs, 1 teacupful of flour, J pint of cream, and the grated peel of two Lemons, sweetening to taste with caster sugar; whisk the whites of the ten eggs to a stiff snow, stir them lightly in with the above mixture, and add at the same time the strained juice of the two Lemons. Thickly butter the interior of a souffle-mould, sprinkle in breadcrumbs, shaking out the superfluous, pour the mixture into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. (6) Select two large Lemons, wipe them with a damp cloth to remove any impurities, and rub their rinds off with a few lumps of sugar. Mix 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour smoothly with J pint of milk, turn it into a sauce- pan, add the Lemon sugar, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened. When some- what cooled, add to the mixture the strained juice of the Lemons, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and the whites of six whisked to a stiff froth. Turn the whole into a souffle- mould, and bake it in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes, or until well risen and nicely browned over the Lemon s—continued. top. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the souffle, and serve at once in the mould. Lemon Souffle Pudding.—Chop up 3oz. of butter and work it into rather more than Jib. of flour. Put IJ pints of milk in a saucepan, and when almost boiling, stir the butter and flour into it. Keep on stirring over the fire till it thickens, then beat up the yolks of seven eggs and 6oz. of sugar till very light, and stir them into tire" flour and milk ; pour the mixture into a shallow pan, whip well, and let it stand till cold, then beat in the whites of the seven eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Turn the pudding into a buttered mould, allowing plenty of room for it to swell, cover, and steam for an-hour-and-a-half, keeping the water under the steamer boiling continuously. When taken from the steamer, dip the mould into cold water for an instant, take it out, let it stand for a minute, and turn the pudding■ on to a hot dish. Serve brandy sauce with it. Lemon Sponge.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine for two hours in 1 teacupful of water. Pour the strained juice of four Lemons on 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar; beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with the remains of 1 pint of water, allowing for the quantity used to soak the gelatine, add the sugar and Lemon to this, and cook in the double boiler until it begins to thicken, then add the gelatine. Strain all through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand the basin in a larger one containing iced water, and whisk occasionally till the sponge has cooled but not hardened. Beat in the whites of the eggs, not previously beaten, and continue beating until the mixture is so thick that it is difficult to stir, then turn it into a mould, and set it away to harden. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a dish. Serve with powdered sugar and cream. (2) Dissolve Joz. of gelatine, previously soaked in a little cold water, in 1 teacupful of boiling water. Mix with it Jib. of loaf sugar and the peel of half a Lemon, simmer for half-an-hour, then strain it through a line hair sieve. When nearly cold, mix in the strained juice of one large Lemon, and whisk until perfectly white and thick. Damp the inside of a mould with a little cold water, drain it, pour the sponge in, and leave till set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a dish. (3) Soak 1 Joz. of gelatine in f pint of water for half-an- hour ; then pour it into a saucepan, and mix in the rinds of two Lemons rubbed on sugar, the juice of three, and about Jib. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling, then shift it to the side, and simmer for a few minutes ; move it from the fire, and add 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff' froth, and mix them in gradually with the con- tents of the saucepan, which should be somewhat cool. Continue heating the whole until a thick snowy mass is obtained, then put it away in a cool place. When firm, take the mixture up with a spoon, pile it in a rocky form on a fancy dish, and serve. (4) Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a very little boiling water, add the strained juice of twelve Lemons, and sugar to taste, and whisk all together till quite spongy. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the sponge into it, and when set turn it out. (5) Dissolve foz. of isinglass in a little milk. Whisk 1 pint of cream, the strained juice of three Lemons, and sufficient sugar to sweeten, to a froth; add the gelatine by degrees, continuing to whisk till all the gelatine is added. Pour it into a mould well wetted with cold water, and when well set turn it out. (6) Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan, pour over it 1 pint of cold water, and let it soak for ten minutes; then put it over the fire, and boil till the isinglass is quite melted. Strain it into a bowl, and let it stand all night. Add next day the juice of two Lemons and the grated peel of one. Warm 1 teacupful of raspberry jam before the fire, and rub it through a sieve, with the back of a wooden spoon, into the isinglass. Whisk all well together till quite spongy, put it into a mould, let it stand for a day in a cold place, and then turn out on to a glass dish.