786 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, sec under their special heads J ellies—continued. through a Jelly-bag, and pour it into a mould rinsed out with cold water. On the following day, or when the Jelly has set quite firm, it may be turned out of the mould on to a glass or fancy dish, and served. Plain Sweet Jelly.—Pare very thinly the rinds off two oranges and one lemon, and put them in a saucepan with 1 break- fast-cupful of caster sugar, six cloves, £oz. of cinnamon broken in small pieces, a small blade of mace, the whites and broken shells of two eggs, l|oz. of gelatine, and 1| pints of water. Whisk all over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and simmer for ten minutes ; colour it with 1 teaspoonful of cochineal or caramel, strain two or three times through a Jelly-bag, pour it into a mould, and leave till set before turning out. Red Jelly.—To loz. of isinglass soaked in f pint of water add the eighth part of the well-beaten white of an egg, put it in a saucepan over the fire, and when nearly melted add lib. of lump sugar broken small and -J- table-spoonful of finely- powdered cochineal, and ten minutes before taking it from the fire add the grated rind of three lemons. Eemove the pan from the fire, and add the juice of four lemons and J pint of white wine. Strain through muslin, and if it looks thick boil up once. The saucepan should be kept covered while the Jelly boils. Let it stand to cool before pouring into a mould, which should be wetted inside with cold water. Restorative Jelly.—(1) Put into a jar 2oz. of isinglass, 2oz. of white sugar candy, |oz. of gum arabic, and 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Pour over these 1 j pints of port wine, cover the jar with a cloth to keep out the dust, and leave until the following day. Afterwards set the jar in a sauce- pan of hot water and simmer until all is dissolved, stirring occasionally. Take the jar out of the water, and keep it in | a cool place. The Jelly must not be strained. If the flavour of nutmeg is not liked it may be omitted, and other spices used in its place. (2) Well wash, separately, loz. each of pearl barley and rice, and slightly rinse loz. of sago; put them into a saucepan, which should be porcelain lined, add the thin rind and juice of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 4 breakfast- cupfuls of water, and boil for about three hours. Strain through flannel, and use hot or cold as required. When cold it will form a stiff Jelly, and is when hot a good substitute for gruel. Ribbon Jelly.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in ^ pint of cold water for four hours. Then add the strained juice of one and the grated rind of half a lemon, | saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and lib. of powdered white sugar; pour in 1 pint of boiling water and stir till quite dissolved, then add j pint of white wine and strain it through a Jelly-bag, but do not squeeze or shake the bag. When the Jelly has run through, divide it, and colour one half pink with prepared cochineal or with some red-fruit syrup. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water (it must be a mould that has a cylinder through the middle of it), and pour in the Jelly in alternate layers, letting each layer get firm before adding the next. When the Jelly is all in the mould, set it in a cold place and let it stand all night. When required for use, wrap a cloth dipped in boiling water round the mould for an instant, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. Have 1 pint of cream ready whipped to a froth with 2oz. of powdered white sugar and flavoured with vanilla. Fill the open place in the centre of the shape of Jelly with this, and pile it high over it. « (2) Prepare lqt. of calf’s-foot Jelly, and flavour it according to fancy; colour half with cochineal, and leave the remainder white. Soak a Jelly-mould in cold water for a few minutes, turn a small quantity of the red Jelly into it, and when set, pour in a thin layer of the pale Jelly, and continue in this way till the mould is full, taking care that each layer is set before the other is added. Leave till perfectly cold and firm, and when wanted to serve, turn it on to a fancy dish. This Jelly may be either savoury or sweet; the receipt gives plan of operation only. (3) Divide 1 pint of clear Jelly made with gelatine into two parts, one containing one-third and the other two-thirds of its bulk. To the one-third add 4 table-spoonfuls of rasp- berry- or strawberry-juice and a few drops of carmine to colour it, and to the remainder of the Jelly add a few table- Jellies—continued. spoonfuls of liqueur mixed in with a little white vanilla cream. None of these ingredients should be mixed with the Jelly until it has become nearly cold. Pack a cylinder-mould in ice, pour the white mixture in to about one-fifth the height of the mould, let it set, cover with an equal thickness of the red mixture, and continue in this way until the mould is full. The Jelly should not be poured in until the previous layer is quite firm, otherwise they will not bind, and be liable to disjoint when turned out. Let the Jelly remain for about forty-five minutes, turn it out on to a dish, decorate the top with a small aigrette of spun sugar, and the base with preserved fruits, and serve. Russian Jelly.—Dissolve fourteen sheets of French gelatine in rather more than 1 pint of hot water, pour it into a saucepan, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, add the juice of one lemon, the well-whisked whites of two eggs, and two liqueur-glassfuls of Cognac; whisk the whole over the fire with an egg-beater until it boils. Put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon at the bottom of a Jelly-bag, and pour the Jelly over, when it runs through quite clear, whisk it until very frothy. Fill a mould with the Jelly, pressing it down well, and stand it in a cold place. When the Jelly is quite cold and firm,- dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish, and serve. Russian Sweet Jelly.—(1) Make a light Jelly with gelatine, and when nearly cool mix with it 1 wineglassful of kirschen- wasser, pour it into a copper basin, and stir over ice till it begins to thicken. Pack a Jelly-mould in ice, pour a layer of the Jelly into it, and when set put a layer of preserved fruits, softened in water, stoned, and divided into small pieces, Fig. 987. Russian Sweet Jelly on the Jelly, put another layer of Jelly on the top, and con- tinue in this way till the mould is full; put the lid on the mould, place salted ice on the top, and leave for thirty-five minutes. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the Jelly out on to a fancy dish, and garnish with whole pre- served fruits (see Fig. 987). (2) Pack a Jelly-mould in pounded ice. Make sufficient clear Jelly to three-parts fill the mould, put it into a copper basin, and mix with it 1 wineglassful each of rum, brandy, and strained orange-juice; grate in a little lemon- and orange- peel, let it remain for five minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve ; put it in the copper basin again and whip over ice till it thickens but does not turn frothy. When the whipping is done mix with it 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of raw pine-apple cut in dice, turn all into the mould, and leave it to set for one hour. Dip the mould in tepid water, turn the Jelly out on a dish that has been standing on ice for a few minutes, and serve. (3) Dissolve ljoz. of the best gelatine in a little more than 1 pint of boiling water, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, mix with it the juice of a lemon, 2 liqueur-glassfuls of brandy, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and whisk the whole over the fire until boiling. Put the peel of half a lemon in a Jelly-bag, and strain the mixture two or three times through it until it turns out perfectly clear, then beat it with an egg-whisk to a stiff froth. Pack the frothed Jelly in a mould, and set it on pounded ice and salt, or in a cool place. When quite firm, dip the mould quickly into hot water, turn the Jelly on to a fancy dish, and serve.