869 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. and bake till the crumbs are brown. Before serving lay the small claws over the sides to represent oars. Garnisli Fig. 1084. Devilled Lobster. both ends of the canoe with sprays of parsley (see Fig. 1084). Fried Lobster.—(1) Pick the meat carefully out of the tail and claws of a Lobster, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, and brush the meat with it, roll it in breadcrumbs, let them dry on, then repeat the operation. Put it in a frying-basket, plunge it in boiling fat, and fry till brown. Drain and put the Lobster- meat on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce. (2) Split the meat of the tail and claws, season well with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-basket, and fry in boil- ing fat till of a golden brown. Serve with Tartar sauce. (3) Put a large carrot and onion, chopped, in a stewpan with a piece of butter, fry till lightly browned, then pour in 1 pint of Madeira and a little broth, and add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. When boiling, plunge two live Lobsters into it, and continue boiling for twelve minutes. Leave the Lobsters to cool in the liquor, then drain, pick the meat from the tails and claws, cut it in slices, put it in a thickly-buttered frying-pan, and keep it warm near the fire. Strain the liquor in which the Lobsters were cooked, boil till reduced, adding a few table-spoonfuls of Madeira, finish with 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, a little butter, 1 pinch of cayenne, and the strained juice of one lemon. Put the slices of Lobster in the frying-pan over a brisk fire, turning occasionally, then arrange them Fig. 1085. Fried Lobster. on a hot dish, pour over the sauce (see Fig. 1085), and serve. Fried Lobster Balls.—Pick out all the meat of a hen Lobster, put it in a mortar with the coral and spawn, and pound ; sprinkle in a little salt and cayenne pepper, and mix with it two-tliirds its quantity of breadcrumbs. Warm 2oz. of fresh butter, put it with the Lobster mixture to bind it, and shape the preparation into balls about the size of a large duck’s egg, dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the balls over with it, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in boiling fat, and fry lightly. When cooked, drain on paper; place a folded napkin on a hot dish, put the balls on it, and serve while hot. Lobsters a l’Americaine.—Split two fine, good-sized, freshly- boiled Lobsters, remove all the meat carefully, and cut it up into pieces lin. in length. Have ready a pan on the hot range with h gill of good olive oil, and when the oil is very hot add the pieces of Lobster. Chop very fine one medium-sized peeled onion, one sound green pepper, and half a clove of peeled very sound garlic; add all to the Lobster—continued. Lobster, and cook for five minutes, gently stirring. Season with 1 pinch of salt and \ saltspoonful of red pepper, adding also J wineglassful of good white wine. Reduce for two minutes, add 1 gill of tomato sauce, and one medium-sized sound, red, peeled tomato cut into small dice- shaped pieces, and cook for ten minutes longer, stirring gently. Pour the whole into a very hot deep dish, or into a hot tureen, and serve. Lobsters a la Bordelaise.—(1) Select two nice-sized Lobsters, cut each into eight pieces, crack the claws without spoil- ing the shape, put them in a saucepan, and cover with some white wine, a little garlic, two laurel-leaves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, and a little pepper and salt; put the lid on the saucepan and let the mixture boil for twenty-five minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent burn- ing. When cooked, take each piece of Lobster out, dry in a cloth, and put them in a clean saucepan. Fry a few slices of onions and shallots in butter, and when browned stir in a little Hour, cook it, then pour in some of the liquor (strained) in which the pieces of Lobster were cooked. Continue stirring over the fire for ten minutes, then mix in 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, 1 pinch of cayenne, the pieces of Lobster, and warm them again. Arrange the Lobsters on a hot dish in such a way that they will have the appearance of not being cut, put the claws round, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Break off the claws of a large uncooked Lobster, and cut the tail and body in four pieces ; saw the shell of the claws through in three places, but do not separate them. Put the Lobster in a saucepan with a slice of onion, a sprig or two of parsley, a little pepper and salt, and sufficient white wine to cover, and boil till done. Fry in butter till brown two or three carrots and onions, cut in very small dice, pour over them a little Madeira, and boil till reduced so as to glaze them; then add some Spanish sauce and the liquor in which the Lobster was cooked, strained through a fine sieve. Boil till reduced, then put in some chopped parsley and cayenne pepper. Arrange the Lobster on a dish, pour over the sauce, and I serve. Lobsters en Casserole.—Cut the tails of some boiled Lobsters into collops (small pieces) Jin. thick, and arrange them in a circle on a silver casserole. Fry some chopped shallots in a little butter for two or three minutes, then pour in a little Madeira, and finish cooking. When done, pour over the shallots some Spanish sauce and tomato puree mixed in equal quantities, stir and boil it for five minutes, and dust in a little cayenne pepper. Cut the meat of the Lobster claws in small dice, put it in the centre of the casserole, pour over the sauce, stand the casserole in the oven for ten minutes to warm the Lobster, and serve. Lobsters a la Chef de Cuisine.—Select three fresh Lobsters, each weighing 21b., boil in 'salted water for ten minutes, take out, and let them cool for about eighteen minutes. Split them lengthwise into halves, pick out all the meat, reserving the shells for further use. Chop the tail parts, coral, and claws into pieces Jin. thick by Jin. wide. Put a saute-pan containing Joz. of butter on the hot stove, add a chopped shallot, also the minced Lobster, and season with 1 pinch of salt, 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and J wineglassful of white wine; let the whole reduce for ten minutes, stirring it meanwhile with a wooden spoon. Add 1 table-spoonful of tomato sauce, 4 table-spoonfuls of