761 PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF Herrings—continued. numbers that go to make up a shoal. It is a smooth well- formed fish of a silvery colour, averaging from Sin. to 1-in. long, and embraces several varieties, some of whose habits of life differ in such a manner as to keep up a supply nearly all the year round, with the exception of spring. The common Herring, which is small, comes to our shores in April or May, and spawns at the end of October or begin- ning of November. There is another kind which is heavy with roe in January, and spawns in February; and then we have the glorious Scotch Loch Fyne Herrings, which are in season during only a very short time of the year. Unfortunately, the flesh of the Herring is very delicate when fresh ; but after a little keejnng becomes oily, and then preserves well if salted and dried—and better still if smoked. Soyer wrote of it as the “ poor man’s friend,” and in this he was more than ordinarily correct; for it is indeed, possibly on account of its strong satisfying flavour, found generally either salted or smoked in every cottage or small dwelling in the country, and oftentimes on the tables of the rich. The modes adopted for preserving Herrings differ in some degrees—in Holland and Germany it is usual to salt and dry them, the salt promoting absorp- tion of the oil. Smoking is much resorted to, and when excessively carried out gives the Herring a red metallic lustre, which has procured for these the name of red Herrings. Those which are only slightly salted and smoked are known as bloaters, and the preparation of these has brought great repute to Yarmouth. Kipper Herrings Fig. 952. Fresh Herring. differ from all others in their preliminary preparation. Bloaters and red Herrings are cured whole, whereas kippers are cut open and cleaned before salting, and then, after drying, they are as deeply smoked as red Herrings. Fresh Herrings.—These may be cooked in a variety of ways, the following being particulalry recommended. Soft-roed fish are considered best for most purposes. Baked Fresh Herrings.—(1) Clean one dozen or so Fresh Herring's wiping them but not washing them, cut off the heads and fins, and take out the hones. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, roll and tie them up tightly, put them into a baking-dish, and cover with a mixture in the proportion of 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar to 2 of water and 30Z. of whole pepper. Tie a piece of paper over the dish, set it in the oven, and bake the contents gently for about an hour. Let the Herrings get cold, pour over a little vinegar, and serve. (2) Clean and wash the Herrings, drain but do not dry them, dust over with powdered cloves, allspice, and salt, put them in a baking-pan with one onion finely shredded and a few bay-leaves, dust over with pepper, cover all with vinegar and beer in equal proportions, place a paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. Serve hot, with the onions for garnish. Should the Herrings be required to have a red appearance, rub them over with saltpetre the day before using. Boiled Fresh. Herrings.—Clean six or eight Fresh Herrings, put them in a saucepan with 2qts. of boiling water and Ub. of salt, let them simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour, take them out, and drain. Put a folded napkin or an ornamental paper on a dish, arrange the fish on this, and serve at once with either shrimp or anchovy sauce in a tureen. Boiled Fresh Herrings served with Cream Sauce.- Boil some Fresh Herrings as described above, and then make i the following sauce : Put 6 table-spoonfuls of thick cream in a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, stir it over the fire ' Herrings—continued. till boiling, then mix in 2oz. of fresh butter and the juice of half a lemon. Arrange the fish on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Boiled Fresh Herrings with Mustard Sauce.—Choose half-a-dozen large fine Herrings, clean, and throw them into a pan of cold water. Put into another pan 1 handful of salt, pour fresh water upon it, drain the Herrings from the first water, and throw them into this. Put 2qts. of water in a saucepan with 1 pint of vinegar and 2oz. of salt; boil the Herrings in this, without letting them boil too fast, or they are apt to break, skimming the liquor from time to time. Fig. 953. Boiled Fresh Herrings with Mustard Sauce. Wash, bone, and mince an anchovy ; melt Jib. of butter, with a little vinegar and water, and a small dust of flour ; put in the anchovy, and stir it about; next put in an egg and shake it, so as to be well mixed; then take up the Herrings. Boil some fennel for garnish; lay some of this upon the Herrings, and on the sides of the dish; finish the sauce by adding mustard and squeezing in the juice of a lemon, and serve hot in a sauceboat. See Fig. 953. Broiled Fresh Herrings.—(1) Select eight or ten Fresh Herrings, scrape, clean, and wash them. Dredge salt and flour over the fish, put them in a frying-pan with a little oil, and broil over a slow fire, turning them when one side is done. They will take about seven or eight minutes to cook ; then arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with butter sauce, with a little mustard mixed in, in a sauceboat. (2) Select the required quantity of Fresh Herrings, cut off the heads, and thoroughly clean them; make three incisions on each side, dip them in flour, and broil over a moderate fire, turning so as to do both sides equally. When they are cooked, dust a little salt over them, arrange on a folded napkin on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of warmed butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of mus- tard, 2oz. of butter, and a little pepper and salt; stir it over the fire till boiling, then pour it into a sauceboat, and serve it with the fish. (3) Put the Herrings in milk to steep for two hours, then clean, dry, and flour them ; place them on a hot girdiron over a clear fire, and broil. They will only take a few minutes to cook, and must be served hot, with butter and mustard. Broiled Fresh Herrings a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Cut the Herrings down the belly and take out the insides and bones ; pour over a little olive oil, sprinkle well with finely-chopped parsley, and let them remain for about an hour. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire and broil until done. Place them on a dish, with a few lumps of cold maitre-d’hotel butter spread over, and serve. Broiled Fresh Herrings with Mustard Sauce.— Select the required quantity of Herrings with soft roes, cut off the heads, and clean them, but do not open them ; dip them both sides in salad-oil, sprinkle pepper and salt over, and let them remain for an hour. Arrange the fish on a gridiron, stand it over a clear slow fire, and broil for about fifteen minutes, turning often till they are done. Mix 1 teaspoonful of mus- tard and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with cold water; when quite smooth, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock ; turn this into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till thick and boiling, then put in loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Arrange the Herrings on a hot dish, and when the butter is dissolved (the sauce should not boil again) pour it over the fish, and serve.