THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 815 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Roasted Neck of Lamb with Green Peas.—Roast a nicely- trimmed neck of Lamb in vegetables, and baste frequently ; boil lqt. of green peas in water, keeping them very green; when tender, drain them as free of water as possible, and mix with them 1 scant breakfast-cupful of bdcliamel sauce, two small onions, and a bunch of parsley. Season the peas to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and boil gently for ten minutes; then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, take out the onions and parsley, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten together with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. When the Lamb is nearly cooked, remove the vegetables, put it nearer to the fire, and brown nicely. Turn the peas on to a hot dish, place the Lamb on it, and serve at once. Roasted Saddle of Lamb.—(1) The saddle of Lamb is simply the two loins cut off before the carcase is split open down the back ; it is best when roasted before an open fire, but it may be cooked in a very hot oven. If of medium size it will cook in an-hour-and-a-half, but if large it will require nearly two hours. It should first be exposed to intense heat until browned, then seasoned with salt and pepper, and every fifteen minutes should be basted with the drippings which fall from it. About half-an-hour before the loin is done, make Fig. 1024. Roasted Saddle of Lamb. a sauce as follows : Peel two large cucumbers, cut them into thin slices, and let them fall into salted cold water. Peel and slice one medium-sized onion, put it into a saucepan with the cucumbers and enough broth or gravy to cover, and let them stew for fifteen minutes ; season highly with salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. When the Lamb is cooked, dish it on a hot dish, garnish with sliced cucumber and potato croquettes, and serve the sauce in a gravyboat with it. See Fig. 1024. (2) Put a saddle of Lamb on a spit, previously trimming it, and roast in front of a clear fire. When ready to serve, put it on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and prepare either some mint or sharp sauce to serve with it. Roasted Saddle and Leg of Lamb.—Select the saddle and two legs of a small Lamb, cut on the middle of each leg a small rosette, lard them and also the fillets. Roast the whole, and glaze the larded parts. When cooked, put the Lamb on a hot dish, pour a rich brown gravy round, and serve with mint sauce in a boat. Roasted Shoulder of Lamb and Mint Sauce.—Select a shoulder of Lamb, wash it, dredge both sides with salt and flour, fix it on a spit over a baking-pan, with a little hot water, dripping, and salt in it, place before a clear bright fire, and roast steadily, basting occasionally till done. Put it on a hot dish, and serve witli mint sauce. Roasted Shoulder of Lamb with Sorrel Sauce.—Have the bone cut from a shoulder of Lamb without disfiguring it, stuff the cavity with breadcrumbs highly seasoned with salt and pepper, and sew or tie the shoulder so as to enclose the crumbs; put the meat on a spit, or into a pan just large enough to hold it, and either roast before a hot fire or bake in a very hot oven. When the meat is brown, season with salt and pepper, and cook to the required degree. About fifteen minutes to a pound will suffice to cook it. While the Lamb is being cooked, prepare some sorrel sauce as follows; and when the meat is done, remove the strings, and serve it on the sorrel sauce. For this sauce, either the large-leaved field sorrel, or the small trefoil of the wood sorrel, may be used. Thoroughly wash the herb, and put it over the fire in an earthen or porcelain-lined saucepan, with only the water which remains upon it after being washed, and 1 table- Lamb—continued. spoonful of butter to each pint of sorrel. Cover the sauce- pan and cook the sorrel until tender enough to be beaten to a pulp with a fork ; then season with salt and pepper, add enough butter to make it semi-liquid, and serve it on the dish with the Lamb. Another form of sorrel sauce is made by mixing smoothly over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of flour and butter, then stirring with them 1 pint of boiling water, 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled sorrel pulp, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Shoulders of Lamb to resemble Ducks.—The shoulders of small Lamb, boned from the inside so as to avoid breaking the skin, can be stuffed and larded, then either roasted or baked, garnished with olives and button-mushrooms, and heated in a brown mushroom sauce. Any good forcemeat or stuffing can bo used, and the lardoons protected with buttered paper while the shoulders are being cooked. To remove the bones, cut from the inside of the shoulder to take out the shoulder-blade, then cut the flesh away from the round bone, turning it away like a glove from the hand, until that part of the bone just above the foot-joint is reached; cut the bone here from the inside, and trim the end projecting from the flesh to resemble the bill of the duck ; after the shoulders are stuffed and larded, truss them as nearly as possible in the form of ducks, and then bake or roast them. Garnish as above, first removing the strings which confino the stuffing, and servo a brown gravy or a brown mushroom sauce with them. Stewed Breast of Lamb.—Cut a breast of Lamb into pieces, pepper and salt them well, and stew until tender in sufficient gravy to cover the meat. Thicken the sauce, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and servo on a dish of stewed mushrooms. Stewed Breast of Lamb with Green Peas.—(1) Cut a scrag or breast of Lamb into pieces, put them into a stewpan with water enough to cover, place the lid on, and simmer or stew for fifteen or twenty minutes. Skim well, add 1 table- spoonful of salt and lqt. of green peas, cover the stewpan again, and stew for half-an-hour longer. Work 1 table- spoonful of flour into jib. of butter, stir it into the stew, add 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Servo with new potatoes boiled. A blade of mace may bo added if liked. (2) Cut a breast of Lamb into pieces and remove the skin, lay the pieces in a stewpan, sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, pour over just enough white stock to cover, and let them stew slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Then take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot. Thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, let it boil for ten minutes, and pour it ovor the meat. Have ready 1 pint of boiled green peas, put them round and ovor the meat, and servo. A few stewed mushrooms may bo added if desired. Stewed Breast of Lamb with Tomatoes. — (1) Saw a breast of Lamb lengthwise through the bones, then divide it into pieces, wash, and put them in a saucepan with water or broth enough to cover. Cut into small squares sufficient carrot, turnip, and onion to fill a breakfast-cup, and boil them in water; when half done, strain off the water, and Fig. 1025. Stewed Breast of Lamb with Tomatoes. put the vegetables in the stew with two or three sliced tomatoes. Boil for half-an-hour longer, thicken the stew with a little kneaded butter, and season with salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. When ready to serve, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and surround with stuffed tomatoes and croutons of fried bread. This makes an especially nice dish for a hot lunch. See Fig. 1025.