THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ebe., referred to, see under their special heads. Haddocks—continued. clear fire, and cook for about twenty minutes, turning care- fully. Put 2oz. of maitre-d’hotel butter on tbe back of tlie fish, set it in the oven to melt the butter, then place the fish on a dish, pour round 2oz. more of the butter mixed with 6 table-spoonfuls of common butter melted in a saucepan over the fire, and made quite hot. See Fig. 910. Haddock a la Sir Walter Scott.—This receipt is given by Soyer as the mode in which he prepared a dish of Scotch fish for a banquet given in honour of the great Scotch author. Clean a large Haddock, and cut it into four equal-sized pieces. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup, Harvey sauce, and sherry, and 1 breakfast-cupful of liquefied butter. Set the pan on the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring well without ceasing; then drop in the pieces of Haddock, and cook them for about twenty minutes. When these are done, take them out, and arrange on a dish ; reduce the sauce a little, adding a little sugar and essence of anchovy, and pour it over the fish. Haddock Creams served with Mushrooms and Oysters. —Remove the skin and bones from a fresh Haddock, cut the flesh into small pieces, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put i table-spoonful of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; then stir in gradually 1 teacupful of milk. When the thickened milk boils, mix it with the fish, add 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a very small quantity of cayenne. Butter some dariole-moulds, fill them with the Cream, and tie pieces of paper over the top. Stand the moulds in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Boil the bones of the Haddock with about 1 breakfast-cupful of water to extract their flavour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, stir it till mixed, then add 1 teacupful of the strained liquor of the bones, the liquor of six oysters, I teacupful of liquor from tinned mushrooms, and a few drops of anchovy sauce. Stir the mixture over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. • Warm separately a few tinned mushrooms and half-a-dozen oysters. Turn the Creams out of the moulds on to a hot dish, put the oysters and mushrooms in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Haddock Pudding's.-—Skin and bone two moderate-sized Haddocks, put the flesh in a mortar, pound until smooth, then pass it through a fine sieve. Grate an equal quantity of stale bread, pour as much boiling- milk over as it will absorb, let it soak, then mix with the Haddock, and add a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley; pass the mixture through the sieve again, season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with three well-beaten eggs. Divide the mass into moderate-sized quantities, which mould into rolls with floured hands; put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. To make the sauce, the trimmings and bones of the Haddocks should be put into a stewpan with a bunch of parsley, lj pints of water, an onion, a small piece of toasted bread, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Boil the water until well flavoured, then strain it into a clean stewpan, thicken it with flour and butter, and flavour with a few drops of mushroom ketchup and Worcestershire sauce, and a small pinch of cayenne pepper. As the sauce will take some time longer to prepare than the fish puddings, it should be made before the puddings are put in to boil. When cooked, put the puddings on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Haddock Soup.—(1) Separate the fillets from the bones of two large Haddocks, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, dust over with salt and pepper, and lay them in a buttered frying- pan. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish in a saucepan with 41b. of leg of beef cut into pieces, two or three onions, carrots, and turnips, a few allspice, and sufficient water to make the required quantity of soup, and boil gently at the side of the fire until well flavoured. Chop and pound in a mortar -jib. of lean ham with ilb. of butter, and season with moderate quantities of powdered thyme, marjoram, parsley, and basil; put the mixture over the fire in a stewpan, stir it for a few minutes, then dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of Haddocks—continued. flour, and stir until cooked. Strain the liquor from the beef and fish-bones, add it gradually to the mixture, stir until smooth, then boil for an hour longer; now mix with it 1 wine- glassful of red wine, and season to taste with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. Blanch and beard a few fine oysters, and mix them and their liquor in the soup. Fry the fillets of Haddock, and when lightly browned, drain them as free from fat as possible, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (2) Cut off all the flesh from a large fresh Haddock, put it into a mortar with 1 pint of skinned shrimps, and pound them well; add the crumb of a French roll and a little finely- chopped parsley, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Turn the whole into a saucepan, add one well-beaten egg, pour- in igall. of warmed rich broth, season to taste with mace, cayenne, salt, and pepper, place the lid on the saucepan, and boil slowly for half-an-hour. Rub the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add a thickening of butter well rolled in flour, boil for a few minutes, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve. Haddock Toasts.—Skin and bone a Haddock, and cut it up in small pieces. Cut some slices of bread, put them in a frying- pan with butter or clarified fat, fry till of a bright golden brown on both sides, and drain them on paper near the fire. Put the fish in a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a few drops of anchovy essence (or this may be omitted if objected to), and toss it about over the fire until hot. Spread the fish on the bread, and lean them against a fried bread crouton placed in the centre of the dish, then rub the yolks of one or two hard-boiled eggs through a wire sieve over them, and strew a small quantity of chopped parsley over also (see Fig. 911). Serve very hot. Dried Haddocks are first salted and then dried, and may he either smoked or not. The Scotch “rizzared” Haddock is merely salted and dried in the sun, and Sir "Walter Scott in his Waverley Novels ” alluded to it frequently; hut the finnan Haddock, or haddie, under- goes also a process of smoking, which gives to it a strong flavour that is widely appreciated. Baked Smoked Haddock.—Put the Haddock into a pan, pour some boiling water over, take it out, put it in another pan, mask with a little butter, pepper well, and bake in a hot oven for eight or ten minutes. It must be served quite hot. Boiled Dried Haddock.—(1) Take off the skin of a dried Haddock by holding it in front of the fire to warm, and then cut the fish lengthwise in halves, or it may be cut two or three times across. Put it into a saucepan with a little butter and 1 teacupful of water, cover over the pan, place it on the fire, and cook for a few minutes only, for it is quickly done. Take it out of the water, drain, lay it on a dish, and serve. (2) Put a dried Haddock into a flat saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, and cover over with a plate. Let it remain at the side of the fire where it will not simmer for twenty or thirty minutes. Take it out, hold it in front of the fire for a few minutes, rub over with butter, and serve. (3) Warm the Haddock in front of the fire until the skin can be easily peeled off; cut the fish up into small pieces, put them into a hot basin with a bay-leaf and a few sweet herbs, cover with boiling water, and put a plate on the top. Stand the basin on the stove, and leave it for ten minutes. Work 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and a small quantity of lemon-juice with 2oz. of butter. When ready,