793 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,he,, referred to, see under their special heads. Kabob—continued. Hunter’s Kabob.—Procure a wliole lamb or sheep already cleaned, rub it over with onion-juice, season with salt and pepper, and wrap it up in sheets of paper. Prepare a large wood or charcoal fire, fix a pole across on two stakes fixed in the ground, a few feet from the fire, put the lamb on it, place a pan underneath to catch the dripping, turn it gently, and baste with the gravy, using a bundle of feathers. When half cooked, take the paper off the lamb, and turn it quickly till browned all over. When cooked, take the lamb off the pole, put it on a hot dish, dust it with powdered cinnamon, pepper, and salt, and serve quickly. Indian Kabobs.—(1) Finely mince some cold mutton together with a very small quantity of fat and one or two onions, season to taste with salt and pepper, and work it into a stiff paste with flour and water. Poll the mixture round some wooden skewers, lay them on a baking-dish, and put in a slow oven. When the gravy has dripped out of the meat, take the rolls off the skewers, and lay them on a hot dish; mix a small quantity of flour and butter with the gravy, stir it o-ver the fire until thickened and boiling, pour it over the Kabobs, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread browned in butter, and serve. (2) Cut 31b. of mutton, either from the loin or leg, into small pieces about liin. square, rub each piece well with finely-minced onion, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of ground cinnamon, and leave them in a cool larder for three or four hours. Squeeze out the juice from five or six tomatoes into a basin ; fill some skewers with the pieces of meat, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting constantly with the tomato-juice, and turning as they brown. When quite cooked, place the skewers of meat on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. If fresh tomatoes cannot be procured, tomato sauce may be used, mixing lj teacupfuls of the sauce with 3 teacupfuls of water. Persian Kabobs. —(1) Remove the bones from 21b. of beef, mutton, or veal, mark it into squares without cutting through, put it into a basin, and steep in a mixture of 2 table- spoonfuls of mustard-oil, 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, J tea- spoonful each of ground ginger and ground coriander-seeds, 5 teaspoonful of ground garlic, 1 i teaspoonfuls of salt, the juice of a lemon, and 1 breakfast-cupful of tyre or dhye. The latter is made by warming milk without boiling, stirring in a small lump of butter, and keeping it covered in a warm place for eight or ten hours. Turn the meat frequently until nearly all the mixture is absorbed, then cut it into pieces about 2in. square, let them remain in the mixture for about an hour longer, turning often, place them on skewers, and roast or broil over a charcoal fire until done, basting with fat so as to obtain a good brown colour without burning. When done, remove the skewers, and serve as hot as possible. Chappatee or hand-bread, which is a thin flat cake, made with flour and wrater, without leaven, and baked on a griddle, is usually served with it. (2) Remove all the skin and sinews from 21b. of fat beef, chop it fine, pound it to a pulp in a mortar, put it into a basin, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of ground onion, £ teaspoonful each of ground peppercorns and hot spices, \ teaspoonful each of ground chillies and ginger, and 1 table-spoonful of tyre or dhye (milk warmed without boiling, a small piece of butter stirred in, and allowed to keep warm for eight or ten hours before being used). Stir all the ingredients well together, add salt to taste, and a well-beaten egg, form the mixture into balls, keeping them of equal size, flatten them, run them on skewers, rub them over with fat, wrap them up in plain- tain-leaves, and broil or roast over a charcoal fire until done. Remove the skewers, place the meat on a dish, and serve as for No. 1. (3) Cut the meat from a loin of mutton in small squares, put them in an earthenware pan with an equal bulk of sheep’s- tail fat also cut in slices, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper to season, add some slices of onion and the juice of two or three lemons, and let it macerate for a few hours. Push a skewer through the slices of mutton, alternately with the slices of sheep’s-tail fat, bay-leaves, mint, and basil. Roast them in front of the fire until done, put them on a hot dish, and serve with a garnish of stewed celery. Kabob—continued. Turkish Kabobs.-—(1) Pare and core two or three apples, cutting them up so as to have slices of equal size ; serve two or three onions in the same way, then cut off eight pieces, about as thick as a penny and 2in. in diameter, from some streaky bacon, and an equal number of pieces from the lean part of a loin of veal or neck of mutton. Put the whole of these pieces—thirty-two in number—into a shallow dish, sprinkle with curry powder, ground ginger, and salt, and let them remain for a couple of hours. Now put them on one or two skewers, first meat, then onions, bacon, and apple, and so on, until all are used up. Cover with buttered paper, put them before the fire or in the oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Put the Kabobs, with their skewers (which should be silver or electro-plated), on a dish, and serve with a border of rice, and if desired, a sauce- boatful of curry sauce or a little of it poured over the Kabobs. Care must be taken not to have the Kabobs too hot with the curry powder. (2) Cut off some small squares, about lin. thick, from a neck or loin of mutton, and rub them well with a mixture of chopped onions and tomatoes. Put the mutton and the mixture into a basin, and let them remain for two or three hours. Run a skewer through about four of these pieces of mutton, brown them in front of a clear fire, baste well with tomato-juice, and sprinkle with flour. When done, place them across one another on a dish, pour round the drippings mixed with a little rich gravy, and serve. KADGIORI.—See Kedgeree. KAIL.—See Kale. KALE.—This is known more commonly as Scotch Kale, or Kail. Either way of spelling is accepted, there being a strong inclination towards the mode adopted in the heading. The word itself is of Gaelic origin, and signifies, broadly, a cole, or undeveloped cabbage, it being a characteristic of the Kale (Brassica oleracea fimbriata) that the leaves do not form a head. Kales are very hardy, and are well adapted for winter use, the better sorts forming an excellent vegetable. The leaves are curled, and form a kind of plumage on the stalk of the plant. There are several kinds of Kale worthy of cultivation, amongst the best being the Imperial Hearting, Dwarf Green Curled, Egyptian Kale, Purple Borecole, Melville’s Variegated Kale, Cottager’s Kale, Abergeldie Kale, and Ragged Jack. The Jersey Tree Cabbage, or Cow Kale, is of the same species, but not fit for human food. See Cabbages. It is usually cooked by plain boiling, but makes an excellent salad prepared as follows: (1) Pick the Kale over carefully, removing all the decayed leaves and stalks; wash well in several waters, then put it into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil for twenty minutes, keeping it uncovered. When cooked, drain the Kale in a colander, mix a lump of butter with it, and season with salt and pepper. Turn the Kale on to a hot dish, garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and serve while hot; or the Kale may be served when cold with a bacon-fat salad dressing (see Bacon) poured over it. (2) Separate the sprigs of Kale, wash them in plenty of water, and tie up in bundles. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, leave until the stalks are