726 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Guavas—continued. Guava Cheese.—Peel and cut into quarters about a hundred Guavas, wash them well in cold water, then put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about two hours, or until they are perfectly tender. Strain off all the liquor (which can be used for making Guava jelly), rub the pulp or fruit through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add the juice of ten large limes and sugar to taste, and boil over a clear fire until the preparation is of such a consistence that the spoon will stand upright in it. Turn the cheese into a well-buttered mould, dry it in the oven, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. A slight colouring of cochi- neal is an improvement. Fig. 902. Apple-shaped Guavas. Guava Jelly.—Peel and cut into quarters a hundred or so ripe Guavas, plunge them into a bowl of water, wash thoroughly, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about two hours, or until they are perfectly tender and break easily when touched. Strain through a fine sieve, pressing the fruit so as to obtain as much as will come through easily, letting it drip for a day or so if required. Pour the juice into a preserving-pan, and boil well, skimming frequently; add gradually sufficient sugar to sweeten, boil for a few minutes, squeeze in the juice of ten large limes, boil until all the scum has risen and the jelly clear, pour it while warm into jars, cover them over securely, and let it get cold. It is then ready for use. Imitation Guava Jelly.—(1) To make this a great quantity of medlars are required, as there is only a very little juice in them. Take them when ripe, and put them into a preserving-pan with just enough water to cover, and boil gently until they are quite soft. Turn it into a jelly-bag and let it strain, which will take a long time, as it must on no account be squeezed or the jelly will be thick. Measure the juice, and for every pint add lib. of sugar. Place these in a preserving-pan, boil them, stirring frequently, and skimming carefully as the scum rises. Pour the pre- paration into jars when it jellies, let them remain for a day, tie down, and put them in a cool place to keep until wanted. (2) Allow one part of quinces to two parts of apples; peel the fruit, and stew them separately, as the former Guavas—co ntinued. require longer cooking than the latter. When tender, drain the fruit, put them in a stewpan with an equal weight' of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil over a gentle fire until reduced to a mash. Strain the jelly into pots, put a small round of white paper, dipped in brandy, in each, and cover with parchment. Tie them down tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard. GUDGEON (Fr. Goujon ; Ger. Griindling; Ital. Gliiozzo).—A very small river fish (Gobio fluviatilis) (see Pig. 903), which is amusingly described as being “a carp by race, but a smelt by character.” Amongst French gourmets the Gudgeon is considered superior to all other small fish, and oftentimes a dish of them Fig. 903. Gudgeon. finds a place amongst the entremets of a courtly banquet. There are two or three kinds of Gudgeon, but the white, or silver Gudgeon, is reckoned to be the best, although it rarely finds its way into the market on account of its delicate nature. They are usually caught with hook and line. Pried Gudgeon.—(1) Clean and carefully wash a dozen or so Gudgeon, chop off their fins, dry them on a cloth, dust over with flour, and dip them into Joz. of warmed butter beaten up with the yolks of two eggs. Cover the fish with finely-sifted breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry gently for a few minutes, or until they are browned. Take them out, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Clean and wash the required number of Gudgeon, dip them into milk, dust over with flour, put them into a pan with butter, fry for four or five minutes, or until they are of a light colour, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Cut off the gills of about two dozen Gudgeon, and make a small cut in the sides to remove their insides. Clean them well, wash, and wipe them dry on a cloth. Steep them in milk, dip in flour, plunge them in a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Scrape and clean some Gudgeon, flour them well, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry until done. Put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve 1 with a little lemon-juice, cayenne, and salt. Matelote of Gudgeon.—Chop up an onion and two mushrooms, put them into a saucepan with a small piece of garlic, a sprig, of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and add a small quantity of salad-oil. Clean and wash a dozen or so Gudgeon, put them in a saucepan over the herbs, &o., pour over a teacupful of champagne, and cook gently over the fire for from fifteen to twenty minutes, or until the fish are done. Put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve as hot as possible. Great care must always be taken not to over- cook them, for being small fish they will not require much cooking. GUERNSEY- BUNS.—‘See Buns. GUERNSEY CAKE.—See Cakes. GUIGNOLETA liqueur resembling ratafia, made from the small black-heart cherry, deriving its name from the French guignes. It is said to have been first made by the ladies of the Convent Fidelite, and should therefore be especially esteemed by the fair sex.