THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 934 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under ti.eir special heads. Meringues—continued. granulated sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract. When the mixture has cooled a little, turn it into afreezing- pail, and work till frozen; then put it into a mould, seeing that it is full, smooth over the surface, close tightly, and pack in pounded ice and salt. The cream should be left in the ice for abrat an hour. Beat the whites of six eggs to a still" froth, then gradually mix in 6 table spoonfuls of caster sugar. Dip the mould containing the cream into warm water, then wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a dish. Mask the cream well with the Meringue, put it for a minute or two into a hot oven to brown, then take it out, and serve at once. Meringue filled with Chocolate Cream.—Make a chocolate cream by mixing ilb. of melted chocolate with 1 teacupful of syrup at 30deg. (see Syrups), and when cold stirring into it lqt. of well-whipped double cream. Fill some Mer- ingue shells with this cream, piling it some 3in. above the Meringue, and serve. Meringues filled with Coffee Cream.—(1) Whip the whites of ten eggs together with lib. of caster sugar; drop table- spoonfuls of the mixture on sheets of paper, in portions the shape and size of an egg, and sift over a little caster sugar; shake off the superfluous sugar, bake until a golden colour, and remove the paper. Take out a little of the inside of each Meringue with a small spoon, but be careful not to spoil the sluipe, sift a little more caster sugar over, and dry in a slack oven. Boil J pint of strong coffee and fib. of caster sugar, and when it forms a syrup registering 38deg. (see Syrups) take it off, and let it get cold ; then mix in the syrup some well-beaten double cream, and fill the hollowed Meringues with it, reversing one over the other. Pile them on a dish covered with an ornamental paper or a folded napkin. (2) Whip the whites of six eggs till very firm together with Mb- of caster sugar. Put the Meringue mixture in a paper funnel, and squeeze it out on to five rounds of paper, cut about 5 Mu. in diameter. Shape the Meringue rings 4Mn. in diameter, sift a little caster sugar over each ring, put them on baking-sheets, and bake till they are a pale golden yellow. Cut a circular si ib out of a Genoa cake, and cover it with orange flavoured icing (see Icing), then lay the five rings of Meringues on it. Boil f pint of coffee and fl'3- of caster sugar to a syrup at 36deg. (see Syrups), and when cold add lqt. of well-whipped double cream; fill the centre of the Meringues so that the cream reaches at least 2in. above the ring, and serve, garnished with piles of chopped orange jelly. Meringues filled with Cream.—(1) Separate the whites from the yolks of four eggs, put them in a basin with 4 r/.. of caster sugar, and beat to a stiff froth. Make a baking-sheet hot, then rub it over with white wax; take the mixture up in table-spoonfuls, and lay them on the waxed tin, giving them an egg shape, which is done by leaving the impression of the spoon on them. Sift a small quantity of caster sugar over each Meringue, and bake in a slow oven, giving them a very faint yellow colour. Whip about h pint of thick cream together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured sugar to a stiff snow. When the Meringues are taken out of the oven, scoop out any soft part that may be inside, being careful not to break them, and replace it with the whipped cream. Stick the Meringues together in twos, arrange them tastefully on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (2) Put the whites of twelve eggs into a bowl with a pinch of salt, and whisk to a snow; add 111), of sifted crushed loaf sugar and loz. of vanilla sugar or 1 teaspoon- ful of any desired essence. Lay this mixture out with a spoon in the shape of halves of eggs, putting them on sheets of paper spread over a board about 14 in. thick, the surface of the paper and board being well wetted. This is done so that the Meringues shall receive no bottom heat. Dust over with, caster sugar, and bake to a delicate fawn colour in a moderate oven. Take out, let them stand for two or three minutes, remove them from the paper, and with a spoon press in the underneath soft part so as to form a hollow. Put them, round side downwards, on a Meringues—continued. baking-sheet, return them to the oven for a few minutes to dry, take them out, fill with cream of any description, aqd serve at once. Meringues with Jam.—Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a stiff froth ; add the grated rinds of six lemons, and 1 table- spoonful of sifted loaf sugar. Put a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderately- heated oven, taking care that they are done of a light colour. Put any kind of jam between two of these Meringues, stick them together, and lay them in a warm place or before the fire to dry. Meringue Kisses.—(1) Whisk the whites of two eggs to as stiff a froth as possible, then beat in very gradually, 1 teaspoonful at a time, M^- of powdered white sugar, add 6 drops of essence of lemon, and beat all very hard. Take a square tin pan, lay a wet sheet of paper at the bottom, and drop on to it, at equal distances, small spoonfuls of still" red-currant jelly. With a larger spoon take some of the beaten egg-and-sugar, and pile it over each lump of jelly so as to cover completely, dropping it on as evenly as possible so as to make the Meringues smooth and round. Bake them in a cool oven; as soon as they colour, take them out, and put two bottoms together so as to enclose the jelly. Lay them gently on a sieve, and put them in a cool oven till each two that have been placed together adhere to one another. (2) Whisk the whites of four eggs in an earthenware bowl together with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water to a stiff froth, then stir in very carefully 4oz. of powdered white sugar, and drop small pieces of this mixture on a sheet of white paper. Let each drop be about the size of and as high as a ratafia, and as little flattened as possible. Lay the paper with the drops on a piece of wood about lin. thick, and put it into a hot oven. As soon as the kisses begin to turn yellow, take them out of the oven very carefully, for they are very fragile, loosen them from the paper with a knife, then with a small spoon scoop out the moist part at the bottom, making a little hollow, and laying them on the paper hollow side up. Put them again on the wood into the oven, and let them remain only long enough to dry. If they are to be kept, lay them in boxes, and keep them in a very dry and rather warm place. If they are to be sent at once to table, fill the hollows with a little raspberry jam or whipped cream, lay them in couples on a dish, and serve. Meringues Panachees.—Prepare six Meringue shells, divide evenly into them 1 pint of vanilla cream-ice. Slide a fancy tube into a pastry-bag, and pour into it 1 pint of whipped vanilla cream. Press half of it into six other Meringue shells, and join them to the six containing the cream. Lay them on six cold plates, decorate the- joints with more of the cream, and send to table at once. Meringue Pudding.—Put 3 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a basin, blend it till smooth with a small quantity of water, then mix in gradually lqt. of boiling milk; sweeten Fig. 1161. Meringue PunDiNG. with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and turn it into a saucepan. Stir the cornflour over the fire with a wooden spoon, and boil for five minutes; then move it to the side, and stir in 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces. When