916 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Mashing—continued. presser, fitting the vessel exactly, forces the potato through the holes and renders it beautifully light and floury. Other (see Fig. 1134) are wheels set on sticks, which break up the potatoes; turnips, &c., as they are forced rapidly down upon it. Failing the advantage of these instruments, mashing is usually accomplished with a fork against the side of a basin, or the saucepan in which the vegetable was boiled; the water being carefully strained. MASKING-.—A term frequently used by Continental cooks and confectioners, signifying painting over, or covering with any thickish fluid, especially jam or j sauce. • . MASTIC or MASTICH.—The resin which flows from the incised bark of Pistacia Lentiscus. It is very aromatic; and is much used in America for flavouring chewing-gum. A spirit, called Mastic Raki, is distilled from this gum in some parts of Asia Minor. MAT£.—Se,e Paraguay Tea. MATELOTE, A LA.—This term, of which .the literal meaning is “ sailor’s style,” is given to a sauce or stew prepared for and with fish; it is more often applied to fresh-water fish than to those from the sea. Several receipts for a Matelote will be found in this Encyclopaedia, the following being excellent types of the rest: Matelote Ragoftt or Relish.—Cut up 41b. of fish, of which there should be some variety, and put the pieces into a stewpan with two sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and season with pepper and salt. Put in suffi- cient broth and white wine (two-thirds of broth and one-third wine) to cover the fish. Cook this for twenty minutes or so over a brisk fire, then strain the liquor and keep the fish hot in the pan. Next put ill), of butter into a saucepan with two dozen small onions, and toss them until they are browned. Take out the onions and put in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; mix this with the butter, and cook it until it is all browned. Then pour in the strained liquor of the fish, the small onions, and about two dozen button-mushrooms, and continue cooking until the onions and mushrooms are quite done. Take out the mushrooms and onions, and garnish the dish round with them in heaps, after piling the fish in the centre. Reduce the stock by rapid boiling, and then pour it- over all. Garnish with crayfish and fried sippets of bread. Normandy Matelote.—This dish is said to have been first prepared by Langlais, late chef to M. Rocher de Cancale. Butter a silver dish and strew it with finely-chopped blanched onions. Season the fish (sole for preference; it is then called sole a la Normande) with pepper and salt, put it on the dish, cover it with white wine, and bake it. Meanwhile prepare a good supply of mussels, oysters, button-mushrooms, fried smelts, and hied breadcrumbs; add the liquor of the sole, and that of the mussels (well strained) to some mock veloute sauce, reduce it by boiling, and thicken with yollc of egg. Place the mussels, oysters, and mushrooms on or around the fish; pour the sauce over, set the dish in the oven, again to get quite hot, garnish with the smelts and crumbs, and serve. Some of the sauce can be served sepa- rately in a sauceboat if desired. White Matelote.—To the French cook this is Virgin’s Mate- lote (Matelote Vierge). Cut 21b. of fish (eels for choice) into 2in. or 3in. lengths, and if they are eels set them to boil for four or five minutes in salt and water, with 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar to the quart. Melt fib. of butter in a saucepan, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of flour; dilute them with 1 pint of white wine and broth, in equal propor- . tions, and season with pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the fish in with a few small onions and button- mushrooms, and let them cook foy twenty-five minutes; ■ then remove the fish, onions, mushrooms, and herbs, thicken the sauce with an egg beaten up in a small quantity of the cooled stock stirred in quickly, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. When quite hot, strain this over the fish, pile Matelote, a la—continued. on a dish, and garnish round with the onions, mushrooms, and fried bread sippets. See Fig. 1135. Fig. 1135. White Matelote. MATRIMONY SAUCE.—See Sauces. MATSO BREAD.—See Bread. MAUD’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. MAURITIUS CREAM.—See Cream. MAXIXE.—A Brazilian vegetable which has lately found its way into America, where it has become very popular. Jt resembles a cucumber, and is covered with thorny warts. Maxixe Salad.—Peel the rough skin off a Maxixe, and cut the vegetable crosswise into very thin slices; peel and slice a few spring onions, and put both, vegetables into a salad- bowl. Mix together some vinegar and oil, the oil pre- dominating, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, which should be lightly tossed with a fork to mix well, and serve. MAY DRINK (Ger.. Mai Trank).—This name has been given to a delicious drink, prepared in Germany as follows: (1) Gather several bunches of ripe wild strawberries, some ripe raspberries, and three or four vine-leaf buds. Put all together into a large bowl with sugar to taste, pour over 2 bottles of French white wine, cover the bowl, and leave for about twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Afterwards strain the wine into a glass bowl, put in a few pieces of ice, and serve. (2) Procu re one dozen each of the leaf-buds of strawberries, black Currants, and white currants; put them into a bowl with 1 large handful of woodruff, three or four vine-leaf buds, and sugar to taste, adding two or three slices of peeled cucumber. ’ Pour in 2 bottles of hock, cover the bowl, and let the contents steep for about half-an-hour. Break up some ice, put the pieces into a fancy china or glass bowl, strain the above liquor over them, and serve. (3) Pluck a good handful of woodruff, put it in a bowl, strew over 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and pour iu 1 bottle of light wine. Cover the bowl, and let the contents infuse for half-an-hour; then put in a thinly- sliced orange, and infuse for half-an-hour longer. Serve the wine, with the orange when ready. (4) ' Put into a china bowl 1 handful of woodruff, an equal quantity of balm, six or seven black-currant -leaves, a sprig of lemon-scented verbena, and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Pour in 1 bottle of any kind of light wine preferred, cover the bowl, and let the contents infuse for an' hour. When ready to serve, ladle the wine out into glasses. (5) Put the following freshly-gathered herbs into a large bowl: thirty leaves of balm, eight or ten sprigs of wood- ruff, fifteen leaves of peppermint, six or seven leaves of pimpernel, the same of garden geranium, the same quantity each of common yarrow and tarragon, four leaves each of basil, balsam herb, and black currant, two leaves of wormwood, six leaves each of balm mint and lungwort, and two sprigs of thyme. Put in with the herbs the thinly- pared yellow rind of one lemon and lib. of loaf sugar, and pour over 2qts. of wine. Cover the bowl, stand it in a cool place, and let the contents infuse for six or seven hours, stirring occasionally. Serve the punch the same day;