870 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'r,, referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. Spanish sauce, and six mushroom-stalks chopped up very fine. Cook well for ten minutes longer, and set the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm. Clean out the shells of the Lobsters, pare off the ends, and fill the shells vuth the prepared Lobster; lay them on a tin plate, and pour over the remainder of the sauce. Set them in the hot oven to bake for five minutes, remove them, put them on a hot dish over which has been piled some watercress, garnish with a few cooked mushrooms (see Fig. 1086), and send to the table. Lobster a la Creme.—Mince Mb. of Lobster-meat, put it into a basin with 1 gill each of white sauce and aspic jelly, 1 table-spoonful of mayonnaise sauce, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mix well, let it steam in a saucepan of boiling water until quite hot, and serve in ramakin-cases with browned breadcrumbs sprinkled over. Lobster a la Liable.—Procure a large Lobster • put three finely-minced shallots in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and the brown meat of the crab; fry until the shallots are lightly browned, then pour in \ pint of milk, add \ table-spoonful of chutney, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. Stir the whole over the fire un il thickened; chop the meat of the Lobster and stir it into the sauce. Have ready a large metal table-shell, fill it wit the Lobster mixture, level it smoothly over the surface, strew a layer of grated breadcrumb over the top, baste with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and brown the top under a salamander or in a brisk oven. Spread Fig. 1087. Lobster 1 la Diable. a folded napkin over a dish, place the shell in the middle, garnish with fresh green parsley (see Fig. 1087), and serve. Lobster au Gratia.—(1) Put a live Lobster in boiling fish broth; when cooked, drain, and split it in halves length- wise, pick the meat out of the tail and claws, cut it into small dice, and mix in an equal quantity of mushrooms, also cut in dice. Put the coral of the Lobster in a mortar with a little butter, pound, and pass it through a fine hair sieve Put a few table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce in a stewpan with a little cream and melted glaze, stir over the fire till reduced one fourth, then mix with it the dice of Lobster and mushrooms, sprinkle in a little cayenne, and add the pounded coral. Clean the two shells of the Lobster, fill them with the preparation, sprinkle breadcrumbs on the top, pour a little warmed butter over each, and brown them under a salamander. Put a folded napkin on a dish, lay the shells of Lobster on it, and serve at once. (2) Split some small Lobsters lengthwise into halves; pick the meat out of the shells, and cut it into slices, reserving the shells for further use. Put a small chopped onion into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and stir over a quick fire for a few minutes, then pour in 1 pint of white sauce, and stir till boiled down to two-thirds its original quantity. Put the flesh of the Lobster in the sauce, season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and essence of anchovies, stir it over the fire for a minute or so, then move it to the side, and mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs; it must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle. Clean out the shells of the Lobster, fill them with the mixture, cover each with a layer of grated breadcrumb, and brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten eggs. Place the shells in a quick oven for ten minutes, and brown under a salamander. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, garnish with a few neat sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve while very hot. Lobster—continued. Lobster a la Provenqale.—Cut a Lobster, uncooked, as for Lobster a la Bordelaise, No. 2, and put the pieces in a saucepan with an onion, a small clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, a small piece of thyme, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and a little oil. Cook the Lobster, and, when done, take the pieces out, drain, and put them in another sauce- pan. Put a little Madeira, brandy, and Spanisli sauce with the herbs in the saucepan, and boil till reduced; strain the sauce through a fine sieve on to the Lobster, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot again.. Arrange the pieces of Lobster on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Lobster a la St. Malo.—Split a cooked Lobster length- wise into halves, and pick out all its flesh. Cut the best part into collops, and put the remainder into a mortar with the coral and about 2oz. of butter, and pound until quite smooth; then rub the paste through a fine sieve. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy and £ te~- cupful of thick cream into a lined stewpan, and boil until somewhat reduced, then stir in well 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick tomato sauce and the pounded mixture, and season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Butter a shell, strew some finely-minced truffles at the bottom, dip the Lobster collops in the sauce, and put them in the shell; pour the remainder of the sauce over the top, and strew over hi moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley, shallot, and grated breadcrumb ; distribute a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake until nicely browned hi a brisk oven. Serve the Lobster while hot hi the shell. Lobster a la St. Stephen.—Select a fresh Lobster, and chop the meat into small pieces. Put it into a sautii- pan with 1 gill of salad-oil, and cook for five minutes; then pour oh' the oil, and put in 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, a little pepper, salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, and garlic, and 2 table-spoonfuls of Chablis ; let this boil for about five minutes, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and boil for a few minutes longer. Dish up the Lobster, add loz. of butter and a little lemon-juice to the sauce, boil up again, pour it over the Lobster, and serve. Lobster Bouchees.—Pick the flesh from the shell of a Lobster, cut it into small pieces, and put them hito a saucepan with some Lobster sauce. Prepare some puff paste, give it six turns, then roll it out flat on a floured table. With a fluted cutter, 2in. in diameter, cut out eighteen rounds, put them on to a baking-sheet, rest them on ice for ten minutes, then brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. With a plain tin cutter, 1 jin. in diameter, cut through a third of the thickness of the paste, dipping the cutter in warm water every time—this will form the cover when baked. Put the bouchees in a quick oven, and bake them. When cooked, lift off the inner circle of the bouchees, scoop out a little of the soft paste inside, and smooth over the surface with the handle of a knife. Have the Lobster ready warmed, turn it into the bouchees, and put on the covers. Arrange them on a folded table-napkin, or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve. Lobster Brochettes.—Take ljlb. of the flesh of a freshly- boiled Lobster, cut it into 2in. squares, lay them in a bowl season with 1 good pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, j pinch of nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and