790 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Foi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. John Dory—continued. till the fish is tender. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed and browned; then stir in gradually 1J breakfast-cupfuls of clear skimmed stock. Season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then mix in a few table-spoonfuls of capers with it. When the fish is cooked, drain it, taking care not to break it, place it on a hot dish, pour over the caper sauce, and serve. Boiled John Dory with Cream Sauce.—Clean the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with plenty of hot water and a lump of salt, and boil. Pour J pint of thick cream into a small saucepan, set it over the fire till just on the point of boiling, and then mix 4oz. of butter with it. Stir the sauce or shake the saucepan till the butter is melted, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, keeping back the pips, and season with salt and pepper. When cooked, strain the fish carefully, put it on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauce- boat. Boiled John Dory stuffed with Fish Forcemeat.—Clean and wash a rather large fresh John Dory. Put some flesh of whiting without hones in a mortar, pound, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve; pound a third of the quantity of paste panada, pass it through the sieve, and mix with the pounded whiting; work loz. of butter in the mixture, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, using beaten yolks of egg to hind it. Chopped thyme and parsley may be added to the forcemeat if the flavour is liked. Stuff the fish with the forcemeat, tie it round with thread, and put it in a fish-kettle with one or two onions, carrots, turnips, a few pieces of celery, one bay-leaf, a bunch of thyme and parsley, three cloves, and a small lump of salt. Moisten the fish with 1 teacupful of vinegar and white wine, in equal quantities, and about 5 pints of water, set it over the fire till boiling, then move it a little to the side, and simmer for an hour. While cooking, prepare the following sauce for the fish : Put 8oz. of butter in a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a dust of salt and pepper ; stir the mixture over the fire till the butter dissolves and mingles with the eggs, then pour in slowly a little more than 1 pint of bechamel sauce and 1 table-spoonful of lobster butter (that is loz. of butter mixed with the same quantity of lobster spawn), pounded and passed through a fine hair sieve. Stir over the fire till it becomes red and thick, then mix with it a few drops of anchovy essence, a little cayenne, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Pass the sauce through a fine hair or silk sieve, return it to the saucepan, and mix with it some small squares of boiled beetroot and the same of gherkins. Keep it hot till wanted for serving. When the John Dory is cooked, drain it well, slip it off the drainer on to a hot dish, being careful not to break it, pour the sauce over, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Boiled John Dory with Prawn Sauce.—Put the fish in a fish-kettle with plenty of boiling water, and boil. Skin 1 pint of fresh prawns, pound them in a mortar together ■with Jib. of butter, and pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve. Put £ pint of bechamel sauce into a stewpan with an equal quantity of butter sauce (melted butter), and place over the fire till boiling; then mix the prawns and butter into the sauce, and stir till dissolved. Pick the meat out of a small lobster and chop it. When the fish is cooked, drain, place it on a hot dish, cover with the sauce, and then strew over the chopped lobster. Serve while very hot. John Dory with Holstein Sauce. — Clean and prepare the fish, being very careful in drawing it not to break the gall, as that would make the whole fish bitter, put it into a fish- kettle with a lump of salt and sufficient cold water to cover, leave over the fire until it commences to boil, then move to the side, and keep it simmering for ten minutes. Prepare the following sauce for it: Put ljoz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix them Well over the fire, then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of the cooking-liquor of the fish and J breakfast-cupful of white Rhenish wine ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and continue stirring until boiling ; then move off the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that John Dory—continued. has been beaten with the juice of a lemon and strained, also a small piece of butter broken into small pieces. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot oval- shaped dish, drain, and lay the fish carefully on it, garnish with fresh parsley, slices of lemon, and quarters of hard- boiled eggs, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat while very hot. Rechauffe of John Dory.— Pick over carefully some cold remains of boiled John Dory, and remove all the skin and bones. Mix lqt. of milk slowly with 4oz. of flour, keeping it smooth and free from lumps, and pour it into a saucepan. Tie together a bunch of parsley, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and put it into the saucepan with one or two shallots, a dust of grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire till thick and boiling; then take it off, and mix with it Jib. of butter and the yolks of two eggs. When the butter and eggs are blended with the other ingredients, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve. Mask the bottom of a gratin-dish with some of the sauce, put in a layer of the prepared fish, and then another layer of the sauce ; fill the dish in this manner, dusting a small quantity of salt and pepper between the layers, the last one being of sauce. Grate some bread and Parmesan cheese over the top, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. When cooked, brown the contents under a salamander, and serve on the same dish. Stewed John Dory.—Clean the fish, rub it well with flour, and put it in a fish-kettle with a few carrots, onions, and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, and a bay-leaf, a small lump of salt, two or three cloves, 2 wineglassfuls each of port wine and vinegar, and 5 pints of water. When the liquor boils, move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and stew the contents for an hour. Peel a quantity of button- onions, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, and toss about over the fire till browned; then pour in 1 wineglassful of wine, and stir them over the fire a few minutes longer. Pour lqt. of brown sauce and Fig. 933. Stewed John Dory. 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock over the onions, put them over a moderate fire, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim the sauce, and mix with it seventeen or eighteen fish forcemeat quenelles, the same quantity of heads of mush- rooms, 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey sauce, anchovy essence, and mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of salt, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Blanch and beard about three dozen oysters, and put them in the sauce. Drain the fish very carefully when it is cooked, put it on a hot deep dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with the oysters and slices of lemon, and serve very hot. See Fig. 993. JOHNNY CAKES.—See Cakes. JOINTS. —This is the name given technically to those pieces of meat into which it is usual to cut up the whole animal. These are described under the headings of the animals to which they belong, and receipts are given thereunder for cooking them. JORUM.—An old-fashioned earthenware jar holding a large quantity of liquor. JOSEPHINE CAKE.—See Cakes.