THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 768 Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hominy—continued. gently until tender. Put in loz. of butter and a beaten egg, season to taste with salt and pepper, mix it thoroughly off the fire, and turn into a basin. When cold, shape the Hominy into balls about the size of eggs, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put plenty of oil into a flat stewpan, place it oyer the fire, and when blue smote rises put in the balls, a few at a time, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As the balls are done, put them to drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange the croquettes in the centre, garnish them with a thick border of fried parsley, and serve with onion sauce. Fig. 958. Hominy Croquettes. (3) Put Alb. or so of Hominy into a saucepan with sufficient milk or water to moisten, boil slowly, and add a seasoning of onions, salt, and pepper. Form the paste into balls, roll them well first in breadcrumbs, then in beaten egg, and lastly breadcrumbs again ; plunge them into a saucepan of boiling fat, and fry to a light golden colour. Take them out, drain, and they are ready for use. Hominy Porridge.—Put 11b. of Hominy into a basin, pour boiling water over, and let it soak all night. On the following morning put the Hominy into a lined saucepan with ly break- fast-cupfuls of milk, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling ; move it to the side, and simmer slowly for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Hominy into soup- plates, and serve with sugar and milk. Hominy Pudding.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked Hominy into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, l|oz. of warmed butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 1 teacupful of milk ; stir the ingredients together till well mixed and smooth. Butter a pie-dish, pour the Hominy mix- ture into it, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. Serve the pudding- while hot with a sweet sauce. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Hominy in water, and soak it all night. On the following morning, drain it, put it in a saucepan with lqt. of milk, and boil gently for two hours. When cooked, sweeten to taste, season with grated nutmeg, and mix the beaten yolks of two eggs with it. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, pour in the Hominy, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, serve the pudding hot with sweet sauce. (3) Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of Hominy all night in water, which should be boiling when poured over. Next morning put it into a lined stewpan with a little under 1 pint of milk, and stir over the fire ■with a wooden spoon until boiling. Move it to the side of the fire, let it simmer gently until quite cooked, then stir in two well-beaten eggs, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake until slightly browned. Serve hot. (4) Mix 1 scant teacupful of Hominy in 1 pint of new milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Beat two eggs with A pint of milk, and stir them in gradually with the Hominy ; add A table-spoonful of warmed butter, loz. of thinly-shred candied peel, and a small quantity of ground cinnamon. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, grate a little nutmeg over the top, bake in a moderate oven, and serve hot or cold as desired. (5) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, and beat them well; put about 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Hominy into a basin, and mix with it A table-spoonful of sugar, foz. of warmed butter, and a small quantity of salt; next stir in the beaten yolks, 1 pint of milk, and, when pei’fectly smooth, Hominy—continued. the whites of the eggs. Butter a pie-dish, pour the above mixture into it, and bake until browned on the top. Hominy Pudding- as a Vegetable.—Wash 1 breakfast- cupful of Hominy in plenty of water to free it from dust : put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of water and a small lump of salt, and boil it for one hour without stirring, but should it get too dry, 1 teacupful of milk can be added. When cooked, take 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the Hominy, and mix with it while still hot l|oz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Beat two eggs and 1 teacupful of milk, then mix with the Hominy; turn the whole into a shallow dish, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the Hominy as a vegetable. Hominy Soup.—Make as much clear soup as will be required, and season it highly. Add about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Hominy for every 3 pints of the soup, and boil for half-an-hour. Break three eggs into a soup-tureen, pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and beat them well. Pour the soup gradually over the beaten eggs, stirring continually, dust over a small quantity of finely-chopped chives and grated nutmeg, and serve. Stewed Hominy.—Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Hominy, put it over the fire in a saucepan with 2qts. of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, and boil it gently for about four hours, or until it is quite soft; then drain, and place it where the water will evaporate. Prepare a cream sauce as follows: Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan on the fire and partly melt it; when soft, gradually stir into it A pint of cream or an equal quantity of milk ; if cream is used, add it to the Hominy as soon as hot; if milk, take it off the ffre when hot, stir into it the yolks of two eggs, and mix with the Hominy. Serve the Hominy directly the milk or cream is added to it, remembering that the eggs used with the milk will curdle if the Hominy is allowed to boil after they are added to it. HONEY (Fr. Miel; Ger. Honig; Ital. Mele; Sp. Miel).—Up to the time of the juice of the sugar-cane finding its way into this country, Honey was used f01- all purposes of sweetening. It formed also the basis of fermented liquors known to the Anglo-Saxons as mead and metheglin (see Mead), and was considered of so much value and importance that bees were bred and tended with as much care as is now bestowed on cattle. Honey is described by Blytli as “a sweet substance obtained by the bee from the nectariferous glands of flowers, and is elaborated in the body of the bee, and ultimately deposited in the honeycomb.” An analytical examination of Honey shows that it contains grape-sugar, manna, gum-mucilage, extractive matters, wax in small quantities, pollen of flowers, and odoriferous substances. The sugar consists chiefly of grape-sugar, which crystallises, and may lie filtered out by straining through a cloth ; but there then remains an uncrystallisable sugar which has not been exactly defined. There are several varieties of Honey met with in our markets, which are classified as follows : Virgin Honey, or that which flows spontaneously from the cells of young bees that have never swarmed. Ordinary Honey, obtained by heat and pressure. English Honey, produced by bees which have mainly collected it from clover, furze, or broom flowers; and Narhonne Honey, gathered chiefly from rosemary, and other highly-scented flowers. There is another kind of Honey, known as Trebizonde Honey, which is poisonous to human beings, for it is gathered chiefly from poisonous plants; and there is a Hew Jersey Honey also, which possesses slightly intoxi- cating properties. Neither of these latter are met with in England. Honey is so frequently adulterated, if not fabricated, by unscrupulous dealers, that it has lost much of its ancient repute; treacle, potato-sugar, syrup, potato-flour, starch, and even wheat-flour, are amongst its adulterants; but happily pure Honey can be obtained by going for it to country bee-keepers.