THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 833 Larks—continued. Jib. of macaroni in milk-and-water until it is swollen but not soft, sprinkle in a little salt, and drain. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add the macaroni, the Larks, the butter in which they were partly cooked (remov- ing the onion and bay-leaf), and stew very gently until they are cooked. Serve hot. Stewed Larks with Mushrooms.—Clean and prepare ten or twelve Larks, and fry them slightly in butter. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of button-mushrooms into a saucepan with an equal quantity of cream, and stew gently, adding a bay-leaf and salt anil pepper to taste. When done take out the bay-leaf, put in the Larks, and stew gently until tender. Serve hot on a dish garnished with croft to ns of fried bread. Stewed Larks with Rice.—(1) Having selected the required quantity of Larks, pluck, draw, and singe them; cut off the legs, put the Larks in a stewpan with Jib. of raw ham that has been previously steeped in water and cut in dice, and a little butter. Fry till lightly browned, then take out the Larks and ham with a skimmer; put in the stewpan one large onion, finely chopped, fry lightly but do not brown it, then add 12oz. of well-washed and dried rice, stir over the fire for a few seconds, put in a bunch of parsley, a sprinkling of cayenne pepper, and sufficient broth to cover the lice, place a lid on the stewpan, and boil for ten minutes; then put the Larks in again; pile some live embers on the lid, stand the stewpan over a slow fire and let the contents stew till the rice is done— it should be dry. Take out the Larks and bunch of parsley, pour a little tomato sauce in with the rice, then turn it into a hot deep dish, arrange the Larks on the top, glaze them, and serve. (2) Singe and draw twenty-four Larks, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, fry .over a sharp clear fire for seven or eight minutes, then take out and drain. Chop about 6oz. of raw ham into small squares, put them in the stewpan with the fat in which the Larks were cooked, fry for a few minutes, then add a little unwashed rice and sufficient broth to cook the rice in. When the liquid has boiled for five minutes, put in the Larks, 1 pinch of powdered pimento a bunch of sweet herbs with a little parsley mixed with them, and two tomatoes that have been peeled, freed of their seeds, and chopped up; put the lid on the stewpan, stand it at the side of the fire, and let the contents stew till the rice is done. Put the Larks mi a hot dish, take the bunch of parsley and herbs out of the rice, pour it on the dish with the Larks, and serve. Stuffed Larks in Croustade.—Bone some Larks and stuff them with a fat-liver forcemeat, roll up round, and put them separately into small moulds, and bake. Shape a round croustade about Gin. across out of some crumb of bread, and fry it in boiling fat till of a light golden colour. When the Larks are cooked, take them out of the moulds Fig. 1048. Stuffed Larks in Croustade. and arrange in the croustade (see Fig. 1048). Pour over some Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Larks and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Garnish round the dish with fat-liver forcemeat croquettes and parsley sprays. Timbale of Larks.—Prepare a thick batter with lib. of cornllour, pour it into a timbale-mould, steam it, and leave Larks—continued. till cold; then take it out of the mould and cut out the inside, leaving about Jin. thick at the sides and bottom; wipe the interior of the mould, butter it again, sprinkle in breadcrumbs, and put in the cornflour timbale crust. Singe and draw two dozen Larks, cut off the necks and legs, stuff them with a little raw pork-mince, having 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles mixed with it, put them into a stewpan with 6oz. of ham cut in dice and some rasped bacon, fry till lightly browned, then pour in a little white wine, and boil gently till reduced to glaze. Fry the necks and legs together with a few trim- mings of ham in a little lard, then sprinkle with a little Hour, pour in 1J pints of broth and 1 wineglassful of white wine, stir all over the fire till boiling, then stand the stew- pan at the side and let the broth simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the fat off this sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a flat stewpan, mix with it about twelve mushro ms cut in moderate-sized pieces, stir it over the fire till reduced, then thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, and pour the sauce in the stewpan with the Larks. Dust some flour over two dozen small quenelles, poach, and mix them with the above preparation ; pour all into the prepared timbale, put a cover of the batter rolled out round on the top, solder it with a little forcemeat, cover with paper, and bake. When nicely coloured, turn the timbale out on a hot dish, and serve. LAVENDER.—An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula, so called from having been used to perfume waters for bathing. An essence made from the oil of Lavender is sometimes used for flavouring confectionery. Lavender Drops.—Put some treble-refined coarsely-sifted sugar in a pan, flavour it with essence of Lavender, stir in slowly sufficient water to make it drop off the spatula ■without sticking, and colour the sugar with prepared cochi- neal; too much cochineal must not lie used, as the tint should be light and deli’ate. Put the paste in a small drop-pan, and place the pan on the stove on a ring that it just fits. Stir the sugar with a small spatula until it dissolves and makes a slight noise, but on no account must it boil. Remove it from the fire when at boiling- point, and continue stirring with the spatula till of the consistency that when dropped it will not spread too much. Should it be too thin, a little more of the prepared sugar should be added. Let the paste drop from the lip of the pan on to a smooth sheet of tin, cutting eacli drop off with a piece of wire when the right size. Leave them to dry for two hours, then take the drops off with a thin knife, and keep them in glass-stoppered bottles. Lavender Lozenges.—Dissolve lib. of gum Arabic in 1 pint of water. Sift some finely-powdered sugar over a marble slab, pour the dissolved gum into it, mix to a stiff paste, flavour with a little oil of Lavender, and colour it with a little cochineal and blue mixed. Dust a little powdered starch over the slab, then roll the paste out on it, about Jin. thick. Sprinkle starch powder and caster sugar over the surface, then rub it on with the hands—this prevents it from sticking. Cut out the lozenges with either round or oval cutters, and put them on trays in a warm temperature to dry. They should be kept in glass bottles. LAVER.—In the article on Alg.f this sea-weed was described in company with others; but by Kettner we are assured that it is worthy of considerable individual attention. This author writes : “ Many an old-fashioned English gentleman will be glad to see Laver men- tioned here, and to be reminded of its excellence with boiled mutton.” The reason of its decadence in popular estimation he considers to be due to the spread of French cookery. Continental cooks being unacquainted with the beauties of this islander's natural food. There are two sorts, which may be collected on any shore (see Figs. 1049 and 1050); but it is usually sold in pots ready for eating, having been boiled to a pulp. It is very nice when cooked as follows : Put the prepared Laver into an enamelled stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, squeeze in the juice of a lemon For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &x., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 Q