795 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kedgeree—continued. cooked ; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and dry off the moisture. Peel two or three onions, slice them, and fry brown in butter. Turn the Kedgeree on to a hot dish, garnish with the fried onions and hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, and serve. KENDAL PUDDING.—See Puddings. KERN-MILK—The Scotch term for butter-milk. KETCHUP—This sauce is of Japanese origin, as is also its name, spelled Kitjap, but, according to English notions, it may be either Ketchup or Catsup. Amongst modern Continental cooks Ketchup is known only as “ a piquant sauce made from mushrooms,” but the British cook has extended the idea to various uses, hence we have Ketchup of Anchovies, Barberries, Cockles, Cucumbers, Elderberries, Mussels, Oysters, Pepper, Tomatoes, Wal- nuts, and Wine. All of these are described under their various headings, but the following receipts admit of no special classification. Camp Ketchup.—(1) Put 2qts. of old beer and half the quantity of white wine in a saucepan with 4oz. of anchovies, place it on the fire, and when at boiling-point take it off, add 3oz. of peeled shallots and Joz. each of ginger, nutmeg, mace, and pepper, all well bruised, and let it remain for a fortnight, shaking it frequently. When settled, filter, bottle off the clear liquid, and it is ready for use. It will keep good for several years. (2) Put 1 pint of claret into a wide-mouthed bottle with 1 pint of any kind of Ketchup, and add Jib. of boned anchovies, loz. of very finely-cut lemon-peel, two finely- minced cloves of garlic, £oz. each of allspice, black and white pepper, ldr. of bruised celery-seeds, and 1 breakfast-cupful of liquor from any kind of pickle. Put a cover over the bottle, give it a shake every day for a fortnight, then strain, bottle off, and cork securely. Marine Ketchup.—Put lgall. of strong old beer in a sauce- pan with lib. of peeled and crushed shallots, ljlb. of anchovies, £oz. each of bruised mace, cloves, and mustard-seed, joz. each of pepper and ginger, also bruised, and lqt. each of vinegar and mushroom Ketchup. Place the pan on the fire, let the contents boil, and then pour off into bottles, shaking them frequently. Let the Ketchup macerate for a fortnight, strain through a very fine cloth, and put it back into bottles. It is then ready for use, and will keep good for a long time. Fontac Ketchup.—Put the required quantity of ripe elder- berries, picked free from stalks, into a stone or earthenware jar, pour over sufficient strong vinegar to cover, place the jar in the oven and cook until all the juice from the berries is extracted. While the liquor is still hot, strain it into a saucepan, add a seasoning of cloves, mace, allspice, pepper- corns, and shallots, boil until the ketchup is well-flavoured, then strain again, and return it once more to the saucepan ; add 8oz. of boned anchovies to each quart of liquor, boil until the anchovies are quite dissolved, then bottle and tie over with bladder. Seven-Years Ketchup.-—Put lqt. of very old beer into a saucepan with 1 pint of red wine, 6oz. of boned anchovies, ljoz. of peeled shallots, loz. of mace, -Joz. of cloves, and a little whole ginger-root, set the pan over a moderate fire, and boil until reduced by one-third. Kemove from the fire, let the ketchup get cold, pour it into an earthenware jar, cover, and leave for a week or so until the liquor is quite clear; then strain, add any flavouring desired, such as spice, vinegar, &c., boil up once more, let it get cold, pour it into small bottles, and tie over with bladder. KETTLES.—There is a great variety of these, those having special characteristics or uses being described under their special headings. KETTLE CAKE.—See Cakes. KHAT.— This is sometimes written Kat, or called Cafta. It is a shrub (Catha edulis) found in Arabia, the leaves and shoots of which are used for making a beverage like tea. It is more pronounced and agreeable in flavour than Chinese tea, and is generally prepared by boiling in milk and sweetening with honey. KHOOSH SITTERS.—The name given to a very widely-advertised tonic and appetiser, supposed to con- tain a large proportion of chiretta. The term “ Khoosli ” is Hindustani for “beautiful.” KHULASH. — This stew is very highly esteemed in Germany, and prepared as follows : Cut about 21b. of the head and fillet of beef into small- sized squares. Cut an onion up into small pieces, and fry it in a pan with a little butter, but not long enough to let it take colour; add the pieces of meat, fry them quickly for ten or twelve minutes, add a little salt and paprica (or cayenne pepper), remove the pan to the side of the fire, and cover the lid with hot ashes. Let it remain for forty-five minutes, when the moisture will all have evaporated, pour over a little gravy, and continue to cook for an-hour-and-a-half. Sprinkle over a little more paprica, pour over 2 table-spoon- fuls of brown sauce, and cook for another ten minutes or so. Cut some potatoes in small dice or squares, blanch in cold water for a few minutes, roll them well in the sauce, let them remain for five minutes, and serve. KICKSHAWS.—At one time this word was used as a term of contempt for French-made dishes. It is a cor- ruption of Quelques-choses (some things), but is not used now in any sense but that of banter. KID (TV. Chevreau).—The young of the goat, which is considered a delicacy if killed between six weeks and four months old; but after that time the musky odours of the goat begin to render themselves conspicuous, and detract from the flavour of the meat. Cooked as. follows Kid is very good eating : Curried Kid (Indian Style).—Put 2oz. of fat into a sauce- pan, boil it up, add a seasoning of 4 teaspoonfuls of onions, 1 teaspoonful each of turmeric and chillies, J teaspoonful of ginger, and \ teaspoonful of garlic, all ground; brown them slightly, add the fore-quarter of a Kid without bones cut up into sixteen or eighteen pieces, and salt to taste. Stir Fig. 998. Curried Kid and Rice. well until the ingredients have taken a slight colour, then pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water and simmer gently at the side of the fire for fully forty-five minutes, by which time the meat should be perfectly tender, and the liquor reduced by half. Turn the whole out on to a dish, garnish with rice, and serve. See Fig. 998. Kid a la Foulette.—Procure a very young Kid, put it in a deep dish with milk-and-water to cover, and soak for several hours. Dry the Kid, bind it round with some thin strips of fat bacon, and roast in front of a clear fire. When nearly cooked, take the Kid up and cut off the meat from the back into one or two pieces. Mix 2oz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, pour in 1 pint of clear veal stock, add a bunch of parsley, | blade of mace, a dozen button-mushrooms, and the pieces of meat from the back of the Kid ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently at the side of the fire for nearly an hour. Afterwards take out the pieces of meat and place them on a hot dish ; strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan, and boil quickly until reduced and thickened. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in the mushrooms again, and when it has slightly cooked stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up together with 1 table-spoonful of cream, and strained. Pour the sauce over the Kid, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Kid Country-Captain.—Partly roast or broil a quarter of Kid, then cut it up in about eighteen pieoes. Put 4oz. of