THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 910 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Maraschino—continued. 2Jin. in diameter and about tin. thick, on sheets of paper; put them in a moderate oven, and bake them. Boil some syrup to the crack degree, and mix with it sufficient Maraschino to bring it down to 38deg. ; then take it off the lire, and work it with a spatula or wooden spoon till quite smooth. When the rounds are cooked, wet the paper at the back and take them off; melt some of the icing, and dip them into it, giving them a good coating; place them on a wire drainer, and when all are done, put the drainer in the oven for a minute or two; then take them out, and leave till cool. Maraschino Jelly.—Cut a calf's foot into convenient-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan in cold water, and boil for two minutes; then wash them in cold water, and again put them into a saucepan in lqt. of cold water; when boiling, move to the side of the fire and simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half, keeping well skimmed. Afterwards strain the liquor into a basin, and leave it until quite cold; take off all the fat, and wipe the top over with a cloth dipped in hot water. Turn the jelly out of the basin, scrape off the sediment, put the jelly into a stewpan, and melt it; then add the juice and rind of a small lemon, the whites of two eggs that have been well whisked, and loaf sugar to taste. Whisk the whole over the fire until boiling, then move it off; rinse a jelly-bag out with boiling water, put the lemon-rind at the bottom, and strain the jelly through. If not quite clear the first time, the jelly should be poured through the bag once or twice more. Flavour to taste with Maraschino, pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it on ice or in a very cold temperature. When quite firm, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a dish, ami serve. Maraschino Jelly with Peaches. —Blanch twelve peaches in boiling water for five minutes; peel, cut them in halves, put them in a basin, and cover with syrup. Tinned peaches will answer equally well. Clarify 2oz. of jelly, and add 4 pint of Maraschino. Fill a plain cylinder mould with alternate layers of jelly and peaches, having first drained the peaches, and let each layer of jelly set before adding the fruit. Pack the mould in ice for two hours, and when ready to serve, turn the jelly out of the mould on to an ornamental dish. Maraschino Meringues.—Put lib. of sugar into a saucepan, reduce it almost to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and let it cool. In the meantime, beat the whites of ten eggs to a froth and work them into the sugar, stirring well with a wooden spoon ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of Maraschino. Arrange equal-sized portions of the meringue on strips of paper, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven; | as soon as the top part is set, take them out, place two together, with the moist part left in them, put them in a ' hot closet to dry, and they are ready for use. Maraschino Nip.—Half fill a wineglass with Maraschino, j and fill up with orange bitters and brandy in equal J proportions. Maraschino Pudding.—(1) Dissolve 3oz. of gelatine in 1 breakfast-cupful of water; beat the yolks of ten eggs well together with lqt. of milk, pour them into a lined sauce- pan, and stir over a slow fire until thickened, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle ; then stir in the dissolved gelatine, and when somewhat cooled add 1 wineglassful of Maraschino. Pour the mixture into a mould, and keep it in a cool place for an hour or two. When ready to serve, turn the pudding on to a dish, and pour over it some whipped cream. (2) Put into a copper basin Jib. of powdered loaf sugar, two J eggs, grate in the rind of a quarter of a medium-sized lemon, and with a whisk beat the whole sharply for two minutes; put the basin over a moderate fire, and beat the mixture vigorously for five minutes longer. Remove from the fire, lay the basin on a table, and beat again slowly for two minutes ; then give the whisk a sharp shake, so that all that adheres to it falls into the basin. Now add Jib. of flour, and with a wooden spoon mix the whole slowly and carefully for two minutes. Cover a baking- Marascliino—continued. sheet with a piece of brown paper, pour the paste over it, spread it out to the thickness of £in., put it in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes; take it out, let it cool for about fifteen minutes, and remove from the baking- sheet. Place it on a table upside down, remove the paper, and with a knife cut the paste into small dice-shaped pieces, mixing with them loz. each of dried currants and finely- chopped candied citron. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, each capable of containing li gills, and fill them equally with the preparation. Put into a basin 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar with two eggs, beat well with a whisk for two minutes, add 1 pint of cold milk, mix again for one minute, strain through a sieve into another basin, add 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and stir lightly for one minute longer. Pour this slowly over the puddings a little at a time, so that it will be absorbed; lay them in a pin, filled to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, and place in a moderate oven to steam for thirty minutes; then remove from the pan, and lay them in a cool place for one hour, afterwards leaving on ice until ready to serve. Take 1 pint of whipped cream, put it in a basin, mixing in for two minutes 1 gill of Maraschino, and leave on the ice until ready. Run a thin knife down each pudding separately, from top to bottom, pass it carefully around the mould so as to detach them easily, pour the Maraschino sauce over, and serve immediately. Maraschino Punch.—Put lib. of sugar into a basin with lqt. of water, and add the juice of a lemon and an orange and 1 breakfast-cupful of Maraschino. When well mixed, strain into a freezer; when frozen, add the well-beaten whites of three eggs, and freeze again, when it will be ready for use. Maraschino Spongeacle. Put lOoz. of sugar into a pan with lqt. of whipped cream, and when melted add 1 teacupful of whites of egg and | pint of Maraschino ; pass it twice through a sieve, put if on an ice-box, and turn well for a few minutes, keeping it well covered ; then remove the cover, turn it again, and with the left hand ease it away from the sides and bottom. As soon as it begins to thicken, leave off turning, and with the sprtula work it well from the bottom to the sides. The spatula is quite sufficient to make the ice-box turn, and it must be worked from the top to the bottom of the mass. When the cream is soft and light, and double its original bulk, add gradually a little more Maraschino mixed with syrup, working it well; put it in ice-glasses, and serve. Maraschino Toast.—Cut some very thin slices of bread from a household loaf, and trim to about 2in. rounds. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light golden colour. Put a little apricot jam (cherry or plum if desired) into a saucepan with a little water and Maraschino, and when melted and thoroughly incorporated, let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few Fig. 1128. Maraschino Toast. minutes. Put the pieces of fried bread on a dish, pour over the mixture, and serve while still hot. See Fig. 1128. MARBLE CAKE.—See Cakes. MARBLE CREAM.—See Cream. MARCHPANE.—See Marzipan. MARE’S MILK.—See Koumiss. MARGARINE.—This is the name given to an imitation butter, which is largely used in cooking. It was originally manufactured by a Frenchman, who,