889 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. hot or cold on a mounted dish covered with an ornamental paper. See Fig. 1108. Fig. 1108. Macaroni Pie. (5) Break some Macaroni into convenient-sized pieces, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour in salted water; drain the water off the Macaroni, and put in with it an onion stuck with three cloves, 1 pint of boiling milk, and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, keeping it boiling gently until quite cooked. Butter a pie-dish, line it with short-paste, fill it with alternate layers of the Macaroni, slices of hard- boiled eggs, and cooked mushrooms, and pour over the whole some tomato sauce ; roll out a flat of the paste, cover the pie with it, trim neatly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the pie until the crust is cooked, and serve it while hot with mushroom sauce mixed with the juice of a lemon. (6) Put lib. of Macaroni into boiling salted water, and boil until tender. Trim off all the fat, skin, and gristle from lib. of raw beef-steak, and cut the meat into rather small pieces. Put a layer of the Macaroni at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of the meat, dust over with salt and pepper, and strew a small quantity of finely-minced onion over it. Put in another layer of Macaroni, next a layer of meat and seasoning, and so on until the dish is full; pour in a small quantity of water, and cover the whole with a good pie-crust. Make a small hole in the top, brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of • egg, and bake ; the oven should not be too hot, as the meat should cook before the crust browns. When ready, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve the pie while hot. (7) Italian.—Put Jib. of Macaroni into a saucepan, cover it with clear broth, and boil for fifteen minutes, or until somewhat swollen, but not soft, then turn it on a colander and drain. Warm 4oz. of butter, then beat it well, adding the yolks of six eggs one at a time. Finely mince about fib. of cold veal or chicken. Butter a pudding-basin and line it with puff paste; put at the bottom a layer of the Macaroni, then a layer of the minced meat, and continue thus until all the ingredients are used, making the last layer of Macaroni; season the beaten eggs and butter with a little salt, pour them over the contents of the basin, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and put the basin into a moderately hot oven. When cooked, turn the pie out on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. (8) Milanese.—Break some pipe Macaroni into con- venient lengths, and boil it in salted water ; when tender, strain off all the water, put in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese and a lump of butter, moisten with nicely-flavoured rich beef gravy, toss over the tire for a few minutes, then move it to the side. Cut some small fillets off a breast of fowl, lay them in a buttered tin, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and cook in the oven. Rub 5oz. of butter into lib. of flour, and when smooth mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a sufficient quantity of warm water to knead the whole into a rather stiff paste. Roll the paste out, and line a buttered plain round mould with it. joining the edges together with beaten white of egg. Fill the mould with Macaroni—continued. the Macaroni, fillets of fowl, truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs cut into small pieces and cooked in gravy, small squares of cooked ham, and a moderate quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, moistening occasionally with good veal gravy. Cover the mould with a flat of paste, trim off round the edges, brush these with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, press them together, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for about one hour. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Macaroni Pudding.—(1) Put 2oz. or so of small pipe Macaroni into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, flavour with a little lemon-peel and cinnamon, and simmer gently until the Macaroni is tender. Turn it all into a pie-dish, put in the yolks of two or three eggs and the white of one, also sugar and grated nutmeg to taste, and pour over 1 table-spoonful of peach-juice and J wineglassful of raisin wine. Place a rim of paste round the edge of the dish, and bake. (2) Break the Macaroni into convenient lengths, put it into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of milk, plenty of sugar, and any flavouring liked, and boil until tender. When cooked, strain the Macaroni, and leave it until nearly cold. Beat three eggs well, mix them with the cold Macaroni, turn it into a buttered basin that will just hold it, and tie a floured cloth over the top. Put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. (3) Put 3oz. or 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil until a dark brown colour; warm a plain mould and pour the sugar into it, turning about with the hands until the mould is coated all over. Sweeten 1 pint of milk to taste with sugar, place it over the fire in a stewpan until boiling, then put in 2oz. of Macaroni broken into convenient-sized pieces. When the Macaroni is tender, let it cool a little, then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Pour the mixture into the lined mould, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Boil 2oz. of Macaroni in a saucepan with lqt. of water ; when tender, drain off’ the water and add J gill of milk and 2oz. of caster sugar. Toss the pan frequently until the milk is absorbed, add a little ground cinnamon or grated nutmeg to flavour, and serve with stewed fruit. (5) Boil 6oz. of Macaroni in salted water until quite tender, taking care not to break it; take it out, and drain. In the meantime, beat in a basin the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two, add 1 gill of cream, and pour it into a saucepan containing three thin slices of ham and the breast of a chicken, both well minced. Mix 3 table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese with half a blade of powdered mace, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, stir it into the egg mixture, add the Macaroni, and mix thoroughly. Pour it into a well-buttered mould, put the mould in a saucepan of water, but not sufficient to cover it, and boil for an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour some rich gravy over, garnish round with potato croquettes (see Fig. 1109), and serve. (6) Boil 3oz. of Macaroni in a little more than 1 pint of milk, and when cooked turn it into a pie-dish. Mix the beaten yolks of four eggs together with 1 pint of cream, sweeten with 2oz. of castor sugar, and flavour with a few drops of orange-flower water. Pour the cream over the Macaroni, and bake for twenty minutes in a good oven.