THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 854 For details rcspcctinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, >tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, trim off all the crusts, dip them in the eggs-and-milk, put in a stewpan of boiling butter, and fry until lightly and equally browned. Strain the juice of a large Lemon on to 3 heaped table- spoonfuls of caster sugar; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff’ froth, mix them with the sugar and Lemon-juice, and whisk all together. Drain the slices as they are fried, lay all on a hot dish, pour the white-of-egg mixture over, and serve without delay, as they should he eaten very hot. Lemon Trifle.—Put Jib. of powdered white sugar into a basin, add to it the grated rind of one Lemon and the strained juice of two, and let them lie for two hours, then grate in a little nutmeg and mix in J pint of sherry. Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, together with sufficient sugar to well sweeten it. Strain the Lemon- juice, wine, &c, and then mix in by degrees the whipped cream. Serve immediately in jelly-glasses, with sponge cakes or Naples biscuits accompanying it. Lemon Turnovers.—Mix with 1J table-spoonfuls of flour J table-spoonful of caster sugar, and the grated rind of one Lemon. Mix the above ingredients to a smooth batter, adding a little milk, then stir in two well-beaten eggs and 2oz. of butter warmed and beaten to a cream. Butter some tin patty-pans, pour in the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When baked, take out of the tins, put them on a folded napkin on a dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. Lemon Wafers.—(1) Beat two eggs for about half-an-hour, then mix with them 3 table-spoonfuls each of caster sugar and flour, the juice of one Lemon, and the grated peel of half a Lemon. Stir the above ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then spread it in small thin cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, put them in a slow oven, and bake until lightly coloured. When cooked, take the cakes out of the oven, roll them, one at a time, round the handle of a wooden spoon, and slip them off. (2) Warm slightly 2oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, mix with it 2oz. of caster sugar, beat a few minutes longer, then work in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour and l teaspoonful of essence of Lemon. When quite smooth divide the mixture into small pieces about the size of a walnut; make a wafer-iron hot, rub it inside with butter, put in a piece of the dough, press the irons well together upon it, and bake a delicate brown. Proceed with the remaining pieces of dough in the same way. (3) Squeeze the juice of six Lemons into a basin, take out all the pips, mix with it lOoz. of caster sugar and the well-whipped white of one egg, and beat them all to- gether with a wooden spoon till thick. Put a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin plate, spread 1 table-spoonful of the paste over the paper with a knife, then cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick on a. hot stove, with the paste side upwards; when they are half curled, take them off very carefully, and put them endwise on a sieve, so that they may curl up; keep them on the hot stove for the rest of the day, or until they curl right round. They are then ready for use. Lemon Water.—(1) Cut off two thin slices of Lemon, put them into a pot with 1 table-spoonful of capillaire, pour over 1 pint of boiling water, and in two hours’ time the liquor will be fit for drinking. (2) Thinly peel the rind of one Lemon, put it in a jar with 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, and pour over lqt. of boiling water. When cold, strain off the liquor, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of sherry. It is then ready for use Lemon Water-Ice.—(1) Rub off the rinds of six Lemons with Jib. of loaf sugar, put it into a basin, and strain the jirice of the Lemons over; with this prepare a syrup, using 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water and another pound of sugar. Strain and clear, then add the whites of four eggs, well beaten together with loz. of caster sugar. Put it into the freezer, and work as required. (2) Put into a basin Jib. of powdered sugar with lqt. of cold water; grate in the rind of a large Lemon, or of Lemons—continued. two small ones, squeezing in the juice of three good-sized ones, or of four if small, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes. Place a syrup-weigher in the centre of the preparation, and if it records 21 deg. it is correct, if not add a little more powdered sugar; remove the weigher, mix a little more, strain through a sieve into the freezer, put on the cover, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish over which has been spread a folded napkin. (3) Put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until reduced to a syrup; then move it from the fire, and put in the thinly-pared rinds of three large Lemons and their juice. When quite cold, strain the mixture through a silk sieve, turn it into a freezing-pot, work it until frozen, and serve in glasses; or pack it in a mould, and bury in ice for an hour, then turn on to a dish, and serve. (4) Mix with 1 pint of warm syrup the juice of ten Lemons and the rinds of three; when the Lemon-peel has soaked in the syrup long enough to draw the flavour out, strain and pour the syrup into a freezing-pot (see ICES), and work it till sufficiently frozen; then add by degrees one white-of-egg meringue paste. Finish as for Lemon Cream Ice. (5) Put 5 breakfast-cupfuls of water in a saucepan, bring it to the boil, put in lib. of sugar, let it dissolve, remove from the fire, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Lemon-juice, set on the fire, and bring it again to the boil, skimming as required. Mix loz. of arrowroot in 1 breakfast-cupful of water, stir it into the boiling water, and continue to stir until it becomes quite clear. Remove the pan from the fire, add ten drops of essence of Lemons, let it then cool, and freeze. Lemon Whey.—(1) Boil J pint of new milk with J pint of water and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; when boiling pour in sufficient Lemon-juice to curdle. Serve it while hot. (2) Put lqt. of milk in a porcelain-lined pan with the thinly-pared rinds and juice of two Lemons; when boiling stand the saucepan at the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for five minutes. Strain through a fine strainer, sweeten to taste with sugar, and serve when cold. (3) Put the juice of a small Lemon into a bowl, pour over it 1 teacupful of boiling milk, then add sugar to taste, and dilute with cold water before serving. (4) Squeeze 1 breakfast cupful of Lemon-juice into a jar; pour over double the quantity of boiling milk, sweeten to taste with sugar, mix thoroughly, and strain before using. Lemon Whips.—(1) Whisk together till very stiff \ pint of sherry, lqt. of cream, the grated rind of one Lemon, the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, and Lemon-juice and sugar to taste. When quite stiff, let it stand for a short time, and then put it into glasses, piling high. (2) Rub 6oz. of loaf sugar on the yellow rinds of three Lemons, then put the sugar in a mortar and pound well; mix with it the juice of the three Lemons, lj pints of cream, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Whip the whole to a stiff froth, pile it on to a glass dish, and serve; or it can be served in custard- glasses. Lemon Wine.—To Jgall. of water allow 1 Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and two large Lemons; peel the yellow rinds off the latter as thinly as possible, and put it into a tub that will hold the desired quantity of wine; boil the sugar and the water together for twenty minutes, keeping it well skimmed, then pour it over the Lemon-peel. Squeeze the juice out of the Lemons, and put it, with lib. of loaf sugar for every pint, into a pan, and boil until reduced to a thick syrup. When ready, mix the syrup with the water and peel, and when the mixture is just lukewarm put in it a piece of toast thickly covered on both sides with yeast. Let it work for two days, pour it into a cask, close the bung, and let it remain undisturbed for three months. At the end of that time draw off the wine, put it into bottles, cork tightly, and pack away in a cellar. Lemonade.—(1) Put Joz. of tartaric acid in a jug with 6oz. of loaf sugar, and 4 or 5 drops of essence of Lemons.