861 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lettuces—continued. to the side and let it simmer, keeping well skimmed, and reduce till it adheres to the hack of the spoon. Arrange the Lettuces on a hot dish, pour the demi-glaze over, and serve while very hot. (3) Wash and thoroughly clean eight cabbage Lettuces, drain, and cut them in halves lengthwise. Take out the cores, iill the cavities with sausage-meat, close the halves again, and tie them round with string. Put a little butter in a stewpan, lay a few slices of veal to about lin. in depth at the bottom, and place the lettuces on these. Pour in sufficient stock to cover, and 1 breakfast-cupful of clarified fat, an onion with two cloves in it, and a faggot of herbs. Put the pan (covered) on the fire, boil the con- tents, and then let them simmer for two hours. Take out the Lettuces, drain, and lay them on a cloth. Cut out some croutons of breadcrumb, about J-in. in thickness and the same shape as the Lettuces, and fry in butter. Arrange them on a dish alternately with the Lettuces, in a circle, and pour over all some melted half-glaze. A very tasty and novel dish for supper. Stuffed-Lettuce Soup.—(1) Blanch twenty Lettuces, cool them, and strain off all the water, pressing them slightly. Cut them down the centre but without quite separating, put 1 table-spoonful of fowl forcemeat in the centre of each, tie up in their original shapes, put them into a saucepan with \ pint each of veal broth and fowl con- somme, and boil for two hours. Take out, put them into a soup-tureen, strain over their stock, and fill up the tureen with more rich soup. (2) Trim off all the outside leaves, and thoroughly wash eight cabbage Lettuces; blanch and divide them into halves, cut out the cores, sprinkle a* little salt inside the Lettuces, and bind together with twine. Melt a small lump of butter in a stewpan, then put in some slices of veal, and lay the Lettuces on the top; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two cloves, 1 breakfast- cupful of clarified fat, and suiticient stock to cover. When it boils move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer for two hours. Drain the Lettuces, and lay them open on a cloth; fill the hollow in each with some chicken forcemeat, and smooth it over with the blade of a knife. Fold the ends and sides of the Lettuces over so as to entirely cover the forcemeat, then put them in a saute-pan, cover with boiling broth, and let them simmer gently till the forcemeat is cooked. When done, drain the Lettuces carefully, put them in a soup- tureen, pour over 2qts. of boiling clear soup, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. LEVERET.—See Hare. LIAISON.—The literal meaning of this French word is a joining, conjunction, or association, and thus it has been extended to those materials which are added to sauces to give them a body. The British cook describes it more practically as “ thickening.” Grimod de la Reyniere has expressed his conviction that the judicious use of these Liaisons constitutes one of the greatest secrets of the culinary art. At one time the wildest notions were entertained of what these Liaisons should consist: calcined bones,burnt sugar, and torrefied juices were common; but modern experience has taught the cook how to make the sauces unctuous, and thus bind together all the parts of a ragout so that no one shall predominate. The following are those most generally used, and will be found to answer every purpose required. Liaison of Blood.—Used for game or poultry only. The blood, having been saved, is mixed in a little cooled sauce first, and then stirred in. Liaison of Butter.—This is merely the addition of a certain quantity of butter at the last moment of cooking the sauce. Liaison of Butter and Cream.—The same as Liaison of Butter, with the addition of cream. Beat the butter and cream together and stir into the sauce. Liaison—continued. Liaison of Eggs.—Beat up the yolks of eggs in some of the sauce, after cooling it, and then pour this in, stirring slowly. If the yolks were added to the hot sauce without first beating with the cooled liquor, they would be almost certain to set and curdle before they were well mixed in. Liaison of Flour.—Sometimes the sauce is thickened by dredging into it either flour, cornflour, or even arrowroot; but the better plan is to rub a little till smooth in water, milk, or broth, and then pour it into the sauce through a strainer. Liaison of Roux.—Put into a bright frying-pan twice as much flour as butter, and let them mix together as the butter melts, stirring continually with a spoon or fork until the flour turns red, but without burning (see Roux). Other Liaisons, such as those made of Caramel, Glaze, or reduced Gravies, need no further explanation than is given under those headings. LICORICE.—See Liquorice. LIEBIG’S EXTRACT.—See Extracts. LIGHTNING CAKE.—(See Cakes. LIGHTS.—The lungs of an animal, so called from their lightness. These are further described under the names of the animals to which they belong. LILIES OF THE VALLEY.—A very excellent wine is made in Germany from the flowers of this plant mixed with raisins. LIMA BEANS.—(See Beans. LIMES.—The fruit of the Citrus Limetta, which is closely allied to the lemon, but being rather sweeter and smaller. The juice, for which they are chiefly cultivated, is imported into England in a greater or less degree of purity, and is used for making cordials. It is supplied to sailors as a preventative of scurvy. Limes can be preserved as follows : (1) Select twelve large Limes, make some incisions in the rind of each, then rub them over with Jib. of common salt; put them on a dish, and keep in the screen near the fire for five days or until soft. Put the Limes in jars, cover with boiling vinegar in which has been boiled 2oz. of mustard-seed, 2oz. of bruised ginger, and Joz. of pepper- corns, and put a lump of salt in each jar. On the follow- ing day cork the jars, tie a piece of moistened bladder over the top, and keep them in a dry store-clcset till ready for use. (2) Weigh the Limes, then set aside double their weight in loaf sugar. Boil the Limes till a straw will easily pierce the rinds, changing the water two or three times while boiling. When cooked, take them out, drain, and leave till cold. Cut the Limes in slices, pick out all the pips, and put the slices in an earthenware vessel. Boil the sugar that has been weighed, using 1 pint of water to each 2Jlb. of sugar. Pour the syrup, while boiling hot, over the Limes, and let it stand for two days and nights. At the end of that time, boil the syrup and Limes together for fifteen minutes, then turn them into the jars, and leave till cold. Dip some rounds of paper in brandy, put them over the jars, then cover with paper dipped in the white of egg, tie tightly down, and keep in a dry store-closet till ready for use. (3) Prick the Limes, place them in cold water, and let them steep for several days. Then put them over the fire in a thick, clear syrup made of loaf sugar and water, and let them get thoroughly heated; then take from the fire and let them stand fill night. Next day boil up the syrup, add a little more sugar to it, pour it over the Limes, and again let them stand till next day. Repeat this, day after day, till the fruit looks quite clear; bottle the fruit and pour the syrup over it; or else diy it in confectioners’ sugar, and when dry enough to handle pack away in a dry place. Cooley says, with regard to Lime-juice: “We have examined the juice expressed from Limes sent from the