THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 756 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares —continued. Timbale of Leveret.—Skin and clean a Leveret, cut it up into rather small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a little melted bacon-fat, and add Jib. of streaky bacon blanched and cut up into pieces, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion. Place the pan over a good fire, fry the meats until set, sprinkle over a little salt, and add a few spices to taste. Drop in fifteen or sixteen large mushrooms, each c ut in quarters, also 1 wineglassful of white wine, put the lid on the pan, and cook until the moisture of the mushroo ms has reduced; then remove the pan from the fire, and let the contents cool. Butter a timbale-mould, and sprinkle it all over inside with a few nouilles finely shredded; line the mould with thin layers of short-paste, and cover this with a mince made of lean pork and fat bacon in equal proportions; fill it up with the meat from the Hare, over this put a layer of the minced pork and bacon, cover this again with a flat round of the paste, and fix it to the sides. Put the mould on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Take it out, turn it on a dish, cut a small hole in the top, pour in a little brown sauce reduced with some mushroom trimmings, and serve. HARICOT—There seems to be a great deal of diffi- culty about this word, which has in our language at least two different and totally distinct culinary meanings. One is a sort of stew, and the other a bean. This is ingeniously explained by certain etymological professors, who accept the former as a German corruption of the French ragout—the r being pronounced by Germans as ha-ra and the g as c—thus making ha-ra-cout, the change to Haricot being then sufficiently simple. As regards the bean, we may accept with discreet reser- vation the explanation offered by Kettner. “ It means a snail. There has been a peculiar tendency to designate this kind of bean in a simile. The ancients called it Pliaseolus—a little boat, and Linnaeus has fixed this for the name of the tribe. We in England call it a kidney - bean, and the Portuguese called one of its varieties a caracol, or snail; the Italians, a caraco or caracolla. This is the word which the French have transfigured into haricot, and have allotted to the species.” See Mutton, Beans, &c. HARLEQUIN CAKE. —See Cakes. HARSLET.—See Haslet. HARTSHORN.—The shavings of stag’s horn, which may be obtained from turners. They are said to yield a very nutritious jelly ; but the nutritive qualities are much exaggerated, and originated in an exploded belief that the condition of the body was influenced by the hard and enduring quality of the Hart’s horn. A few receipts are appended. Hartshorn Creams.—Put Jib. of Hartshorn shavings and 3 pints of water in a stewpan, and boil till reduced to J pint. Strain through a jelly-bag, add to this 4oz. of powdered white sugar and 1 pint of cream, give it another boil, and put Fig. 941. Hartshorn Creams. it into cups to cool. When quite cold, turn the creams out, put them on a dish, stick some blanched almonds cut length- wise into strips on the top of each, and serve sugar and white wine with them. See Fig. 941. Hartshorn—continued. Hartshorn Jelly.—(1) Put Jib. of Hartshorn shavings in a preserving-pan with 2qts. of water, and boil slowly until the liquor is reduced to half its former quantity. Strain through a fine hair sieve, return it to the pan with the thinly-pared rinds of three oranges and two lemons, and boil again for a shoi't time. Move it off the fire, let it cool a little, then mix in the juice of the oranges and lemons, Jib. of crushed loaf sugar, and the well-whisked whites of six eggs. Boil the jelly three or four times without stirring, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and pour into glasses or jars. When cold, cover first with brandied papers, then with wet parch- ment, and keep them in a cool cupboard. (2) Put Jib. of Hartshorn shavings into a saucepan with Jgall. of water, and boil over a brisk fire until it is reduced to 1 pint. Add the juice of a lemon and sugar to taste. Pass it through a very fine strainer or jelly-bag into a mould, and let it set; then turn out and serve ; or proceed as for No. 1. (3) Put into a saucepan Joz. each of rice, sago, pearl barley, powdered cinnamon, and Hartshorn shavings, pour in 1J tea- cupfuls of water, and let the whole simmer very gently until dissolved. Next pour the jelly into a mould, and leave it until cold. It can afterwards be mixed with wine, brandy, or milk. HARVEY’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. HASH.—This word originates with the French liacher —to chop into small pieces ; but use has extended its mean- ing in this country to a sort of stew compounded of chopped meat and vegetables which have already been cooked. Some excellent receipts for Hashes will be found under various headings. HASLET.—This name (written also Harslet) is given by some cooks to the edible viscera, such as the heart, liver, kidneys, sweetbread, &c., of any animal. It is said to be derived from the Latin hasta—a spear; hence, a spit; but the connection between the internal viscera and the spit is more fanciful than real. HASTY PUDDING.—As the name infers, this owes its chief popularity to the expedition with which it can be prepared and served. It may be made from almost any meal, according to the following receipts. See also Cornflour and Oatmeal. (1) Mix lib. of flour with lqt. of cold fresh milk till quite smooth, put it over the fire in a saucepan, stir constantly till it boils, and boil for nearly a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring occasionally; then take it from the fire and let it cool. Beat up ten eggs ; blanch and pound ljoz. of sweet almonds, adding a little of the beaten egg to keep them from oiling. When Fig. 942. Hasty Puddings served in Basins. the boiled flour and milk is cold, mix into it the eggs and the pounded almonds, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, pour the pudding into small shallow basins or cups (see Fig. 942), bake, and serve hot with wine sauce. Before serving, ornament the top with shredded almonds. (2) Put 1J pints of milk into a saucepan over the fire ; when it boils, stir in as much flour as will make it quite thick, sprinkling the flour in with the hand ; boil it well for fifteen minutes. Serve hot, with either treacle or sugar and fresh butter. Grated nutmeg is sometimes added, and a squeeze of lemon-juice is a great improvement.