THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 745 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. in a stewpan witli a little butter until quite brown ; remove them from the pan, put in the pieces of Hare, and cook until they are quite firm. Lift them out, and mix in a little flour to thicken the gravy; then add lqt. of broth and 1 pint of red wine. Place the pieces of Hare back again, also the bacon, and add a bunch of parsley, a few onions, spices, pepper and salt to taste, and a little trimmings of mushrooms. Place the pan on the fire again, and boil for an hour. Skim off the fat, and put the pieces of Hare and bacon (one at a time) into a clean saucepan. Skim again, place it on the fire, and reduce until it is quite thick and will adhere to the Hare after having been passed through a fine sieve. Put a few onions fried in butter to a light brown in a saucepan with a little broth, and stew them; add a few mushrooms also fried in butter, and the blood and liver to thicken. Warm up, and let it remain on the side of the fire, taking care not to boil it, or the blood would be likely to curdle, when the sauce would not be of the required dark colour. Place the pieces of meat on a dish, and serve with the onion broth mixed with the sauce poured over the Hare. Fig. 926. Broiled Hare. Civet of Hare a la Bourgeoise.—Clean a Hare, and cut it into small pieces, saving the blood. Put 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until mixed; then put in the pieces of Hare, with a few slices of fat bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms and artichoke-bottoms, a few small onions fried brown in butter, and salt and pepper, moistening with \ pint of white wine and sufficient stock to cover. Stew the Hare until tender, and then put the pieces on a dish. Skim the sauce, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, add the crushed liver of the Hare and the blood, and boil again. Pour the sauce over the Hare, and serve. Civet of Hare a la Chasseur.—The following very elaborate dish is advocated by Dubois, but appears to possess un- necessary complications. Skin and draw a Hare, putting the liver, heart, and lungs in one basin, and the blood in another with a little vinegar and the juice of a lemon. Cut up the back, loins, and hind-legs, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and let them marinade in this for two or three hours. Prepare a light brown roux; drain and wipe the pieces of Hare, add them to the roux, and cook over a moderate fire, turning frequently, until a light brown. Put these into a stewpan, pour over sufficient red and white wine in equal quantities to cover the meat, also the liquor of the marinade, one onion, and a few sweet herbs, and boil for five or six minutes; then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and cover the lid with hot ashes. Cut two large onions into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 5oz. of lard, and fry over a moderate fire until they ai'e light brown. Finely chop the liver, heart, and lungs, add them to the onions, sprinkle over a little cayenne and salt, and toss over the fire until they are well done; add a few table-spoonfuls of Madeira wine to moisten the mince, and reduce it over a slow fire; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of rich sauce, put the whole in a mortar, pound well, and pass it through a sieve. Have ready a dozen round paste croustades, fried and emptied, fill them up with the mixture, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in butter, and put them in a slow oven to keep hot. When the civet is nearly done, about fifteen minutes before serving, take each piece out of the pan, and arrange them in another stewpan; then slightly dilute the sauce with broth, strain, and pour it over the Hare; put in two dozen mushrooms, cover the pan, and complete the cooking. Set the Hare on a dish, pour the Hares—continued. sauce over it, and arrange the croustades in a circle round the meat. Put a few table-spoonfuls of rum in a sugar-pan, warm it a little, set it alight, and pour it over. This last should be done just as it is being served, and it will give a very pretty effect. Civet of Hare a la Franpaise.—Skin a good-sized Hare, draw it, preserving the blood if there is any, and also the liver, with the gall carefully removed. Place the blood and the liver on the same dish, and cut the Hare into twelve pieces; put these into a stone jar, seasoning with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, adding also one sliced onion, one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and £ wineglassful of white wine; mix all well together, and steep for six hours. Lift out the pieces of Hare, put them in a saucepan witli loz. of butter, adding twelve glazed small onions and loz. of salted pork cut into small pieces, and cook on a brisk fire for ten minutes; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir well, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of red wine also 1 pint of white broth, and stir until it boils, seasoning again with salt and pepper. Cook for one hour longer, and fifteen minutes before it is done put in the blood, heart, and liver, both finely chopped and mixed together. Serve on a dish, with croutons of fried bread for garnish. Sssence of Hare.—Break up the bones of two or three Hares and put them with their trimmings into a saucepan ; add a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with three cloves, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Madeira. Boil till the moisture is reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth. When the broth boils, skim it, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer for an-hour-and- a-half. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin, and leave till cooled; then skim well, and bottle it for future use. Fillets of Hare with. Poivrade Sauce.--Clean two Hares, cut off the fillets, remove the skin, and lard them well, using a small needle. Put them in a deep dish, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, adding one onion, one carrot, cut in pieces, and G table-spoonfuls of white wine. Let all soak together for two hours, then transfer the whole to a baking- pan, with some scraps of pork rind placed at the bottom of the pan, and put this in the oven to cook. Place the fillets on a dish, pour in the pan 1 gill of hot broth, let it come to the boil, strain it over the fillets, and serve with poivrade sauce separately. Fillets of Hare to resemble Roebuck.—Cut off the fillets from three Hares, lard them equally with strips of fat bacon, and put them into a deep basin with a little parsley, two sliced onions, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, salt, and pepper, 1 wineglass- ful of vinegar, and half that quantity of water. Let them remain in this to steep for two days, then take them out, drain, and fry in a frying-pan with a little butter. Take out before they are quite done, and glaze them. Serve upon a dish, with poivrade sauce in a tureen. Fillets of Hare Sautes.—Trim the fillets, and lay them side by side in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. Put the bones and trimmings of the Hare in a saucepan with a little broth, season, and simmer for half-an-hour. Skim the fat off the liquor of the bones, pass it through a fine Fig. 927. Fillets or- Hare Sautes. hair sieve into a deep stewpan, mix with it 1 teacupful of vinegar and a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil until reduced to half-glaze. Take the bunch of herbs out of the sauce, add a small piece of lemon-peel and 2 table- spoonfuls .of red-currant jelly, and boil for five minutes; then put in 1 teacupful of dried currants that have been