THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 778 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Stc., referred to, see under their special heads. Indian Corn—continued. fine wire sieve. Put a few pieces of celery, a buncli of parsley and sweet herbs in a saucepan with 3 pints of clear broth, and boil for thirty minutes. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, put in the prepared corn, and boil up again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Green-Corn-and-Tomato Soup. —Put 21b. of beef, cut up into small pieces, into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil gently at the side of the fire for two hours. Skim the liquor, put in several larg'e tomatoes, and boil them for an hour. When cooked, drain and pass the tomatoes through a fine hair sieve, and return them to the soup. Boil a few ears of corn in salted water; when cooked, free the corn from the cob and put it in the soup ; put in also a small lump of butter, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the soup again, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Kentucky Green-Corn Pudding.—Put 1 pint of grated green corn in a basin ; mis with it 1 pinch of salt, a small quantity of warmed butter, and the yolks of three eggs beaten Fig. 971. Kentucky Green1-Corn Pudding. along with J pint of milk. Butter a pan, pour in the batter, and bake till set in the middle. It is to be served as a vegetable. See Fig. 971. New Bedford Corn Pudding.—Grate the corn from twelve ears; mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 1| pints of milk, and four well-beaten eggs. Butter a pie-dish and pour the mixture into it. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours, and serve hot. If the corn is old and dry, lqt. of milk should be used. Pickled Green Corn. - (1) Procure the corn while unripe and about the size of the little finger ; peel off the leaves, and lay the ears in a pickle-jar, with a few small pieces of basilicum and a few bay-leaves mixed in with them. Put a sufficient quantity of vinegar in a saucepan over the fire to cover, and when boiling pour it over the corn. When the vinegar has cooled, tie a piece of wet parchment or thick paper over the top of the jar, and leave for a fortnight or so before using the pickle. (2) Put the corn into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it for a minute; then drain, and pack it in a stone or earthenware jar. Put sufficient vinegar in a saucepan to cover the corn; flavour it with shallots cut into halves, bay- leaves, basilicum, and a few cloves and peppercorns. Boil the vinegar for ten minutes, then take it off the fire, and when cold, pour it over the corn. Sprinkle a few table-spoonfuls of mustard-seeds on the top, cover the jar with a piece of bladder, tie it round securely, and place it in a cupboard. Pop-Corn Balls.—Put the required quantity of pop-corn into a basin, and pour over syrup boiled to the feather degree (see Syrups). When the corn is thoroughly incorporated, form the mixture into balls with the hands, and put it into a press formed like a lemon squeezer. When compactly pressed, wrap the balls in tissue paper, and they are ready for use. The syrup may be flavoured with vanilla extract or lemon if desired. Pop-Corn Candy.—Put loz. of butter into a sugar-boiler with 1 breakfast-cupful of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and f tea- cupful of water, and boil to the candy degree (see Sugar- boiling) ; then mix in 3qts. of pop-corn, and stir until it is well covered with the sugar. Great care must be taken that it does not scorch. Take the pan off the fire, and con- tinue stirring the corn until it has cooled a little. Turn it on to a sheet of paper, and leave until quite cold and dry. Preserved Green Corn.—Choose very full ears of tender com, remove the husk and silk, cut the corn from the cob Indian Corn—continued. with the back of a knife, pack it in glass jars, filling them and pressing the corn down, and then close them with rubber and porcelain-lined covers. Put some laths across the bottom of a large boiler, and fill it with the jars of corn, laying a little straw or hay between each to prevent them knocking against one another during the boiling. Pour in enough cold water to half cover the jars, put the boiler over the fire, with a cloth and the cover over it, and boil the Corn steadily for three hours, taking care that there is water enough to furnish a full volume of steam. Take up the jars, and screw the covers as tight as possible. When the jars are cold, again screw the covers, and keep the Corn in a cool dark place. Puree of Green Corn.—Wash and drain lqt. of sweet corn; put it into a saucepan with 2qts. of boiling water, two or three small onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, one carrot, two or three cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil the corn until tender, then pour it on to a fine wire sieve, remove the onions, carrot, parsley, thyme, and cloves, and rub the corn through the sieve, using a wooden spoon. Return the corn to the saucepan with a small quantity of rich broth and 2oz. of butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Serve the puree very hot. Roasted Green Corn.—Husk one dozen ears of corn, and remove the silk ; rub them with butter, season with pepper and salt, lay them in a dripping-pan, and place the pan as close as possible to a clear hot fire. Occasionally turn the ears, and change their position in the pan so that all may cook evenly; when they are browned, serve hot. Stewed Green Corn.—(1) Remove the husks and silk from one dozen ears of fresh green corn; cut downwards through the centre of each row of grains, and then scrape them out of their skin with the back of a knife ; when all are cut, put them into a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Mix to a smooth paste 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and when the corn has boiled add the butter and flour to it, together with J pint of milk, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; boil again for three minutes, and then serve. Cream may be used instead of the thickened milk if desired. (2) Put a saucepan containing water over the fire with a lump of salt; shell the corn, throw it into the water when boiling, and boil until nearly cooked. Drain the corn, put it into another saucepan, moisten with a small quantity of broth and rich meat gravy, and boil until quite cooked. Season the corn to taste with salt and pepper, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put a tin of corn into a saucepan together with the liquor in which it is preserved, and cook over a moderate fire until tender; drain the liquor, and mix with it enough milk to make up a pint. Stir together over the fire 1 table- spoonful each of butter and flour until they bubble, then gradually mix in the milk and liquor from the corn, add the corn also, let it boil once, season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. Stewed Green Corn and Tomatoes.—Put twelve tender ears of corn in salted water, boil them for about fifteen minutes, and then cut the corn off the cob. Peel about 21b. of tomatoes, cut them in small pieces, put in a saucepan with pepper, salt, and butter, stand the pan at the back of the range, and simmer the contents till reduced to two- thirds of the original bulk. Then mix the tomatoes and corn together, and serve as a vegetable or as a separate dish. INDIAN CRESS.—See Nasturtiums. INDIAN CURRY.—See Curry. INDIAN PICKLES.—See Pickles. INDIAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. INDIAN SAUCE l’Indienne).—See Sauces. INDIAN TARTLETS.—See Tartlets. INDIAN TOFFY.—See Toffy. INDIGO.—-A vegetable colouring, sometimes used | very sparingly in confectionery.