THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 808 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Add the juice of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg'. Let them steep for about two hours, stirring at times; then take the pieces out, run skewers through the centres, interlarding them with pieces of salt pork, dip the brochettes in bread- crumbs, and broil for four minutes on each side. Pour J pint of hot Colbert sauce into a dish, arrange the brochettes neatly on this, and serve (see Fig. 1015). Broiled Breast of Lamb.—(1) Heat a gridiron over a clear fire, grease it with a little suet or fat, lay the breast of Lamb on it, and when well done one side turn it and finish cooking the other. Warm 2oz. of butter, work in a little pepper and salt, then spread it over the meat. Put the joint on a hot dish, and serve with mint sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Put five or six slices each of carrot, turnip, onion, and a bunch of thyme and parsley at the bottom of a stew- pan, lay the breast of Lamb on the vegetables, sprinkle in a little salt, and pour in lqt. or more of water, according to the size of the joint. When boiling, move the stew- pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the breast is sufficiently tender for the bones to be easily removed; then drain it, draw the bones, season the meat with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg and then in bread- crumbs, put it on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and broil both sides till done. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour a little rich brown gravy round, and serve with tomato sauce. (3) Remove the skin and sinews from two breasts of Lamb, and boil them in a little broth from which the fat has not been skimmed; when tender, drain them, take away the rib- bones, and press the meat between two plates till cool. When ready to serve, sprinkle salt and pepper over, dip them in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil over a clear fire for fifteen minutes, turning to do both sides. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of hot ravigote sauce. (4) Boil three medium-sized breasts of Lamb in the stock- pot for fifty minutes, or until the bones detach themselves. Take out the meat, put it under a heavy weight, and let it cool; then pare neatly. Cut each breast into halves, place them on a dish, season with 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and moisten with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil. Roll them in breadcrumbs, and broil for four minutes on each side. Serve with 1 pint of hot jardiniere garnishing (a la Jardiniere) on the dish, and the breasts nicely arranged over it; or it may be served with a puree of peas (aux petits pois), or piquante or poivrade sauce. Broiled Lamb Chops.—(1) Trim the required quantity of chops that have been cut from a loin of Lamb (they should be about ljin. thick), put them on a heated girdiron, and broil over a clear fire. When nicely browned both sides, put a mound of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, lean the chops against it, and serve hot. (2) Select the required quantity of Lamb chops, trim them, and broil over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. When done, put them on a hot dish. Turn some green peas mixed with a little butter or cream sauce round them, and serve. Fig. 1016. Broiled Lamb Chop, in Paper. Broiled Lamb Chops, in Paper.—Trim the chops neatly, removing the skin and superfluous fat, dip them in warmed butter, then strew finely-chopped parsley and chives over. Lamb—continued. Wrap them separately in sheets of buttered paper (see Fig. 1016), put them on a girdiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, put the chops on a hot dish, pour a rich brown piquant sauce over, and serve. Broiled Lamb Cutlets.—(1) Cut some cutlets off a neck of Lamb, and trim them as for mutton cutlets ; beat the yolks of two eggs with a little warmed butter, dip the cutlets in the butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil on a gridiron over a clear fire; turn them when done one side and finish cooking them the other. Arrange on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a rich brown gravy. (2) Cut and trim the cutlets off two necks of Lamb, butter and breadcrumb them, and broil over a clear fire. Cut in |in. dice some pieces of foie gras, truffles, and mushrooms; reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of truffles; put a croustade on a hot dish, fill it with the mushroom and truffle salpicjon, arrange the cutlets round it, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Shoulder of Lamb.—The shoulder of Lamb should first be boiled, then scored crosswise about lin. square. Brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, and dried parsley over, put it on a heated gridiron, and broil over a clear fire till lightly browned both sides. Mix 1 tablespoonful of flour with 5 pint of water, stir it over the fire till boiling, then add a small lump of butter; when that is dissolved, mix in a little mushroom ketchup and the juice of half a lemon. Put the Lamb on a hot dish; pour the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. Curried Lamb.—(1) Cut some cooked leg of Lamb into middling-sized dice, and remove all the skin and gristle. Fry a chopped onion with a little butter in a stewpan till brown, then put in nearly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of well-washed and dried rice; stir for a few minutes over the fire, moisten to twice its height with broth from which the fat has not been skimmed, and boil the rice on a slow fire, adding more broth occasionally, so that it does not get too dry. When nearly tender, mix in 2 small table-spoonfuls of curry powder previously diluted with 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes ; then take it off, put in the chopped meat, place the lid on the saucepan, and stand it at the side of the fire for a few minutes to thoroughly heat the Lamb. Pour the curry on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Cut 31b. of shoulder of Lamb into pieces about 2in. square, wash well in fresh water, drain, put into a saucepan, and cover with fresh water. Let it boil, then strain through a colander, and wash again in water. Place the pieces again in the saucepan, covering them with boiling water, season with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, six small onions, and a bouquet of sweet herbs; put the lid on, and cook for forty minutes. Strain off the liquor into another saucepan containing ^ pint of white roux, stirring well until it boils, and then stand it at the side of the stove. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with the juice of half a lemon, add this to the sauce, dropping it in a little at a time, and stirring continually. Pour all over the Lamb, and sprinkle over it 1 pint of cooked asparagus-tops, being careful not to let it boil again. Serve with a border of hot boiled rice all round the dish. Epigrammes of Lamb.—(1) Boil two breasts of Lamb; when tender, drain and bone them, and keep the rib-bones, then press the meat between two plates till cool. Divide the breasts into eight pieces, trim them to the shape of cutlets, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Melt some butter in a frying- pan, put in the cutlets, and fry both sides till brown, sticking one of the rib-bones in each piece of breast, affixing it to the pointed end. In the meantime, trim eight Lamb cutlets, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry for twelve minutes in boiling fat, basting them with a little melted glaze; put a paper ruffle on the bone of each, and arrange them alternately with the pieces of breast on a hot dish. Pour into the pan in which the cutlets were fried 1 teacupful of white wine; when it boils, thicken with ^ pint of reduced bechamel sauce, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then mix in some cooked mushrooms, cooked Lamb’s brains cut in pieces, and a few small glazed Lamb's sweetbreads. When boiling, pour the