THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 899 Mackerel—con tinu ed. Boiled Mackerel with. Walnut Sauce.—Clean and trim the Mackerel, put it in a fish-kettle with water to cover and a small lump of salt, and boil gently. When cooked, lift the Mackerel carefully out of the fish-kettle, and leave until cold. Peel the kernels of forty walnuts, put them in a mortar and pound to a smooth paste. Soak the crumb of a stale penny roll in as much milk as it will absorb, then put it in with the pounded walnuts and beat well together. Mix in gradually with the walnuts and bread 1 teacupful of the finest Lucca oil and the juice of one lemon; then season to taste with salt and pepper. Lay the fish on a dish, spread the sauce over it, garnish with stoned olives and slices of lemon, and stand it on ice until ready to serve. Boiled marinaded Mackerel.—Put sufficient weak broth in a fish-kettle fitted with a drainer to cover a dozen medium-sized Mackerel, add three or four small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 4 teacupful of vinegar, eight or ten cloves, with pepper and salt to taste, and boil all together for one hour ; then, having thoroughly cleaned the fish, put them in and cook. When done, take the fish out care- fully on the drainer, being careful not to break them, and put one by one on a hot dish, piling them methodically. Strain the liquor in which they were cooked (the marinade), put in some chopped parsley and hard-boiled eggs, thicken it, mix in some white gravy sauce, turn it into a sauce- boat, and serve with the fish. Broiled Fillets of Mackerel.—(1) Choose a good-sized Mackerel, clean it, remove the fillets, and put them in a saute-pan, skin side upwards, with £ teacupful each of oil and port wine, and a little salt and pepper ; boil over the fire for fifteen minutes, turning to do both sides. When cooked, take the fish out, cut each fillet in two, and put them round a hot dish. Pour 3 teacupfuls of bi-own sauce in the saute-prn, boil it for five or six minutes, then add 1 teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, a little lemon-juice, a pinch of sugar, and the chopped roe of the Mackerel ; stir over the fire for five minutes, then pour it on the fillets, sprinkle some browned breadcrumbs over, and serve very hot. (2) Remove the fillets from three Mackerel, cut each fillet in two, trim and pare them equally, and sprinkle salt and pepper over; dip them first in beaten eggs, next in breadcrumbs, then in clarified butter, and again in bread- crumbs ; broil till nicely browned over a clear fire, and serve when cooked, arranged overlapping each other in a circle on a dish, with a white, sharp sauce in the middle. Broiled Mackerel.—(1) Draw and wash the Mackerel, cut off their heads, mb over with salt, and leave for an hour. Rub a gridiron with olive oil, lay the Mackerel on it, and broil over a moderate charcoal fire. Put some chopped parsley and onions on a hot dish, and when the fish is cooked lay them on it, squeeze over lemon-juice, and serve. (2) Thoroughly clean a good-sized fresh Mackerel, open- ing it as little as possible, and make a long cut the whole length of the fish on each side of the backbone. Mix a little salt and cayenne with a few drops of the best salad-oil, and put it into the cuts with a feather. Wrap the fish in a well-buttered sheet of writing-p? per, and put it over a clear fire on a well-greased hot gridiron, loosening gently if it sticks to the gridiron; when one side is done, turn it and broil the other, then turn the back to the fire. Half an-hour’s broiling ought to cook it. (3) Clean the fish well, dry, split them along the back- bone, lay them open, and rub with finely-powdered mixed herbs, salt, and pepper, and broil on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. (4) Clean the Mackerel by splitting them down the backs, rub well inside with vinegar, pepper, and salt, dust over with plenty of flour, put them on a gridiron over a quick fire, and broil. Serve hot with either melted butter, parsley, fennel, or lemon sauce. (5) Split the fish open, wipe with a cloth, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and hang up in a cool place till the next day. Then dip the Mackerel in a little warmed butter, lay For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Mackerel—continued. them on a gridiron, and broil over a very slow fire, turn- ing and basting frequently with butter. Sprinkle finely- chopped parsley over them during the last two or three minutes of cooking, arrange on a very hot dish, garnish with five sprigs of parsley, and serve. Broiled Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel.—(1) Chop off the heads, fins, and points of the tails of five large Mackerel, and with a sharp knife make a cut about lin. deep from head to tail. Put them into a marinade for fish for an-hour- and-a-half, using about 1 breakfast-cupful of sweqt-oil, rub well frequently, take them out, wipe, put them on an oiled gridiron at a little distance apart, and broil until done and of a good colour, turning on their backs for five minutes towards the finish. Take them off, put on a dish, lift up the flesh from the backs, pour in a little warmed butter seasoned with lemon-juice, chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and serve. (2) Cut off the heads and tails of three Mackerel, split them down the backs, and take out the bones; then put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Boil twelve small onions ; scald a bunch each of parsley and fennel, and a small cucumber, chop the two former, and cut the latter into dice. Put all these into a saucepan with a lump of butter, season to taste, cook for a very few minutes so as to thoroughly melt the butter, then turn the whole over the fish, already placed on a dish, squeeze over the juice of two lemons, and serve. Broiled Mackerel served with. Black Butter.—Cleanse half-a-dozen fine Mackerel, open and remove the bones (see Boning), spread a little butter, and sprinkle some pepper and salt over them. Put the fish on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put a pat of butter in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till richly browned, then squeeze in some lemon-juice. Put the fish on a hot dish, arrange some neat little sprigs of parsley round, pour over the butter, and serve while very hot. Broiled Mackerel in Flemish Style. -Choose large Mackerel, clean, and stuff them with butter mixed with finely-chopped chives, shallots, a little lemon-juice, salt, and pepper. Wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, tie up the ends, and broil over a slow clear fire for twenty-five minutes, turning occasionally so as to cook them equally all through. When cooked, take off the papers, put the fish on a hot dish, and serve. Broiled Mackerel served with Normandy Sauce. —Clean and marinade five or six Mackerel in oil, a slice of onion, and a few sprigs of parsley. The roes must not be taken out. Fill up with as much maitre-d’hotel butter as they will hold, wrap round with sheets of oiled paper, securing the ends with thread, place them on a gridiron over a. clear fire, which must be a slow one, and broil for forty minutes or so. When done, remove the paper, put the fish on a dish, mask them with Normandy sauce, and serve with crofltons of fried bread for grrnish. Broiled stuffed Mackerel served with Mushroom Sauce. —Clean and remove the roes and fins from six Mackerel, wash and dry them, stuff with fish forcemeat, and sew up. Put them into a marinade with sweet-oil for about an hour, and rub frequently; then take them out, drain, put them on a gridiron over a very slow but char fire, and broil, allowing from forty to forty-five minutes. Put them on a dish, pour over mushroom sauce, and serve. Mackerel broiled in this way will require a long time, so that the stuffing may be cooked as well as the fish. Broiled Salted Mackerel.—Clean a salted (Mackerel, divide it lengthwise, and put it on a gridiron, or toast before the fire, browning the inside part first. When done, put it on a dish with the skin uppermost, and serve with 1 table- poonful of melted butter poured over. It will take about live minutes to cook. Broiled Spanish Mackerel.—(1) Tl.is fish is very much scarcer than the common Mackerel, and can be cooked in the usual way, but is generally prepared as follows: Cut a fish weighing about lib. down the middle to take out all the bones, and then again into halves; dry the pieces well on a cloth, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 u 2