888 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. Then make a nice brown mince of any cold meat, poultry and game that may he hi the house, together with a small piece of ham or bacon, both fat and lean. Season the meat with finely-chopped onion, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and moisten with gravy flavoured with ketchup and Worcestershire sauce. Thickly butter the inside of a pudding-basin ; cut the Macaroni into pieces Jin. long, and stick these pieces upright and very closely all over the inside of the basin, so that when turned out it will look like a honeycomb ; fill the basin with the mince, and lay the rest of the Macaroni on top. Tie over a floured cloth, and boil for about an hour. Take it out of the saucepan five minutes before turning out. Serve hot, with very little gravy in the dish, but a small tureen of good gravy with it. (2) Wash Alb. of Macaroni, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Then drain the Macaroni as dry as possible and leave until cold. Chop very finely 111), of any cold cooked meat, mix with it 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 1 scant dessert- spoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Thickly butter the interior of a basin; cut the Macaroni into pieces about lin. long, put a layer of it in the basin, next a layer of the chopped meat and crumbs, then a layer of Macaroni, and so on until the basin is filled. Pour in 1 teacupful of milk ; when that is absorbed, lay a sheet of paper over the top of the basin, twist the edges underneath the rim to fix them, stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil gently for an-hour- and-a-half. More boiling water may be poured in as the quantity diminishes, care being taken not to let it enter the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the shape out of the basin on to a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Cut into small pieces either some veal, mutton, or beef, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently for half-an-hour ; mix in a few table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and leave at the edge of the fire until tender. Put the required quantity of Macaroni into a saucepan contain- ing boiling water, boil quickly for twenty minutes, then drain the Macaroni and mix it with the meat; cut two or three slices off a tin loaf, remove the crust, and toast the bread lightly on both sides. Place the toast on a hot dish, turn the Macaroni and meat over it, and serve. Macaroni with. Oil (GERMAN).—Break the required quan- tity of Macaroni into convenient-sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of milk to cook them, and boil gently until tender. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and when ready turn it on to a sieve to drain. Put it into a lined stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of salad-oil and some grated Parmesan cheese, and toss it over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, garnish with a border of finely-grated tongue, and serve. Macaroni Omelet.—(1) Cut 2oz. of Macaroni into small pieces, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take them out,-drain, and put in a basin in a warm place. In the meantime, turn 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan, boil, and add it Fig. 1107. Macaroni Omelet. gradually to 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, worked to a smooth paste together with a little cold milk. Stir vigorously, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, two well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, 1 breakfast-cupful of Macaroni—continued. breadcrumbs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and lastly the Macaroni. Put it in a well-buttered pie-dish, bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, turn it out on a dish (see Fig. 1107), pour a little brown sauce over, and serve. Macaroni with Oysters.—Boil lib. of Macaroni, broken up small, into a saucepan of boiling salted water for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Strain in a colander, and place a layer of it at the bottom of a deep dish ; put 1A breakfast- cupfuls of bearded oysters over this, next 2oz. of butter in small pieces, and salt and pepper, then more Macaroni and oysters, and finish with Macaroni at the top. Mix 1 table- spoonful of flour to a smooth paste in a little of 1 pint of milk, then beat in two eggs and the remainder of the milk. Pour it over the Macaroni and oysters, and place it in the oven to bake until quite set and firm to the very centre of the dish. Macaroni Pie.—(1) Tut the required quantity of Macaroni into a saucepan with a little butter and water or broth, and stew it; strain, cut it in pieces, and place them at the bottom of a dish, intermixing with small balls made with pounded ham and butter. Cut off some fillets from any cooked game, and have ready a few blanched and stewed cocks’ combs or imitation ones cut out of ox- palates, also a sweetbread cut in dice, and some mush- rooms, all stewed separately in rich sauce. Put a layer of the cocks’ combs, sweetbread, and mushrooms over the Macaroni, which can have Parmesan cheese grated over it if desired, then a layer of the fillets, and continue in this way until all the ingredients are used up. Pour ovefr equal quantities of cream and gravy to fill up the dish, cover with short-paste, and bake. The paste can be done without, and the pie cooked in a Dutch oven. (2) Put a few small pieces of gravy-beef into a stewpan with a sliced onion ancl about loz. of butter, and fry until browned; next pour in a moderate quantity of tomato sauce and 1 wineglassful of sherry, add a bunch of sweet herbs, a sliced carrot, a few mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of mixed spices. Stew the whole gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a- half, then strain the liquor into a basin and skim off the fat. Have ready boiled the required quantity of Macaroni, drain it, put it into a saucepan with a good-sized lump of butter and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, cover with the above sauce, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Butter a plain mould and line it with a good short-paste, joining the edges with beaten white of egg. Fill the mould with the Macaroni, mixing with it some chopped and cooked mushrooms and truffles and small fillets of veal that have been fried lightly in butter, also strew in some grated Parmesan cheese. Cover the whole with a flat of paste, trimming oft' neatly round the edges, moisten them with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, press them together, and bake the pie for an hour in a moderately hot oven. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, being careful not to break it, place it on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put 4oz. of small Macaroni and an onion into a bowl, pour over sufficient milk to more than cover, and leave it until the Macaroni is sufficiently swollen. Put a layer of this at the bottom of a pie-dish, grate over lightly some Parmesan cheese, put a few lumps of butter here and there, cover this with a very thin beef-steak, then with more Macaroni, next steak, and finish with Macaroni, cheese, and butter as before. Place the pie (without crust) into a moderate oven, bake, and serve hot. (4) Boil some large Macaroni in beef gravy, and when tender mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, seasoning to taste. Butter a plain mould and line it with a good short-crust. Fill the mould up with the Macaroni, some hard-boiled eggs, fried forcemeat halls and mushrooms, truffles and cocks’ combs, all previously cooked. Arrange the above ingredients tastefully in the mould, the Macaroni predominating, pour over a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and strew some grated Parmesan cheese on the top. Cover with a flat of the crust, ornament with leaves, trim off neatly round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. Bake the pie in a brisk oven, and serve either