834 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilsf Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Laver—continued. or orange, dust with a little pepper, and toss it over a gentle lire until hot. Cut one or two moderately thick slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast; butter them Fig. 1049. Common Laver. Fig. 1050. Green Laver. and Ivy them on a dish ; put the Laver on the toast, and serve. As the Laver should he very hot when eaten, it should be served on a hot-water dish. LAWN SLEEVE.—See Bishop. LAYER CAKE.—See Cakes. LEAP CAKE.—See Cakes. LEAMINGTON PUDDING.—See Puddings. LEAVEN.—See Yeast. LECH A. CREMA.—This is a favourite Spanish dish, partaking very much of the nature of a cream custard. The name signifies milk and cream. The following receipts have been contributed by a Spanish chef. See Cream. (1) Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix in the yolks of three eggs and ilb. of powdered sugar, then add Jib. of flour, 6oz. of almonds split into several pieces, 4 >z. of finely-cut candied lemon-peel, and |oz. each of gr rand coriander-seeds and cinnamon. When the pre- paration is thoroughly mixed, put it into a biscuit-forcer, squeeze it out on wafer-paper in drops about the size of walnuts or a little larger, and bake in a slack oven. Take them out when done, brush the surfaces with thin white sugar icing, put a piece of green citron-peel upon each, dry well in the dry closet or screen, take them out, and they are ready for use. (2) Put 41b. of honey into a copper egg-bow l on the fire, make it quite warm, skim off the frjthv and at once add 6oz. of finely-shred almonds, hoz. each of ground cloves and cinnamon, half a grated nutmeg, and the grated rinds of two lemons. Mix well, put in 6oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 2oz. ca di of finely-chopped orange-, lemon- and citron-peels, a liqueur-glassful of kirschenwasssr, and about the same quantity of orange-flower water ; incorporate thoroughly, add 4 >z. of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of water, and lastly 14>z. of sifted flour. Work the whole together over a slow fire for about six minutes, turn the mixture out into a basin, cover, and set it aside in a co il place for about three days before using. Divide the paste into four equal parte, put them on a board with 2oz. more of the flour sprinkled over, roll out to about fin. in thickness, put them on well-buttered and floured baking-sheets, mark out the cakes, using the back of a knife, and making deep cute, in oblong shapes, about 24in. long by lin. wide. Take off all the flour adhering to them with the aid of a damp brush, bake in the oven until about three-parts done, cover with a thin coating of royal icing, bake to a light colour, take out, let them get cold, break where marked, put them in boxes in a co d dry place, and they will keep well for six or seven months. LEEKS (TV. Poireaux; Ger. Lauche).—At one time these plants (Allium Porrum) were so much grown in England that the name leac-tum was given to gardens, and gardeners were called leac-wards; but gardeners seem to have discarded them of late years, probably owing to the space occupied by their handsomely-flagged foliage (see Fig. 1051). The properties of the Leek may Fig. 1051. Leek. be said to be intermediary between the onion and garlic, which renders its use in cooking exceedingly valuable. Boiled Leeks.--(1) Select young green Leeks ; carefully wash them in cold salted water, trim away the ro ,ts and the broken tops, tie in small bunches, and put them over the fire in boiling salted water. Boil for twenty minutes, then drain. Have ready a slice of dry toast for each bunch, and 1 table-spoonful of butter melted together with 1 saltspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper ; lay the Leeks on the toast, pour the melted butter over them, and serve hot. (2) Trim off the roots, outer leaves, and green ends from some Leeks, cut the stalks into pieces about 6in. in length, tie up in bundles, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and half the quantity of salt, and boil until quite tender. Take out, drain, put them on pieces of toast on a dish, pour white sauce or melted butter over them, and serve. The Leeks should be quite young, and will require about forty-five minutes boiling. (3) Trim and wash the required quantity of Leeks; boil in water till nearly done, then take out, drain, and put them in a saucepan with a little brown or white sauce. Let them simmer till cook id, then turn them out on to a hot dish, and serve. Leeks au Gratin.—Trim off the fibrous roots, and cut o f the green stalks to within lin. of the white part of the Leeks. Put them into a basin of boiling water, and soak for ten minutes; then drain, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with a lump of salt, and boil for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Put loz. of butter into an itlier sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir over the fire until well mixed, then add {, pint of stock and 1 heaped table- spoonful of grated cheese; season to taste with pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir over the lire, and boil for two or three minutes. When the Leeks are cooked, drain, lay them in a gratin-dish, pour half of the sauce over, and strew thickly with grated cheese; dust a small quantity of cayenne over the top, and put the dish in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Take out the dish, pour the remainder of the sauce round it, and serve.