765 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—contimied. and roll them again in the breadcrumbs. Broil to a good brown over a clear but not too hot fire, lay them on buttered toast, sprinkle a very little cayenne over, and serve very hot. Red Herring's served as in Brussels. Put six red Her- rings on a gridiron, hold them over steam or hot cinders for a few minutes, skin and cut them up into fillets. Have ready a large paper case, well oiled. Put a little parsley, mixed herbs, garlic, and chives, a few shallots and mushrooms, all finely chopped, into a saucepan with a lump of butter, sprinkle over sufficient pepper to taste, and cook gently until done, stirring well all the time. Sprinkle the fillets with a little olive oil and grated bread, place them round the paper case alternately with the mixture, put the case on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Place the case on a dish, and serve with a garnish of thin slices of lemon. Red Herrings cooked in Flemish. Style. — Cut off the heads of some red Herrings, and slightly split them down the backs. Have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, put the Herrings on a gridiron, lay it over the stewpan, and keep the water boiling ; when the skins can be easily moved the Herrings are done. Remove the fish, peel off the skins, take out the soft roes, cut away the thin parts of the belly, and put the Herrings with the roes on a dish. Mix 1 table- spoonful of mustard with a little melted salted butter, pour it over the fish, and serve. Red-Herring Salad.— (1) Pare off the skin of two or more red Herrings, split them, carefully remove the bones, and then cut them into small fillets. Thoroughly wash and drain a cabbage lettuce, pull the leaves asunder, and put them in a salad-bowl ; put in the pieces of Herrings. Boil two eggs till hard, and when cold peel and chop them finely ; mix with the eggs 1 teacupful of vinegar and 1 teacupful of salad-oil; season the mixture with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. As the Herrings are naturally oily, less salad-oil can be used if preferred, or a remoulade sauce can be poured over. (2) Put three red Herrings on the corner of the stove for half-a-minute on each side, then pull off the skin, cut off the heads, split the Herrings into halves, remove the bones, and cut them up into small square pieces. Place them in a salad-bowl with a small chopped onion, two hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces, a cold boiled potato cut the same, and 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and 2 table-spoonfuls of oil. Mix well together, decorate the salad with cooked beetroot cut in slices, also a few capers, and serve. Red-Herring Sandwiches.—Pare off the skin of a red Herring, and cut off the fins and head. Split it into halves, and lift the backbone out carefully. Cut the Herring into even-sized pieces, squeeze lemon-juice over, and leave them for an hour or two. Cut some rather thin slices of bread, butter them, put the fish on half of them, drop a little Worcestershire sauce on each, and cover with another slice of bread-and-butter ; cut the sandwiches into halves or fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a dish, put a few small sprigs of parsley here and there, and serve. Red-Herring Soup.—Soak I 1 pints of split peas for one night, having first washed them. On the following day, put them in a saucepan with two finely-chopped carrots, three boned anchovies, one large onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and one red Herring; season with pepper and salt, pour in lqt. of cold water, and simmer gently till the vegetables are tender. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, then put in the white part of a head of celery cut in slices, a small lump of butter, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup ; simmer for half-an- hour. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve with either fried bread or sippets of toast and a small dish of dried powdered mint. Scalloped Red Herrings.—Cut off the heads of some red Herrings, split them down the back, and carefully remove all the bones ; put the fillets and roes in a basin, cover with milk, and leave them for a few hours. Put some fine herbs in a frying-pan with mushrooms and a lump of butter, and fry them ; then mix in with them 1 teacupful of grated bread- Herrings—continued. crumb and about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Take the flesh and roes of the Herrings out of the milk, wipe them on a cloth, and peel off the skin. Place the roes and some of the fried herbs at the bottom of a gratin-disb, put in a layer of the Herrings, baste them with a few table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, then another layer of the herbs ; continue in this way till all are used, then cover the top with grated breadcrumb, moistening these also with a little butter. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When cooked, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve in the same dish. HET (HOT) PINT.—Tliis is a Scotch drink, made with ale, that is given to friends and visitors during the Hogmanay Festival, which takes place on the last day of the year. It is usually prepared as follows : Beat up a couple of fresh eggs together with 1 large table- spoonful of sugar, mix with this 1 teacupful of cold ale, and beat it up thoroughly. Into this pour 1 pint of boiling ale, and mix by pouring from one vessel to another. Put it again into the saucepan, and heat it to boiling; then serve it in half-pint glasses, adding 1 wineglassful of whisky to each, and a grating of nutmeg. These quantities may be altered to suit the taste. HICKORY-NUTS.—These are the fruit of a tree that grows very profusely in America. It is of the genus Cary a, and includes numerous varieties known by such names as Shag-bark Hickory, Bitter-nut, Pecan, Hog-nut, and others. The nut possesses a sweet pleasant flavour, is about as large as a walnut, and the husk divides into four equal parts. Not often met with in England, and rarely, if ever, used by British con- fectioners, although most common in the United States. Hickory-nut Cake.—Beat jib. of butter and |lb. of sugar to a smooth cream, mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 saltspoonful of cinnamon and nutmeg mixed, and 1 salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water; then add and mix in, in small quantities and alternately, the whites of three eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and Ub■ of flour, with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar mixed with it. Have ready mixed together and dredged with flour, jib. of raisins, stoned and chopped, and \ pint of Hickory-nut kernels. Mix them quickly into the dough, and bake at once. Hickory-nut Cream-Ice.—Remove the shells from sufficient Hickory-nuts to make lib. weight of the kernels. Place them in a mortar with a little sugar and water, and pound to a paste. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar in a pan over the fire, let it melt and brown a little, add water to dissolve it, and pour in lqt. of cream ; dissolve in this 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, add the nut paste, put all into the freezer, and freeze. Hickory-nut Flavouring.—Take a bushel of nuts, crush and put them in a bowl with 12galls. of alcohol at 95 per cent., and let them remain for a month or so. Strain through a fine sieve, filter, and the flavouring is then ready for use. HIFS.—The fresh fruits of the Dog-rose (Rosa canina) are known by this name. They should be gathered as soon as ripe, and can then be made into some sort of preserves, as follow: Hip Jam. -(1) Take the Hips when they are ripe, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and boil until they are quite tender; then pass them through a fine sieve. Weigh the pulp, and put it in a preserving-pan with its equal quantity of sugar, boil until done, and put the jam into stone jars. When any of it is required for use, it should be mixed with a little white wine and (if required) a little more sugar. (2) Cut off the tops of 3qts. of very red Hips, put in a bowl with 1 pint of vinegar, and leave them for three or four days. The berries should be stirred once or twice every day. When ready, pass the berries through a fine wire sieve, and weigh the pulp. Put 1-Ilb. of loaf sugar in a saucepan for every quart of the pulp, pour in just as much water as the sugar will absorb, and boil over the fire until small beads form at the top. Take the syrup off the fire, pour it over the pulp, and stir the whole until cold. Put