785 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Jellies—con ti nned. a small piece of cucumber, and a white stick of celery. Blanch the vegetables separately in salted water, then finish cooking all of them in a small quantity of broth, which should be boiled till reduced to a glaze. A pinch of sugar should be put in the broth. Cook separately 1 breakfast- cupful of young green peas, a piece of cauliflower divided into branches, and some white asparagus heads. When all the vegetables are cooked, put them into a soup-tureen, pour the hot broth over, and serve. Jelly Cakes. — Beat together 8oz. of sugar and five eggs; then add Jib. of melted butter, 1 teacupful of milk, and 12oz. of flour to which has been added 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder. Spread the preparation as thinly as possible in Jelly-cake pans, and bake them ; when cooked, put three of these one on top of the other with Jelly in between, and serve. Jelly for Cake.—Peel and core one large apple, pound, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and the grated peel and strained juice of one lemon. When well mixed, put the ingredients in a jar, stand it in a saucepan, surround with boiling water, and let it steam till cooked. Jelly prepared in this way is used for spreading over sponge cake. Jelly for Cold Fish .—Take a small skate, clean it thoroughly, put it over the fire in a fish-kettle with a cow-heel or a calf’s- foot, a rasher of gammon of bacon, an onion, a stick of horseradish, a piece of lemon-peel, three blades of mace, and a little white pepper. Pour over 3qts. of water, and let it simmer till it is a Jelly. Strain, let it stand till cold, and take off the fat; take the Jelly up without the sediment, put it over the fire with a piece of lemon, the whites of four eggs, and a glass of sherry. Let it boil for a few minutes without stirring, then set it in a warm place, and let it stand half-an-hour. Strain through a sieve with a cloth in it, and cover the cold fish with it. Jelly for Invalids.—Take the bones of a knuckle of veal, cut and scrape all the meat off, and boil them in a saucepan with 2qts. of water for five hours; strain off the liquor, let it stand till quite cold, and then take off the fat and sedi- ment ; put it in a saucepan and melt it, adding a flavouring of raisin or other wine and lemon-peel, run it through a Jelly-bag, and let it stand till cold. Jelly Omelet.—Put a frying-pan over the fire with 1 tea- spoonful of butter. Beat the yolks of three eggs together with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and whisk the whites also to a stiff froth. When the butter is melted mix the whites and yolks gently together, and put them into the pan; as fast as the omelet cooks, lift the cooked portion with a fork and throw it upon one side of the pan, letting the uncooked part down upon the hot pan. When the omelet is cooked to the desired degree, put 1 table-spoonful of Jelly in the middle, fold the omelet together, and turn it out on a hot dish ; dust with powdered sugar, and serve. . Jelly Pudding's.—Scald f pint of milk (or use half cream and half milk), pour it over fib. of sifted breadcrumbs, and beat it up till nearly cold ; then stir in the beaten yolks of seven eggs, next the beaten whites, and lastly 1J saltspoon- fuls of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little boiling water. Half fill some breakfast-cups with this batter, put them in a hot oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Turn them quickly out of the cups when done, make a cut partly round each with a sharp knife, pull them open sufficiently to get the bowl of a spoon inside, slip 1 table-spoonful of any sweet fruit Jelly inside, and pinch the slit together again. Serve hot with cream and sugar. Jelly Roll. —Put 12oz. of butter and lib. of sugar into a basin, beat them to a cream, add eight eggs beaten to a froth, sift in lib. of flour, and work the whole to a smooth batter, adding the grated rind and juice of a lemon. Put a sheet of well-buttered paper into a baking-tin, spread the batter over this to about Jin. in thickness, and bake in a hot oven to a delicate brown. Take it out, mask the surface with thick Jelly, roll it up, and tie until it becomes set and fast. Take off the strings, brush the roll with white of egg beaten up with a little syrup, roll it in granulated sugar, and serve. See Fig. 986. Jelly Stock .—Soak ljoz. of gelatine, then put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water, Jib. of loaf sugar, the strained juice of two lemons, the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and Jellies—continued. 1 table-spoonful of whole mixed spices. Boil the ingredients slowly for half-an-hour, adding a little more water occasion- ally to keep up the original quantity of the Jelly. Filter the Jelly two or three times through a Jelly-bag till quite clear and transparent, then pour it into a basin, and set it by for use. This stock Jelly can be divided and made into as many different kinds as may be wished for. Lemon or orange extracts should not be used for flavourings, as they dim the transparent clearness of the Jelly and give it a cloudy appearance. Jelly Tarts.—Boll out Jib. of rich puff paste, cut it into rounds about 2 Jin. in diameter, damp the edges with water, pinch the paste so as to form shapes like three-cornered hats, put a small tin of the same shape inside each tart, and bake lightly in a moderate oven. Take them out when done, remove the tins, brush over the paste with egg and glaze, pipe round the sides, both inside and out, fill up with small squares of any kind of Jelly, over this place a heap of well-whipped cream, pipe over this again, and serve. Jelly Tartlets.—Bub 4oz. of butter into 6oz. of flour, and work in 4oz. of vanilla or lemon sugar, 2oz. of pounded blanched sweet almonds, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. When formed into a stiff dough, knead it well, roll out to about Jin. in thickness, cut it with an ornamental biscuit-cutter, put them in a circle on a dish, brush over with white of egg, dust with powdered loaf sugar, sprinkle slightly with water, put them into an oven and bake. Take out when done, cover the tops with any sweet or fruit Jelly, and serve. Fig. 986. Jelly Roll. Marbled Sweet Jelly.—Get a Jelly-mould, put some pieces of different kinds of Jelly at the bottom, over these pour some Jelly that has had milk or cream mixed with it to make it white, so as to form the veins of the marble ; the Jelly should be only just liquid, for if it is too warm it will melt the other Jelly, and spoil the effect. Let the Jelly get cool as quickly as possible, then proceed as before, continuing in that way till the mould is full; pack the mould in ice and leave it till the Jelly is quite set. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. Mosaic Sweet Jelly. —Pour J pint of boiling cream on the peel of either an orange or lemon, and when it is well flavoured with the peel sweeten to taste with a little caster sugar; beat the yolks of four eggs with the cream, pour all into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire to thicken ; then mix in some melted isinglass. Strain all through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand it on ice, and leave till firm. Select a mould, lightly oil the inside, using a brush, cut the white cream Jelly, with a knife first, and afterwards with small tin cutters, and fix them to the mould, doing the bottom first and the sides last. Stand the mould on the ice, pour in gently a little orange Jelly, and let it get thick. When that Jelly is set, pour more in, and continue in this way till the mould is full; cover and surround the mould with ice, and let it remain for two hours undisturbed. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a hot towel, and turn the Jelly on to a fancy dish. Great care must be taken in making this Jelly that the colours do not melt and intermingle. Pink Jelly.—Soak 2oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, then turn it into a saucepan, and add the peel and juice of two moderate-sized lemons and Jib. of caster sugar. Boil the whole until the gelatine has dissolved, then mix in 2 wine- glassfuls each of brandy and white wine, add a few drops of essence of ratafia, and boil up again. Strain the Jelly 3 N