819 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Lamb—continued. quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Split the feet lengthwise, put them in a stewpan with about eighteen heads of mushrooms and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, pour the sauce over, season with salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and boil the whole gently for seven or eight minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream and a small quantity of lemon-juice, then stir them quickly into the sauce, which must not boil after the eggs are added. Turn the whole on to a hot dish and serve. Lamb’s Heads.—These do not find their way to the table of the rich as often as they deserve, nor have first-class cooks paid as much attention to their prepara- tion as they ought, for the Lamb's Head is the best of all heads that are used in cookery. It must be carefully stripped of its wool, the eyes scooped out, and the tip of the snout cut off. After plunging for a short time into boiling water, it can easily be cleaned and other- wise prepared for cooking. Baked Lamb’s Head.—Put the head into a saucepan of water and parboil it, then rub it well all over with yolk of egg, cover with finely-chopped herbs, then with bread- crumbs, and lastly with Butter; put it in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire and cook it. Chop up the heart and liver as finely as possible, and stew them in gravy, with a flavouring of lemon pickle. Put this mince in the centre of a dish, place the head on it, garnish with force- meat balls and fried brain cakes, and serve with lemon in slices and hot pickles. Boiled Lamb’s Head.—(1) Soak the head with the liver and lights in cold water to disgorge the blood. Put the head into a stewpan with cold water to cover and boil gently until tender. Boil the liver and lights until three- parts cooked, then chop them up very fine. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire until mixed, and strain in some of the liquor that the liver and lights were boiled in. Put the mince in the sauce, season it to taste, and keep it simmering slowly at the side of the fire. When cooked, put the head on a hot dish, pour the mince round it, garnish with hrain croquettes (see Fig. 1029), and serve. (2) Wash thoroughly a Lamb’s Head and entrails, and skin and split the head open lengthwise; put all together in a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, and let them simmer for half-an-hour. At the end of that time take out the heart, liver, and lights, and chop them up small; put them in a stewpan with H pints of clear veal or mutton broth, season to taste with salt and pepper and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and thicken slightly with a little cream; let it simmer at the side of the fire. When the head is nearly cooked, drain it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and strew it thickly with grated breadcrumb. Put it in a Dutch oven, and brown in front of a clear fire. Make some nicely- flavoured cakes with the brains, and fry them a bright brown in butter. \V hen all is ready, turn the mince on to a hot dish, put the head on it, garnish with the brain cakes and slices of lemon, and serve. (3) Clean the head and liver; put the head in a sauce- pan of water, and boil it till partly done, then put in the Lamb—continued. liver and finish cooking both together. Split the head into halves, cut the meat across without separating it from the bone, grate nutmeg over, and put it in a tin dish; cover with grated breadcrumb, sweet herbs, all- spice, and finely-chopped lemon-peel, and dust over flour and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Baste with warmed butter, and put it in the oven. Finely chop the lights, tongue, and half of the liver, put them in a sauce- pan, dredge over flour, moisten with gravy or water, and boil gently till tender. Strain the mince, put it on a hot dish, return the gravy to the saucepan, and mix with it what liquor may have run from the head, and loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Dust in salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till thick; then add J table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. Have the other half of the liver cut into small pieces with some bacon, and fried over a brisk fire. Put the head in the centre of the minced meat that is on the dish, garnish with the pieces of fried bacon and liver, alter- nating them with slices of lemon, pour the thickened gravy over, and serve immediately. Broiled Lamb’s Head.—Split the head into halves, and steep it in cold water for several hours. Afterwards remove the eyes, bind tlie^ead round with a piece of tape, put it into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover, and boil gently at the edge of the fire. When the meat is tender, move the stewpan away from the fire and leave the head in it until nearly cold. When sufficiently cooked, drain the head, remove the tape, and cut the meat off into neat slices. Peel and slice three onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned, pour in the broth from the head, thicken it slightly with flour, and boil for several minutes. Move it to the side of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, the brains (that should have been well mashed), a few drops of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the sauce at the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Dip the slices of meat in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb ; put a large lump of butter in a flat stew- pan, and when it boils put in the slices and fry them until nicely browned. Drain them, put them on a hot dish over a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fricassee of Lamb’s Head.—Clean the head and haslet, and partially boil them, with the exception of the liver. Drain the meats and cut them into slices. Put them in a saucepan until sufficient clear broth to cover and three or four slices of pork ; dust in salt and pepper, and stew them till tender. Cut the livers into slices, put them in a deep frying-pan until the sweetbreads and a few slices of bacon, and fry ; season with parsley. Thicken the fricassee with loz. of butter worked in loz. of flour, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with the fried pieces of liver, and serve. Lamb’s Head and Fry.—(1) Prepare the head and boil it until half cooked, then drain ; brush it over with a brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and cover thickly with a mixture of grated breadcrumb and finely-chopped herbs. Put it in a Dutch oven, baste well with clarified butter, and finish cooking in front of the fire. Stew the heart and liver in a small quantity of gravy, then mince them, adding a table-spoonful of lemon pickle. Make some brain cakes and forcemeat balls, and fry them all in butter until nicely browned. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, and when the head is cooked, put it on it. Garnish alternately with the brain cakes and forcemeat balls, putting between each a slice of lemon, and serve. (2) Skin and split the head, clean it well, taking out the tongue and brains. Wash and clean the liver, lights, and heart also, and let all soak in hot water for half-an- hour. Boil the head then for rather more than three hours. Boil the tongue and brains separately in a little stock. Mince the liver, lights, and heart very fine ; put them over the fire with sufficient veal stock to cover, add a little finely-chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of cream, a seasoning of pepper and salt, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 P 2