787 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Jellies—continued. (4) Make 1J pints of Jelly with isinglass and sweeten it with loaf sugar. Peel a pine-apple, ent it up small, put it in a mortar, mash well, and when all the juice is extracted pass it through a fine hair sieve. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the pine-apple juice and mix it with the Jelly; cham- pagne may he added, if liked. Have ready in ice a cylinder- mould provided with a lid, pour in a layer of the Jelly, and leave till set. Peel and slice a pine-apple, put a layer of the slices on the set Jelly, then pour in another layer of the Jelly. Continue in this way, leaving each layer of the Jelly to set before another is added, then close the mould and leave for one hour. Dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the Jelly out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (5) Clarify l|oz. of gelatine (see Gelatiee) with fib. of lump sugar and 1 pint of water by beating over the fire till it boils; strain two or three times through a Jelly-bag till quite clear, and add f pint of Madeira. Pour the Jelly into a copper whipping-bowl and whisk it over the ice for a few minutes ; take it off, and continue whisking for ten minutes ; turn the Jelly into a mould, pack in ice, and let it remain for one hour. When about to serve, dip the mould into tepid water and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. Savoury Jelly a la Mayonnaise. —Prepare lqt. of white meat Jelly (aspic will do), put it in a saute-pan with 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and 1 pinch of mignonette-pepper ; whisk the Jelly for ten minutes, then set the pan on ice, and continue whisking till the mayonnaise is set; take it off, melt, then whip it over ice till it again sets. Warm it again, and strain through a Jelly-bag. It is ■ then ready for use. M. Jules Gouffe gives it as his experience that whipping the Jelly over the ice twice makes it smoother and whiter. Savoury Jelly for Turkey. — Strain lqt. of the broth in which a galantine of turkey has been cooked into a saucepan, thoroughly skim off all the fat, add loz. of soaked gelatine, and boil for five minutes. Put into another saucepan the whites of two eggs, adding the shells as well, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, adding wineglassful of Madeira wine, and a small piece of ice, the size of an egg, finely crushed. Beat all sharply together with a whisk. Place the broth on the table at hand near the eggs, &c., and with a soup-ladle in the left hand, and a whisk in the right, add a ladleful of broth, little by little, to the eggs, carefully and sharply stirring until all the broth has been added. Place on a very moderate fire, and let it gently come to the boil. Immediately strain through a flannel bag or a napkin into a clean bowl, and let it cool; it will then be ready for use. Sparkling Sweet Jelly.—Put l|oz. of gelatine in I tea- cupful of water and let it soak for half-an-hour, then put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water, 8oz. of sugar, the rind and juice of two small lemons, and the whites and shells of two eggs, taking care that the shells are quite clean. Set it over a clear fire, and whisk till boiling, then let it simmer gently for half-an-hour, and strain the Jelly two or three times through a Jelly-bag. When all has passed through, divide it in two small basins or cups, flavour with extracts, colour with cochineal, and three-parts fill some wineglasses with one lot. Stand the glasses in a cool place for the Jelly to set; beat the remainder in a bowl, mix with it the beaten white of egg, fill the glasses with the frothed Jelly, and leave them till quite cold before serving. Fig. 988. Sweet Crystal Jellies. Sweet Crystal Jellies. — Put loz. of isinglass in a sauce- pan with the rind of one lemon, and 1 pint of water ; when it boils, stir in lib. of loaf sugar and i pint of light wine. When the isinglass is thoroughly dissolved, strain through a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Jellies—continued. Jelly-bag and let it stand till cold. Squeeze the juice of two lemons in a cup, keeping back the pips. Grate the rind of one lemon in the juice, and let it remain for a short time. Strain the juice into the Jelly, whisk it till it begins to stiffen, then turn it into Jelly-moulds, and let them set. When ready to serve, turn the Jellies on a glass dish. See Pig. 988. Sweet Jelly ft la Earl of Fife.—Put 1| pints of lemon Jelly into a basin, and slightly warm it. Put about 3 table- spoonfuls of it into another basin, and add three leaves of beaten gold and the same amount of silver, working them in only just sufficient to break the leaves without frothing the Jelly more than possible. Put it into the basin with the plain lemon Jelly, stirring it in very gently with the basin placed on the ice, and as soon as it begins to set pour it into a fluted cylinder-mould, pack it in ice, and let it remain until quite firm. Turn the Jelly out on to a dish, fill the cavity with whipped cream mixed with shred pistachio- kernels, and serve. Sweet Jelly a la Princess Louise.—Put 1 breakfast-cup- ful of warmed lemon Jelly half into one basin and half into .another; whisk them both well, and colour one with cochi- neal. Pour 3 breakfast-cupfuls more of the warm lemon Jelly into a basin packed in ice, and when it begins to set drop small pieces of the whisked white and coloured Jellies into it. When all is added and the whole nearly set, turn it into a mould, pack in ice, and when quite set and firm turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Care must be taken to see that the Jelly is set sufficiently before being put into the mould, otherwise the whisked Jelly would rise to the top and the effect be quite spoilt. Sweet Jelly it la Princess Victoria.—Pour 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, and add the thin rind of half a lemon, a small lump of sugar, loz. of gelatine, a few bruised coriander-seeds, and a slight flavouring of vanilla or noyeau. Set the saucepan on the fire, and stir continually until the gelatine is quite dissolved. Pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and divide into three equal quantities. Colour one of these with cochineal, and leave the other two white. Have ready an equal quantity of Jelly beaten up with gold-leaf. Pour half the white Jelly into a shallow round tin mould packed in ice, let it set, then pour over the cochineal-coloured Jelly, and when this has set, the gold-leaf or Dantzic Jelly, and lastly the remainder of the white or plain Jelly. Cover the mould over with a lid, pack ice on the top, and let it remain until the whole is quite firm. Take out the mould, turn out the contents, and cut it quickly into bands or strips; decorate the top and sides of a plain mould with these, fill the centre with any kind of fruit and Jelly, and pack the mould in ice. Turn the Jelly out on to a dish when set, and serve at once. Sweet Jelly a la St. Petersburg\h.—Warm 1 qt. of lemon Jelly, and pour half into one basin and half into another. Colour one of these with cochineal, and flavour the other with noyeau. When the cochineal Jelly is nearly set whisk it well, and throw into it the noyeau Jelly already nearly set and cut up into small pieces, and mixed up with a few pistachio-kernels chopped very fine. Put the whole into a fancy-shaped mould, pack in ice, cover over the top, put ice on it, and let it remain until quite firm. Dip the mould into warm water, wipe it dry with a cloth, turn the Jelly out on to a dish, and serve. Sweet Jelly made without Boiling. — Dissolve loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, letting it stand for an hour. Put in with it the juice of four lemons, 1 pint of light wine, 3 pints of boiling water, ljlb. of crushed loaf sugar, and cinnamon to taste; pour the Jelly into a mould, and stand it on ice till set. Turn it out on a glass dish and serve. Sweet Jelly with Fruit and Champagne. -Put in a stewpan the whites of three eggs beaten thoroughly, fib. of caster sugar, 2oz. of gelatine, the juice of one lemon, and lqt. of water; whisk it over the fire till it boils. Take the Jelly off the fire, let it cool, strain two or three times through a Jelly-bag till quite clear, and when cold stir in 1 pint of champagne. Make a mixed mince of pears and apples which have been boiled in syrup, and cut to olive shapes preserved , . 3 n 2 ices, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.