THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 817 Lamb—continued. Stewed Shoulders of Lamb with Green Peas.—Cut two shoulders of Lamb into moderate-sized squares, and put them in a stewpan with three small onions, one carrot, a bunch of parsley, and a piece of butter; season with salt and pepper, put the stewpan on the fire, and fry the meat till half cooked and nicely browned, then put in ill), of bacon cut in squares, and 1 h pints of green peas ; put the lid on the stewpan with some live embers on the top and let the peas and meat cook gently till tender. When ready to serve, take out the parsley, thicken the stew with a little kneaded butter, pour all on to a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 1026. Lamb’s Brains.—It may be conjectured that of all animal’s brains used in the kitchen none are reckoned so delicately flavoured as those of the Lamb. They are very tender and marrow-like and well suited for invalid diet. They require careful cleaning, as described under Brains, and are especially adapted to the following dishes: Lamb's Brains Pilau.—Take the brains out of two or three cooked Lamb’s heads, put them in a basin and beat together with sufficient broth to make a thick cream; put 3 pints of broth into a saucepan with five or six pieces of gum mastic and 4oz. of butter, seasoning with pepper, salt, and ground cinnamon. Put the saucepan over the fire until the liquor commences to boil, then put in 1 jib. of rice that has been washed in plenty of water, move it to the side, and let it simmer until dry. When cooked, move the rice right to the back of the stove, leave it for fifteen minutes, then turn it in a dome shape on to a hot dish, mask it over with the brain mixture, and serve while very hot. Stewed Lamb’s Brains a l’ltalienne.— Select some large Lamb’s Brains, skin them without altering their shape, clean well, and blanch. Make sufficient mirepoix to cook the brains mixing some wine with it, and stew them gently till done. Make a border-shaped paste crou- stade and bake it till nicely browned; prepare sufficient forcemeat to fill the case, and poach it. Cut some pickled tongue into the shape of cocks’ combs, and prepare a puree of artichoke-bottoms. Turn the case on to a hot dish, fill it with the forcemeat, arrange the brains on it, alternating them with the pieces of tongue, first brushing them over with melted glaze; put the puree of artichoke- bottoms in the middle of the dish, and serve with a saucebcatful of veloute sauce. Lamb’s Bars.—These are very crisp and tender when fried. They should be scalded after being cut off the head, and skinned by rubbing in a cloth whilst still hot. Fried Lamb’s Ears.—Singe the ears, scald in boiling water, put them in a saucepan with sufficient stock broth to cover, and boil them. When cooked, remove the ears from the fire and leave them in their cooking-liquor till cool. Make some quenelle forcemeat and mix with it some chopped fine herbs. Drain the ears, trim them to a round shape, hollow out the insides with a column- tube, and stuff' them with the prepared forcemeat, also the exterior part of the ’ears; roll them in grated breadcrumb, dip in beaten eggs, then roll again in breadcrumbs. Put a good-sized lump of lard or butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the ears and fry. When nicely browned, drain the ears, and arrange them in a group on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve. Fried Lamb’s Ears with Villeroy Sauce.—Take fifteen ears, blanch, boil them in a little stock, let them remain in this until nearly cold, then take out, drain, and wipe dry on a cloth. Take a biscuit-cutter, scoop out the in- sides of the ears, stuff them with a little sweet herbs mixed with about one-third their bulk of breadcrumbs, and made into a mass with the yolks of eggs ; dip each ear in some hot villeroy sauce, and put them on a dish. When the sauce is cool, take up one at a time and dip them Lamb—continued. first in breadcrumbs, then in well-beaten egg, and then breadcrumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of boiling hog’s lard and fry until done; take out, drain, put them on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it, and serve. Lamb’s Feet.—These are infinitely more delicate than those of the older animal, the bones being more gelatinous, and the sinews and ligaments about them more amenable to the softening influence of boiling. They should be skinned and cleaned and the hoofs torn off after a little sharp boiling. When cooked as follows they are reckoned quite a delicacy: Boiled Lamb’s Feet Stuffed.—Trim the feet, removing the large bones, and boil them until tender; prepare some veal forcemeat, judging the quantity by the number of feet, and mix with it a small quantity each of chopped parsley and shallot and the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. When cooked, drain the feet, ami leave them until cold, when the hollow left by the large bone must be filled with the forcemeat. Put them in a saucepan with boiling stock to cover, and boil gently for twenty minutes longer. Put a bed of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, drain the feet, arrange them on it, pour some Dutch sauce over, strew a few chopped gherkins on the top, and serve. Broiled Lamb's Feet.—(1) Singe the feet, trim off all the shaggy parts, and clean thoroughly ; put them in a sauce- pan with plenty of salted water and boil. When the feet are tender, drain them, remove the leg-bone, keeping them in shape as much as possible, dust over with salt and pepper, anti rub them in warmed butter; sprinkle some chopped parsley over, and leave till quite cold. Roll the feet in grated breadcrumb, lay them side by side on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When nicely browned, arrange the feet on a folded napkin upon a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of ravigote sauce. See Fig. 1027. (2) Clean the feet, put them in a saucepan with white stock to cover, and boil until tender ; then place them on a cloth to drain thoroughly. Peel and chop one small onion and shallot, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain off as much of the fat from the onions as possible, pour in a breakfast-cupful of brown sauce, and boil for ten minutes. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in the feet, season with J table-spoonful each of chopped mushrooms and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, i teaspoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes, then take the saucepan off the fire and leave the feet in the sauce until cold. Cut as many pieces of cartridge-paper as there are Fig. 1027. Broiled Lamb’s Feet. feet, making each piece large enough to fold over a foot. Dip them in salad-oil, then lay a foot on each piece with some of the sauce and fold the paper over, in imitation of a cartridge. Lay them on a gridiron and broil over a clear, slow fire, turning when done on one side. Arrange the feet in a pyramid on a bed of fried parsley, garnish with more fried parsley (see Fig. 1027), and serve with a sauceboatful of rich clear gravy. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 p