THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 801 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifrc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kirschenwasser, Kirscliwasser, or Kirsch—cont. briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the punch from the sides and bottom of the freezer. Be-cover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more; uncover again, and detach the punch the same as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on, and repeat the same operations three times more. When ready, serve in six small punch-glasses. Kirschenwasser Sauce.—Pour in a saucepan 1 pint of cold water and ^lb. of granulated sugar, and place it on a hot stove. Mix loz. of cornflour in a cup with 1 gill of cold water, and when Ihe water in the saucepan is boiling, add the cornflour to it, stirring well for two minutes with a whisk. Take from the fire, add immediately £ gill of Kirschen- wasser, and mix again for one minute. Strain through a fine sieve into a sauceboat, and serve very hot. Kirschenwasser Sorbet.—(1) Mix lqt. of syrup at 35deg. with the same quantity of Chablis, and pass it through a silk sieve into a freezer (see Ices). Beat it well with a spoon or spatula, and when sufficiently frozen add tea- cupful of Kirschenwasser, stir well, put it in glasses, and serve. (2) Mix together 1 gill of lemon-juice, 1 pint of syrup at 35deg., and 1 pint of Chablis. When well mixed, strain it through a silk sieve, and put it into a freezing-pail sur- rounded with bay-salt and pounded ice. Keep stirring the mixture in the pail, and when well frozen stir in 1 table- spoonful of rum, and serve in glasses. KISHR.— The Arabian name for the coffee-husk, which is ground when dried, and made into Kishr coffee. According to Simmonds, the decoction is made as follows: A handful of husks are bruised and put into hot water in an earthen pan, and set over a slow fire. A few bruised car- damoms and a little dry cinnamon or ginger are added, the whole being allowed to simmer for about lialf-an-hour. It is then ready for serving. KISSES.—Small pieces of confectionery. See Sugar. KISSING CRUST—That portion of the crust of a loaf that has been touching another loaf during baking. KITCHENS (Fr. Cuisines; Ger. Kuchen; Ital. Cucine; Sp. Cocinas).—Our English word would appear to be a German corruption of the French, both pro- claiming their origin from the Latin coquere. Although a roomy, well-appointed Kitchen is an essen- tial to good cookery, it does not follow as a matter of course that the two are always associated ; for, very much to their discredit, employers of skilled labour not in- frequently expect that talent shall supply the place of tools and utensils. Let it be taken as a maxim, that a good cook cannot work without accessories which an ignorant cook would not understand the use of. The Kitchen should not only be roomy and well- appointed, but it should also be so situated, if possible, that the vapours arising from the different forms of cooking shall find an easy escape into the open air without filling the house with them some hours in advance of the dinner. “ Unfortunately,” says Gouffe, “ even in some of the wealthiest houses, where luxury and comfort have been so much studied, the Kitchen is often that part which is most neglected, and where the simplest teaching of experience and notions of progress have been discarded.” At one time it was the custom to build Kitchens out- side the house, as a separate part; but the modern architect has forsaken the good old plan, and squeezes the Kitchen in anywhere. Hotel Kitchens are now built at the tops of the buildings—a marked improvement upon the damp “catacombs,” as Favre calls them, which have been allowed for so long to disgrace the art or science of architecture. But it is no use having a well-appointed Kitchen if you have not a well-appointed staff to conduct it. Order Kitchens—continued. and cleanliness should be the great maxims of the place. It may be small and ill-lighted, but it should never be dirty. Every utensil should be scrupulously clean and bright, inside and out. The floor should be scoured daily and sprinkled with sawdust. Stoves and ranges should be washed, scraped, and blackleaded every day, either after the work is done or before it begins in the morning —the former for preference. All sinks should be scoured daily with soft soap and boiling water. When the work is over for the day, open all windows, for, as Gouff6 says, “ when the fires are out, a Kitchen should be as free from smell as the dining-room.” “ Let every Kitchen, large or small,” continues this famous chef, “ be provided with the best possible utensils; this is a rule which any sensible person, even if entirely wanting in practical knowledge of our profession, must admit; for it is un- reasonable to expect cooking to be well done without the necessary implements; therefore I have thought the following good advice to give to every housekeeper, even to the one who looks the closest to expense: ‘ Let your Kitchen contain every requisite; you will find it to your advantage, both as regards economy and successful results.’ The old adage that ‘ nothing is so dear as cheapness’ applies very generally to all provisioning.” See Air, Culinary Utensils, Fuel, Ovens, Ranges, and Stoves, &c. KITCHEN ACCOUNTS.—See Accounts. KITCHENERS.-Fanciful names given to close ranges; probably christened after the celebrated doctor of that name. KITCHEN UTENSILS.—See Culinary Uten- sils. KLIPFISH.—A common name for the dried cod imported from Norway; sometimes spelled Clipfish. KLOSSE.—A German name for small dumplings, usually served in soups. The following are excellent receipts for their preparation: (1) Mix lib. °f flour in a basin with a little salt, and work in a little warmed butter and four eggs; add sufficient milk to make it into a stiff, firm paste, and lastly 1 teacupful of the crumb of bread cut in small squares and fried in butter, when it should be of the consistence of panada; 1 handful of rasped breadcrumbs may be added if it is too soft and not of the required consistence. Take out a little at a time with a teaspoon, drop it on to a well-floured board, roll the pieces into ball shapes about the size of a walnut, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, cover over the pan, and boil quickly for eight minutes or so. Eemove the pan to the side of the fire, and let it remain for ten minutes longer. Take them out, drain well, put them on a dish, pour over a little nut-brown clarified butter, and serve. (2) Take the thick and solid parts of an uncooked fowl, chop up with it jib. of finely-shred beef-suet, and pound it in a mortar. In the meantime, soak three slices of bread in milk, take it out, squeeze dry, and add to the mixture in the mortar. Pound them well together, and sprinkle in a little grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and lemon-peel, and make them into a paste with two well-beaten eggs. Make this mass into the form of a Klbsse, and then boil it in broth. When done, serve. (3) Eemove the skin and bone from lib. of uncooked fish; chop the flesh up, and mince with it 2oz. of fat bacon; grate a little nutmeg over the mixture, and sprinkle in a pinch of salt with a little finely-chopped parsley. Put in a stewpan a lump of butter and a minced shallot; stir this over the fire till brown, adding gradually 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, | teacupful of cream, and two beaten eggs. Turn this preparation into a basin, and when cold mix with it the minced fish and ham. Shape it into balls with two spoons, drop them into boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, arrange them on a dish, and serve hot. 3 o