774 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ice—continued. advisable to use melted Ice for drinking purposes unless we are first assured that the water frozen was to all intents and purposes suitable for drinking. The artificial manu- facture of Ice from purified water places a very useful commodity at the service of beverage concoeters ; but when Ice is manufactured on a large scale, it is more than probable that the purification of the water is to a great extent overlooked. In spite of the great advantages to be so derived from carefully made Ice, that which finds its way into our markets is principally naturally formed. In most cold countries there is an Ice-harvest every year. When the Ice on the lakes of North America or the fjords Fig. 965. Ice-pricker. of Scandinavia is about 1ft. thick, the snow and rough surface Ice are scraped off by an Ice-plane drawn by horses. A straight groove is next cut along one side of the Ice-sheet by means of a guide-plough directed by a tight cord, and then again along another at right angles to the first. Then by means of a swing-cutter with guide a series of rectangular grooves are marked out, the guide running in the previously cut groove, and keeping the line for the cutter. The guide is reversible, and can be turned over to either side of the cutter as may be required by the previous groove. The hand cutter is then worked along the grooves, cutting them several inches deep. When this cutting is completed, the blocks are ready to be separated, collected, and harvested. To prevent water entering the cut grooves and freezing them up again, snow is firmly driven into the crevices by means of a caulking-bar. When the two outside rows have been sawed out with a hand-saw the next blocks in succession are broken off by means of what are called striking-off and chisel bars, and the corners or uneven pieces trimmed off with a hatchet. They are next drawn together or moored by a hook- pick, and then lifted on to the Ice and into waggons by grapples and hoisting-tongs. When collected, Ice is stored in what are called Ice- houses, and may be preserved through the summer months in a drained well or excavation, somewhat of the form of an inverted sugar loaf, contained in a small shed or building situated if possible on a dry sandy soil on an eminence, with the door facing the north. The roof should be conical and thickly thatched with straw right down to the ground. H ,Numerous machines for artificially manufacturing Ice have been put before the public, the same principle of producing intense cold by the condensation of elastic vapours, variously applied, prevailing. See also Freezing, Ice—continued. Ices, and Refrigeration for the process of preserving foods by cold. Ice for general use can be prevented dissolving by wrapping it closely in some woolly material, such as Fig. 967. Cut-glass Ice-paii. (Adams and Son). blanketing or thick felt, the air contained amongst the fibres of the material exerting its non-conducting influence between the warm air and the cold Ice. To break lump Ice up into small convenient pieces an Ice-pricker (see Fig. 965) should be used, and the pieces can then be collected in a bucket (see Fig. 966), to be either mixed or pounded with salt for freezing purposes, or to be used for cooling drinks, or anything else that occasion may require. This Ice-bucket should be covered with a thick blanket. When Ice is served at table, it should be broken up small and put in what is called an Ice-pail (see Fig. 967), and a pair of tongs with claws (see Fig. 968) sent to table for its service. As may be seen from the illustrations, these utensils may be a very great addition to the ornamentation of the sideboard or table. ICED PUDDING.—See Puddings. ICELAND MOSS.—This is one of the lichen tribe (Cetraria islandica), found between the Arctic regions and the North Temperate zone. It is employed as a food for invalids, being considered both nutritious and demulcent. It should be scalded and then soaked for a time in cold water to extract something of the bitterness, aud then it can be boiled and the liquor strained off to form a jelly. ICES (Fr. Glaces; Ger. Eisses; Ital. G-elati; Sp. Hielos).—Under the head of Freezing, very complete Fig. 969. Ice Shapes for Garnishes. instructions are given for the preparation of Ices, so far as the congelation is concerned. The mixtures and