THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 884 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lozenges—continued. Motto Lozenges (Mixed).—Put 4oz. of gelatine to soak in water. Sift 141b. of sugar on to a table, making a bay in the centre ; boil up If lb. of glucose, add the soaked gela- tine, and stir well until incorporated ; pour this into the bay, and work into a stiffish paste. Divide into quarters, colouring one yellow and giving it a flavouring of lemon, another with carmine and rose or raspberry flavouring, another orange colour, flavouring slightly with cinnamon, anti the last should be left white but flavoured with mint. Roll out eacli piece separately, cut it into various shapes with cutters, dust over with corn-starch, put them on trays, also dusted over, and dry in the hot closet. Have ready the motto stamps, dip them in carmine colour so as to have only sufficient to make the impression after stamping, leave the Lozenges to dry until quite hard, put them all together into a box, and set aside in a cold place until wanted. Nitre Lozenges.—Work in 4oz. of powdered nitre with 71b. of the prepared gum paste, and add 1 drachm of essence of lemon to flavour. Paregoric Lozenges.—Prepare the gum paste as for Lozenges, and to every 141b. of it work in 0 drops of tincture of opium, 5 drachms of spirits of camphor, C drachms of tolu, and Uoz. of tartaric acid. These should be deeply coloured with carmine. Rose Lozenges.—These are prepared with the usual gum paste, using to each 141b. of it 4 drachm of attar of roses and foz. of tartaric acid, colouring to suit the taste with carmine. Should the flavour not be strong enough, double the quantity of rose and acid may be used. Tolu Lozenges.—Dissolve 3oz. of tolu (or balsam of tolu) in spirits of wine, and mix it into 141b. of the gum paste used for Lozenges, together with loz. of tartaric acid, and proceed as before. LUNCH BREAD.—See Bread. LUNCH CAKES.—See Cakes. LUNCHEON BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. LUNCHEONS.—The origin of this term is enveloped in mystery, certain etymologists believing that it has something to do with a hunch, as a hunch of bread and cheese, and is, therefore, a provincialism for the morning snack that the countryman partakes of in the fields between his breakfast and dinner. Failing any other more classical derivation, this one seems to be peculiarly appropriate, as the more refined Luncheon of modern times partakes of some of the irregularities and infor- malities of the countryman’s snack. The hour is not rigidly fixed as for dinner, invitations to the meal are short and informal, the mode of sitting down to it is un- restrained, and the positions at table are immaterial. Luncheons in the open air, such as at sporting meetings, partake of all these informalities in a marked degree, and form a decided connecting link between the Luncheon at home and the countryman’s hunch of bread and cheese or cold bacon. Cheese and cold bacon in the form of ham are notorious Luncheon dishes, and salads would certainly suggest freshly-gathered leaves. There are two forms of Luncheon to which it will be necessary to invite attention, the one in-door and the other out-door. In many respects they may be considered similar, such as in the way of cold viands; but the in-door Luncheon admits of the greater comfort of a well-laid table, and some little hot service, principally of those things that will not spoil by keeping hot, such as soup and cutlets, or filleted fish, that can be cooked a l’instaut. Soups are not often served at Luncheons; but they are erroneously excepted, and should be recon- sidered by the givers of Luncheons, as in cold weather they are exceedingly refreshing and agreeable. All cooks like the Luncheon service, because the dishes may be prepared at any time beforehand, and are Luncheons—continued. placed upon the table before the guests, who generally help themselves. Hence, the meats should be boneless, as in galantines, and the sweets should be chiefly for spoon and fork. Fruits are sometimes set upon the table, but more often they grace the sideboard; beer, sherry, claret, burgundy, still wines, or champagne are all admissible—champagne-and-oyster Luncheons forming a favourite bachelor festival. The style or mode of laying the table is not of the very greatest moment, provided the sideboard be well supplied, and this will, of course, suggest that it is at all times better for the guests that servants should be in attendance. It is strange that amongst no other people in the world is Luncheon treated with the same favour as it is by the British. In France and Germany it is the “ second breakfast.” French cooks, practising in England, having no adequate term for our Luncheon, have styled the meal “ dejeuner a la fourcliette,” which has not a single quality to recommend it for our adoption. Throughout this Encyclopaedia will be found numerous dishes that are suitable for Luncheons. MACARONI (Fr. Macaroni; Gee. Makaronie; Bp. Macarron).—A preparation of very fine wheat-flour and water, originally made in Italy, but, on account of the simplicity of its manufacture, now largely prepared in other parts of the world. It has been argued that the flour of Italy is better suited for making this paste than that of any other country, but the fact that such excellent Macaroni is produced in France and Great Britain controverts this idea. The term is probably derived from the ofd Italian maccare—to bruise or batter, to re- duce to pulp. In Italy various forms of Macaroni are produced, each having a special name given to it; but the kinds that