THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 804 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., refe>~red to, see under their special heads. KROMESKIES —See Cbomeskies. KUFTE.—This is a Turkish dish, made up of meat in hard cakes shaped like small rolls, and served with brown butter sauce. KUMJVIEL. — The name of a famous Russian and German liqueur, sometimes spelled Kimmel. The name is derived from the German for cumin, coriander, caraway, and that class of aromatic seeds of which the liqueur is compounded. It is imported in this country mostly in Russian bottles bearing German labels, indicating the locality of the manufacture. The best Russian Klimmel as it ages forms crystals at the bottom of the bottles. Some very good imitations of it are made as follow : (1) Put loz. of cumin-seed in lqt. of spirits of wine, and let it infuse for a couple of days. At the end of that time sweeten to taste with clarified syrup, strain, and filter through paper. Pour it into bottles, cork tightly, and pack them in a cool cellar for use. (2) Put Jib. of sugar and 1 heaped table-spoonful of caraway- seeds in § pint of boiling water, mix them with lqt. of brandy, pour it into a bottle, cork tightly, and leave it for a week or ten days. Afterwards, filter the Kiimmel, and it is ready for use. (3) Put into a large wide-mouthed 2qt. bottle 3oz. of caraway-seeds, fill the bottle up with the best rectified spirit, and leave it for eight or ten days. At the end of that time strain the spirit through muslin, let it settle, then strain again through filtering-paper until perfectly clear. Boil a little under lib. of loaf sugar with a small quantity of water to prevent it burning, then mix it with the syrup, stirring carefully at the same time. When quite cold, pour the spirit into bottles, cork them tightly, and pack away in a cool cellar. In about three weeks’ time it will be fit for use. (4) Wholesale. — Digest in a cask pint of essence of caraway with joz. each of the oils of fennel and anise, 10 drops of oil of neroli, 2qts. each of syrup and mucilage of gum Arabic, and 30galls. of rectified spirits. In a few days this will be ready to filter and bottle. Kiimmel is a favourite liqueur in many parts of the world, but in this country it is not much consumed excepting for flavouring, as in the following receipt: Kiimmel Jelly.—Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with £lb. of granulated sugar, 2oz. of gelatine broken into small pieces, and the grated rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on a hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, add them to the other ingredients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, add six cloves and one bay-leaf, and mix well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-bag tied on a stand. Stir the preparation, and when coming to the boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding 1 gill of Kiimmel. Let it drain into the vessel, then return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and drain again for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and then pack in ice to harden for two hours longer. Dip the mould into lukewarm water, turn the contents on to a dish, and send to the table. KUMQUAT.—A Japanese fruit (Citrus japonica) of the citron tribe. It is a very pleasing sweet sub-acid, with a strong orange flavour and odour, but is not mucli known in this country. LABRADOR TEA.—This is sometimes known as James’s tea, and is an infusion of the leaves of Ledum palustre. LACTIC ACID.—The acid of sour milk. LADY CAKE.—See Cakes. LADY’S DELIGHT.—This is the fanciful name given to a mild pickle which is supposed to give great satisfaction to refined female tastes, and is prepared as follows: Chop up coarsely 1-lb. of sour apples, 1-lb. of peeled small onions, 2oz. of green or red chillies, and pack them (mixed) in a pickle bottle. Boil 1 pint of white wine, or best malt vinegar, with 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and, before it cools, pour it over the pickles in the bottle; cork down, and in two or three days it will be ready for use. With a little salad-oil this pickle is very delicious. LADY’S FINGERS.—See Biscuits. LAGER BEER.—This is so called from the German word lager—a bed, signifying, therefore, beer that is stored or laid by for some time before it is offered for consumption. At one time Lager Beer was brewed solely in Germany ; but as it has gained favour for its bright, sparkling, almost effervescent qualities, it is in general demand all over the United States, the British Isles, and other countries; and the demand has tempted foreign brewers into the manufacture of this German speciality. Lager Beer is consumed chiefly in summer, the draught passing through an ice-chamber, and thus ensuring a refreshing drink suitable to the warm season. The brewing commences in October, and it is then stored in vats as fast as it is manufactured, each succeeding brewing being distributed amongst those preceding. In this way a uniform strength is guaranteed throughout the stock. For information concerning the brewing, see Beer. LAMB (Ft. Agneau; Ger. Lamm; Ital. Agnello; Sp. Cordero).—From fhe circumstance that Lamb does not change its Anglo-Saxon appellation for a Norman one when prepared for the table (as does its parent, the sheep, into mutton), it would appear that it was not a favourite dish amongst the followers of William the Con- queror. At the festive tables of Rome and in ancient Greece it was frequently served as a bonne-bouche; but the fact of its being chosen for sacrifice on the great feast of the Passover, under the name of the Pascal Lamb, may have influenced such impressionable people as the French, and led to their discarding Lamb-flesh until the prejudice could be in a measure overcome. Let it be observed that Lamb is not regarded with the same favour on the Continent as veal, which has not any sacrificial legend to influence its use. The sacrifice of the Pascal Lamb as performed by the Gauls of old, and kept up by some of the best French families to this day, has been to serve it roasted whole, to be eaten with unleavened bread. A very good account of the modern “ sacrifice,” translated from the French, is given as follows: If the Lamb is white, the head and tail are to be preserved, stripped of their wool, washed in soda-water, and left to dry in a warm spot. The Lamb is trussed whole, the legs being folded upon the belly; the inside is then filled with roasted stuffed pigeons, glazed chest- nuts, little grilled sausages, and cooked white Pied- montese truffles. When the Lamb is full of this farce, the holes through which it was inserted are closed, and the Lamb set down to roast on a spit. When done, it is set upon a very large dish, ornamented with attelettes, and then garnished with truffles instead of potatoes. This commanding dish is placed in the middle of the table, and the host, armed with a large knife, sacrifices the Pascal Lamb by piercing its flanks and cutting large openings in them. Out rolls a flood of pigeons, truffles, and chestnuts, spreading around a perfume that would seduce the most austere vegetarian and delights the guests with a most delicious foretaste. A pigeon, three truffles, a few chestnuts, and a little sausage are allotted to each guest, each portion being moistened with the gravy running from the victim. A slice of the Lamb,