924 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. beaten up in water or stock to make it a still’ paste. Form it into the shape of an oval loaf, and put it in a well-greased shallow pan. Make some holes all over it with a skewer, and insert some strips of fat bacon lin. Fig. 1148. Cold Meat Porcupine. long and |in. wide, leaving the ends out tin., and squeez- ing the meat firmly round the strips of bacon (see Fig. 1148). Put it in a quick oven and bake until quite brown, then take it out and serve. It will not require basting, as the bacon-fat will be quite sufficient. Cold-Meat-and-Fotato Salad.—Cut lib. of cold Meat into thin slices and then again into small squares, and mix with 1 pint of chopped cold potatoes. Put a layer of this at the bottom of a salad-bowl, cover with parsley and salad dressing, and continue in, this way until all the meat is J used up. Put the bowl in a cool place for a couple of hours, and the salad is ready for use. Cold-Meat Pudding.—Take any cold cooked Meat, cut it into rather small pieces, and remove all the fat and skin. Put till, of flour into a basin with 6oz. of suet, shred and not chopped, and make it into a stiff paste with about 1 teacupful of water. Flour the board or table, and roll out the paste. Line a quart basin with the paste, put in the Meat in layers, sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper, and add two chopped onions boiled in 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Pour in the onion water, cover the basin with a round of the paste, fasten the edges, tie a cloth round the basin, and boil in a saucepan of water for two-hours-and-a- ) half or so, and it is ready to be turned out on a dish and served. Good gravy or stock may be used instead of the onion water if preferred, and if kidneys or mushrooms are used they must be placed on the centre layer of the Meat. A little gravy may also be served in a sauceboat if there is not sufficient in the pudding. Cold-Meat Quenelles.—Trim off the skin and fat from the remains of any cold cooked Meat or poultry, and finely mince the flesh; mix with it an equal quantity of bread that has been soaked in milk and well squeezed, 1 table- spoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and chopped chives, and stir in a beaten egg. Cut one or two rashers of bacon into small squares, put them in a stewpan, and fry lightly ; then put in the above mixture, and stir it over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Turn the whole on to a dish, leave it until cool, then stir in two more beaten eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Divide into small quantities with a table-spoon, leaving the impression of the spoon on each, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry. When browned, drain, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Cold Meat Ragofit.—Take some cold cooked Meat, remove the bones (if any), skin, and gristle, cut it up into small pieces about Jin. square, put them into a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to cover, place the pan at the side of the fire, and let the mixture simmer' gently for two or three hours; add a few finely-chopped mushrooms, 2 table- spoonfuls of white wine, and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin with a little water, make it into a stiff paste, and stir it into the boiling liquor; if it does not make it brown enough, add 1 teaspoonful of caramel. Put the saucepan on the fire and boil the contents for ten minutes. Make a border Meat—continued. round a dish with some mashed potatoes, put the meat in the centre, and serve. Cold-Meat Ringlets.—A small piece of the white flesh of any kind of cold Meat can be used. The Meat must be finely minced and mixed with half its quantity of chopped cooked ham, and a third its quantity of finely-grated bread- crumbs ; season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; moisten it with a beaten egg and a little clear stock, taking care that it is not made too liquid. Cut in thin strips a few slices of tongue, and some French beans; butter some small cups or moulds, and arrange the slices of beans and tongue round them in alternate order; fill the moulds with the minced Meat, cover the tops with a sheet of buttered paper, stand them in a flat stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, put the lid on, and steam for half-an-hour. Avoid letting the water enter the top of the cups. When cooked, turn the moulds upside-down on a very hot dish, then draw them off carefully, leaving the ringlets on the dish. Pour a white bechamel sauce round, and serve. Cold-Meat Rissoles.—Finely mince any remains of cold Meat, put it in a mortar, pound well, moisten with cream, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices. Prepare some good short-paste, roll out, and with a tin cutter cut it into oval-shaped pieces. Put a small quantity of the above mince on each piece, double the paste over, moisten round the edges and pinch them together. Brush the rissoles over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and strew some vermicelli over them. Put a large lump of clarified fat or lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the rissoles and fry until lightly browned. Drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper, pile them on a hot dish that has been covered with a fancy dish-paper, and serve. Cold-Meat Salad.—(1) Prepare a forcemeat with any cold cooked Meat such as fowl, veal, tongue, &c., and shape it with an egg-cup. Pile up a salad-bow l with any vegetables in season, decorate with the forcemeat and a few slices of cold cooked fowl, pour over a rich dressing, and serve. The bowl should be rubbed with garlic and a little lemon-juice squeezed over before the salad is put in, and the dressing poured over only a few minutes before serving. (2) Any kind of cold boiled Meat may be used; cut it into very small pieces, and mix with them a finely-chopped onion, also some chopped pickled beans, gherkins, and beet- root, and chopped boiled carrot. Put the mixture into a salad-bowl and season it with pepper. Beat an egg well, and mix with it by degrees 1 table-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, 1 small teaspoonful each of dry mustard and caster sugar, and salt to taste. When thoroughly mixed, pour the dressing over the meat, and stand it in a cool place for half-an-hour. When ready, arrange over the salad, in pretty order, some pieces of celery, watercress, and pickled red citbbage. Serve the salad while it looks fresh. Cold-Meat Souffle.—Put J pint of cream sauce into a basin, and season with a little onion-juice and finely-minced parsley; mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of any cold cooked finely-chopped Meat, such as veal, lamb, tongue, &c., and put it all into a saucepan over the fire; when quite hot, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, cook for a minute longer, and then put it into a basin to cool. When quite cold, mix in the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; put the mixture into a well-buttered dish, bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, and serve hot. A little mushroom sauce served with it is a great improvement. Curried Cold Meat.—(1) Select a couple of any kind of birds, cut the flesh off’ the bones, wash well, put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add 1 table-spoon- ful of salt, place the pan on the fire, cover it, boil the Meat until quite tender, skimming the liquor frequently, and when done take it out. Put Jib. of butter into another saucepan, let it brown a little, add two cloves of garlic and one large onion cut in pieces, and boil until they become quite brown, tossing the pan a little; put in the pieces of Meat, sprinkle with 3 table-spoonfuls of curry