TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PEACTICAL COOKERY. 946 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mint —continued. (3) Take half-a-dozen sprigs of fresh Mint, bruise or crush the tops with a spoon in an ordinary tumbler in 1 table-spoonful of sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of water, put into the tumbler H wineglassfuls of brandy, take out the Mint, and fill up the tumbler with pounded ice ; put the Mint in again, the stems downwards, and on the top of the ice arrange either a few freshly-gathered berries, or a slice or two of orange or lemon, or one or two pieces of pineapple. Serve at once, with straws to drink it through. Mint Sauce.—(1) Finely chop (quickly) some fresh well- washed Mint-leaves, put them inline liately into a sauce- tureen, pour over just sulficient vinegar to float the chopped leaves, add enough sugar to sweeten the vinegar, and let it stand for a-quarter-of-an-hour. (2) Take 4 handful of Mint-leaves, finely mince them, moisten with 4 breakfast-cupful each of water and broth or consomme, add 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 1 table-spoon- ful of salt, and £oz. of sugar; stir well, and serve in a sauceboat. (3) Put 4 pint of vinegar into a saucepan with ioz. of brown sugar, and reduce it. Add 1 pint of water, boil for one minute only, mix in 1 table spoonful of very finely- minced Mint, and serve. Mint Vinegar.—Fill loosely a large wide-mouthed bottle with fresh clean Mint-leaves, pour in sufficient vinegar to cover, cork down the bottle securely, let it remain for two or three weeks, then pour off the vinegar into another bottle, and keep it well corked until wanted for use. This is a capital substitute when fresh Mint cannot be obtained, and should be served with lamb. Or it may be prepared by soaking the Mint-leaves in the vinegar for about fifteen days, then straining off the liquor into a bottle with fresh vinegar and leaves, and steeping for ten or fifteen days longer, before being poured into bottles for using. MINUTE PUDDING.—See Puddings. MIREPOIX.—This is the name given to a flavouring used for savoury stew. It is that of a duke who lived in the reign of Louis XV., and who became somewhat noted on account of the favour with which his duchess was treated by the king. “ It is probable ” says Kettner, “ that one of these days the common sense of mankind will rise in rebedion against this word and abolish it.” The best receipts are as follows: (1) Take two carrots, two onions, two shallots, two bay- leaves, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, and mince them together with 1,1b. each of fat bacon and raw ham. Toss these in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter and salt to season. Stew with 4 pint of red or white wine, and add to stock or sauce as required. (2) Stew in a saucepan 2oz. of fat, two carrots, one onion, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, six peppercorns, three cloves, and, if available, a liam-bone cut into pieces. Add two sprigs of celery and half a bunch of paisley-roots, cook for fifteen minutes, and use as required. Scraps of baked veal may be added if there are any at hand. MIREPOIX SAUCE.—See Sauces. MIRIN.—A Japanese alcoholic sweet liqueur. MIROTON.—Fr. for a kind of dish made up of cold meat; but as the derivation is doubtful, some of our cooks have applied the term to preparations of Apples, Beef, Flounders, Lobsters, Peaches and Veal. MISERABLES.—A popular name for the husks of cocoa-beans, which are sometimes used by the very poor to make a miserable concoction. MITES.—These are described under various headings, such as Cheese, Flour, and Sugar. They are regarded as natural destroyers of the foods they affect. MIXED PICKLE.—See Pickles. MIXED SAUCE.—See Sauces. MJODR.—The Swedish name for Mead. MOCHA.—See Coffee. MOCK.—Some cooks are fond of exercising their skill and ingenuity in preparing certain imitations of favourite dishes, usually employing for the purpose different ingredients to those used in the original. French cooks used the word moque in the same sense. In this way we have Mock Brawn, Mock Turtle, Mock Venison, (Mutton), &c. \ MODE, A LA.—The word Fran9aise is here under- stood, signifying “ in the French style.” See Beef a la Mode. MODENA CAKE.—See Cakes. MOIST SUGAR.—See Sugar. MOISTEN.—A tei •m frequently used by cooks, meaning to put upon meat or anything else as much fluid —whether water, broth, or stock—as will stew it. MOLASSES {Fr. Melasse; Ger. Melasse).—A dark- coloured, thick, viscid, uncrystallisable liquid which drains off sugar in the course of its preparation and refinement. It is a great favourite in America, where the finer kind, called sugar-house Molasses, is the best. See Treacle. The following are some of the uses to which it is applied: Molasses Beer.—(1) Put 4oz. of hops into a large pan with 2galls. of water, and boil for half-an-hour. Put 2qts. of coarsely-ground malt into a tub with 31b. of brown sugar and ] 4 pints of re-boiled Cuba Molasses. At the end of the half-hour, pour the boiling hops over the ingredients in the tub, stir up well, then leave them for an hour. When ready, strain the liquor carefully into a keg without disturbing the sediment. Pour another 2galls. of boiling water over the malt, &c., remaining in the tub, leave it until cold and settled, then strain it in with the other liquor. Proceed the same with another lgall. of water, adding at the same time 4 pint of brewer’s yeast. When the liquor in the keg is almost cold, strain the yeast water into it, let it ferment in the keg for two or three days according to the temperature, then cork it tightly. The keg should be full to the bung, so that the yeast during fermentation may work out and ran off. When fermentation lias ceased, draw the beer off into bottles, and cork them tightly. In a mor.th or six weeks’ time the beer will be fit for drinking. (2) Put into a large vessel I lb. of raw sugar, lib. of Molasses, loz. of bruised ginger, and ioz. of hops, pour in 3qts. of water, and boil for several minutes. Strain the liquor, and add 5qts. of water and 1 table-spoonful of yeast. Let the beer work for one night, then bottle it. Molasses Cake.—(1) Put 7 breakfast-cupfuls of flour into a large basin, and rub in until quite smooth ill), of butter ; then mix with it £lb. of sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of Fig. 1187. Molasses Cake. ground ginger. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 2 table-spoonfuls of warm water, then mix it with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour milk, and stir it into the above ingredients together with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Molasses. Work the dough well; if too stiff a little more