TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 772 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Horseradish—continued. Pour the sauce over the grated Horseradish, mix it well, and serve. (6) Scrape a root of Horseradish quite clean, and then grate it. Beat the yolks of two eggs well together with 3 table- spoonfuls of cream, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of made mustard and wineglassful of vinegar, stirring until thoroughly incorporated. Next add the Horseradish, and the sauce is ready for serving. (7) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; pour in i pint of milk, and continue stirring until boiling, then move it to the side of the fire. Scrape the skin off a stick of Horseradish, and grate the white part; when very fine, put it into the sauce with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil for five minutes. The sauce is then ready for serving. Breadcrumbs and Horseradish can be used in equal quantities if a milder sauce is preferred. (8) Peel and grate plenty of Horseradish, put it in a stew- pan with sufficient water to make a rather thick puree, season with salt, add tarragon vinegar to taste, and boil. When the Horseradish is ready, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 teacupful of milk, or half milk and cream. Stir the sauce a minute or two without letting it boil again, then serve. (9) Add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered or grated Horseradish to | pint of bechamel sauce, also i teaspoonful of powdered sugar, -J- teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and f teaspoonful of salt. Boil for five minutes. Should the sauce be too thick, add a little cream or milk and 3 drops of vinegar. (10) Scrape and chop the Horseradish as finely as possible, or grate it; put it in a saucepan with melted butter, and warm it, adding a little each of walnut and mushroom ketchups. It is then ready for use. (11) Put an onion into a saucepan with a little fish stock, cook it ixntil quite soft, beat it to a pulp, mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies and 1 teaspoonful of grated Horse- radish, stir over the fire, thicken with butter, and add lastly a little lemon-juice. This is excellent with halibut, turbot, or brill. Horseradish. Vinegar.—(1) Put 3oz. of finely-scraped "Horse- radish into a jar or bottle, add 1 drachm of cayenne, loz. of bruised onions, a little black pepper and celery-seeds, pour over lqt. of vinegar, and let it remain for fourteen days. Then filter off the liquor, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and the vinegar is ready for use. It can be employed to advantage in mixing mustard, or as a relish for cold meats, salads, &c. (2) Put 3oz. of scraped Horseradish, loz. of chopped shallots, and 1 drachm of cayenne pepper into a large bottle, pour on to it lqt. of the best vinegar, cork, and let it stand for a week or two. HOTCH-POTCH, or HOTCH-POT.—This remark- able Scotch stew is sometimes called Hodge-podge, but this is only by the ignorant Southerner, who is probably not aware that the word derives its existence from the Dutch hotsen—to shake, and pot, the latter having been converted into potch for the sake of euphony. In Prance a still further conversion has taken place, and the word becomes hoclie-pot; whilst in Germany a stew correspond- ing to Hotch-potch is found in misch-masch. The great secret of the real Scotch Hotch-potch is a superabundance of peas boiled to a mash, and the absence of barley ; but these points appear to have been overlooked or ignored. The first receipt is taken from Mrs. Dalgairn’s Cookery Book, and was endorsed by Sir Walter Scott: (1) Cut in dice a good quantity of young turnips and carrots, and boil them gently, with one or two lettuces cut small, the tops of some cauliflower, and 1 pint of full-grown peas, in 4qts. of boiling water for two hours. Cut in neat chops the loin or the best end of a neck of mutton, add them to the vegetables with salt, pepper, and some onions cut small, and let them boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Lastly, add 3 pints of green peas, and boil for half-an-hour longer, when it will be ready to serve. (2) Chop an ox-tail in pieces, and put it in a pan of water to steep for a few hours. Blanch, drain, refresh, and put it back again into the saucepan without the water, and add a few sweet herbs, a knuckle of veal, a ham-bone, a few chicken Hotch-potch, or Hotch-pot—continued. giblets, a little dripping, and one chopped onion. Put the pan over a moderate fire, and cook the contents to a light brown ; add lgall. of light broth, boil up, skim well, remove it to the side of the fire, and drop in a piece of blanched streaky bacon, two leeks and carrots, a root of celery, and a turnip. Let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half. then add three or four blanched lettuces and the heart of a cabbage, tied round with string so as to be easily removed when done. Continue to boil this until the meat is quite tender, then take it out with the bacon and vegetables, and cut them all up into small pieces ; strain the broth, skim off the fat, and pour it into a tureen. Add the meat and vegetables and a few slices of toasted bread. (3) This soup can only be prepared in the summer when there are fresh vegetables. Remove the bone from 31b. of beef and also half a leg of mutton, cut them up, and put them in a stockpot with 5qts. of water and a little salt. Place Ihe pot on the fire, boil, remove it to the side, and let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half. Skim frequently, and add any or all the fresh vegetables that are in season, such as onions, leeks, carrots, turnips, cabbages, green peas, &c., all cut up small. Put vegetables such as asparagus and peas in last, after the others have boiled a little, as they do not require so much cooking. When done, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. It does not require any thickening. (4) Peel and put into a saucepan with lgall. of boiling water six or eight young carrots and three turnips ; boil them until soft. Cut about eight carrots and four turnips into small squares, and put them in with the others while boiling. Afterwards add 41b. of neck of mutton cut into convenient- sized pieces, four peeled onions, and f peck of green freshly- shelled peas. Boil the whole until soft, adding before they are quite done a few young lettuces cut into small pieces. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. (5) Put 21b. or 31b. of ribs of lamb cut up into steaks in a stockpot with some water, add the grated outer rind of two or three young carrots in slices, and cut up also some onions, parsley, lettuce, and turnip, so that there shall be lqt. of them altogether, also 1 pint of green peas and cauliflower - sprigs. Boil well, skimming frequently, and when they are nearly done add another pint of the peas and cauliflower-sprigs, and season with salt and peppe". When the soup is thick, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve. (6) Put some carrots, turnips, and heads of celery, cut. up into cork-shaped pieces and blanched, into a saucepan with clear brown broth, and boil for an hour or so. Have a few boiled mutton chops ready, plung-e them in with thin slices of crust of bread cut into rounds, boil up once more, and serve. Ox-tails or cheek may be used, but care must be taken if cheeks are selected to have them boiled in water and strained, or the soup will have a taste like tripe. (7) Trim off all the fat from 31b. of neck of mutton, put the meat in a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Skim well, season to taste with salt, and put in the following vegetables: Half-a-dozen young turnips and two carrots, all peeled and cut into small squares, 2 break- fast-cupfuls of young and tender broad beans with their husks taken off, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of young green peas. Keep the saucepan at the side of the lire, and let the contents simmer gently for five hours; then put in 2 more breakfast- cupfuls of green peas, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Serve the Hotch-Potch very hot. (8) Take a neck of mutton, cut off the scrag, put it in a saucepan over the fire with lqt. of water and 41b. of green split peas, and boil for two hours. Strain through a hair sieve, put it back in the pan, set it over the fire with the rest of the neck cut into chops and all the fat cut off, also with a couple of carrots scraped, washed, and sliced, a couple of turnips peeled and washed, a couple of small onions peeled, a head of lettuce, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, salt to taste, and if in season 4 pint of fresh green peas ; if they are not, take another Ijlb. of dried green peas, simmer them in soft water till tender, and add them to the Hotch-Potch at least half- an-hour before it is done. (9) Peel and wash five turnips, wash and scrape five carrots, and cut four of each into slices. Take the best end of a neck of mutton, and cut it into cutlets. Put lgall. of water in a saucepan over the fire with the whole turnip, the whole