864 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Liver—continued. Liver—continued. common note-paper, and lay on one half of it a nicely- trimmed thin rasher of bacon; have ready and well mixed Joz. of sifted breadcrumbs and about 1 saltspoonful each of pepper, sifted herbs, chopped parsley, salt, and very finely- chopped onion ; sprinkle nearly 1 teaspoonful of this seasoning over the rasher of bacon, lay on it a slice of Liver, sprinkle this also with about 1 teaspoonful of the seasoning, lay on top another nicely trimmed thin rasher, fold the other half of the paper over, turn up the edges of the paper at the three open sides, and fry for a-quarter-of-an-hour, turn- ing once. Serve very hot. Liver Kabobs.—Cut some Liver into small equal-sized pieces, wrap in pieces of caul-fat, pass them on to skewers (see Fig. 1078. Liver Kabob. Fig. 1078), and roast in front of a clear fire, turning constantly. Peel a clove of garlic, put it in a mortar, and pound ; then mix in with it 1 breakfast-cupful of clear broth, 2 table-spoonfuls of wine vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn the sauce into a small saucepan and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till hot, then take it off. Put the Liver on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Liver-and-Potato Pie.-—Peel 21b. of potatoes, wash, put them in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and place them over the lire until boiling, then drain and cut them into slices. Cut lib. of Liver into thin slices, and wash well in cold water. Cover the bottom of a rather broad and shallow baking-tin with slices of the potatoes, then put in a layer of the sliced Liver; strew over them a small quantity of finely-chopped onion and some pepper and salt, then put in two or three thin slices of bacon. Continue in this manner until all the ingredients are used, seasoning each layer with chopped onion, and salt and pepper, and making the top layer of potatoes. Pour in at the side 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, put the tin in a brisk oven, and bake for an-liour-and-a-half. Serve hot. Liver Pudding1.—Stew 21b. of Liver in a very little water for an-liour-and-a-half, then cut it into small squares and add some pieces of fat of beef, mutton, or bacon. Line a pudding-basin with a pudding-crust made of flour, dripping, and water, put in the Liver and fat well mixed together, pour in the liquor in which the Liver was stewed, cover with crust, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for two hours. Liver Quenelles.—(1) Steep a thick slice of bread in milk until well soaked, then squeeze, mix it with Jib. of finely- minced Liver, and season with parsley, chives, and lemon- peel, in small quantities and all finely chopped ; dust in salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and bind the mixture with beaten eggs, keeping it consistent. Divide it with a table-spoon into small quantities, mould them an oval shape by pressing in the bowl of the spoon, dip- ping the spoon in warm water each time it is used. Plunge the balls into a saucepan of boiling waiter, and boil for lialf-an-hour. Chop about 3oz. of bacon, put it in a frying- pan with a lump of butter and fry until crisp and brown. When the quenelles are cooked, drain, put them on a hot dish, pour the fried bacon and fat over them, and serve very hot. (2) Wash Jib. of either calf’s or sheep’s Liver, and chop it finely; mix in half its quantity of finely-chopped fat bacon and 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, and season to taste with salt and chopped herbs. Slightly warm 3oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, add four weli- beaten eggs, and stir it into the Liver' mixture. When well worked together, take a small portion of the mixture and poach it in boiling water, to see if it is consistent, if not, more grated breadcrumb should be mixed in, or more beaten egg as the case may be. Divide the mixture into small egg-shaped quenelles, using a table-spoon for the purpose, throw them into a saucepan of boiling broth, and boil gently for lialf-an-hour. When cooked, drain, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, on a hot dish, and serve. Liver Ragoht.—Take a Liver (any kind), wash, dry it in a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with a little water, and boil until quite tender ; take out, and cut it into thin slices. Put some rich brown sauce into a saucepan, season with spices, add a little wine, and stew the Liver in it until Fig. 1079. Liver RagoOt. quite hot. Then serve on a dish with slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs arranged alternately round (see Fig. 1079). Liver and Salt Pork with Gravy.—Cut three slices of pickled pork in halves, and fry both sides. When cooked, take out, put them on a hot dish, and keep in a warm oven. Cut six slices of Liver, put them in the pan with the fat, and fry, dusting over with pepper while cooking. When done, take out the Liver, and put it on the dish with the pork; dredge a small quantity of flour in the pan with the fat and gravy, stir it about over the fire till well mixed, then pour in 1 teacupful of water, let it boil up, then strain the sauce over the Liver and pork, adding more salt if necessary, and serve. Liver Sauce.—(1) Put a rabbit’s Liver or two fowls’ Livers into a saucepan containing water, with a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and boil until tender; take out the Liver and herbs, add to the liquor two boned anchovies, and let them dissolve in it. Mince the Liver, herbs, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and the white of one, pound to a pulp in a mortar, adding 1 saltspoonful of grated lemon-peel and salt and pepper to taste. Return it all to the saucepan, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, thicken with a liaison of flour and butter, and stir over the fire until done. Serve hot with roasted rabbit or poultry. Gravy can be used instead of the water, and then the butter may lie omitted from the thickening. (2) Procure some poultry Livers, blanch and chop them finely. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, mix them well, then add 1 table-spoon- ful of finely-minced shallots, and fry for two or three minutes, stirring at the same time. Pour in sufficient clear gravy to make the required quantity of sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, a moderate quantity of spices and powdered sweet herbs, then put in the minced Livers and 1 wineglassful of red wine, and boil the sauce gently for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. When ready, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add about Joz. of butter, broken into pieces, stir for a minute or two, and serve. (3) Finely pound a boiled rabbit’s Liver or a couple of boiled fowls’ Livers, season with salt, pepper, and plenty of chopped parsley, put into J pint of butter sauce, boil up once, and serve. (4) Cut up very fine the boiled Livers of fowls or rabbits, also a few slices of lemon, one or two hard-boiled eggs,