THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 832 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Larks—con tinned. centre, removing the top, and through this opening take out the bacon; pour inside a little thickened brown gravy that has been reduced with wine, put the cover on again, and serve. Lark Pudding.—Prepare six or eight Larks ; roll two or three very thin and very small beef-steaks round small pieces of fat. Make a common suet crust, roll it out, and line a pudding-basin with some of it. Put in the Larks and the rolled steaks, pour in a small quantity of water, cover with another piece of paste, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for three hours. Lark Raised Pie served Hot.—Clean, remove the gizzards, and cut off the necks and legs from two-dozen-and-a-lialf Larks; sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, put them in a sauti-pan with a little butter, and cook. Line a but- tered entree-mould with short-paste, fill it with flour, put a paste cover on the top, pinch the edges together, dip a paste- brush in beaten egg, glaze the top of the pie with it, and bake the crust; when done, cut out the cover tin. inside the edge, and shake the flour well out; take the crust out of the mould, brush it inside and out with beaten egg, and dry in the oven for four or five minutes. Drain the Larks when cooked, put them in the crust, finishing with a circle of them set close together, breast outwards, round the top of the pie, and fill the centre with turned mushrooms ; Fig. 1047. Lark Raised Pie. reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks, pour it in the pie, and serve. See Fig. 1047. Lark Scallops in a Croustade.—Cut the fillets off about thirty Larks; put them in a saute-pan with a piece of butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fry them. Drain when cooked, and let them cool. Slice the same quantity of truffles as there are Larks. Reduce some partridge chaudfroid sauce with a little essence of Larks, and mix with it the cooked fillets of Lark and the sliced truffles. Prepare a fried bread croustade, put it on a hot dish, arrange the scallops on it, raising them in a pyramid shape, garnish the dish with crofttons of aspic jelly, and serve. Lark Soup.—Boil lOoz. of washed rice in broth till reduced to puree, adding occasionally a little more broth to keep it thin. Singe, draw, and clean three dozen Larks, fry them in a stewpan, sprinkle with pepper and salt, let them cool, then remove their fillets, and trim them neatly. With the bones and trimmings of the Larks prepare a little stock ; when made, pass it through a fine hair sieve into the rice puree. Put the fillets in the soup, warm them up again, then pour all into a hot dish ; add 1 pinch of chopped green mint, the juice of two pomegranates, and serve. Potted Larks.—Carefully pick, singe, and draw the required quantity of Larks ; diy them, sprinkle plentifully inside and out with pounded mace, pepper, and salt, put them in stone jars, with a piece of butter, tie down and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked take the Larks out of the gravy, put them into potting-jars, pour clarified butter over, cover them with stout paper, tie down tightly, and keep them in a dry store-closet till wanted for use. Roasted Larks.—(1) Clean and prepare the Larks, tie them up in thin slices of fat bacon and then in vine-leaves and roast in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with butter and turning the spit very rapidly. Serve hot. Larks—continued. (2) The Larks may be brushed over with egg, dipped in breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt, and then roasted as above and served with green-grape sauce. (3) Singe, clean, and remove the gizzards from twenty- four Larks ; cut off the heads and legs, sprinkle pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg inside, dip them in beaten eggs then in breadcrumbs, run a large skewer through and fasten it on to a spit; roast them in front of a clear brisk fire, basting continually with butter. When cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot round- shaped dish ; have ready some breadcrumbs fried crisp and brown in a little butter, drain, and put them in the circle of Larks. Serve with butter sauce with a little lemon- juice squeezed in it. (4) Singe and remove the gizzards from eight Larks ; cut • eight slices of bacon 2£in. long and Din. wide, cover each Lark entirely with the bacon, pass a long thin skewer through them in such a way that the bacon is caught down each side (the Larks must not touch each other), fasten each end of the skewer to the spit, and roast the Larks in front of a clear fire, for eight minutes. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour a rich gravy over, garnish with watercress, and serve. (5) Cut some thin slices of bread, about ljin. long and lin. wide, toast them and place a slice of fat bacon on each; put the required quantity of Larks, side by side on a thin skewer, putting between each a piece of the toast and bacon. Tie the ends of the skewer to a spit, and cook the Larks in front of a very clear sharp fire. Arrange on a hot dish, and serve with a good game gravy in a boat. Salmis of Larks.—(1) Singe, pick, and take out the gizzards of twelve Larks, leaving their legs. Cut Jib. of streaky bacon into slices Ain. thick, divide them into pieces lin. long, put them into a stewpan holding about 2qts. with a small lump of butter, fry till lightly coloured, then put in the Larks and lqt. of mushrooms previously washed and cut in slices. Fry for eight minutes, then sprinkle with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and toss over the fire for a minute or two longer. Heat f pint of white sauce, sprinkle in a little pepper and salt, pour it gradually into the stewpan containing the Larks, stirring the while to prevent it getting lumpy, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley; continue stirring over the fire for two or three minutes, then turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Singe, clean, and draw the required quantity of Larks, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and fry till well browned ; pour in an equal quantity of white wine and stock, add some chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, and boil gently till done. When ready to serve, pour the salmis of Larks on to a hot dish, and garnish with crofttons of fried bread. Stewed Larks.—Prepare two dozen Larks, cover each with a thin layer of fat bacon, fix them on the spit, and roast lightly in front of a clear fire. Cut the meat off six of them, pound it in a mortar with a few sweet herbs and a slice of stale bread soaked in milk, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and stuff the remaining Larks with the prepara- tion. Put them in a saucepan with the gravy from the Larks, sprinkle over a little flour, pepper, and salt, and let them stew gently by the side of the fire till done. Fry some pieces of bread, put them on a hot dish, place the Larks on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Larks a la Macedoine.—Clean and bone twelve Larks, stuff them with a forcemeat made with their chopped livers and a little veal and fat bacon in equal quan- tities, all well pounded in the mortar, and seasoned highly with chopped herbs and allspice; put them into a saucepan with a little rich gravy, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, fill up the centre with chopped cooked vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, &c., making a dome, arrange the birds round it, pour round the gravy, and serve. The Larins should be glazed before being served. Stewed Larks with Macaroni.—Put a dozen Larks into a pan with a good-sized lump of butter and fry slightly, together with a bay-leaf and a small whole onion. Boil