THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 829 Larks—continued. of converting them into culinary dishes is regarded with great disfavour. It may be a consolation to know that the great bulk of small birds sold in our shops as Larks, are not always sky-Larks, but more often field- Larks, fieldfares, and wheatears. They have been recog- nised amongst table delicacies from the days of Rome’s empire, and probably long before that; but it is to the French cook that we are indebted for the present perfec- tion of their cooking. Baked Larks.—Singe and cut the wings and legs of the required quantity of Larks at the first joint, and remove the gizzards. Run four small wooden skewers through each I,ark, put them in a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, sprinkle with a little salt, fry over a sharp fire for three minutes, then sprinkle breadcrumbs over them; place the cover on the stewpan, put some live embers on the top, and leave on a slow fire till cooked. Drain the Larks, take out the skewers, arrange in two rows on a hot dish, pour the breadcrumbs-and-butter over them, and serve. Baked stuffed Larks.—Clean and draw ten Larks, and prepare the following stuffing : Free the white flesh of a cold chicken from skin and bone, chop finely, and mix it with 2oz. of finely-chopped ham and raw fat bacon, a small quantity of chopped sage and pounded mace, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, stuff the birds with half of the forcemeat. Cut ten slices of bacon, spread over the remainder of the forcemeat, put a Lark on each, roll them up and bind round with tape, or secure the bacon with a small skewer. Lay them side by side in a baking-dish, cover, and bake in a moderate oven. Heat a sufficient quantity of rich veal gravy and flavour it with lemon-juice. When the Larks are cooked, place them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Ballotines of Larks.—Bone the required quantity of Larks (see BONING), fill them with chicken forcemeat, put a truffle turned to a ball shape in each Lark, and fold them round it. Tie each Lark up in a small cloth, and braise them in Madeira and mirepoix. Put a cake of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, take the cloths off the Larks, arrange them Fig. 1045. Ballotines of Larks. over the centre of the cake (see Fig. 1045), reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks, pour it over the Larks, and serve. Broiled Larks.—(1) Truss and prepare the required quantity of Larks ; brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle with plenty of breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a very clear fire. Toast some slices of bread, lay them on a hot dish, place the Larks on them, pour a little rich brown gravy round, and serve. (2) Stuff the birds with a mixture of finely-chopped parsley and butter seasoned with salt and pepper, tie up at both ends, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning occasionally. Cut as many slices of bread as there are Larks, and trim them to an oval shape, removing all the crusts; put a large piece of butter or lard in a deep frying-pan over the fire, and when boil- ing put in the pieces of bread, and fry them until a bright golden brown, then drain, put them on a hot dish, and when the Larks are ready place one on each slice and serve quickly with a boat of butter sauce. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Larks—continued. Chaudfroid of Lark Galantines.—Clean and bone the re- quired quantity of Larks. Prepare some Lark forcemeat, mix in some chopped truffles, and stuff each Lark with a small piece of the forcemeat, making them a round shape. Butter the same quantity of dariole-moulds as there are Larks, place a Lark in each mould, breast downwards, stand the moulds in a saute-pan, pour a little water round them, put the pan in the oven, and bake the Larks till cooked. When done, take them out of the oven, and leave in the moulds till cold. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks. Take the Larks out of the moulds, wipe and dip them in the sauce, then leave on a dish till the sauce is cold. Trim the same quantity of small minion fillets of chicken as there are Larks ; contise them with truffles and put them in the oven. Prepare a socle of fried bread cut so as to form three tiers, put it on a hot dish, dip the Larks in some more of the sauce, arrange them in rows, one above the other round the bread, place a contised fillet between each Lark, put a border of croft tons of meat jelly round the dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. See Contising. Essence of Larks.—Break the bones of some Larks, having first removed the meat, and put them in a stewpan with the trimmings, one onion stuck with two cloves, one carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Madeira. Boil the above ingre- dients till the moisture has reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth. When boiling, skim the broth, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and- a-half; then strain the essence through a broth-napkin or a silk sieve. When a little cooled, strain off the fat, and put by for use. Pried Lark Cutlets.—Bone the required quantity of Larks, flatten them out as much as possible to the shape of cutlets, fill the hollows left by the bones with force- meat, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the Larks in it. When cooked, place the Larks on a hot dish, pour over any sauce preferred, and serve. Larks au Chasseur.—Singe, draw, and clean the required quantity of Larks. Put some small sausages and thin slices of lean ham in a saucepan, fry till brown, then put in the Larks, a few chopped mushrooms, and a sprinkling of flour, salt, and pepper, cover them with red wine, stand the saucepan over the fire till hot, then arrange the Larks, sausages, and slices of bacon on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over, and serve. Larks a, la Chipolata.—These are prepared as for Larks au Chasseur, with this difference, that a few peeled and roasted chestnuts are added to the stew. Larks au Gratin.—(1) Singe, draw, and truss twenty Larks. Put in a frying-pan a few chicken livers, an equal quan- tity of lean veal, and a small lump of butter; fry, and let them cool, then put them in a mortar with a little chopped fat bacon and a little piece of panada, and pound ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, pass all through a sieve, and mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and mush- rooms. Stuff the Larks with some of the preparation, put what is left at the bottom of a gratin-dish, and arrange the Larks in a conical form on it. Chop together some onions, mushrooms, and parsley, mix with them some breadcrumbs, and cover the Larks with it; pour a little clarified butter over, and bake the Larks for a-quarter-of- an-hour in a quick oven. When cooked, pour in a little slightly-thickened gravy, with the juice of a lemon squeezed in, and serve. (2) Bone twelve Larks, season them with pepper and, salt, stuff each with foie-gras forcemeat and a truffle' and roll them round. Butter a croustade-mouid, line with short-paste, put a layer of foie-gras forcemeat lin. thick at the bottom, and arrange the Larks in a circle round the mould. Cut a round slice of bread without any crusts, cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, and put it in the centre of the Larks. Place a short-paste cover on the top of the croustade, pinch the edges together, dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush over the top of the pie, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads.