THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 810 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see u .der their special heads. Lamb—continued. (5) Carefully trim the required quantity of Lamb chops, dip them first in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, fasten the flap ends round with a small slrewer, and fry them. When done one side, turn and finish the other side. When cooked, Fig. 1018. Fried Lamb Chops. drain, and having decorated the bones with frills, put the chops on a hot dish, resting on a prepared bed of mashed potatoes, and serve with a piquant sauce. See Fig. 1018. Pried Lamb Cutlets.—Trim the outer skin off two breasts J of Lamb, put them in a saucepan, cover with veal stock, and boil slowly. Prepare a veal forcemeat, seasoning highly with herbs and spices, and bind it with a raw egg. When the breasts of Lamb are tender, bone them, and spread the force- meat over the insides, laying them one on top of the other, the forcemeat sides together. Put them between two dishes with a heavy weight on the top, and leave for several hours. Take some small bones from the ribs, trim to the shape of cutlet-bones, and blanch them. Cut the cold breasts into pieces, and form them to the shape of cutlets. Beat three yolks and two whites of eggs well together with 2 table-spoonfuls of oiled butter, the butter being mixed in slowly drop by drop ; brush the cutlets over with a paste-brush dipped in the beaten egg mixture, and roll them in fine white breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt, pepper, and, if liked, a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Leave the cutlets for twenty minutes or so, then egg-and-breadcrumb them again, proceeding as before; leave again for half-and-hour, then give a third coating of egg and breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the cutlets, and fry a nice brown. When done, drain the cutlets on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute ; stick one of the whitened bones in each, and fasten a small paper frill round them. Pile some mashed potatoes in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets leaning against them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with demi-glaze sauce. Hashed Lamb.—Fry two chopped onions in a saucepan with loz. of butter; add -|lb. of cooked hashed Lamb and 1 pint of cooked chopped potatoes, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and i teaspoonful of nutmeg. Moisten with I- pint of broth, and cook for ten minutes. Place the hash on a hot dish, and arrange six poached eggs on top. Serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. Lamb Chops a la Maintenon.—Take six well-trimmed and flattened Lamb chops, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, put them into a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and fry on one side only for one minute. Cover the cooked side with a chicken forcemeat. Sprinkle over them a very finely-minced truffle, place them on a well-buttered baking- dish, and put them in a slow oven to cook for four minutes. Put a paper frill on the end of each chop, and serve with § pint of hot clear veloute sauce poured on the dish, and the chops laid on that. Lamb Chops with Brown Sauce.—Cut some Lamb chops about jin. thick, trim nicely, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in a seasoning composed of finely-minced parsley, lemon-peel, a little salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying- pan over the fire, let it quite boil, then put in the chops and fry until nicely browned. Put 1 scant table-spoonful of flour and a small piece of butter into a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then pour in § pint of clear veal gravy, and stir until boiling; drain the chops, put them on a hot dish, mix Lamb—continued. v wineglassful of port wine with the sauce, strain it over the chops, and serve. Lamb Chops with Champagne Sauce. — Pare nicely and flatten six Lamb chops, season with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, fry slightly in a saute-pan with loz. of butter for one minute on each side, then let them cool. Cover the surfaces with chicken forcemeat, wrap them in crepinette (a skin found in the stomach of the pig), and dip in beaten egg, then in fresh breadcrumbs, and cook in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter for four minutes on each side. Arrange a paper frill at the end of each chop, and serve with § pint of hot champagne sauce on the dish and the chops on that. Lamb Chops with Perigueux Sauce. Pare neatly six chops, flatten them well, and season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Make an incision in each chop, and garnish the inside with a slice of truffle previously dipped in half- glaze, then dip the chops in beaten egg, roll them in fresh breadcrumbs, and put them into a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry for five minutes on each side. Pour £ pint of perigueux sauce on the dish, arrange the chops over it, with curled paper on their ends, and serve. Lamb Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop 31b. of raw Lamb ; peel and mince three onions, mix all together, and season with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into small quantities, and roll them into balls, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil. Put the yolks of four eggs in a saucepan with the strained juice of two lemons and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and beat them well; stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until they thicken, taking care to move them off the fire before they have time to boil, or they will curdle and be spoilt; then mix in gradually 1 teacupful of the liquor in which the meat balls were boiled. Stir the sauce at the side of the fire for ten minutes. Arrange the croquettes in a group in the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve while very hot. (2) Procure a piece of cold cooked leg of Lamb, remove all the sinewy skin, and cut the meat into dice; mix with it half its quantity of cooked artichoke-bottoms, also cut in dice. Keduce 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce in a stewpan, and mix with it 1 teacupful of thick cream and 1 teacupful of melted glaze. Stir over the fire till the sauce is thick and coats the spoon, then take it off, and put in the prepared Lamb and artichokes; grate in a little nutmeg, and add a sprinkling of salt; spread the preparation on a baking-sheet in a layer -£in. thick, and let it get thoroughly cool. Form the preparation into croquettes the shape of a large cork, roll them in breadcrumbs, then in beaten egg, and again in breadcrumbs. Put some fat in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling put the croquettes in, a few at a time, and fry till nicely browned. When all are cooked, drain them, put an ornamental paper on a hot dish, arrange boiled artichoke- bottoms over the dish (see Fig. 1019), and serve. Lamb Cutlets a l’Anglaise.— Cut the first chops off a neck of Lamb, take away the bone and fat, and divide the chops into slices; egg-and-breadcrumb them, fry both sides in clarified butter till brown, and dish them. Thicken a little beef gravy, flavour it with lemon-juice, pour over the cutlets, and serve very hot. Lamb Cutlets a la Bouchere.—Dip a dozen Lamb cutlets in clarified butter, roll them in breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and broil both sides over a clear fire. Glaze them when done with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and put a frill on the end of each bone. Cut up into slices half-a-dozen small gherkins, put them in a stewpan with