937 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. milk—continued. practised. When Milk is first drawn from the cow it is conveyed to the dairy in an ordinary block-tin bucket (see Fig. 1166) and emptied through a strainer (see Fig. 1167) into a drum or receiver (see Fig. 1168), this drum being marked on the inside with a scale showing the number of quarts it contains; from Fig. 1167. Milk-strainer (Dairy Supply Co.). this it may be transferred to a can (see Fig. 1169) by means of a dipper (see Fig. 1170) and conveyed to any spot, or emptied into a churn fitted with a tight- fitting lock-lid (see Fig. 1171) for transport. When only small quantities are to be sent away by road or rail, Fig. 1168. Measuring-drum or Receiver for Milk (Dairy Supply Co.). it is usually enclosed in what is termed a bottle (see Fig. 1172), but when the distance is short a small can answers the purpose, and the best of these is one in- vented by Mr. Keen, the lid of which is fitted with a ventilator (see Fig. 1173). Fig. 1169. Can for Carrying Milk or Cream (Dairy Supply Co.). The above are what may be called dairy fittings, and are considered essentials of the trade. The various processes to which Milk is subjected for making Butter, Cheese, Cream, and Curds, are described under those headings. We have here to deal with Milk in its simple state, and as it forms at all Milk—continued. times a most nourishing and pleasing drink, it follows as a matter of course that in the heat of summer it will be more pleasant if iced; a very ingenious apparatus has been invented for that service (see Fig. 1174). This con- Fig. 1170. Dipper for Milk (Dairy Supply Co.). sists of a long cylinder filled with ice which is put into the Milk and allowed to remain until the required coldness is obtained; this also has the effect of preserving the Milk from decomposition. Fig. 1171. Milk-churn or Can (Mathews and Son). In winter it is usual to drink Milk that has been warmed; for this purpose, what are called Milk-warmers (see Fig. 1175) have been constructed, consisting of an inner pan made of earthenware, and an outer casing Fig. 1172. Milk-bottle (Dairy Supply Co.). of tin, containing water which is heated by a gas-burner underneath; the Milk is placed in the pan, and when sufficiently heated by the hot water is drawn through the tap as required. Milk heated in this way, even in the