TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 783 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fig. 977. .Telly-bag on Stand (Adams and Son). JELLIES (Fr. Gelees; Ger. Gallerten; Ital. Gelatine ; Sp. Jaleas).—There is evidently some connection between the word Jelly and the French geler—to freeze, probably due in a measure to the usual application of cold for the purpose of solidifying. Jelly can be obtained from so many materials that the term is somewhat loosely applied, though thoroughly understood in culinary parlance. For instance, Jelly can be made from starchy matters, such as arrowroot and tous-les-mois; also from linseed, sea-weed, moss, and a variety of other things ; that most generally in vogue being prepared from gelatine or calf’s feet. Receipts for producing the same will be found under their various head- ings, and a special savoury Jelly is described under Aspic. Before using a Jelly it is ad- visable that it should be quite clear and bright, and for obtain- ing this very important condition it is usual to boil it, and then pass it again and again through a Jelly-bag made of tammy-cloth or thick flannel. These bags are, for convenience of manipulation, usually fastened to a stand (see Fig. 977), as the liquid Jelly sometimes takes considerable time to pass through. The bag should first be soaked in hot water, and the Jelly being warm, it will be advisable to stand it near a fire, or in an en- closed box (see Fig. 978). When the Jelly runs through quite bright it can be coloured or flavoured as desired. So many beautiful and artistic designs can be executed in Jelly, that it would be impossible to describe more than a very few, leaving the artistic confectioner plenty^ of scope for his ingenuity. The following are extremely effective, special moulds being- required for their production: Imitation Bundle of Asparagus. —Fill in the tips of a mould (see Fig-. 979) representing a bundle of asparagus with Jelly coloured green with pistache, then set on ice; when firm, fill up to the under-side of the band or tie with any sweet Jelly coloured to imitate asphragus stalks. Prepare a little Jelly with apricot jam and isinglass or gelatine, and fill up that Fig. 978. Box for Jelly- bag (Adams and Son). Fig. 979. Imitation Bundle of Asparagus (Temple and Crook). portion only which forms the band, and set on ice. When firm, fill up the remaining part of the mould with the stalk Jelly. ’* Imitation Hard-boiled Eggs.—An imitation of the yolk of an egg must be formed in a small yolk-mould (see Fig. 980) J ellies—continued. of apricot jam with stiffened isinglass, set on the ice till firm, then turned out. Half-fill the top egg-shaped parts of the mould with clear Jelly or thin blanc-mange; when set, place on the yolks, fill up with clear Jelly to the base of the eggs, and set firm; then fill up the border which has been previously decorated with green angelica and pistachios. See Fig. 981. Jelly should always be set in ice to harden, and as an ice-cave is not always at hand, the mould may be packed in a basin (see Fig. 982) and surrounded with broken ice, or, if small, can be set in an ordinary biscuit-tin (see Fig. 983), when the same results can be obtained, and the mould filled and garnished according to the artist’s desire. Fruit Jellies are made by ex- tracting the juice of the fruit by squeezing in a towel (see Fig. 984); it is then boiled with sugar until the Jelly sets, and passed through a Jelly-bag again and again until quite bright and clear. Numerous receipts for Jellies of all kinds will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia under appropriate headings. Fig. 980. Yolk-mould (Temple and Crook). Fig. 981. Imitation Hard-boiled Eggs (Temple and Crook). The following receipts are more general in their appli- cation : Border of Sweet Jelly with Fruit.—Take one dozen pears, apples, apricots, or peaches, peel them, and remove the cores, or stones. Put them in a preserving-pan with the juice of two lemons, Jib. of fine sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of Fig. 982. Jelly in Mould Packed in Ice. water. Let them stew until done, then remove, and set them on a dish to cool. Take a rather shallow border mould, and set it firmly and perfectly level on pounded ice. Have ready about lqt. of sweet Jelly flavoured with any kind of liqueur, pour this into the mould to the depth of about lin., and let it set quite hard; then arrange the fruit upon the Jelly, and