TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 901 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. Tillets of Mackerel Sautes a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Clean four Mackerel, take out the fillets, cut them in two, ami put them into a saute-pan with butter, salt, and pepper. Saute them on both sides, drain, take off the skin, put them on a hot dish, cover with maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Fried Fillets of Mackerel a la Venetienne.—(1) Clean and fillet the Mackerel, cut each fillet in halves, lay them in a buttered saute-pan, skin side downwards, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped shallots, and fry them over a slow fire for fifteen minutes; turn them when half done, and finish cooking the other side. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a hot dish in the form of a star. Put 2-i- tea- cupfuls of brown sauce in the saute-pan with 1 pinch each of chopped tarragon and chervil, 1 teaspoonful of chopped truffles, and 1 table-spoonful of port wine ; let it boil for four or five minutes, then pour it over the fish, and serve. Keep the fillets warm whilst preparing the sauce. (2) Cut off the fillets from three Mackerel, and cut each one again lengthwise into three pieces; put them into a basin, and pour over a little oil mixed with a few slices of onions, sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Let them remain in this for thirty minutes or so, take them out, drain them on a napkin, dip them in frying-batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Take them out, drain, put them in a heap on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a little tomato sauce, the latter served separately in a sauceboat. Fried Fillets of Mackerel served with Butch Sauce.— Clean and fillet four Mackerel, cut them in two, and trim them to a long pear shape. Put the fillets into a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour in a little clarified butter ; put a round of buttered paper on the top, and cook over a moderate fire. When the fillets are done, drain, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour Dutch sauce over them, and serve. Fried Mackerel.—(1) Cut the Mackerel down the back, and take out the backbone; wash and dry the fish, sprinkle them with crushed hard biscuits seasoned with finely- chopped sweet herbs, and fry them in plenty of boiling oil or lard. Take them out, drain them, and serve on a napkin on a dish. (2) Cut the flesh off one or two Mackerel in fillets, taking care not to have any bones. Wash and dry the fillets thoroughly, cover them with flour, dip them first into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat. Serve at once. (3) Clean the Mackerel, trim off their gills and ends of their tails, wash them in plenty of water, and dust them over with salt. Peel and chop three onions, and pound them in a mortar; beat the yolks of four eggs in with the onions, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons ; season the mixture with pepper, salt, and mixed spice, pour it over the Mackerel, and leave them for a few hours. Pour a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a deep frying-pan; Avhen it is hot, put in the Mackerel, and fry them till nicely browned, turning occasionally. When cooked, take them carefully out of the pan, using a slice for the pur- pose, well drain them, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over (see Fig. 1121), and serve. Grilled Mackerel.—Split the Mackerel lengthwise down the back, lay them open, and carefully lift out the bone; dust Mackerel—continued. over with salt and pepper, and roll them in olive oil. Lay the Mackerel on a double gridiron, place them over a clear fire, turn constantly, and broil for about ten minutes. When cooked, lay them, the cut part upwards, on a hot dish, over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or folded napkin, put a small lump of maitre-d’hotel butter on the top of each, garnish with cut lemons, and serve without delay. Mackerel a I'ltalienne.—Put the milt and roe of a large Mackerel into a stewpan with a little salt and 2 teaspoon- fuls of vinegar, and pour in water to cover them. Place the stewpan over a slow fire until the water boils, then drain the milt and roe, pound them in a mortar, together with half their quantity of butter, and season with 1 tea- spoonful each of minced parsley, grated lemon-peel, and lemon-juice, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Have some slices of black or German rye-bread, butter them, spread the mixture over, cut into strips, lay them on a dish that has been spread with a folded napkin or an or- namental dish-paper, and serve. A few sprigs of parsley here and there improve the appearance of the dish. Mackerel Bouchees au Laitance.—Put a lump of butter into a saute-pan, melt it, then put in the soft roes of two Mackerel, 1 teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and lemon-juice ; fry them over a moderate fire for five minutes, then turn, and fry the other side. When done, cut the roes into small squares, put them again in the saute-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce, J breakfast-cupful of broth, a small quantity of sugar, and about £ teacupful of cream. Stir the above mixture over the fire, taking care not to break the roes. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, then with a fluted tin cutter, about Him in dieamter, cut the paste into rounds. Sprinkle some water over a baking-sheet, lay the bouchees on it, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten eggs. Cut a circular incision in the centre of each round with a plain tin cutter, dipping the cutter in hot water each time. Bake the bouchees for about twenty minutes in a quick oven, keeping the door closed as much as possible. When cooked, lift the inner circle off each bouchee, and scoop out the soft paste, leaving them quite hollow. Fill them with the Mackerel roes, put the lids on again, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. A little parsley arranged on it improves the look of the dish. Mackerel Fricassee.—Clean and wash a Mackerel, and remove the skin by cutting through it round the head and pulling it off'. Cut off the fillets, trim them to an oblong shape, put them in a dish, and pour over a little sauce. In the meantime, put the fish-bones in a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon, a few stalks of parsley, and a little water, and cook gently for about thirty minutes. Strain the bone liquor into the basin with the fillets. Arrange the fillets at the bottom of a saucepan, pour over the bone liquor, and simmer gently for from ten to fifteen minutes. When the fish is nearly done, sprinkle it over with a little salt and pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 gill of cream, and 2oz. of butter worked into 1 table-spoonful of Hour. Boil up, and add the juice of a lemon and the beaten yolks of two or three eggs; when it is all thoroughly warm, turn it out on to a dish, with a circle of mashed potatoes or boiled rice round, and serve. Care must be taken not to let the liquor boil after the eggs have been put in, or it will curdle. Mackerel Roes in Cases.—Use soft roes of Mackerel, and pour over them boiling salted water with a dash of vinegar in it; in five minutes’ time take them out of the water and drain on a cloth. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan with a minced shallot, fry it for a few minutes, then put in three or four chopped mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and flour, the strained juice of half a lemon, and about 1 breakfast-cupful of stock; season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir the sauce over the fire until boiling and thickened. Oil the interior of some paper cases, put a small quantity of the sauce in each, then put in the roes, and cover with the remainder of the sauce. Put the cases for about ten minutes in a moderate oven,