809 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. sauce in the middle of the dish on which the cutlets have been arranged, and serve. (2) Saw off the breasts of two necks of Lamb, cut and trim the cutlets, remove the tendons of the breasts, tie the breasts together, put them in a stewpan with a little stock, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and braise them. When the meat is tender, drain it, and take out all the bones, keeping as many as there are cutlets to add to the breasts when trimmed; sprinkle a little salt over the meat, and press it between two plates till cold. Cut both the breasts of Lamb in pieces the size and shape of the cutlets, mask them well with reduced German sauce, dip them in breadcrumbs, then in beaten egg, and bread- crumb them again. Point the bones at one end with a sharp knife, and stick them into each piece of breast to represent a cutlet. Put some lard or dripping in a frying- pan, and when hot, fry the pieces of breast till nicely browned all over; then fry the neck cutlets in clarified butter. Put a croustade (see Croustades) on a hot dish, fill it with asparagus peas, arrange the neck and breast cutlets alternately round it, and serve. The croustade can be filled with either a macedoine of vegetables, green peas, or cucumbers, whichever may be preferred. Lpigrammes of Lamb a la Macedoine.—Tie two breasts of Lamb together, and boil them in a stockpot for forty-five minutes. Drain well, then take out the bones, and press the meat down, placing a heavy weight on it. When quite cold, cut each breast into three heart-shaped pieces, dip them in oil or fat, seasoning with 1 table-spoonful of pepper, roll in breadcrumbs, and broil over a slow fire for four minutes each side. Take six broiled breaded Lamb chops, prepared and cooked exactly the same, and serve with J- pint of hot macedoine or any other garnishing that may be required, arranging the breasts and chops on the garnishing. Epigrammes of Lamb -with Asparagus Points.—Braise a small piece of breast of Lamb, and when cooked take it out of the pan, cut out the bones, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top, and leave until cold. Afterwards cut the Lamb into equal-sized pieces, trim them to a cutlet shape, and fix a bone in each like a cutlet. Trim an equal number of Lamb's cutlets, and fry them. Season the epi- grammes with salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon- juice, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs, giving a good coating. Put a piece of lard or butter in a frying- pan, and when melted put in the cutlets, and fry until a bright golden brown on either side, draining well as they are cooked. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cutlets with the epigrammes in a circle on it, put some boiled heads of asparagus in the centre, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 1017), and serve. Some bechamel sauce mixed with the heads of asparagus will be found an improvement. Fricassee of Lamb.—(1) Cut 21b. of breast of Lamb into square pieces, sprinkle salt and flour over, and brown in a little butter. Put them in a stewpan with one sliced onion, cover with boiling water, and simmer till the meat is suf- ficiently tender for the hones to slip out easily. Take the Lamb out, remove the bones, strain the liquor, and skim off Lamb—continued. the fat. Boil the liquor again, put in the meat with a little salt and pepper, and stew for a little while longer; then add lqt. of peas, and simmer for fifteen minutes. When ready to serve, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish. (2) Cut the required quantity of any part of Lamb into rather small pieces; dip each piece in curd, giving it a good coating, then put them into a frying-pan in which a lump of butter has been dissolved, and fry till browned. Take the pieces of meat out of the butter, put in two or three sliced onions, and fry them. Put the onions and meat in a stew- pan, season with salt and pepper, pour in sufficient water to cover, and simmer at the side of the fire till the meat is tender. Chop the heart and liver of the Lamb, season with salt, and fry in butter. Blanch and peel 1 tcacupful of pis- tachios, wash about half that quantity of currants, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Put the liver mixture in a saucepan with 2qts. of clear soup stock, and place it over the fire till boiling. Then move the saucepan to the side, add lib. of well-washed rice, put the lid on, and let it cook gently, adding occasionally, as the moisture becomes absorbed, some of the liquor in which the Lamb has been stewing. When the rice is tender (each grain should be separate), wrap a wet cloth over the lid to prevent the steam escaping, and leave it at the side of the fire till quite dry. Pile the rice in the shape of a dome on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Lamb over it, pour the gravy round, and serve. The appear- ance of this dish is greatly improved by the dome of rice. Fried Fillets of Lamb.—Procure a fine tender leg of Lamb, bone it with a sharp knife so as to detach the meat from the knuckle, beginning from the hip side downwards. Cut out from this six even steaks, lin. thick by 2Jin. in diameter, pare them, and with a small keen knife remove any sinews that may adhere. Lay them on a cold dish, and season with a pinch each of salt and pepper, rolling them well, so that the seasoning may be equally distributed. Put §oz. of butter into a frying-pan, set it on a brisk fire, add the steaks immediately, being careful that they do not lay one on top of the other, and cook very briskly for two-minutes-and-a-half on each side. Prepare i pint of bearnaise sauce, pour it on a hot dish, dress the six steaks, one overlapping the other, and serve immediately. Fried Lamb Chops.—(1) Pare six fine Lamb chops, and split them through the centre. Fill the insides with a very fine salpi^on, season with 1 pinch of salt and j pinch of pepper, close together, and dip in beaten egg, then in fresh bread- crumbs ; fry for four minutes on each side in 2oz. of clarified butter in a saute-pan, and serve with 1 gill of hot Montglas sauce, after arranging a curled paper at the end of each chop. (2) Pare neatly six Lamb chops, make an incision in each one, and insert therein a slice of truffle, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt and | pinch of pepper. Dip the chops in beaten eggs and then in fresh breadcrumbs, fry in a saute-pan with 2oz. of clarified butter five minutes on each side, and serve with six heart-shaped pieces of fried bread, each one covered with pate-de-foie-gras, and 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce poured round. Arrange a curled paper on the end of each chop. (3) Trim neatly, flatten, and season with ^ pinch each of salt and pepper, six Lamb chops. Put them into a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and fry on one side only for one minute. Let them cool, and then cover the cooked sides with a little pate-de-foie-gras. Take six pieces of fried bread the size of the chop, cut out the middles with a bread-cutter, fill in the space with pate-de-foie-gras, and lay it on the cooked side of the chops. Garnish all round with chicken forcemeat softened with cream, forced through a paper cornet. Place them on a buttered baking-sheet, put into a slow oven, and cook for seven minutes. Prepare 1 pint of hot Madeira sauce, pour it on a hot dish, arrange the chops nicely on top, with curled papers on their ends, and serve. (4) Select the required quantity of Lamb chops, and trim off all the skin and a little of the fat; make a frying-pan very hot, put the chops in, and fry them slowly, both sides alike. When nearly done, sprinkle a little salt on each side, and finish cooking. Drain them on paper, put them on a hot dish, and serve with either soubise or tomato sauce. A very pretty way of dishing Lamb chops is to pile mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish, lay the chops round them, and garnish between the chops with French beans.