THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 900 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see tender their special heads. Mackerel—continued. Put two yolks of eggs into a basin, and mix them up with an equal bulk of olive oil; dip the pieces of fish in this and then into breadcrumbs, and broil over a clear fire on a wire broiler. (2) Split a Spanish Mackerel down the back, take out the backbone, wash the fish in cold water, dry it on a clean cloth, put it between the bars of a buttered double wire gridiron, and lay the gridiron in a dripping-pan. Rake all the ashes from the fire, and set the dripping-pan in front of it where the heat will strike the fish. Melt 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, mix it with 1 table-spoonful of onion- juice or vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and £ saltspoonful of pepper, and use the mixture to baste the fish while broiling. As soon as it is brown on both sides, serve hot, with the drippings in the pan poured over. If more con venient to broil the fish over the fire, do not put the melted butter and seasoning on until it is dished. It should be quickly cooked, or it will become hard and dry. This dish is also excellent with maitre-d’hbtel butter, which is made by mixing together 1 tablespoonful each of chopped parsley and cold butter, I teaspoonful of lemon- juice, and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Cold boiled Mackerel with Green Mayonnaise Sauce.— Free some cold boiled Mackerel from skin and bones, flake the flesh with two forks, and pile the flakes up high in the centre of a dish. Prepare a thick mayonnaise sauce, and mix with it plenty of finely-chopped parsley or tarragon —if parsley, it should be first scalded. Pour the sauce over the Mackerel, garnish it with sprigs of parsley and fennel, and young crayfish, placing one right on the top of the Mackerel, and serve. Collared Mackerel.—(1) Clean a good-sized Mackerel, split it down the backbone, and take out all the bones ; dry, and then rub it well with a mixture of mace, allspice, cloves, pepper and salt, all very finely powdered ; then roll the fish up tight and bind it into shape with tape, boil in salted water, and when sufficiently boiled take the tape off and put the fish into vinegar. Let it remain in the vinegar for twelve hours, and it is then fit for use. (2) Cut off the heads of a dozen Mackerel; clean and cut them open, taking care not to cut through the tender flesh, sprinkle over the insides a little grated nutmeg, pounded mace, finely-chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, tie each one separately in a cloth, and boil gently for twenty minutes in salted water in which a little vinegar has been mixed. Take the fish out at the expiration of that time, put them just as they are in a deep dish, pour some of the liquor over them, and leave till the next day. When wanted for serving, take the cloths off the fish, put them back in the dish with the liquor, add a little more vinegar, garnish with a few sprigs of fennel, and serve. Devilled Mackerel.—Divide the Mackerel into fillets, making two fillets of each side, remove the bones, trim them, season with salt and pepper, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over, and cover with a thin layer of freshly- mixed mustard. Lay the fillets on a dish, and keep them in a cool larder for two or three hours. Next brush over Fig. 1120. Devilled Mackerel. the fillets with a paste-brush dipped in warm butter, put them side by side on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Thicken h pint of rich gravy with flour and butter kneaded together, flavour with walnut or mushroom ketchup, add a few chopped capers, season to taste with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and let it simmer for a few minutes at the e 'ge of the fire. When the Mackerel—continued. fillets are cooked, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 1120), and serve. Fillets of Mackerel au Gratin.—Cut off the fillets from three fish, remove the belly part, skin them, and dust with salt. Sprinkle a little finely-chopped onion over a well- buttered oval gratin-dish, dust over a little dried parsley and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushro >ms, and pour in 4 table-spoonfuls each of white wine and brown sauce. Put in the fillets, dust over with a little fine herbs and breadcrumbs, baste well with melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes, basting fre- quently. When done, serve in the dish in which they were cooked. Fillets of Mackerel a, d’lndienne.—Cut off both sides or fillets from a Mackerel, then cut each of these in halves, wash, and dry them thoroughly ; dust over with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry. Serve hot with hot Indian sauce. Fillets of Mackerel a 1’Italienne.—(1) Clean the Mackerel, cut off their heads and tails, split them lengthwise down the back, remove the bones, divide each Mackerel into half- a-dozen fillets, trim the skin off' each, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Rutter a baking-tin, put the fillets into it, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish into a stewpan with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, includi g a few sprigs of parsley, and a few cloves. Season to taste with salt and pepper, co.er with cold water, and let the whole simmer gently for an hour. Strain the liquor from the bones when sufficiently boiled, and put the fillets in the oven. Finely mince some shallots together with an equal quantity of mushrooms, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of olive oil, and fry them. Moisten the shallots with l tea- cupful of white vinegar, and leave on the fire until the moisture has reduced one third. Next pour in the strained liquor, add a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, and stir over the fire until boiling. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Split open the Mackerel lengthwise down the back, and take the bone out carefully; cut off the heads and tails, and divide each Mackerel into half-a-dozen fillets. Skin each fillet, dust over with salt and pepper, lay them in a baking dish with plenty of butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, ami bake in a moderate oven. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce for the fish: Very finely chop three shallots, put them in a stewpan with a few table spoonfuls of olive oil, and fry until lightly browned. Next put in 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced mushrooms, and about half that quantity of minced parsley, and pour in, in equal quantities, sufficient white wine and clear stock freed of all fat to make the sauce. Stir the whole over the fire until boiling, then put in a bunch of sweet herbs tied together with a couple of bay-leaves, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire for half an-hour ; at the end of that time, take out the herbs and bay-leaves, put in loz. of butter kneaded with about \ table-spoonful of flour, and leave the sauce at the edge of the fire for a few minutes longer, stirring occa- sionally. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Fillets of Mackerel Sautes.—Clean the Mackerel, then pass the knife down the backbone, and lift the fillets from the bones. Spread a layer of butter in a saute-pan, then put in the fillets, the skin side upwards, with 1 wineglassful of port wine, and an equal quantity of oil, season with salt and pepper, and cook over a brisk fire, turning when one side is done. When the fillets are cooked, take them out of the saute-pan, cut them into halves, arrange in a circle on a dish, and keep hot. Pour f pint of brown sauce into the saute-pan in which the fillets were cooked, boil it up, then put in a small quantity of chopped mushrooms and parsley, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and h teaspoonful of sugar, and boil for a few minutes. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. The roe of the Mackerel may be chopped and added to the sauce.