TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 860 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lettuces—continued. chopped Lettuces, and boil for five minutes. Next pour in sufficient stock to make the requisite quantity of soup, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When boiling, move the soup to the side of the fire, stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs beaten up in the juice of half a lemon and strained, and add loz. of butter. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread. (3) Prepare 4qts. of broth as described for CroCte-AU-Pot, and when strained and skimmed keep it warm in a sauce- pan. Thoroughly wash two dozen cabbage Lettuces after picking off all the outside leaves, blanch them in boiling water, then rinse in cold water; take out and press them one by one between the two hands so as 'to thoroughly extract all the water. Place some thin slices of bacon and ham in a saute-pan, put in the Lettuces, pour in sufficient broth to cover, and braise them. Drain, and cut each transversely into three parts. Put some slices of toasted bread in a soup-tureen, put the Lettuces in, pour over the soup, and serve. (4) Wash some young Lettuces, blanch them in boiling- water, drain thoroughly, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of broth or stock, and let them simmer gently till done. Take them off the fire, mash with a wooden spoon, stand again over the fire, using more stock if necessary, simmer for a few minutes, then mix a little cream with the soup, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Lettuce-and-Tomato Salad.—Take a white head of Lettuce, pare off the outer green leaves, and core, wash, and drain in a wire basket; then split and cut the leaves into quarters and put them in a bowl. Have two fine firm peeled red Fig 1073. Lettuce-and-Tomato Salad. tomatoes, cut into thin slices, and place them over the Lettuce (see Fig. 1073). Season as follows: Mix 1 pinch of salt and l pinch of pepper in 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, add f l table-spoonfuls of oil, mix well, and pour it over the salad. Preserved Lettuce Stalks.—Cut the stalks of some large Lettuces into pieces about Sin. long, wash well, and leave them to soak in clear water for ten minutes. Put l^lb. of crushed loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with 11 table- spoonfuls of ground ginger and 3qts. of water. Boil for twenty-five minutes, then pour it into a basin over the stalks, and leave till the next morning. Repeat the opera- tion of boiling the syrup for five or six days; then drain the Lettuce-stalks free from moisture on a sieve. Make a rich syrup, adding 3oz. of slightly-bruised ginger ; put the Lettuces in the preserving-pan with the syrup and boil several times till the stalks are quite clear. When done, put them into jars, pour over the syrup, tie paper tightly over the top, and keep in a diy store-closet for use. Stewed Lettuces.—(1) Select the required quantity of Lettuces, trim off all the outside leaves, wash thoroughly, blanch hi boiling water, rinse them in fresh cold water, and tie together in twos and threes. Line a saucepan with buttered paper, put in the Lettuces with a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three small chopped onions, a little pepper and salt, and cover with stock. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for two hours. Take the Lettuces out, untie, and put them on a hot dish ; reduce the liquor in which they were cooked, strain Lettuces—continued. it through a fine hair sieve, and pour it over the Lettuces. Serve while hot. (2) Trim and wash half-a-dozen small heads of cabbage Lettuce, removing all outside leaves; plunge them into quickly-boiling salted water, and parboil them. Drain off the hot water, and put them into cold water; drain this off also, and diy the heads on a cloth. Line a saucepan with slices of bacon, put in the parboiled Lettuces together with an onion cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, and spices, pepper, and salt to taste ; add a small quantity of stock, and let them stew gently for nearly an hour. Cut half-a- dozen slices of bread, rather less than Jin. thick, about the size of a mutton cutlet and the shape of a pear, and fry them in butter a light brown. Pour a little thick nicely- flavoured gravy on a dish, arrange the pieces of fried bread on it, and lay carefully and neatly on each piece of bread one of the heads of Lettuce, and serve at once. Stewed Lettuces with Eggs and Potatoes.—Trim off the outside of about eighteen young cabbage Lettuces ; wash the Lettuces well, and blanch them in boiling water till tender. Refresh them in cold water, place them in a cloth, tie up, put them in a saucepan with a little stock, and braise over a moderate fire for thirty minutes. At the end of that time, drain the Lettuces, place them in a saute-pan, cover with some good demi-glaze, and push them into the oven. Poach a dozen fresh eggs ; prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the Lettuces and poached eggs alternately upon the border of mashed potatoes, pour some fine-herb sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve while very hot. Stewed stuffed Lettuces.—(1) Clean and well wash half-a- dozen cos Lettuces, tie each one round with tape or string, and boil in plenty of water. Take out, drain, let them cool, untie them, open out the leaves, and stuff’ with veal or any other forcemeat. Tie up again, put them into a stewpan over a few thin slices of bacon, carrots, onions, and a few sweet herbs, pour in sufficient gravy to nearly cover, boil well, skim off any fat, and when the Lettuces are done, take out, untie, put them on a dish, and keep hot. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, add 1 or 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine, reduce it, pour it hot over the Lettuces, and serve. See Fig. 1074. (2) Trim and wash about eighteen large young Lettuces, and blanch in boiling water for ten minutes; refresh them in cold water, press in a cloth, then cut out some of the hearts of the Lettuces, leaving a hollow in the middle of each. Chop about lib. of lean veal, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass it through a fine hair sieve ; finely chop and pound fib. of beef-suet, then mix it with 4oz. of panada and pound well together; pass the mixture through the sieve, and add the pounded veal with a small quantity of chopped mushrooms and some chopped parsley. Season the forcemeat with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, then mix in gradually the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and then the whites, whisked to a stiff froth. Stuff the Lettuces with the forcemeat, tie them round, put them in a sauce- pan with a little broth, and cook gently for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Put 1 pint of brown sauce into a stewpan with 4 pint of broth, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and 4oz. of glaze, place it over the fire till boiling, then move