THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 813 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—con tinued. take the pie out of the oven, leave it for a-quarter-of-an- hour, then pour in J pint of cold liquid aspic jelly. Leave the pie till quite cold before serving-. (2) Bone the two sides of a loin of Lamb, cut the meat in slices, trim, pare, and sprinkle salt and pepper over them ; put some thin slices of raw ham at the bottom of a pie- dish, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper over them, then put in the pieces of Lamb. Cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, lay them on the top of the Lamb, pour in to half the height of the meat some rich cold gravy, cover the pie with either a puff or short-paste, put it in the oven for ten minutes, then cover it with paper; put it back, and bake for one hour. When ready to serve, take the paper off, and put the pie-dish on a flat dish. This is best eaten hot. (3) Cut the Lamb into thin slices, and rub each slice over with a mixture of sugar, salt, pepper, pounded mace, cloves, and nutmeg. Butter and line a pie-dish with paste, and put the meat in, in layers, placing between each layer a few raisins, currants, dates, pieces of candied lemon and citron peel, preserved barberries, slices of lemon, and the marrow of two or three bones ; put on the top about 6oz. of butter broken into small pieces. Cover the pie with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Prepare the following gravy for it: Beat up the yolks of three eggs together with J pint of white wine and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, pour them into a saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but not boiling, then move it off. When the pie is cooked, remove the cover, pour in the sauce, strew plenty of sugar on the top, and serve. (4) Cut some cold shoulder or leg of Lamb into neat pieces, and trim off some of the fat if there is too much; slice a couple of sweetbreads, blanch a dozen oysters in their own liquor, removing their beards, and make a few forcemeat balls. Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a good puff paste; put in the above articles in layers with a few sliced yolks of hard- boiled eggs, and dust over each layer small quantities of powdered cloves, pepper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg. Put a few small lumps of butter on tho top, cover with a flat of the paste, trimming it evenly round the edges, and moistening and pressing them together; make a small hole in the top of the crust, and bake the pie in a brisk oven for an-hour- and-a-half. Strain the liquor from the oysters into a small stewpan, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy and 1 wineglassful of port wine, season with grated nutmeg in moderation, and place it over the fire until boiling. Beat the yolks of two eggs well with 1 table-spoonful of cream, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and stir them in, stirring in one direction all the time. When the pie is cooked, filter the sauce in through the hole at the top, and serve. Lamb Salad.—Cut some cold roasted Lamb into small nice- shaped pieces. Wash and dry two heads of lettuces, tear the leaves apart, and arrange them in a salad-bowl ; then put in the pieces of meat and sprinkle some chopped capers over. Finely chop some hard-boiled eggs, and mix them with 1J teacupfuls of salad-oil and 1 teacupful of vinegar; season the mixture with pepper, salt, and about 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar ; stir well, pour it over the salad, and serve. See Fig. 1021. Lamb Saute with Tomatoes.—Divide a saddle of Lamb into moderate-sized squares, remove part of the bones, and put the meat into a flat stewpan with a clove of garlic not Lamb—continued. peeled, one onion, and a lump of butter; season well, and toss them about over the fire till nicely browned. Cut four tomatoes in halves, take out the seeds, and cut them into quarters. Put a little oil in a frying-pan ; when hot, put the tomatoes in, and fry over a sharp fire till the moisture is reduced; then turn them in with the Lamb, stir all over the fire for ten minutes, take the onion and garlic out, put the Lamb and tomatoes on a hot dish, and serve. Lamb Soup.—Cut a shoulder of Lamb into moderately large pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a sliced onion and a little butter ; fry them till nicely browned, then dredge in 1 table-spoonful each of flour and curry powder, stir all over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in 3qts. of broth, some trimmings of raw ham, and a bunch of parsley. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and continue simmering till the meat is cooked. When done, take the pieces of Lamb out, pass the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve or strainer into another stewpan, put in with it Jib. of boiled rice, and continue boiling gently for ten minutes. Bone the meat and put it in a soup-tureen; thicken the soup with the yolks of three eggs beaten together with a little cream, then strain it through a fine colander over the meat, and serve while hot, with sippets of toast or small dice of fried bread in a separate vessel, such as a dish or plate. Minced Lamb.—Finely chop two onions and fry in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter for five minutes ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring well for two minutes, moisten with 1 pint of broth and 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, add a bouquet of sweet herbs, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and § teaspoonful of nutmeg. Stir until it comes to the boil; then cut 21b. of cooked Lamb in small pieces (either from the shoulder or leg), mince finely, and add it to the sauce. Cook for twenty-five minutes, and serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. Minced Lamb with Poached Eggs. — Take some cold roasted Lamb, trim, chop it very fine, and season with a little pepper, salt, and finely-chopped mint. Make some gravy very hot in a saucepan, thicken it with browned Fig. 1022. Minced Lamb with Poached Eggs. flour, stir in the seasoned mince, and let it get thoroughly hot, but after the mince is added to the gravy do not let it boil. Make some triangles of buttered toast, lay a poached egg on each, pour the mince on to a flat dish, and garnish with the toast and poached eggs (see Fig. 1022). Pilau of Lamb.—Cut the meat off a leg of Lamb into small pieces, and make a little broth with the bones. Cut Jib. of streaky bacon in squares, and fry it in a stewpan with one chopped onion; put the pieces of Lamb in with it, sprinkle a little salt over, and fry over a brisk fire for ten or twelve minutes. Cover the Lamb with the broth that has been prepared from the bones. Skin and chop two ripe tomatoes after picking out the seeds, and put them in with the Lamb, adding- two pimentoes, a bunch of fine herbs, a sprig or two of parsley, and a pinch of saffron; when the broth has boiled for five or six minutes, throw in some rice (lib. of rice to 41b. of meat), having well washed and drained it; put the lid on the stewpan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents stew for twenty minutes or until the rice is quite tender. When ready to serve, turn the pilau out on a hot dish. Ragout of Lamb.—(1) Take a fine breast or a shoulder of Lamb, weighing about 31b., cut it into equal-sized square pieces, and fry them in a saucepan with loz. of butter or