TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 9J2 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Marinade —continued. for seven or eight days. Should it be wished to marinade the article in the course of only a day or two, another pint of vinegar must be added. Marinade for Collared Meats.—Prepare a very thin oatmeal gruel, season with salt and pepper, and add a little port wine, say 1 wineglassful to each pint of the gruel. Put all into a saucepan, boil for half-an-hour, turn out, let it get cold, and it is then ready for soaking any collared meats. Marinade for Fish.—(1) Finely chop two carrots, three onions, six shallots, and a clove of garlic, put them all into a saucepan, add a bunch each of sweet herbs and parsley, and a little butter, let them cook slowly (sweat) over the lire for a few minutes, then pour in 2 pints of cider or any white wine, the former for preference, and boil for two or three minutes; next add two dozen pepper- corns and an equal quantity of allspice, two or three cloves, and 1 handful of salt, set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain, and the Marinade is ready for use. It is generally employed for the purpose of boiling fish, to which it gives a very pleasant flavour. It will last for some time and can be used on several occasions, taking care to strain it after the fish has been boiled and taken out. Any fish, especially small fresh-water fish, will have the advantage if boiled in this of their bones being softened and thus making them more agreeable in eating. (2) Proceed as for No. 1, substituting for the cider or wine lqt. of table or small beer, and 1 wineglassful each of ketchup, essence of anchovies, and soy. (3) The same as for No. 2, adding 1 pint of vinegar and a little each of chives, thyme, fennel, and bay-leaves. (4) Take a fish-kettle that will suit the size of the fish to be boiled and pour in enough water and white wine (using two parts of the former to one of the latter) to cover the fish when put in. Add a large lump of butter, pepper and salt, two or three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few stewed onions and carrots, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for fifteen or twenty minutes ; strain the liquor, leave it till cold, and then it is ready for use. After the fish is boiled in this, it should be served with anchovy sauce with a squeeze of lemon in it. (5) The fish should first be cleansed and sprinkled with salt and pepper, then put into a bowl with an onion cut into slices, a bay-leaf cut in quarters, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and the juice of a lemon, and rubbed frequently with this mixture for the desired time. An- liour-and-a-half or two hours will generally be found quite long enough for fish such as soles, shad, whiting, &c. Oil is generally used with this in marinading. Marinade for Game.—Put into a saucepan 1 bottle of white wine, 1 pint of vinegar, lqt. of water, 1 handful of peppercorns, four bay-leaves, a few lumps of sugar, a slice or two of carrot and onion, and a root of parsley ; boil up well, turn the Marinade into an earthenware pan, and it is ready for use. All large game should be marinaded at least two days before cooking, and should be turned in it once or twice a day. MARJORAM (Fr. Marjolaine; Ger. Majoran ; Ital. Persa; Sp. Mejorana).—A plant of the genus Origanum, commonly known as sweet Marjoram, and at one time much used as a flavouring in cookery. By diluting the expressed oil with spirits an essence is made which is very useful when the fresh leaves cannot be obtained. Marjoram Conserve.—Bruise well the tops and tenderest parts of sweet Marjoram in a wooden bowl or mortar; boil double its weight of powdered white sugar in Marjoram- flavoured water till it is a thick syrup and then add the bruised Marjoram. MARKETING.—It does not follow that a good cook is necessarily a good marketer; indeed there is only too much reason to fear that the better the cook the greater is the inclination to be extravagant and reckless in the Marketing—continued. purchase of articles—not so much as to quality, for in that the good cook should be the best judge, but in the prices paid. It is a recognised principle that the cheapest goods are not the best, and it may be urged in addition that the best goods are not always the cheapest, or as cheap as they might be consistent with prime quality. The person to whom the buying of foods is entrusted should give the matter earnest thought and consideration, and should study, not only the methods of distinguishing good foods, but also the seasons when they are at their best, and the prices that ought to be paid. For instance, certain articles may be out of season : they are then not so good as when in season, and their price is much higher. Again, some tradesmen, relying upon a good reputation, charge extra, and it may be stated at once that in some localities the high price is not only justified by the reliance the pur- chaser can always place upon the seller, but also upon the freedom with which credit is given, often to a loss and generally covering a long time for the convenience of the consumer. Tradesmen in a small way of business occasionally try to compete with those who are long and firmly established; they sell under price for a time, but this rarely lasts, generally leading to a little trickery now and then, such as foisting inferior goods upon the buyer, and adding a little fiction to the weight. To market well the buyer should go to the shops, select the goods, see them weighed, pay cash for them, and bring them home. It is not necessary to explain the motives for such caution, as they are self-evident; but it may be believed that so long as the buyer depends upon the judgment of the tradesmen at low prices and credit, so long will he or she be swindled. The benefits of a cash principle have been illustrated to perfection by the estab- lishment of co-operative stores, best goods at low prices, and returning large profits to the store. What more can be required, excepting perhaps a co-operative store in every street, or tradesmen willing and bold enough to act on the same principle, and sell for ready cash alone. Directions for selecting foods are described under their special headings. See also Accounts, Economy in the Kitchen, Weights and Measures, Ac. MARLBOROUGH PUDDING.—Nee Puddings. MARMALADE (Fr. Marmelade; Ger. Marmelade; Ital. Cotognato ; Sp. Mermelada).—This is described as a preserve or confection made of the pulp of fruit. It was originally a confection of quince, and was named after Mer- melo—the Spanish for that fruit; but custom has ordained that other fruits should be subject to the same conserva- tion which is illustrated in the numerous receipts given under their title. Special Marmalades are described under their various headings such as Apples, Apricots, Bar- berries, &c. See also Jam. Marmalade Pudding.—(1) Peel off the skin from 6oz. of beef-suet, and chop finely; put it into a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumb and f break- fast-cupful of Marmalade, the grated rind and juice of two lemons, and 4oz. of finely-shred mixed candied-peel. Beat two eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients. Turn the pudding into a well-greased pudding-mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for four hours. More boiling water should be added as it boils away, but care must be taken not to let it enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish and serve. (2) Mince 4oz. of beef-suet and mix it with Goz. of grated breadcrumb, 2oz. of caster sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of Marmalade, and the grated rind and strained juice of a small lemon. Beat two eggs well together with a small quantity of milk to which h teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been added, stir it in with the above ingredients, and mix thoroughly. Butter a mould, fill it with the