771 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. Horehound—continued. a sugar-boiler, add 61b. of sugar, and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Eemove the boiler from the fire, and work the sugar against the sides with a spatula until it be- comes quite thick, which will take three or four minutes’ hard working. Add a few drops of oil of aniseed, stir in briskly, pour the whole on to an oiled slab, let it cool, form it into any desired shapes, and when quite cold it is ready for use. Horehound may be obtained in the extract or essence, but the infusion is far preferable. (4) Put 1 handful of Horehound-leaves in a saucepan with £ pint of water, and let them boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Strain the liquor over 21b. of brown sugar. When the sugar is quite dissolved, put it in a sugar-boiler over a moderate fire, and cook gently till quite brittle (see Sugar-boiling). If the candy is required for a cough, the Horehound-leaves may be dried, pounded to dust in a mortar, and sifted into the candy just before taking it from the fire. Pour it out on a buttered slab or tin, let it get almost cold, and then cut into squares. Horehound Lozenges.—Put loz. of gum dragon in a basin with 1 gill of very strong extract of Horehound, and soak for six or seven hours. Work it with the hand on a marble slab until it becomes quite white and elastic; add gradually l£lb. of fine icing sugar and a few drops of blue colouring to give it a clear whiteness. Sprinkle a little caster sugar on the slab, and roll out the paste to about ^in. in thickness. Cut out the lozenges with a small round tin cutter, put them on a baking-sheet sprinkled over with sugar, and place them in a cool place to dry. When quite hard and dry, put them in jars. Horehound Tea.—Infuse loz. of the herb in 1 pint of boiling water, and let it stand for an hour; by that time it will be ready for use, and can be taken either with or without sugar. HORLIES, HORLYS, or ORLYS. — By some strange freak or another the French orle, or or let, an architectural fillet, has been converted into the modern Horly. Any dish therefore dressed a la Horly, or Orly, may be taken to signify in fillets, such as of fowls or soles. HORNFISH.—See Garfish. HORS D’CEUVRES.—The literal meaning of these French words is “ outside the subject,” hence their signification in culinary matters may be said to signify certain little preparations that are not included in the menu. Amongst British diners they are not much ap- preciated, but a Continental dinner would not be complete without one or the other of them, consisting of prawns, olives, radishes, or something of a similarly simple description. Urbain Dubois, writing of hot Hors d’CBuvres in his work on artistic cookery, informs us that they are light dishes served at dinner immediately after the soup or fish, and may consist of pies, croustades, cases, croquettes, patties, and other small dishes. But modem custom has relegated most of these to the rank of entrees. HORSE-MACKEREL.—This name is applied to so many kinds of fish in various parts of the world that it would be difficult to give it an individuality. If there is any choice it would be in favour of the tunny. HORSERADISH (Fr. Raifort; Ger. Meerrettig; Ital. Rafano; Sp. Rabano).—This plant (Cochlearia Armoracia) grows wild throughout the British Isles, and in almost every climate that is of a sub-tropical character. The root-stock is the part used for culinary purposes, on account of its pungent flavour. Taken as a condiment it provokes appetite and assists digestion, but a famous old writer (Parkinson) declares that it ought to be styled “ Clown’s mustard, for it is too strong for any tender stomach.” It is said that aconite-root is sometimes eaten by mistake for Horseradish, but cases of such misfortune must be exceedingly rare, seeing that reports of such poisoning are almost unknown. Nevertheless, as there is some resemblance between the two roots, it may be as Horseradish—continued. well to know how to distinguish one from the other. Blytli tells us that the two roots present striking diffe- rences. “ The taste of the Horseradish is warm and pungent, approaching that of mustard, while aconite has a bitter taste and a disagreeable earthy odour, and after a few minutes contact with the mouth, tongue, and fauces, produces a feeling of numbness and tingling. Aconite- root is short and conical, tapering rapidly to a point, while Horseradish is long and cylindrical, and of the same thickness for many inches (see Fig. 962), and has a powerful pungent odour when scraped.” It is customary to scrape the fresh sticks of Horse- radish and use these as a garnish for roast beef; but a much more refined mode is to convert the root into a sauce. If it is desired to keep the root fresh for scraping it may be preserved for a long time buried in sand in a cool place; or it may be scraped, dried by setting in a slow oven, and then pow- dered. In this condition it is always available for sauces. Horseradish Butter. — (1) This is prepared by pound- ing grated Horseradish and butter, and adding salt to taste. The quantity of Horseradish to lib. of butter depends upon how strong the taste is required. (2) Pound in a mortar 1 teaspoonful of grated Horse- radish with loz. of butter, and season with about j salt- spoonful of cayenne. Hub it through a fine sieve, and keep it in a cool place. When this butter is added to sauces, they should not be boiled again. Spread over broiled steak it -is delicious. Horseradish Sauce.— (1) Put into a basin 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, 1 table-spoon- ful of ground mustard, 1 tea- cupful of grated Horseradish, and 1 teaspoonful of tur- meric ; season with pepper and salt, and mix the ingre- dients with 1 teacupful of vinegar or olive oil. When quite smooth, turn the sauce into a sauceboat, and it is then ready to be served. (2) Mix with 1 teacupful of scraped Horseradish 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, 1 saltspoon- ful of salt, and I teacupful of cider vinegar. It should always be freshly made. (3) Peel a . root of Horseradish, scrape it, and pound smooth. Mix it with ^ teacupful of cream, put it in a stewpan, then stir in 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, j saltspoonful of pepper, 1 pinch of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and the beaten yolk of one egg. Stir over the fire till hot, pour the sauce in a boat, and serve. Milk should be used instead of egg if the sauce is to be served cold. (4) Warm 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, and beat it with the hand till creamy ; then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered Horseradish, 1 table-spoonful of thick cream, and 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Keep it on ice till thick and cold, pour it in a sauceboat, and serve. (5) Peel and grate as finely as possible a large stick of Horseradish. Beat the yolks of two eggs with £ teacupful of cream, then mix in by degrees 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, beating at the same time to prevent the mixture curdling. 3 m 2 Fig. 962. Horseradish.