THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 775 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Ices—continued. combinations subject to tbis treatment being so exceed- ingly numerous, they "will be found described under a very extensive assortment of names, especially those of Fruit. Water-Ices, Cream-Ices, or Ice-creams as they are commonly called, and fancy Ices moulded in the shapes of flowers, fruits (see Fig. 969), and other designs for garnishes, having specific names, are thereunder de- scribed. See Bomb and Neapolitan Ices, Cream, &c. The following receipts offer some variety from the ordinary Ice: Baked Ice.—Under this peculiar name the following eccentric dish is prepared. Make some Italian meringue with the whites of four eggs and syrup at 34deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Put some hard cream-ice in a pile on a very cold dish firmly packed in a flat stewpan filled with pounded Ice, cover the pile of cream-ice quickly with the meringue, being careful to completely cover the Ice down to the dish, decorate it with the cornet, and place the pan in a quick oven for a few minutes only, just to set the meringue and give it a light golden colour. Take it out and send the dish up to table without a moment’s delay, or the effect will be spoiled. Ice Cakes.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar and ^ pint of water in a sugar-boiler, and boil to a syrup (see Syrups). Put the yolks of eight eggs in a bowl standing in water, and beat them until light; pour the boiling syrup over, and continue to beat until the mixture is quite cold. Whip 1 pint of double cream to a froth, and mix it in lightly with the egg mixture, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla extract to flavour. Have ready some rice-paper cases, nearly fill them with the Ice cake, dust over with flour, and put them in the Ice cave for two or three hours, when they will be ready for use. Ice Cups.—Pack one dozen flat champagne-glasses, or very small tumblers, in a tub with pounded Ice and salt round them, and a little brine at the bottom of the tub is advisable. Pill these glasses with any fruit syrup, such as raspberry, strawberry, or cherry, cover the tub with a cloth, and leave for fifteen to thirty minutes, so that the syrup will be frozen to about jin. all round the sides of the glass. Pour out the unfrozen syrup and replace the glasses in the Ice for a few minutes longer to thoroughly set the inside of the syrup case ; turn these Ice cups out carefully and fill the cavity with curaqoa cream-ice, nut cream-ice, or any Ice of a different colour to the cups, and serve. Souffle Ices.—(1) Put 1 pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) in a basin and stir into it the yolks of fifteen eggs ; strain this into a copper egg-bowl made a little warm by pouring hot water into it and wiping dry afterwards, add to this 1 breakfast-cupful of maraschino, the same quantity of filtered strawberry-juice, and 1 pinch of salt. Whisk lightly but briskly, with the bowl standing about 6in. deep in very hot water, and when like creamy batter, remove it from the hot water arid continue to whisk for ten minutes longer. Place a souffle-case in Ice, stir in f pint of whipped cream to the mixture, and pour the whole into the case. Put a wide strip of cartridge-paper round the case, lAin. above it, so as to give the souffle plenty of room to rise like an ordinary souffle. When set and firm, turn it out on to a cold dish, sprinkle with finely-powdered and sifted brown-baked Savoy biscuits, and serve. (2) This is prepared as No. 1, excepting that 1 gill each of cura^oa. orange-flower water, the juice of oranges, and i pint of cream are used instead of the strawberry-juice, maraschino, salt, and cream. (3) Use i pint each of noyeau and cherry-juice, and 2oz. of bruised macaroons, in the place of the strawberry-juice, &c., as in No. 1, and | pint instead of | pint of cream; other- wise proceed the same. (4) Take f pint of filtered raspberry.juice, the juice of a lemon, £ pint of maraschino, 2oz. of chocolate drops, and i pint of cream. Proceed as for No. 1, adding the chocolate drops when the bowl is removed from the hot water. Sponge Ice.—Put 21b. of sugar in a sugar-boiler with 1 pint of water, boil to a syrup, and pour it into a basin containing the yolks of two dozen lightly-beaten eggs. Work the mixture until nearly cold, put it into the freezer, and work well, adding, a little at a time, 1 pint of kirschenwasser or £ pint of maraschino or cura9oa, and then the whites of six eggs Ices—continued. whipped to a froth. Beat until the mixture has the appear- ance of a sponge cake, put it in a charlotte-mould or in paper cases, and freeze. It is then ready for serving. Variegated Ice Bricks.—Put in a small brick-shaped mould in layers any kind of water- or cream-Ice (or both), such as vanilla, or pistachio cream, strawberry-water, &c., and freeze by packing in Ice ; when set, turn it out of the mould, cut in slices, and put them on a napkin or sheets of white paper on a dish, and serve. Variegated Ice Shapes.—Make and freeze separately equa, quantities of any water-ices, such as Madeira, rose, pistachio jessamine, claret, melon, &c. When all are frozen, pack them in a mould, varying the colours according to taste, close the mould, and pack it for an hour or two in Ice. When ready, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the Ice on to a fancy dish. ICING.—It would seem as though this term is peculiar to British confectioners, as in all other European coun- tries the name is associated with sugar, and in America is more frequently known as “ frosting ” Icing is the process by which confectioners cover and ornament cakes and other goods with concretable sugar, the coating itself being now recognised as “ Icing.” There are several kinds known to confectioners, some varying only in flavour and colour; all are exceedingly plastic in their fresh state and amenable to innumerable purposes, setting compara- tively hard and firm when dried, and being harmless and edible. Large surfaces are spread over with Icing by means of a piece of stiff cardboard or confectioner’s spatula. Oakes are placed on stands rather smaller round than the base of the cake, and the Icing is thus easily put on, any ornamentation being added after the coating has been set near a fire or in a drying-closet to harden. See Piping. The following receipts for making Icing have been contributed from various reliable sources, the simplest of all being that which is known as royal Icing: Sift by degrees lib. of the best white Icing sugar into a basin with the whites of three eggs, and beat them together, adding little by little the juice of half a lemon. Continue beating the mixture till it is light and frothy; it is then ready for use. If too stiff to work nicely, add another white of egg; or if too thin, add a little more sugar. Royal Icing may be said to have been almost invented by Alexis Soyer. Confectioners are in the habit of making sundry additions or modifications, dictated by economy or expediency, as will be seen hereunder: (1) Put the whites of six eggs into a deep bowl, sift in through a hair sieve a small quantity of Icing sugar, beat the white of egg, and keep on constantly adding more sugar till a thick smooth Icing is obtained. Add to it barely 1 tea- spoonful of dissolved gum arabic, a very small quantity of tartaric acid (hardly as much as will lie on a threepenny- piece), a few drops of indigo water, and lemon to taste ; con- tinue to beat till the mixture is very white and smooth. Cover the bowl with several thicknesses of damp, almost wet cloths, and let it stand all night. Next day beat it well, and if it requires it, add a little more sugar. (2) An Icing that will not break when the cake is cut is made of either dissolved gelatine or powdered gum arabic. Either needs only to be dissolved in hot water to make a mucilage, then beat up sugar in the mucilage just the same as if it were white of eggs. It is quicker to make than the egg Icing, and is very white. If too thick on the cakes, set them in a warm place, and the Icing will run down smooth and glossy. There is a kind of gelatine called granulated, which is very good for this purpose. (3) Sift together 4oz. of Icing sugar and ?oz. of cornflour. Beat the white of one egg till stiff, then gradually beat into it the sugar and cornflour until a smooth Icing is formed, which can be cut and spread with a flexible knife. Keep the Icing cool until it is required for use. (4) Put 5oz. of white loaf sugar over the fire in a sugar* boiler with 1 gill of cold water, and boil until it is thick