742 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Hams—continued. crumbs oyer them, and put them in a brisk oven for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin on a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, and serve. (2) Put the required quantity of Ham into a mortar, pound well, mix in the yolks of eggs and cream to make it thick and rich, warm it in a pan over the fire, spread on slices of well-buttered toast, cut them into fingers, and serve on a napkin. (3) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced, cooked Ham into a stewpan, with a boned, washed, and chopped anchovy; stir in two well-beaten eggs, season with a small quantity each of pounded mace and cayenne, and stir the whole over the fire until hot, then stir in a small quantity of thick cream. Cut some small rounds of bread, fry them in boiling butter until browned, drain them, and spread a layer of the mixture over. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve. (4) Cut off five or six slices from a raw Ham, put them into a stewpan with a little water, and turn them about over the fire until all the moisture has dried up, and the slices of Ham are lightly browned. Dredge them over with flour, a small quantity each of dry mustard and cayenne, pour over them 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream and § tea- cupful of milk, and stir over the fire until the sauce boils. Cut some slices of bread, toast them a delicate brown, trim off the crusts, put them on a hot dish, arrange the slices of Ham on the top, pour the sauce over, and serve. (5) Mix jib. of finely-minced Ham with one boned and mashed anchovy, and add a little cayenne and pounded mace ; work in two beaten eggs and sufficient milk to moisten it, then stir over the fire till hot through. Toast some slices of bread, butter them, put them on a dish, spread the hot mince over, and serve. (6) Mix together 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked minced Ham, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, a seasoning of pepper and mustard, a little chopped parsley, 3 table- spoonfuls of veal gravy, and 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. Put this mixture in a small saucepan over the fire, and stir till quite hot. Spread it on squares of buttered toast, scatter over it fried parsley and fried breadcrumbs, and serve hot. Potted Ham.—Cut all the meat from the remains of a boiled Ham, and chop it very fine, taking care to remove all outside pieces and gristle ; pound it to a paste, measure it, and to each pint mix in 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard and a small pinch of cayenne, and if the Ham is very lean, 1 table-spoonful of butter. Pack this smoothly in small earthen jars, paste paper over them, and put on the covers. Stand the jars in a deep baking-dish, surround them nearly to the top with hot water, and steam slowly for two hours. When done, take the jars out of the pan, and let them cool with the covers on. When cold, remove the covers, pour a little melted butter in each jar, put fresh covers on, and keep them in a cool, dry cupboard till wanted for use. Ham potted in this way makes delicious sandwiches, and will keep for months. Potted Ham and Chicken.—Use cold cooked chicken; pick the flesh off the bones, and trim off all the skin. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with a small quantity of powdered cloves, mace, nutmeg, and white pepper. Place the stewpan over the fire, and when the butter runs to oil, put in the pieces of chicken and some small pieces of cooked lean Ham. Put in also 1 table-spoonful of glaze, and stir the mixture continually until hot. Mince it, place it in a mortar, pound until quite smooth, and press it into small jars, leaving a clear jin. space at the top. Pill the jars with clarified butter, and when it has cooled tie them over. Roasted Ham.—(1) Select a small Ham, soak it for one hour, pare the surface, put it in a large saucepan, and cover with cold water; when boiling, move the saircepan to the side of the fire and simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then drain the Ham, take out the thigh-bone, and peel off the rind. Put it in a basin, pour in sufficient cooked marinade to cover, and let it macerate for twenty-four hours, with the pan covered. Drain the Ham, mask it with a vegetable mirepoix (see Mirepoix), cover it with two or three buttered sheets of paper, place it on a cradle-spit, and roast before a clear fire, basting occasionally with fat. In three-quarters-of-an-hour’s Hams—continued. time mix some of the marinade in the drippings, and baste the Ham with it. Take the papers off the Ham in another hour’s time, and roast half-an-hour longer. When cooked, take it off the spit, and put it on a hot oval dish; strain the stock from the dripping-pan, skim off the fat, reduce some of it to half-glaze, mix with it 1 teacupful of brown sauce, stir it over the fire again for two or three minutes, then pour it over the Ham, and serve with vegetable croquettes in a separate dish. (2) Boil and skin a Ham. Mix together 3 breakfast-cupfuls of grated breadcrumb, 1 breakfast-cupful of grated cheese, Parmesan for choice, but other cheeses will do. Brown the Ham lightly in the oven, then take it out, and press upon it all the breadcrumb mixture that can be made to stick. Put it in the baking-pan again, and brown it in the oven, basting occasionally with a little of the fat that runs into the pan. Cheese mixed with the breadcrumbs gives the Ham a rich colour and pleasant flavour. The Ham can be eaten either hot or cold. (3) Wash a Ham, and boil it for three hours if it is a large one, and a little less if it is a small one. When the Ham has been boiled sufficiently, peel off the skin, put the Ham in a baking-pan, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. When done, put it on a hot dish, sprinkle grated breadcrumbs over, and serve with champagne sauce. Slices of Ham a la Mayonnaise.—Cut some slices, not too thin, from the knuckle of a raw Ham, soak them in milk for one hour, then dry, and fry them in lard, turning so as to do both sides. When they are cooked, take them out of the fat, drain, and arrange them on a dish. Put 2 handfuls of rasped breadcrumbs in the pan with the fat, stir them over the fire for a few seconds, then pour in 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a little gravy ; boil the sauce for a few minutes, mix with it 5 saltspoonful of pepper and 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, pour it over the slices of Ham, and serve. Spiced Ham.—After the Ham has been salted for two days, put it in a keg with 1 table-spoonful of spice, 1 table-spoonful of black pepper, 1 pinch of saltpetre, and 1 teacupful of brown sugar. Lot it remain in this mixture for four days, turning it once a day, then hang it up. Steamed Ham.—Put a Ham into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for ten or twelve days; wash it well, and scrub it with a hard brush to remove the salt and smoke from the outside. Place it in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, cover over the pan, and boil quickly until the Ham is done, allowing about twenty minutes to each pound. When done, take it out, skin it, cover over with grated bread, and serve either hot or cold. Steaming is considered the best way of cooking a Ham. Stuffed Ham.—(1) Select a small and fresh Ham, steep it for a fortnight in brine mixed with a little saltpetre, smoke it for two days, then wash it, peel off the rind, trim away any meat that is discoloured by the smoke, bone it, and put it in a basin with two shallots and onions, both sliced, a little marjoram, basil, and a pinch of thyme; pour in | pint of Madeira and 2 bottles of red wine; put a cloth on the top, and let the Ham soak for twenty-four hours. When soaked, take it out, drain it, fill the hollow left by the bones with some set moat glaze and three or four raw truffles, sew up the openings, and make the Ham its original shape. Soak a fresh pig’s bladder in water till soft, not inflated, then wipe it and blow it out till large enough to take the Ham. Put the Ham in the bladder, pass the liquor in which the Ham was soaked through a fine hair sieve, and pour 1 table- spoonful of it in with the Ham; close the opening securely, tie up tightly in another bladder, and wrap the whole in a cloth. Tie that up also, put the Ham in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer for four hours, without touching it. When the Ham is cooked, take the saucepan off the fire, and let it remain for one hour in the liquor. When about to serve, drain the Ham, and take off the cloth and bladders, thicken the liquid in which it was cooked with a little kneaded butter, put the Ham on an oval dish, strain the sauce over it, and serve. (2) Boil a Ham, skin it, make some holes right to the bone, and fill them with a stuffing made of the following in- gredients : Mix with jib. of grated crackers |lb. of butter,