THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 805 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. served with salad, closes the short course. Eggs in surprise, filled with ices or vanilla creams, terminate the sacred meal. There are two kinds of Lamb used in cookery—the one called house-Lamb, being reared sometimes as a pet, under protection of a roof, and killed about December; and the other is grass- or out-of-door-Lamb, which is in season at Easter. They are considered in primest condition when two months old, retaining much of their prime quality until six months have passed over their heads, when they are better reserved for mutton. The earliest Lamb in the market conies usually from Dorsetshire, the Southdown following later on. Both are excellent meat. The butcher cuts up Lamb into joints similar to the sheep (see Mutton), and the fore-quarter is considered the primest, being closely followed by the loin and leg. The freshness of Lamb can be ascertained by ex- amining the veins of the fore-quarter, which should be blue, and not turning at all green. The kidney fat should also be very fresh and white. When this has turned colour a little, and gives off a faint smell, the Lamb is not freshly killed. But the fulness, brightness, and glassiness of the eyes is the best guide of all. From the following receipts, contributed by the most famous modern chefs, it will be seen that Lamb is capable of being cooked in an indefinite number of ways, and that almost every part of the animal is good for food. Baked stuffed Lamb.—Procure a very small whole Lamb, with the liver and heart, put it into a very large saucepan, minus the heart and liver, cover with water, and boil for fifteen minutes. Finely chop the heart and liver ; put 12oz. of butter into a saucepan, with three finely-chopped onions, toss them about over the fire till beginning to brown, then put in 1 tea- cupful of well-washed currants, the same quantity of skinned pistachios, and the minced liver and heart. Wash 1)- break- fast-cupfuls of rice in several waters, put it in with the liver, &c., season with pepper, salt, and powdered cinnamon, pour in a small quantity of the liquor in which the Lamb was boiled, and cook it; add more of the liquor as that becomes absorbed. Drain the Lamb, and when the rice is soft, stuff it with the mixture. Truss the Lamb, sewing it up with packthread; baste it with a few spoonfuls of onion-juice, rubbing well in with the fingers, lay it on a large baking-tin, and put into a quick oven. When browned on one side, turn the Lamb over, that it may brown on the other side. When cooked, untruss the Lamb and put it on a hot dish with forcemeat balls Fig. 1011. Baked stuffed Lamb. (see Fig. 1011), and serve. It may be roasted, if preferred, but in that case it should be stuffed before boiling'. Baked marinaded Saddle of Lamb.—Dust a saddle of Lamb plentifully with pepper, and hang it as long as it will keep. When it is ready, prepare a mixture of finely-chopped shallots, green rosemary, and a small quantity of tarragon- leaves ; also pound together a few juniper-berries, and an equal quantity of cloves and peppercorns ; rub all the season- ings well into the meat on all sides, lay it in a deep dish, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful each of vinegar and red wine. Turn and baste the meat constantly every day for three days. At the end of that time, wipe off all the herbs with a clean cloth, lard the meat, put it in an earthen baking-dish, and Lamb —continued. put a few pieces of butter on the top. Turn the marinade mixture into a small saucepan, mix with it half its quantity of clear gravy, and let it come to the boil. Strain the marinade over the meat, dredge it with salt, and bake for an-hour-and-a- half, keeping it well basted with the liquor. Just before removing the meat from the oven, baste it with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of rich cream. When cooked, drain and put the meat on a hot dish, keeping it near the fire for a minute, while preparing the gravy. Skim the fat off the liquor in the baking-dish, pour it into a small stewpan, scraping off the crustings round the sides of the dish, dredge in a small quantity of flour, add more seasoning of salt and pepper if necessary, and stir over the fire until boiling. Remove the sauce to the side, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten with 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and strained. Garnish the meat with quarters or slices of lemon, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Baked Saddle of Lamb. —Having selected a nice saddle of Lamb, trim off all the pink and superfluous fat, remove the end of the ribs, the cord, and veins along the back, wipe and rub the inside with salt, roll the flank under on each side, and sew it across the middle. Sprinkle pepper, salt, and flour over, and put it in the baking-pan with the inside up in order to thoroughly cook the fat. Baste and dredge it frequently; when the fat is crisp and brown, turn the meat and cook the other part, having previously tied a buttered paper over it. When cooked, put the Lamb on a hot dish, and serve with rich gravy and mint sauce separately in sauceboats. Ballotins of Lamb with Peas.—Bone a shoulder of Lamb weighing about 2|lb., letting the end bone remain for a handle; season with \ table-spoonful of salt and the same quantity of pepper. Sew it up with string, fasten firmly, and boil for two or three minutes in the stockpot. After letting it cool, lard the top with a larding-needle as for a fricandeau, and place it in a saucepan with a piece of pork skin, a carrot, and an onion cut in slices. Brown slightly for six minutes, then moisten with 1 pint of broth and J pint of Spanish sauce, cook in the oven for forty-five minutes, take it out, and strain the sauce over 1 pint of hot boiled green peas. Cook for two minutes longer. Place the gar- nishing on a hot dish, lay the ballotin (after removing the strings) on the top of the garnishing, and serve. Barbecued Lamb.—In Italy, a young Lamb only six weeks or two months old is sometimes roasted whole. It must be skinned, the fry taken out, and the feet chopped off. The bones are like gristle, and can be eaten. Sometimes the Lamb is stuffed with breadcrumbs and sweet herbs, then roasted, and served with bread sauce, or more frequently with lemon- juice squeezed over it. Blanquette cf Lamb. — (1) Remove the meat from two shoulders of Lamb, cut it into moderate-sized squares, and steep them in water for one hour. Put the meat in a stewpan, cover it with a little water or broth and 1 teacupful of white wine. When the liquid boils, strain the broth through a sieve into a basin, and let it remain for a few minutes to settle. Put one chopped onion in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry till browned; then mix the meat with it, and fry them together for a few minutes. Sprinkle in a little flour, pepper, and salt, and pour in gradually sufficient of the broth to reach the top of the meat; add a few cloves and pepper- corns, some trimmings of mushrooms, a few sprigs of parsley, and a bay-leaf. Put the stewpan over the fire, and let the contents boil quickly for ten or twelve minutes, to reduce the liquor to one-fourth ; then move thef saucepan to the side of the fire, and finish cooking the meat. When done, skim the fat off the sauce, stir in three eggs that have been beaten with a little milk, and continue stirring over the fire till thick, taking care that it does not boil; grate in a little nutmeg, take the meat out of the stewpan with a fork, arrange it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, spi-inkle a little parsley on the top, and serve. (2) Cut some of the best part of breast of Lamb into about 2|in. squares, wash and dry them, and dredge with flour. Put 4oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of minced fat bacon and a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley; let it simmer over the fire for ten minutes, then put in the pieces of Lamb, with a finely-chopped onion, and salt