TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 729 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Gum Paste—continued. and moulding or modelling in Gum Paste would soon become a fashionable and artistic amusement. Manu- facturers supplying confectioners’ wares now supply Gum Paste ornaments, fashioned with such skill and after such exquisite designs, at such low rates that it is generally considered waste of time to make them for oneself; but the artist-cook will not rest contented with the work of others, so a few suggestions will be acceptable, bearing in mind that it would be impos- sible to give moi-e than the merest outline of what may be said to constitute an art by itself. A special set of tools are required, to be obtained of any mould- maker, and these, when working, must be continually dipped in powdered starch. Borders in Gum Paste may be made in a variety of ways, but the most simple appears to be to roll the paste out to the required length and thickness on a sheet of paper, white or coloured, lying on another sheet. The border is then cut out with a metal stamp, made for the purpose, and when completed can be raised on the paper, and applied where and in what manner desired. A few patterns, specially designed for this Encyclopaedia by an expert confectioner, are shown at c on the Plate (No. 1), representing a military fruit- trophy. Such borders can be used for almost any purpose, and when coloured or gilt they resemble metal. Stands, vases, baskets, cups, fruits, and a variety of other useful and ornamental articles can be formed with Gum Paste; for instance, a very pretty stand ca.n be worked out on an inverted basin (see A on Plate No. 2, representing a basket for fruit) which has been previously oiled. When the stand has to carry any great weight, it is advisable to strengthen the legs and body with wooden skewers, as shown by the dotted lines. It is then advisable to mix Spanish white with the paste instead of sugar. Supposing this stand to be modelled and worked out satisfactorily, upon a larger basin or mould the bowl of a large vase can be designed, as shown at b. This should also be strengthened by a block of wood supplied with a wooden spike, which fits into the hole (A) in the stand. When these two are dry, the basins can easily be removed, and the vase turned up and fixed to the stand with more paste, producing a very pretty and useful utensil (see d, Plate No. 2), care being taken to set the plug in the hole prepared for it. When dried, this will hold as fast as any plaster or hardened clay, and may be carried about, especially if the legs be set on a flat wooden stand, also covered with paste, and surrounded by an ornamental border. It will be seen that these designs and the fulness of their execution are unlimited, provided moulds are at hand to carry them out. The greatest care must at all times be taken to use wooden blocks and iron or wire frames where strength is required, and the designs should be in harmony with the surroundings. When the basket or vase is used for fruits, it is advisable to set up in the middle a block made hollow out of the paste on a suitable shape, with stages if preferred, and a cup at the top to receive a pine (c) or melon. This stage may be painted green, and covered with leaves, which will, of course, be so arranged as to point between the fruits. So many beautiful designs for this kind of work have been produced by skilful confectioners and paste-workers, that a plate consisting of these and nothing else will be found amongst the pages of this Encyclopaedia, each design having the necessary blocks and supports shown in dotted lines. Some very useful ideas will be found under Moulding, especially as concerns flowers, fruit, and figures. GURNETS or GURNARDS (Fr. Rougets; Ger. Seehahn).—If it were possible to see these fish (the red variety) in their native sphere, the deep rocky parts of the sea, and watch them in their sporting gambols as Gurnets or Gurnards—continued. the sun shines upon them, a more beautiful and fanciful sight it would be scarcely possible to conceive. All the colours of a sunset are displayed in their unique colouring, reflected by glittering scales and huge spiny fins. Kettner, in his description of the fish, first con- fuses them with the gruntes, and then continues, “ The ancients called him a lyre, and supposed him to be under the special protection of Apollo; its shape and aq>pearance are suggestive of this instrument. Those who eat him can make a guess what flying-fisli is like —for the flying-fish, beloved of poets, is a Gurnard. So also are the sticklebacks, which engaged the philo- sophical mind of Mr. Pickwick.” The Gurnet is a sea-going fish of the genus Trigla, and is found chiefly along the British coasts, there being some varieties which frequent other European waters, the best known to us being the Red Gurnet (see Pig. 906), but about the coast of Cornwall a Grey Gurnet is found, and another fish of the same kind called a piper. Their heads are huge and unsightly, with long, broad, flat, foreheads and noses, defended on both sides by spines and plates of strong armour. The flesh is firm and well flavoured, and the fish can be cooked in various ways when fresh, or can be split open and dried. See Piping. Baked Gurnet. —(1) Scale and clean a Gurnet, and fill its belly with veal stuffing; sew it up (see Fish), and truss it with its tail in its mouth. Put a little butter in a saute- pan, and add 1 wineglassful of sherry and 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped shallots. Brush the fish over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and put a few pieces of butter over it. Place the fish in the pan, and put it in a hot oven for thirty minutes or so. Take it out when done, remove the packing, and place it on a dish. Add 12 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce to the liquor in the saute-pan, and 4 table-spoonfuls of good broth, table- spoonful of essence of anchovy, and i teaspoonful of moist sugar. Boil up quickly for five minutes, pour it on the dish round the fish, brown with a salamander, and serve hot. (2) Clean and scale a large Gurnet, chop off its head, and remove the inside. Mask a deep dish with butter, and put at the bottom a layer of mixed minced parsley, chives, and sweet herbs well seasoned with salt and pepper; then put in the fish, cover with another layer of the minced herbs, put small pieces of butter here and there on the top, melt this before the fire, then cover all with fine breadcrumbs, and bake to a good brown. Prepare a sauce with chopped parsley, chives, truffles, and mushrooms, seasoned with salt and pepper, moistened with broth, and simmered on a gentle fire. When the Gurnet is baked, thicken the sauce