838 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. pieces about the size of a we 1 nut, flatten them, dock with a biscuit docker, put the biscuits on baking-sheets, and bake till lightly coloured in a steady oven. When ccoked leave the biscuits till cold, and keep them in a tin canister. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into ltlb. of well-dried flour ; when quite smooth, mix with it 1 lib. of caster sugar, the finely-chopped peel of three Lemons, and two eggs well beaten together with the strained juice of one Lemon. Mix all thoroughly to a stiff paste, then roll it out to about the thickness of a penny-piece and cut it into biscuits with a round biscuit-cutter. Sprinkle flour over some baking-tins, put the biscuits on them and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. When cold, pack the biscuits in a tin canister and keep them in a dry place till wanted for use. (3) Dissolve Jib. of carbonate of ammonia in a little cold milk. Rub lib. of butter into 31b. of flour and work in ljlb. of sugar; form a bay, break in six eggs, add essence of Lemon to taste and the dissolved carbonate of ammonia, and form into a stiflish dough with milk. Roll out, cut into shapes with an oval or other shaped cutter, bake to a good colour in a moderate oven, and the biscuits are ready for use. Lemon-Biscuit Drops.—Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream with a wooden spoon ; stir in gradually 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, the grated zest of four Lemons, eight eggs, working one well in before another is added, and lastly 14oz. of dried and sifted flour. Have ready the required number of small round tins slightly buttered, 1111 them with the mixture, put into a moderate oven, and bake; take them out when done, turn out, and use when cold. Lemon Blanc-mange.—Put ^-oz. of isinglass in f pint of hot milk, and when dissolved mix in four well-beaten eggs, the peel of two Lemons rubbed on a few lumps of sugar, and sweeten to taste; stir over a slow lire till on the point of boiling, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and pour all into a mould and leave till set. When ready to serve. turn the blanc-mange on to a dish, and garnish with any kind of preserve. See Fig. 1058. Lemon Bonbons.—Clarify lib. of the best loaf sugar and boil it to caramel, that is the degree of heat at which if a little of the boiling sugar be taken from the pan and cooled in cold water it will be quite brittle (see SUGAR- BOILING). Just before the sugar reaches caramel add the grated rind of half a Lemon. Melt a little butter in a saucepan, skim it if necessary till quite clear; take a spoonful of this hot butter and with the hand rub it all over a marble slab or a plate of copper and as soon as the sugar is boiled to caramel pour it on the buttered plate or slab. Have a long-bladed knife ready, and taking one end in each hand press lines about 1 in. apart all over the sugar as quickly as possible, and then very quickly press other lines across these so as to form squares; after the lines are made slip the blade quickly and carefully between the sugar and the plate or slab, and place the sugar on sheets of white paper. When the sugar is quite cold, separate the bonbons and wrap each separately in paper. They should be kept in a dry place. Lemons—continued. Lemon Brandy.—(1) Pare the rinds off two Lemons as thinly as possible, put them into a bottle of brandy, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. Boil 2oz. of loaf sugar in 1 gill of water, skim till clear, and let it stand till cold. Strain the brandy from the Lemon-peel, add this syrup to it, and bottle. (2) Put 1 jib. of loaf sugar, the juice of twelve and the thinly-pared rinds of six Lemons into a jar; pour in 3qts. of brandy, and lastly lqt. of boiling milk. Cover the jar well and stir every day for eight days, carefully replac- ing the cover after each stirring. After the eighth day run it through a jelly-bag to char. Bottle, and cork well. (3) Put in a large jar or pan, with a cover to it, 1J lb. of loaf sugar, the thinly-pared rinds of six and the strained juice of twelve Lemons, and 3qts. of brandy. Boil lqt. of milk, pour it grad rally in with the brandy, &c.; let it stand for eight days, stirring occasionally every day, then strain it through a jelly-bpg and bottle. It is then ready for use. (4) Put the juice of sixteen and the thinly-pared rinds of eight Lemons into 2galls. of pale brandy, sweeten with 21 lb. of loaf sugar, and mix in lqt. of boiling milk. Let it stand for a week, then strain the brandy through flannel, pour it into pint bottles, cork tightly, and store them in a warm place till wanted. Lemon-Butter Drops. -Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs; put 8oz. of granulated sugar and 1 teacupful of water with the yolks, and whisk them with an egg- whisk for ten minutes; then whip the whites to a stiff froth. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour with the yolks, and when quite smooth stir in the whites ; 111 a biscuit-forcer with the preparation, squeeze it out in round drops on sheets of paper, sprinkle caster sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the drops off the paper, and join them together in pairs with Lemon-butter. Lemon-Butter Sauce. Put 1 table-spoonful of cornflour and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a saucepan ; grate in the rind of one Lemon, mix them, then stir in 4 pint of boiling water, the juice of half a Lemon, and a small lump of butter; add gradually the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir it over the fire for a minute or two, taking care the eggs do not curdle. This sauce can be served with puddings, or, with the whipped white of an egg added, can lie used to fill paste-lined patty-pans for tarts or cheese cakes. Lemon Cake.—(1) Beat 4lb. of caster sugar together with the yolks of six eggs; when smooth, add the whites, previously whisked to a stiff froth, then stir in gradually 7 table-spoonfuls of flour and the grated peel of one large Lemon. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, pour the mixture in, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. (2) Beat the yolks of eighteen and the whites of twelve eggs separately for half-an-hour, then mix them together, and stir in gradually Jib. of flour that has been well dried, 14lb. of caster sugar, and the grated peel of four Lemons. Beat 1 ilb. of butter to a creamy consistence, stir all to- gether, and continue beating for a short time ; mix with the Fig. 1059. Lemon-Cake Moulds (Mathews and Son). preparation 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour it into a mould (see Fig. lOofh lined with buttered paper, and bake for an- hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven.