950 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Muffins- continued. sugar may be added to the flour mixture if desired, and a little less of the butter and milk may also he used. (3) Put lqt. of flour into a basin, and mix in 3 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda. Add two well-beaten eggs and sufficient butter-milk to make it into a stiff batter, put it into hot Muffin-rings, and bake until done. They must be baked as soon as they are made. (4) Put the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four and a half into a basin, beat them well, and add as much flour as will absorb them. Then add milk and flour alternately until three pints of flour are used. Beat in 5 table spoonfuls of yeast and 2oz. of warmed butter. Put the mixture into warmed Muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. (5) Beat six eggs well together with 1 pint of milk, and mix with it 2oz. of warmed butter, 2oz. of sugar, 1 table- spoonful of baking-powder, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; sift in slowly, stirring at the same time, a sufficient quan- tity of flour to make a nice light batter. Bake the Muffins in round tins, and when nearly cooked brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk. (6) Butter 1 dozen earthenware cups, and arrange them in a dripping-pan. Mix to a smooth batter 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk ; beat four eggs to a light froth, then beat the eggs with the batter, and half fill the cups with it. B tke them at once in a very hot oven for about twenty minutes, or until they are nicely browned all over. Serve hot. (7) For lqt. of flour use 4 gill of liquid yeast, or half a small cake of compressed yeast dissolved in h lueak fast- cupful of lukewarm water ; mix with the flour 1 tea- spoonful of salt, the yeast, and cold water enough to make a soft dough, using the hands ; when the dough is as soft as it can be handled, cover the bowl containing it with a folded towel, set it in a moderately warm room, and let it rise overnight. The next morning heat a griddle moderately hot—that is just hot enough to colour dry flour, which must be sifted on it ; then beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, add it to the dough, and at once bake the Muffins on the floured griddle in large tin rings, slightly buttered. These Muffins are used hot, or toasted on the outside. (8) Put lqt. of milk and 2oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire to warm, and throw in 1 teaspoonful of salt; mix in five eggs beaten very light, and then either 2 good table-spoonfuls of bakers’ yeast, or 4 table-spoonfuls of home-made yeast, and lastly, sifted flour enough to make a stiff batter. Cover and let it stand in a warm place for three hours to rise. When it has risen well, grease the baking-iron and theMuffin-rings, put them on the baking- iron, and pour the batter into them; when baked do not cut them, simply pull them open and butter. Cutting would make them heavy. Muffins made with Cornflour.—(1) Boil 2oz. of butter or lard in 4 pint of water, and pour it while boiling into 1 breakfast-cupful of white cornflour to scald it. Add 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and mix in H pints of cold milk, 4oz. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat well up with a wire egg-whisk. Butter or lard some Muffin-rings, and bake. If the rings are used, they and the baking- sheet must be made hot, or the batter will run under the rings. The Muffins are best when the mixture is quite thin. Buttermilk and bicarbonate of soda may be used instead of the milk and baking-powder. These Muffins can be made with yeast, but they take longer to rise. (2) Put 1 pint of white cornflour into a basin, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and soda, 1 table-spoonful of flour, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled rice. Break an egg into a basin, beat it up together with 1 pint of sour milk and 1 table-spoonful of dripping or warmed butter, pour it into the dry mixture, and stir well. Put the mass into hot Muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. (3) Boil a good-sized piece of butter in 4 pint of boiling water, and pour it over 1 large breakfast-cupful of white cornflour, to scald it; add 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 1 Muffins—continued. teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and f pint of cold milk. Beat these up well with an egg- wliisk. Grease some Muffin-rings, stand them on baking- sheets, and make them hot; pour the batter in, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Mix together overnight 1 breakfast-cupful of corn- flour, 1 teacupful of sugar, and 1 small teaspoonful of salt; put it in a double boiler, or bain-marie, add 1 table-spoon- ful of butter and 2| pints of boiling water, stir till smooth, and cook for one hour. Turn it into a basin, and pour over it 2 table-spoonfuls of water to prevent a crust from forming. Beat it next morning till soft and smooth. Mix together 3 teacupfuls of fine yellow cornflour, 3 tea- cupfuls of white flour, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; mix these with the meal, and add 1 well-beaten egg. Butter some Muffin-rings and set them on a greased baking- sheet. Pour the mixture into the rings, and bake in a hot oven. (5) Mix with 1 pint of warm milk 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 2 dessert spoonfuls of moist sugar, loz. of German yeast, and 2 saltspoonfulS of salt, adding enough cornflour to make a thin batter. Let it rise till the next morning, and then add a pat of warmed butter and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little warm water; beat all well until quite smooth. Butter some Muffin-rings, set them on a greased baking-sheet, pour the mixture into them, and bake slowly. Muffins made with Cream.-—Whisk the yolks and whites of four eggs separately, mix them together, and stir them into 1 pint of cream and loz. of warmed butter. Stir in gradually 1 pint of flour, put it into Muffin-rings, and bake quickly in a hot oven. Muffins made with Dough.—(1) Take about lib. of dough from some light bread that was set to rise overnight, and work in 2oz. of warmed butter, 1 gill of milk, loz. of sugar, two yolks of eggs or one whole egg (the milk and eggs having been previously beaten together, and the sugar dis- solved in the milk), 1 teaspoonful of flour, and 1 pinch of salt. Beat the batter on the side of the pan until it is quite elastic and smooth. Put it to rise for one hour. Grease some Muffin-rings and pour in the batter, which should be made thin enough to run but not thin enough to run under the rings. Put it to rise for half-an-hour, and bake ten minutes in a hot oven. (2) Put lib. of light dough into a deep bowl or basin, and add without mixing 2 table-spoonfuls of warm butter, 1 table spoonful of molasses, two or three eggs, a little sal-t, and 1 teacupful of lukewarm milk. Put the bowl in a warm place to let the dough rise a little, and then beat them all together for several minutes. Half-fill some well- greased Muffin-rings with the mixture, let it rise again for a few minutes until the rings are full, put them in a hot oven, and bake for eight minutes. When done, brush them over with a little hot water and butter, and they are ready for use. Muffins in Trench Style.—Dissolve a medium-sized cake of yeast in warm water; put loz. of butter into a saucepan with \ pint of milk and warm them ; beat four eggs till frothy, then stir them in with the milk. Mix the yeast with the eggs and milk, and stir in gradually lqt. of flour. Grease some Muffin-rings and set them on a greased baking- dish, pour some of the batter into each, and set them to rise in a warm place. When well risen, bake the Muffins lightly in a moderate oven. If they are to be served hot with butter inside them, they should be pulled apart, as cutting them with a knife will make them heavy. Muffins made with Graham-Flour.—Mix 41b. of Graham- flour with half its quantity of white flour, and stir in 3 teacupfuls of milk mixed with a little yeast while luke- warm, and then add 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, one beaten egg, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Put this mixture into a pan, smooth it over the top with the bowl of a spoon dipped in melted lard, and put it in a warm place to rise. Let it remain for about twelve hours, beat it up again, put it into Muffin-rings, let it rise again for lialf-an-hour, and then bake in a hot oven until done.