THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 957 Mullet—continued. another layer o' the ragoftt; proceed in this manner till the case is full, then put a layer of the whipped bechamel sauce and eggs over the top, smoothing it with the blade of a knife; sift over grated breadcrumb or Parmesan cheese, and brown it under a hot salamander. Keep this entree at the mouth of a slow oven for ten minutes, then serve it while very hot, with a sauceboatful of veloute sauce reduced with some fish broth. Red Mullet a l’ltalienne.—Wipe the fish on a dry cloth, and lay it on a sheet of well-buttered paper; squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over it, strew with finely-minced parsley, salt, and pepper, and fold the paper up over it. Chop two shallots, put them in a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, and fry them. Put in with the shallots 1 teacupful of finely-minced mushrooms; 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and the strained juice of half a lemon, and boil gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Place the fish on a gridiron, and broil it over a clear fire ; when cooked, remove the paper and place the Mullets on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over the fish, and serve. Red Mullets a la Provenpal.—Prepare a stuffing of the hard-boiled yolks of eggs mixed with some chopped parsley, a little butter and garlic, and made of the required con- sistence with well-beaten eggs. Clean and draw three Red Mullets, fill them with the stuffing, wrap them up in well- buttered papers, and broil over a moderate fire until done. Take off the papers, put them on a dish, pour over maitre- d’hotel butter mixed with a little garlic butter, and serve hot. Red Mullets in Cornets.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and shallots into a saucepan with a little oil, and fry to a light colour; add 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushrooms, reduce their moisture, and put in a few table- spoonfuls of capers, and a little parsley and pieces of anchovy chopped together. Clean six Red Mullets, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and baste them with oil. Cut some pieces of paper in triangular form, oil them on one side only, and make them into cornets, according to the size of the Mullets. Cover each side of the fish with a little of the onion mixture, put them into the cornets, fold these over, and put them on a gridiron with a thick piece of oiled paper under to prevent them burning. When hot on both sides, put them on a dish and serve. This method of serving Mullets is advocated by Dubois. Stewed Red Mullets.—(1) Clean the fish, wash them well, and trim off their gills. Peel and chop three onions, put them into a mortar, pound them, season with salt, pepper, and mixed spices, mix in the yolks of three eggs and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and beat well with a wooden spoon. Put the Mullets into a deep dish, pour over the mixture, and let them macerate for two or three hours. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of olive oil, and toss it about over the lire till hot; then pour in 4 pint of water, season with salt, and keep it over the fire till beginning to boil. Put the Mullets in the stewpan with the parsley, &c., and stew them gently till tender. When cooked, drain the Mullets, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Clean three Red Mullets, put them into a shallow stewpan, pour over 2 wineglassfuls each of sherry and broth, and add a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip, a little parsley and thyme, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, two slices of lemon, and salt and pepper as desired ; set the pan on a moderate fire, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Place the Mullets on a dish, strain the liquor back into the pan, add a liaison of flour and butter to thicken, pour it over the fish, and serve. (3) Seale the fish, wash and trim nicely, dust well with salt and pepper, lay it in a flat stewpan with chopped mushrooms and shallots, baste with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of sherry, and place it over a slow fire. Turn the fish occasionally, and moisten the top of it now and again with the liquor in the pan. When cooked, lay the Mullet very carefully on a hot dish. Pour 4 tumblerful of sherry into a small stewpan, strain the gravy from the fish into it, add 4 table spoonful of chopped parsley and a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Mullet—continued. few drops of anchovy sauce, and boil the whole for a few minutes; then pour it over the fish. Serve with cut lemon. MULLIGATAWNY.—See Mullagatawny. MUM.—This name originated with Christian Muinme, a German brewer, who first brewed this very strong beer in 1492. It is sometimes made with spruce. Pope wrote : The clamorous crowd is hushed with mugs of Mum, from which quotation it is easy to associate the word Mum with silence. MUSCATEL^See Raisins. MUSCLES.—See Mussels. MUSCOVITE CREAM.—See Cream. MUSCOVITE PUNCH.—See Punch. MUSH.—A sort of porridge made with Indian-corn meal, and much favoured by the poorer classes of the United States for its satisfying and nourishing qualities. Made according to the following directions it is fit for any table. Other receipts will be found under Cornflour, Gluten, and Rye. (1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 4 pint of Indian- meal and 1 saltspoonful of salt, wet it with a little cold water, plunge it into lqt. of boiling water, and let it boil slowly for half an-hour, stirring every few minutes for the first quarter-of-an-hour, and constantly for the last quarter- of-an-hour. Serve it in a deep dish with milk or cream; do not cover it. (2) Put the required quantity of water into a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils shake in gradually suffi- cient corn-meal to make it thick, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon ; add a small quantity of salt, move the saucepan to the. edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. When cooked, mix with the Mush a small lump of butter, and serve it with sugar and cream. MUSHROOMS.—To deal with this subject thoroughly or exhaustively would require volumes; at the very most all that can be given here will be a description of those which are edible and those which are not. The term Mushroom is a modification of the Old English rnuscheron, the first syllable being very probably allied to or extracted from the same root as the word moss; in any case, the term is applied to nearly all the edible fungi; but in France and other parts of the Continent they have various names, such as Champignons, Cepes, &c. Using the term Mushrooms as applying to all edible fungi of that particular class, we have still left Morels and Truffles, as differing essentially from Mushrooms; I these are described under those headings, as well as Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads.