908 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mangoes—continued. cool dry place. Sufficient syrup should he prepared at first, so that on the completion of the boiling there will he enough to cover the Mangoes. Mango Puree.—Peel a couple of Mangoes, cut them into halves, removing the stones, put them into a mortar, and bruise well. Add 1 teaspoonful of sugar or sufficient to sweeten, \ teaspoonful of salt, and lastly ^ teaspoonful each of ground fresh mint-leaves and ground ginger, and d teaspoonful of ground chillies. When well pounded, the mash or puree is ready for use, and, in India, usually accompanies curry and rice. Mango Sauce.—Put Gib. of peeled and sliced Mangoes into a large earthenware jar or jars, and mix in 21b. each of salt and ground stoned raisins, 1 Alb. of ground ginger, lib. each of moist sugar and ground garlic, Jib. each of ground chillies and ginger, lqt. of lime-juice, and Gcjts. of vinegar. Place the jar or jars in the sun for from twenty to thirty days, strain off the liquor into a saucepan, boil for about fifteen minutes, let it get cold, put it into bottles, cork down, and the sauce is ready for use. The refuse or part left in the sieve or strainer can be used for making chutney. Pickled Mangoes.—(1) Remove the peel from as many Mangoes as required, cut them into halves to take out the stones, rub well with salt, and put them in the sun for two or three days. Wipe well with a cloth, and stuff each with a mixture of two cloves of garlic, two cloves, one small stick of cinnamon, a few slices of chillies and green ginger, and a few onion-seeds, pounded together in a mortar; fasten the halves together with thin thread or cotton, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, cork down securely, and put them in the sun for about twenty days. One or two table-spoonfuls of mustard oil, if poured over the pickle before adding the vinegar, will prevent it spoiling. The pickle will not be fit for use until it has been in the bottles for three or four months. (2) Cut a small piece off the end of each Mango, using as many as are requited, scoop out the ends, and mix this with an equal quantity of mustard-seed and a little very finely-sliced garlic. Stuff the Mangoes with this mixture, replace the pieces in the ends, bind round or sew tip with thread, and put them in a bowl, and pour over sufficient boil- ing vinegar seasoned with salt, pepper, ginger, and any spices to cover ; leave for a day, strain off the vinegar, add a little more to allow for evaporation, boil again, and pour while hot over the Mangoes. Repeat this operation twice more (four times in all), but on the last day add a little ground mustard and scraped horseradish to the vinegar just as it commences to boil. Pack away in jars, and cover closely. Failing the genuine article, British ingenuity has been engaged in producing imitations of the pickles and chutney, for which some good receipts are appended. Imitation Mango Chutney.—Boil fib. of moist sugar to a syrup (see Syrups) ; pound to a powder 4oz. of garlic, 8oz. of onions, and 12oz. of ground ginger. Put 12oz. of mustard- seed in a little water, wash it well, and dry it (in the sun if possible). Pare and core thirty apples, and boil them in 1J pints of vinegar ; when done, take out, let them get cold, and mix in with the other ingredients, pouring over J pint of vinegar and adding 4oz. of dried chillies. Stir thoroughly, bottle it, cork down tightly, tie pieces of bladder over the corks, and it is ready for use. Imitation Mango Chutney Sauce.—Peel and core 4oz. of sour apples, and put them into a large jar. Pound in a mortar 4 >z. each of figs, raisins, tomatoes, brown sugar, and a little salt, add them to loz. of chillies (or cayenne), \oz. of ground ginger, Joz. of garlic, and 4oz. of fine fresh shallots. Mix all these well with the apples, and pour in 1 pint of lemon-juice and 3 pints of vinegar. Put the jar in a warm place (about 130 deg. Fahr.) and let it remain for a month, stirring once or twice a day. Pour off the thin liquor at the top and bottle it, put the thick part into wide-mouthed bottles, and it is ready for use. The thin liquor is used for flavouring fish sauce or gravies. Goose- berries may be used if sour apples are not available, but they do not answer the purpose so well. Mangoes— continued. Imitation Pickled Mangoes.—(1) Choose two dozen young musk-melons, cut oft one end, and scrape out all the inside ; tie on the end that was cut off, and put them in some strong brine for a day or so, then rinse them in fresh water and wipe dry. Put 1 pint each of the smallest green peppers, young cucumbers, onions, and green string beans into some brine, let them remain for a day or two, then put them in a saucepan over the fire; as soon as they begin to boil, take them out and drain dry. Add 2oz. of mustard-seed, j pint of shred horseradish, and 1 table- spoonful of red peppers to the cucumbers, &c. Stuff the melons with this mixture, tie on the ends again, and put them into a three-gallon jar. Pour 6qts. of vinegar into a saucepan, add 1 oz. each of cloves, allspice, and whole black pepper, and boil quickly; turn it over the melons, put the cover on the jar, and let it remain for a day. Drain off the vinegar, boil it up, and pour it again over the melons, and continue to do this twice more. When done, put the cover on the jar, and keep it in a cool place until wanted for use. (2) Select the musk melons as late in the season as pos- sible; if pickled early, they do not keep well. Cut a small piece from the under side, and take out the seeds, being care- ful not to wound the flesh. Soak the melons in salt and water for three or four days, then take them out of the water, sprinkle on the inside of the melons powdered cloves, pepper, and mil meg, and fill them with small strips of horseradish, cinnamon, and small French beans. Flag-root, nasturtiums, and radish-tops are also used to stuff' them. Fill any vacant spaces with mustard-seed. Replace the pieces of melon that were cut off, bind up tightly with white cloth, and sew it on. Lay the melons in a stone jar, having the side that was cut uppermost. Put alum, salt, and peppercorns into the vinegar to season it, boil up, and pour it over the melons. Cover the jar with a folded towel, and leave for one night; then drain off the vinegar, make it hot again, and pour it over, covering as before; repeat this scalding until the melons are a fine green, three times being generally sufficient. (3) For this pickle large cucumbers, small musk melons, or water melons pulled before they are ripe, may be used. Whichever are utilised must have the seeds scraped out and the hollows filled with salt; they should then be put into brine strong enough to float a fresh egg, covered well with vine or grape leaves, with a weight on toj> to keep them down, and left in it for three days. Mix together fib. of white ginger steeped in salt water till soft, Jib. of horseradish scraped and soaked for twelve hours, h pint of garlic soaked and dried, J pint of onions peeled and chopped small, loz. of long pepper salted and dried, Joz. of common black pepper, 2oz. each of black and white mustard-seed, loz. of celery-seed, 1 dessert-spoonful each of mace and cloves, and beat all these into a paste together with perfectly fresh butter or olive oil. When the melons or cucumbers have been three whole days in the brine, take them out, wipe quite dry, and fill them with this paste. Then put them into a stone jar, pour over J hint of mustard-seed, and fill up the jar with boiling vinegar. When cold, cover air-tight. MANGOID-WUEZEL- A large field beet, which is not of much use to the cook; nevertheless, it has been used upon occasions, as the following receipts will show: Boiled Mangold Leaf-stalks.—Peel and cut the stalks into pieces of an equal length ; put them into a saucepan con- taining boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, but not browned, then pour in gradually about 1 pint of clear broth, and continue stirring until it boils; season with salt and pejtper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When tender, drain the Mangold leaf stalks, put them on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Mangold-Wurzel Beer.—Take the required quantity of sound roots, wash, scrape, and pare them, and cut them up roughly into pieces. Put them into a big pan or boiler, fill it up with water, and boil for six hours, then drain