893 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processcs) Utensils, Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads, Macaroni—continued. fill up the mould with minced ox-palates, pickled or fresh button-mushrooms well moistened with white sauce, cover the mould, and boil for forty-five minutes. Turn out care- fully, and serve with thick white sauce and stewed mush- 10 mis. Macaroni with Tomatoes.—Break jib. of Macaroni in lengths of about 3in., plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for about twenty minutes or so until done. Take them out, drain, and put them in a baking-dish; mix in loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tea- cupful of tliick stewed tomatoes, the same quantity of brown meat gravy, a lump of butter, and s. It and pepper to taste. Put the dish in a slack oven, let the mixture simmer gently for thirty minutes, and serve. It need not be baked unless desired, and care must be taken that the flavour of the tomatoes is not too strong, and alio that it is not too much salted. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce.—(1) Break lib. of Macaroni into small pieces, and boil in salted water until done. Take out, drain, put it back again into the same sauce- pan, add jib. of butter and 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, double that quantity of melted glaze, a little cayenne, and four truffles cooked and shred fine. When done, put it on a dish, sprinkle with a little more grated Parmesan cheese, pour over some tomato sauce, and serve. (2) Have a saucepan of slightly-salted boiling water on the fire, and throw in lib. of Macaroni broken into con- venient lengths, care being taken that the water is quite boiling. Wash and dry some ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves, put them in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onion and the same of chopped celery, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a few cloves ; do not pour in any water. Cook the tomatoes at the side of the fire until reduced to a pulp, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Drain the Macaroni when sufficiently cooked (it should not be done too much), put it in a stewpan with a little less than jib. of butter and 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, stir over the fire until the butter and cheese have dissolved, then mix in the tomatol sauce, turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Macaroni with Wine.—(1) Rasp tiff all the outside crust of a French roll, letting it fall into a basin, pour over 1 pint of wine, and soak for half-an-hour, covering closely with a cloth. Boil ^oz. of Macaroni till soft, drain, put it into a saucepan with a little flutter and as much cream as it will absorb, grate over a good supply of Parmesan cheese, toss over the fire until it becomes like custard, pour it over the soaked roll in a dish, brown the top with a salamander, and serve. (2) Put jib. of parboiled Macaroni into a saucepan with 2 tumblerfuls of red wine, adding a little lemon-rind and a seasoning of cloves, coriander, and cinnamon; stew slowly until quite tender (it will take about an-hour-and-a- half), then put it on a hot dish, pour round the wine sauce out of the pan, dust over with Parmesan cheese, put a few' lumps of butter on the top, glaze in the oven or with a salamander, and serve very hot. Scalloped Macaroni.—Boil the requisite quantity of Maca- roni in salted water; when soft, turn it on to a sieve to drain, and leave until cold. Grate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese, mix it with the Macaroni, also 1 teacupful of rich gravy, and 4oz. of warmed butter. Stir with a Avooden spoon until all the ingredients are rvell incorporated, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and fill some scallop shells AA'itli it; sift grated Parmesan cheese on the top of each, then spread over a layer of sardine butter made by pounding boned sardines and butter to- gether. Put them in a quick oven, and bake until nicely browned. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve Avliile very hot. Stewed Macaroni.—Simmer jib. of Macaroni in sufficient water to cover with 1 teaspoonful of salt in it. Do not let it break or lose its shape, and Avhen quite tender take Macaroni—continued. it from the fire and strain off the water. Chop very finely all the Avliite meat of a fowl and three or four slices of ham, and season to taste Avith Avliite pepper, salt, and grated Parmesan cheese. Beat Avell the yolks of three eggs and the Avhite of one separately. Mix the minced foAAj and ham into the beaten yolks, stir in j pint of cream, then beat in lightly the frothed Avhite of egg, and carefully mix in the Macaroni. Butter a mould, put the mixture into it, cover it closely, and steam for an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour some good graA-y over, and serve hot. Stuffed Macaroni.—Partially boil half a calf’s sAveetbread, and cut it into small pieces; chop an equal quantity of cold breast of fowl, and moisten half the quantity of bread- crumbs AA'itli milk. Put all the ingredients in a mortar and pound Avell, mixing with them about 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a moderate quantity of minced parsley, and salt, pepper, and pow dered spices to taste: moistening the Avhole Avith beaten eggs. Procure some of the largest pipe Macaroni, break it into pieces about 2in. long, and boil them in salted Avater. When the Macaroni is tender, drain carefully, and stuff it with the aboA'e mixture; the Macaroni must not be too much done, or it Avill break, Avhen stuffed. Lay the pieces in a tin baking-dish, moisten with plenty of rich veal gravy, streAV grated Parmesan cheese OA'er the top, and cover Avith a sheet of Avell-oiled paper. Bake it for twenty minutes in a moderate oven ; and serve Avliile very hot in the same dish. MACARONIED BEEF.—See Beef. MACAROONS (Fr. Macarons; Ger. Makaronen ; Ital. Maccberoni; Sp. Almendiados).—The striking re- semblance that Macaroon bears to Macaroni pronounces it to be of the same origin (see Macaroni). According to Spanish ideas, these Macaroons (Almendiados) should be made principally of almonds; but, although almonds may, and probably did form the chief ingredient of the original Macaroons, experience has taught confectioners to use other kernels for flavouring, with excellent effect, as will be seen by the following receipts: Macaroons made with Almonds.—(1) Blanch and pound quite smooth jib. of SAveet and jib. of bitter almonds, adding a very little Avhite of egg to prevent them oiling; then if they can be allowed to stand all night, so much the better. Beat the Avhites of three eggs to a stiff froth, adding gradually, and in very small quantities, 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of poAvdered sugar; continue beating Avell, and stir in by degrees 1 teaspoonful of mixed mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon finely powdered, and 1 teaspoonful of rose-Avater; then add also by degrees the pounded almonds. The mixture should be of the consistency of soft dough— if too thick it Avill be heavy, and if too thin the cakes will run out of shape in the baking ; if it is not thick enough, pound a feA\- more almonds and stir them in. Butter a tin baking-sheet, flour the palm of the hand, take up lumps of the dough with a knife, and Avith the floured hand Avork them into round balls ; lay them on the buttered tin about 2in. apart, put into a moderate oven, and bake them a pale brOAvn (eight or ten minutes’ baking should be sufficient). Have the oven hotter at the top than at the Fig. 1113. Macaroon aiade avith Almonds. bottom. The Macaroons should in baking rise in the middle and the surface should crack. Split almonds laid on top before baking improve the effect. See Fig. 1113 (2) Mix 21b. of caster sugar in a mortar Avith jib. of ground sAveet almonds, adding a little orange-floAver Avater