880 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. soaked in milk; when quite smooth, stir in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, and sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace in. Beat one egg to a stiff froth, and mix it with the above ingredients. Line a pudding-basin with some slices of fat ham, pour the Lobster preparation in, tie a cloth over the top, stand the basin in a saucepan, surround it with hot water, taking care that the water does not come over the top, and boil for an-hour-and- twenty-minutes. When cooked, turn the miroton on to a hot dish, take away the ham, pour some Lobster sauce round it, and serve. Potted Lobster.—(1) Procure a large cooked Lobster, or two small ones, pick out all the meat, and put it with the spawn in a mortar; pound to a paste, then mix with it Jib. of warmed fresh butter, a little pounded mace and cloves, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When well mixed, fill some jars with the preparation, press it down tightly, leaving about Jin. space at the top, and fill up with clarified butter. When quite cold, tie the jars over with white paper, and keep them in a diy store-closet till required for use. (2) Plunge the Lobsters, head downwards, into fast- boiling water, let them boil till half done, then crack the shells, and take out all the meat; cut it up small, season with white pepper, grated nutmeg, a very little powdered mace, and salt to taste; press it and the coral into a pot, cover with fresh butter, and bake for half-an-hour. Take it from the. oven, let it cool, and when quite cold empty the pot. Put the Lobster with some of the butter into small pots, pound the coral in a mortar with the rest of the butter, adding more butter to make it a sufficient quan- tity to cover the contents, strain, and pour it over. (3) Take out the meat from four or five Lobsters, keep- ing it as whole as possible, split the shells, and remove the intestines; if these are not too watery, add them, and season with ground mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves. Put a little butter at the bottom of a saucepan, arrange the Lobster smoothly over, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and, with a fork, put the pieces, with the season- ing, into jars, and when cold pour over clarified butter. It may be used the day after it is done, and if seasoned highly and thickly covered with butter will keep for some time. Potted Lobsters may be used cold, or as fricassee with cream sauce. Roasted Lobster.— Partially boil a Lobster, then drain, and split it open. Rub it well with butter, put it in a Dutch oven, and roast before a clear fire, keeping it con- stantly basted. Put the Lobster on a hot dish, pour melted-butter sauce over, and serve. Salpi<?on of Lobster.—Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from the claws of a cooked Lobster, cutting them all into dice. Thicken well, let it cook for five minutes, and serve. Scalloped Lobster.—(1) Procure a nice fresh hen Lobster, and pick out all the flesh; put the spawn in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound until smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mince the flesh of the Lobster, Fig. 1097. Scalloped Lobster. and season with pepper, salt, a moderate quantity of spice, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the mince into a stewpan, with J table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, the strained juice of half a lemon, a Lobster—continued. small lump of butter, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until very hot, then stir in the pounded spawn. Fill some scallop shells until the mixture, levelling it smoothly over the top, strew over plenty of grated bread- crumbs, and put a few small pieces of butter on them. Place the scalloped Lobster in the oven, and bake until nicely browned. Serve them on a folded napkin. See Fig. 1097. (2) Split a large fresh Lobster lengthwise, take out the spawn, pith, and coral, and pound them in a mortar together with a lump of butter; pass it through a sieve into a small saucepan, and stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of white sauce, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a little grated nutmeg, and a few grains of cayenne. Stir over the fire and let it boil for five or six minutes. Cut the meat of the Lobster into moderate-sized pieces, and mix it with the sauce. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and when thoroughly hot fill the tail and body-shells, previously ckansed, with it; sprinkle breadcrumbs over the top, pour a little warmed butter on each, brown them with a sala- mander, put a folded napkin on a dish, place the scalloped Lobsters on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Prepare and boil two or three Lobsters, and make 1 pint of white sauce. Grate a loaf of stale bread. Butter thickly a deep earthen dish, and put a Jin. layer of crumbs on the bottom and sides, then fill the dish with alternate layers of Lobster and breadcrumbs, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Just before putting on the top layer, which should be of breadcrumbs, fill the dish with the sauce; then add the breadcrumbs, dust them with salt and pepper, and put the dish into a quick oven until the crumbs are brown. Scalloped Lobster may be prepared in small dishes of china or in silver s jullop shells. (4) Pick the meat from a Lobster, chop it up, and mix with it a very small quantity of mustard, a little cayenne and black pepper, 1J teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce, h pint of milk, and about Joz. of butter. Butter some scallop shells, fill them with the mixture, cover the tops with sifted breadcrumbs, and bake them for three-quarters-of- an-hour in a moderate oven, brown them nicely, and serve hot. (5) Pound all the meat of a Lobster with loz. of butter and a seasoning of white pepper, salt, and cayenne. Split the empty shells, fill them with the pounded Lobster, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, put bits of butter over, and place them in the oven till hot through. Serve on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. (6) Take all the meat from a Lobster, cutting the shell in two lengthwise. Put the coral and the soft green part called the “pith” into a mortar, and pound them together, adding by degrees, and rubbing in loz. of butter. When pounded smooth, put this over the fire in a covered sauce- pan, shaking occasionally to prevent it burning; when very hot, take the lid off the saucepan, stir in a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and 1 gill of cream. Let it boil up quickly, put in the meat of the Lobster, and stir well over the fire till very hot; then stir in two well-beaten eggs, and remove the saucepan from the fire. Have ready the half shells, nicely washed, dried, and buttered inside, strew plenty of sifted breadcrumbs in them, moisten with a little cream, pour in the hot Lobster mixture, put a layer of sifted breadcrumbs over, moisten with a little cream, distribute little bits of butter over the top, and brown in the upper part of a brisk oven or in front of a good fire. Lay the shells on a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Lobsters.—(1) Cut the claws from the bodies of four small freshly-boiled Lobsters, and split them in two length- wise; pick the meat from the tails, trim it, and arrange the pieces in a circle on a hot dish, placing the claws in the centre. Put J pint of melted meat glaze in a small saucepan -with 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, boil, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Mix 3 table- spoonfuls of breadcrumbs with 6 table-spoonfuls of butter, a little chopped parsley, and a point of cayenne. Add this by degrees to the meat-glaze mixture, so as to thicken it; mix with this the creamy part that is taken from the body of the Lobster, pounded, passed through a sieve a d