858 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ii'C., referred to, sec under their special heads. Lentils—continued. the stewpan. When ready to serve mix in Joz. of fresh butter, and when melted pour all into a soup-tureen and serve with sippets of toast. (5) Scrape four carrots, wash one lettuce, and cut them up; peel two onions and slice them. Put all these into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and let them stew for five minutes. Have 4 breakfast-cupfuls of Lentils ready soaked in cold water for two hours, and add them to the vege- tables in the saucepan together with 1 pint of stock, and simmer for half-an-hour ; add 3 pints more stock and boil for an hour. Put in the crumb of two French rolls, and when these are well soaked, mb vegetables, Lentils, and bread- crumb through a wire sieve. Return the soup to the sauce- pan, season with a moderate quantity, of pepper and salt, let it boil up once, and serve. Lentil Puree Soup au Maigre.—Soak 1 pint of Lentils all night; next morning, put them into a saucepan with some young carrots, turnips, and onions, and a head of celery, all prepared previously. Pour in 4qts. of cold water, and boil the whole gently until the Lentils are quite soft. Pass the soup through a fine hair sieve, rub- bing the vegetables and Lentils through with a wooden spoon; return it to the saucepan, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil up again. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, have ready a plate of sippets of toast or fried bread, and serve. Lentils with Rice.—The Lentils should be placed over- night to soak ; in the morning, drain, put them in a sauce- pan with 3 pints of water to every Alb. of Lentils, and boil gently for two hours. At the end of that time add 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, a small chopped onion, and about 2oz. of dripping, and continue the slow boiling until the rice is soft, adding more water if necessary. When quite soft, turn the Lentil-and-rice mixture on to a hot dish, and serve. Lentil Sorrp.—Prepare the required quantity of well-flavoured stock, and strain it well to remove all the fat; mix a few table-spoonfuls of Lentil-flour smoothly with a little of the stock, then stir it into the remainder of the stock. Boil the soup for ten minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. Lentil Soup au Maigre.—(1) Soak \ pint of Lentils for twenty-four hours, then put them into a saucepan with rgall. of water, and boil gently until quite soft, pouring in more boiling water occasionally to keep up tlio original quantity. When the Lentils are about three-parts done, put in with them a small stick of celery in convenient lengths, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread fri id br iwn in butter. (2) Mix 6 table-spoonfuls of Lentil-flour smoothly with a small quantity of nicely-flavoured vegetable stock, then stir it gradually into 5 pints of the same stock. Pour the whole into a saucepan, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring at the same time. Move the soup off the fire, put in 2oz. of butter, broken into small pieces, and when it has dissolved pour the soup into a soup-tureen. Serve while very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or small croft tons of bread fried brown in butter. Lentils with Tomatoes.—Wash the Lentils, put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water and boil until tender. Next drain thoroughly, put them in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of tomato sauce to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for a few minutes. When ready, put loz. of butter, broken into small pieces, in with the Lentils, and when it has dissolved turn them on to a hot dish and serve without delay. Rizzolletti of Lentils.—Boil 4l'>. of Lentils in salted water. When tender, drain off as much of the water as possible, and mix in with them the yolks of three eggs, well beaten up in about £ teacupful of white sauce; season with Lentils—continued. pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil, then turn it on to a dish and leave until cool. Next prepare a mince of any kind of cold meat, and flavour it well. When the Lentil mixture is cold, take up 1 table-spoonful of it, make a hollow in the centre, in which put about 1 teaspoonful of the mince, take another table-spoonful of the Lentil mixture, make a hollow as before, and turn it over on to the one containing the mince and press them well together. Roll them carefully hi beaten egg, and then hi finely-grated breadcrumb, leave them for a short time, then egg-and-breadcramb them again. Put a large lump of lard or butter into a deep frying-pan, and when it boils slip in the rizzolletti and fry to a golden brown. When cooked, take them out of the fat, and drain on a sheet of kitclien-paper. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the rizzolletti on it, garnish with fried parsley, ami serve. Stewed Lentils.—(1) Put the Lentils to soak in cold water the night before they are wanted. On the following day, put them hito a stewpan with a lump of salt and fresh water, ancl boil for half-an-hour. At the end of that time drain the water off the Lentils, put in with them 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of minced onion, a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, and moisten with a little clear stock. Stew the Lentils gently at the side of the fire until quite tender; when cooked, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut an onion into small dice and fry it in a little butter, then add twice as much fat bacon as onion, also cut into dice ; when the baco i is cooked, put in a quantity of Lentils that have been boiled in water with an onion, half-a-dozen cloves, a bay-leaf, and a blade of mace ; moisten with a little stock, add pepper and chopped parsley to taste, and let them simmer gently for two hours, adding a little more stock if they become too dry. (3) The night before the Lentils are wanted for use, soak them in plenty of cold water; on the following morning, drain, put them into a saucepan, cover with clear stock, and boil until tender. When cooked, dredge the Lentils lightly with flour, and add lAoz. or 2oz. of butter. Toss about over the lire for two or three minutes longer, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. LEOPARD CAKE.—See Cakes. LETTUCES (Fr. Laitues; Ger. Lattiche; Ital. Lat- tuge; Sp. Lecliugas).—If it were not for Lettuces the British cook would be almost at a loss for salad material; whereas the Continental cook would never fail to produce a salad so long as anything of a vegetable Fig. 1071. Cabbage Lettuce. character was to hand. Nevertheless, the sweet crisp leaves of freshly-cut Lettuces are difficult to sujaersede. Those grown for table purposes (Lactuca saliva) are of two kinds, the Cabbage Lettuce (see Fig. 1071) and the