THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 827 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lampreys—continued. and 5 >z., \ teacupful of boiling water, and 1 table-spoonful of the vinegar that has been drained oil' the capers ; stir it over the lire till hot and well mixed. Put the fish on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Lampreys.—(1) Thoroughly clean the Lampreys in boiling, salted water, then drain, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of good cider, and stew gently for about half-an-hour. Pour some strong gravy in with the tisli, season with mace and pounded cloves in small quan- tities, salt, common pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Con- tinue stewing till tender, then take out carefully, put them on a hot dish, and garnish with horseradish. Mix 1 wine- glassful of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup with the cooking-liquor, dredge in a small quantity of Hour, and stir over the lire till thick. Either pour the gravy over the fish or serve it separately in a sauceboat with them. (2) Having selected a line fish, thoroughly cleanse it, remove the cartilage that runs down the back, and season with pepper, salt, mace, allspice and cloves. Put it in a stewpan with sufficient sherry and beef gravy, in equal quantities, to cover, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the fish stew till tender. When cooked, take it out, and keep hot while the gravy is being made as follows: Chop two boned anchovies very finely, and put them, with a lump of butter rolled in flour, in the liquor in which the fish was cooked; stir it over the fire till boiling, then strain through a hair sieve, mix in the juice of a lemon and_ 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, pour it over the fish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve with a plate of scraped horse- radish. (3) Skin and clean two Lampreys, season well with mace, cloves, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, roll them round, and fasten with skewers; put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it over the fire, then put the fish in with £ pint of rich gravy, one onion sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 wineglassful each of claret, white wine and cider, and stew the Lampreys over a slow fire, turning them occa- sionally. When quite tender (they should take about an- hour-and-a-half to cook), take out, put them on a dish, and keep hot while this sauce is being made : Put an anchovy, boned and chopped, in the cooking-liquor of the fish, thicken it with the beaten yolk of an egg, and pour it over the fish. Serve very hot. (4) Mix together 2 drachms of powdered mace, |oz. of pepper, 6 drachms of powdered cloves, a small quantity of cayenne, and nearly loz. of salt. Prepare the Lampreys, and rub the mixture of salt and spice well all over them. Take some very good stock boiled to a jelly and quite free from fat, melt as much of it as will be required, adding for every table-spoonful 1 table-spoonful each of rough cider and walnut and mushroom ketchups. Curl the fish round to a proper size to fit in the vessel in which it is to be cooked (it may be stewed in an earthen- ware jar placed in the oven, or in a stewpan over the fire), put it into the jar or stewpan, pour over enough of the mixture of melted stock, cider, and ketchup to cover, put in also an anchovy and a little lemon pickle, let it stew slowly for forty minutes, then add a small quantity of essence of mushrooms and a glass of port wine, and let it simmer for ten minutes longer. (5) Carefully clean the fish, then remove the cartilage found running down the back, and season the fish with ground allspice, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and pepper. Put it into a stewpan, cover with beef gravy, and sherry or Madeira, in equal quantities, place the lid on the pan, and stew until the Lamprey is tender. Take it out and keep hot; add to the liquor three finely-chopped anchovies and a liaison of flour and butter, strain through a fine sieve, add a little made mustard and lemon-juice, pour it over the Lamprey, and serve with crofltons of fried bread and scraped horseradish for garnish. Stewed Lamprey a la Bordelaise.—Select a large live Lamprey, make an incision at the end of the tail to bleed it, and keep the blood ; scald the fish, then scrape off the skin, cut off the end of the tail, and pull out the string. Cut the fish into medium-sized pieces, put them in a Lampreys—co ntinued. stewpan with some sliced mixed vegetables and fine herbs, pour in sufficient claret to cover, stand the stewpan on a sharp fire, and boil the fish for ten minutes. Take the Lamprey out, and pass the cooking-liquor through a hair sieve into a basin; put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and Hour into a stewpan, stir over the fire with a spoon till lightly browned, then pour in the cooking-stock of the Lamprey. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents boil for twenty minutes. Cut the white part, 2in. long, off’ a dozen large leeks, put them in a flat stewpan with a little fat, and toss over the fire till nicely coloured ; put in 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of raw ham cut in dice and a little pepper and salt; two minutes after, pour in the sauce, previously strSining and skimming off the fat, and boil till reduced to one half; then add the pieces of Lamprey and finish cooking them. Take the pieces of fish out carefully when done, put them on a hot dish, and garnish with the leeks. Skim the fat off the sauce, mix in a little gravy, stir it over the fire till boiling, pour in the blood of the Lamprey to thicken, pass it through a fine sieve over the fish, and serve. LANDRAILS.—See Corncrakes. LAFLAND BREAD.—See Bread. LAPWINGS (TV. Yanneaux; Ger. Kibitze).—These are small crested birds (Vanellus cristatus) of the plover family, which are very common in some parts of the British Isles, and are better known as Pewits. They are described as having long and broad wings with which they perform a rapid but very irregular flight. Their back is of a greenish or coppery bronze colour, and under the wings are broad markings of white. Their eggs are the Plover’s eggs of the London market, and are esteemed great delicacies. They may be cooked as j follows: Roasted Lapwings.—Truss and clean the required quantity of Lapwings, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and roast in front of a clear fire. When roasted, cut them in half, arrange them like a pyramid on a hot dish, pour a Fig. 1042. Roasted Lapwings. little strong meat glaze over, and serve with some clear gravy in a sauceboat. See Fig. 1042. Terrine of Lapwings.—Clean, draw, and take out the fillets of the required quantity of Lapwings ; put the fillets in a basin, with some salt and mixed spices over them, moisten- ing with a teacupful or two of Madeira. Fry the livers and entrails of the birds with some chicken’s livers, a little fat bacon, and a sprinkling of sweet herbs; cut the flesh off the legs into pieces, and put them by. Procure two legs of hare, trim and cut the flesh into pieces, put them in a stewpan with the flesh of the Lapwing’s legs and a little chopped bacon-fat, fry them over a clear fire, season, and let them cool; then pound them with the fried livers and entrails. Pass the prepared forcemeat through a sieve, line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin slices of fat bacon, then lay in, alternately, the forcemeat and fillets of Lapwings; cover the top with thin rashers of bacon, put a cover on the pie-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-lialf. When cooked, take the terrine out, and serve it when cold.