THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 881 Lobster—continued. worked up with 2 taLle-spoonfuls of vinegar. Pour this sauce over the Lobster, and serve at once. See Pig. 1098. Fig. 1098. Stewed Lobsters. (2) Put a chopped onion, carrot, and piece of celery-root into a stewpan with a little chopped bacon and ham, fry them, then add a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs (see Herbs) and parsley, a sprinkling of pepper and a few cloves, pour in 1 pint of white wine, and boil for a few minutes. Cut two middling-sized raw Lobsters across in pieces; put them and the large part of the claws in with the other ingredients, place the cover on the stewpan, and let the contents boil for twelve minutes. Take the Lobsters out, and arrange on a hot dish. Strain the cooking-liquor, and pour it into a small stewpan; stir in a roux made of butter and flour kneaded together, add a little meat glaze, the strained juice of two lemons, 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and a little cayenne pepper. Stir it over the lire for a few minutes, then take it off, stir in a little Lobster butter, pour it over the Lobster, and serve at once. (3) Choose one large or two small Lobsters, and pick the meat out of the shells in large pieces. Put the shells in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, a blade of mace, and some peppercorns, and boil for half-an-hour. Mix the coral and the rich part of the Lobster with 1 teacupful of butter sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Strain the liquor in which the shells were boiled, mix it with the coral, &c., put it in the saucepan again, add the picked meat of the Lobster, stir it over the lire till boiling, then turn it on a hot dish, and serve. (4) Heat 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and when hot, add 2 table-spoonfuls of diy flour; stir until perfectly smooth, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring all the time. Season to taste, add 241b. of Lobster-meat, heat thoroughly, and serve. (5) Pick the meat out of one large Lobster or two small ones, cut it into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of clear beef gravy, and boil gently for a few minutes. Knead about loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in with the Lobster, and add 1 table- spoonful of anchovy essence, the same quantity of walnut ketchup, a few drops of lemon-juice and 1 wineglassful of port wine, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, arrange round it the small claws of the Lobster, which should have been carefully picked out of the shells, and serve. (6) Pick the meat out of the shell of a boiled Lobster, and cut it into small pieces ; put them into a dish that has a cover, with a piece of butter, pour in 4 teacupful of clear gravy, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a few drops of walnut ketchup; season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and place it in the oven. When nicely warmed, take the Lobster out, and serve. (7) Pick the flesh out of the shells of the Lobsters, and put the shells into a saucepan with about 1 pint of water, a few peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and a small quantity of salt. Boil the water until it is well flavoured with the Lobster-shells, then strain it through a fine sieve. Cut the Lobster-flesh into small pieces, and mix with it a little cream or milk that has been thickened with flour. Pour the prepared gravy back in the saucepan, add to it f wineglassful of red wine and a few drops of lemon- juice, put in the Lobster, and stir over the fire until warm. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Lobster—continued. (8) Pick all the meat from a boiled Lobster. Hub the coral into a bit of butter, add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy, 1 table-spoonful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup or soy, and put all these in a saucepan over the fire, together with the meat of the Lobster cut into bits; add a seasoning of salt and cayenne, and stew till very hot, then serve. (9) Pick the meat from the shell of a boiled Lobster, put it into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, loz. of chopped suet, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and moisten with vinegar ami claret. Stew the Lobster almost dry, turn it on to a hot dish, pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter over it, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (10) Take a large Lobster, pick out all the meat, and cut it into jiieces lin. long and Jin. broad. Rub the coral into 2oz. of butter warmed before the fire. Put the meat, when cut up, over the fire in a saucepan, with seasoning to taste of cayenne pepper and salt, and J pint of good veal broth. Stir it till very nearly boiling, then add the coral and butter and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; continue to stir till again nearly boiling, then add a wine- glassful of sherry and the strained juice of half a lemon, serve. (11) Chop one nice-sized fresh Lobster into small pieces, put it in a fiat stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of salad- oil, and toss it over a brisk fire for a few minutes. Strain all the oil off, and pour over the Lobster 1 wineglassful of sherry and 1 wineglassful of Chablis; season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and cayenne pepper, and boil for a few minutes; then add 4 teacupful of Spanish sauce, and boil up again. Finish the Lobster with loz. of butter, and the juice of one lemon. Turn on to a hot dish, and serve. (12) Split two good-sized, fine, freshly-boiled Lobsters, pick all the meat out from the shells, cut it up into equal- sized pieces lin. in length, and put it into a saucepan on the hot range with loz. of butter. Season with 1 pinch of salt and 4 sa't; onful of red pepper, adding two medium-sized truffles cut into small dice-shaped pieces. Cook for five minutes, add 1 wineglassful of good Madeira wine, and reduce to one-half, which will take about three minutes. Have the yolks of three eggs in a bowl with J pint of cream, beat well together, and add it to the Lobster. Gently stir for two minutes longer, or until it thickens well, pour it into a hot tureen, and serve at once. (13) Pick the flesh out of a large Lobster, or two small ones, cut it up, and put it into a stewpan with a small quantity of water and ^ pint of sherry ; season mode- rately with powdered allspice, mixed mustard, and a small quantity of cayenne, and let it simmer gently until tender. When the Lobster is cooked, put a small lump of butter that has been kneaded with flour into the sauce, stir it over the fire until thickened, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Lobster a la Bordelaise.—Add to 1 wineglassful of red wine in a stewpan one chopped shallot and half of a small carrot, cut into exceedingly small pieces. Boil for five minutes, put in the meat from two boiled Lobsters cut into pieces, which should weigh about 141b., I pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and a very little nutmeg, and lastly J pint of velonte sauce. Stew well together for five minutes, and serve very hot. Timbales of Lobster. -Carefully pick out the white flesh of one or two Lobsters, according to the quantity required ; cut the flesh into small dice, and put them in a sauce- pan with some veloute sauce ; stir over the fire till on the point of boiling, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Vol-au-Vent of Lobster.—Rub together 4 table-spoonfuls of btitter and 14 table-spoonfuls of flour. Pour gradually on this 1 pint of boiling white stock, boil up, and add the juice of half a lemon, a little salt, a few grains of cayenne, the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a little cold water, and the meat of two small Lobsters cut into dice. Stir for one minute over the fire. Fill a vol-au-vent case, put on the cover, and serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c., referred to, see under their special heads. d X