TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 938 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk—continued. height of summer, will keep better than in its natural state, owing to a hardening change that the albumen undergoes, but in this condition it is less easily digested. When boiling Milk, it is better to use a water-bath, or a double boiler (see Fig. 1176), because as the Milk reaches Milk—continued. air is absorbed. It must afterwards be stored in a cool place. Milk thus treated will keep good for years. Fig. 1175. Milk-warmers (Dairy Supply Co.). Another method known as Bethel’s patent consists of scalding the Milk, and when cold charging it highly with carbonic acid by means of a soda-water machine. A little Fig. 1173. Keen’s Ventilated Milk-can. the boiling-point, the bubbles formed in the albuminous Milk ride up over each other in such a manner that the saucepan is suddenly filled to overflowing and the Milk “ boils over ” almost without notice. As Milk requires a rather higher temperature than water to make it boil, the use of the water-bath raises the temperature of the Milk to that of boiling water without risk of boiling over or burning. The first sign of decomposition in Milk is acidity. This the cook frequently makes use of to produce ex- cellent dishes, but when Milk quite, or almost, free from acidity is required for any purpose, it is sometimes use- ful to ascertain not only the existence of acid (lactic acid), but the extent to which acidification has gone. Blue litmus paper exposes the presence of acid by turning red; but some such arrangement as that invented by a Mr. Stokes, which lie calls “Acidity pellets ” (see Fig. 1177), is necessary. The glass is filled up to a certain mark with the suspected Milk, and then a pellet (see Fig. 1177) is thrown in and dissolved by stirring the Milk with a glass rod shown in the measure. As soon as a faint pink is manifest in the Milk the degree of acidity is ascertained. Each pellet represents -jLth of 1 per cent, so that if ten pellets were dissolved before the pink stage was reached, that would indicate that the Milk contained exactly 1 per cent, of lactic acid. Condensed Milk is obtained by evaporating in a suitable apparatus a large proportion of the water of the Milk and adding to the remainder sufficient finely-powdered loaf sugar to give it a thick consistency. Chemists believe this preparation to be as nu- tritious as fresh Milk. It is preserved in hermetically sealed tins. Fresh Milk may be preserved by putting it into stout bottles which should be well corked and wired down, and heating it to the boiling-point of water in a water-bath; by this means the oxygen of the small quantity of enclosed Fig. 1174. ICE-CVLINDER FOR MlLK (Dairy Supply Co.). Fig. 1176. Double Boiler for Milk. bicarbonate of soda dissolved in the Milk will prevent it turning acid for several days. Artificial Milk.—Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, beat them together for five minutes, pour in 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, beat for five minutes longer, pour in gradually 1 teacupful of boiling water, stir well, and use immediately. Biestings.—The first two milkings of a cow newly calved are saved for the calf, but the third may lie used for making custards, and is much esteemed by country folk. Take the required quantity and add to it a little salt and sugar and any flavouring required. Have ready a few patty-pans lined with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake the custards in a moderate oven. When done, take them out, let them get quite cold, and they are ready for use; or the biestings may be scalded over a clear fire, stirring slowly until it thickens, and then it can be used as be- fore with the addition of a few currants if desired. Boiled Milk for Invalids.—The fol- lowing is a good substitute for cod liver oil, and agrees with a delicate stomach: Chop fine loz. of mutton-suet, put it into a saucepan with Ain. piece of cinnamon and a little grated Fig. 1177. Stokes’s Patent Milk Test (Dairy Supply Co.).