THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 904 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Uteimls, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Madeira—continued. There are some kinds of wine produced at Madeira which are known by special names, such as Malmsey and Tinta. The following receipts may he made with any other wine, although Madeira is specially indicated: Madeira Crusts.—Make a well or hay in the middle of lib. of sifted flour, put in i-oz. of German yeast and 4 tea- cupful of milk, mix it with the flour immediately surround- ing it (it takes about one-quarter of the flour to make the sponge), and stand the basin hi a warm place. When the sponge has risen to twice its original bulk, mix in with it two eggs and Jpint ,of warm milk; when these are well worked together, break in another egg ; mix that, then add fib. of butter warmed and beaten to a cream, Joz. of salt, Jib. of caster sugar, and 1 teacupful of warm milk, and continue working with a spoon, adding five more eggs, one at a time. Put the paste in a plain mould, Sin. hi diameter, and bake; when cold, cut the cake into slices, lay them on a baking-slieet, sprinkle with caster sugar, and glaze them in the oven; mask the tops with apricot- jam, and arrange them hi a circle on a dish. Put some pears cooked in syrup, some preserved cherries and an- gelica hito a stewpan, with 2 wineglassfuls each of Madeira and syrup at 30deg. (see Syrups), and when warm, turn them into the centre of the dish with the crusts round. Fig. 1123. Madeira Crusts. Boil \ pint of syrup at 36deg. and J pint of Madeira, pour it over the above, and serve. See Fig. 1123. Madeira Ice.—Grate the peel of two lemons hito a basin, strain in the juice, mix in ll pints of Madeira wine and \ pint of syr.ip. Stir the mixture well, then turn it into a freezer packed hi pounded ice and salt, and work it until frozen. When sufficiently frozen, put the mixture in a mould, close it, and pack in pounded ice and salt for two hours. Before serving, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, then turn the contents carefully out on to a fancy china or glass dish. Madeira Jelly.—(1) Make some good calf’s-foot jelly very thick ; after clarifying it, dissolve in lqt. of the jelly, while warm, and Joz. of gelatine;'add J pint of Madeira, a wine- glassful of brandy, and enough sugar to sweeten; then cool it hi moulds, and serve cold. (2) Dissolve 3oz. of gelatine and Jib. of lump sugar in lqt. of water, then strain through a fine hair sieve. Mix f h pints of Madeira wine with the strained liquor, turn the whole into a tinned copper whipping-bowl packed in ice, and whip the jelly well. In about twenty minutes’ time remove the jelly from the ice, and whip it for ten minutes longer; if it lias become too firm, stand the bowl in a large basin of hot water, and whip it for another minute or so. When beaten to a stiff froth, pour the jelly into a mould, pack it in ice, and leave for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents, then wipe the edges of the mould, and turn out the jelly. Madeira Julep.—Put a wineglassful each of Madeira wine and syr ip into a large glass, add a very little brandy, fill up with ice, arrange a little mint and a few slices of water melon on the top, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve. Madeira Sauce.—(1) Well beat the yolks of six eggs, pour them into a lined stewpan, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of one small lemon, and 2J wineglassfuls of Madeira wine. Whisk Madeira—continued. the mixture over the fire until of a thick yellow froth, then take it ott, and seiwe Avitli as little delay as possible. On no account must the sauce boil, or the eggs Avill curdle. (2) Put 11 table-spoonfuls of meat glaze into a small stev- pan Avith 1 teaspoonful of Madeira, dust in a small quan- tity of coarse black pepper, and boil until reduced to a quarter of its original quantity. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and stir over the fire Avitli a wooden spoon until nicely broAvned. Pour the reduced liquor gradually in Avith the browned butter, and let it boil gently for ten minutes, stirring at the same time; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for serving. (3) Put 1 large table-spoonful of meat glaze into a stew- pan, pour in 1 pint of Madeira Avine, add a small pinch of mignonette pepper, and boil until the liquid has reduced to half its original quantity. Pour lqt. of Spanish sauce in Avith the reduced Avine, and continue boiling until of a creamy thickness. Strain the sauce through a line hair or silk sieve, and serve. MADEIRA BUNS.—See Buns. MADEIRA CAKES.—See Cakes. MADEIRA PUDDING.—See Puddings. MADELINE CAKE.—See Cakes. MADONNA PUDDING.—See Puddings. MADRAS CURRY—See Curry. MADRID BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. MAGDALEN CAKES.-See Cakes. MAGNUM BONUM.—See Plums. MAHAYA.—The name of a Bombay spirit distilled from honey. MAHIA.—An Arabian spirit distilled from dates. MAIDS OF HONOUR.—The fanciful name given to certain rich and dainty cheese-cakes (see Fig 1124) manu- factured at Richmond-on-Thames. Visitors rarely leave Fig. 1124. Maid of Honour. this town without a visit to the Maids-of-Honour shop. The receipts following show how these delicacies may be prepared at home. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a basin, mix hi lOoz. of powdered sugar, loz. of bitter and 2oz. of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, the finely-grated rinds of four lemons, the strained juice of two, and two large potatoes, boiled and mashed. Put Agall. of milk into a basin with a piece of rennet, and let it remain until it curds; place the curds in a sieve to dry, crumble up, pass them through a sieve into a basin, and mix in 9oz. of warmed butter. Work well until the mixture is quite smooth, then add the sugar preparation and 4 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixture into tartlet-pans lined with rich puff paste, and bake in a quick oven until of a good colour; take them out, tqrn the cheese-cakes out of the pans, and serve either hot or cold.