943 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see wider their special heads. Fig. 1182. Bunch of Millet-seed. Millet—continued. (3) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of new milk into a saucepan, boil it, stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of Millet, which should have been thoroughly cleaned, sweeten to taste, flavour with lemon-peel, cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, work in four eggs, turn the mixture into a dish lined with puff paste, and bake slowly. Serve hot. MILT.—The soft roe of a fish, The spleen of an animal is some- times erroneously called Milt or Melt, as it was believed to corre- spond with a fish’s soft roe. MILTON PUDDING.—See Puddings. MINCEMEAT.—This word evidently takes its culinary origin I from the French emincer, and sig- j nifies anything that is minced or , chopped up finely. From the fol- lowing receipts it will be seen that Mincemeat may be prepared according to a variety of formulas, most cooks having a special re- ceipt of their own fancy, from which they make their Mince pies. (1) Mix together lib. each of cleaned currants, Valencia raisins, pippins, boiled pickled ox-tongue, and flesh from calf’s feet, all finely chopped, also Jib. each of chopped beef-suet and can lied peel, Jib. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spice, and moisten with 3 tumblerfuls of wine and brandy in equal proportions, and the strained juice of two lemons. (2) Finely chop 12oz. of the lean part of boiled beef, mix in 21b. of shred beef-suet, about lib. of apples, peeled and cored, the grated rind of a lemon, lib. each of moist sugar and cleaned currants, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and mixed spice to flavour; when these are thoroughly incorporated, moisten with 1 wineglassful of port and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and pack away in jars. (3) Mix together 21b. each of stoned and chopped raisins, cleaned currants, sultana raisins, apples, and shred beef- suet, also 12oz. of sugar, Jib. of mixed spice, 2oz. each of chopped candied citron- .and lemon-peels, the finely-minced rind of one lemon, and moisten with the juice of two lemons, and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. (4) Cut off about 21b. from the inside of a boiled sirloin of beef, free it from skin, add 4Jlb. of beef-suet, and mince finely. Now add eight apples, peeled, ’cored, and chopped, 61b. of cleaned currants, the grated crumb of a small loaf (twopenny one), ljlb. of sugar, loz. of grated nutmeg, Joz. of cloves, the grated peels of an orange and lemon, and moisten with the juice of six oranges and two lemons, and 2 tumblerfuls each of brandy and port wine. Pack away in jars. (5) Put six moderate-sized lemons into a saucepan with plenty of water and boil them. When soft enough for a straw to go easily through their skins, drain and weigh them, and allow an equal weight each of pared and cored golden pippins, stoned and chopped raisins, washed and dried currants, thinly-shred candied orange- and citron-peels together in equal quantities, finely-minced beef-suet, and a quarter the weight of moist sugar. Remove the pips and chop the lemons as small as possible. Mix all the ingredients together and pass them through a mincing-machine. Add to the mixture a small grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 scant teaspoonful each of ground mace and ginger, and 3oz. of crushed macaroons. Pack the mixture into small jars, cover, and keep them tied down tightly for use. (6) Mince very fine 1 Jib. of beef boiled very tender, the same quantity of suet, 21b. of stoned raisins, and J peck of peeled and cored apples; mix all these together Mincemeat—continued. and add loz. of powdered cloves, ljoz. of powdered cin- namon, the juice and grated rinds of three oranges and two lemons, a little finely-chopped citron, and sufficient sugar to make the Mincemeat very sweet; add whisky and hard cider to taste. When this Mincemeat is made into piies, serve with them a sauce made of butter, cider, and sugar, or butter, lemon- or orange-juice, and sugar. (7) Peel, core, and chop fine 51b. or 61b. of tart juicy apples, also 41b. of boiled beef, and lib. of beef-suet. Mix in 21b. each of stoned raisins and well-washed currants, Jib. each of finely-chopped candied citron- and orange-peels, the grated yellow rinds of three lemons together with the juice, season with powdered cloves, cinnamon, mace, and grated nutmeg, using about Joz. of each, 1 Jib. of powdered sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Add sufficient hard cider to moisten and also brandy to give it a flavour. (8) To 21b. of chopped beef-suet add an equal quantity each of pared and minced apples, well-wcshed and pricked currants, and stoned and choprpred raisins, Jib. each of moist sugar and citron, Jib. each of candied lemon- and orange-peels both cut fine, two nutmegs grated, Joz. each of salt, ginger, allspice, and cloves, all ground, and the juice of one lemon, with the grated rind. Mix all these well together with J print of brandy and the same of white wine. Put all into a jar, and keepr it in a cool prlace until wanted for use. (9) Stone and chop 2lb. of raisins; wash and thoroughly dry 2lb. of currants and cliopr half of them. Trim off tire skin and finely chop ljlb. of fresh beef-suet; peel, core, and cliopr lib. of aprples. Mix the above ingredients with fib. of mixed chopped candied preel, the grated rinds and juice of two lemons and one Seville oiange, 1 Jib. of moist sugar, and small quantities each of grated nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, ginger, and cloves. Pour in 1 print of brandy, stir the mixture well with a wooden spoon, prack it into jars, cover and tie them down closely, and keepr in a cool dry cupboard for use. (10) Procure four ripre and thin-skinned lemons, put them in a saucepran with lqt. of water, and boil until the water lias reduced to 1 print. Put 21b. of moist sugar into a basin, and squeeze the juice of the lemons over it; remove all the seeds from the puilpr of the lemons, and chop it well together with the rinds; trim off the skin and any dis- coloured prarts from 21b. of beef-suet, and cliopr it finely, dredging over a little flour to prrevent it sticking ; stone and cliopr lib. of raisins and wash and diy 21b. of currants. Mix all the above ingredients together, add 1 table-spoonful of mixed ground sprices, 1 breakfast-cupful of the water in which the lemons were boiled, and 2 wineglassfuls each of brandy and prort wine. Stir the Mincemeat well with a wooden sproon, and prack it into jars: cover with stout paper or parchment, tying down tightly, and keep in a dry store-cupboard for use. (11) Mince lib. of cooked tongue, ljlb. of beef-suet, 211/ of well-washed and dried currants, and 1 Jib. of apipdes. Put the thinly-pared yellow rinds of three oranges and three lemons in a saucepan with plenty of water and boil. When tender, drain the rinds, mince small, and mix it with the other ingredients ; add Jib. of stoned but not choppred raisins and 1 small table-spoonful of ground mixed spices, and moisten with J print of brandy and 3 prints of cider. Work the mixture until all the ingredients are well incor- porated, then prack it in a large earthenware or stone jar, and keepr closely covered until wanted. The Mince- meat is better if kept for a month before it is made up into pies. (12) Finely chop 21b. of boiled beef, 21b. of beef-suet, 611r. of peeled aprpdes, ljlb. of stoned raisins, and fib. of candied citron-peel. Mix all these ingredients well together with 21b. of raw sugar, 1 print of molasses, and season to taste with ground cinnamon, cloves, allsprice, and nutmeg. Pour in as much wine as is liked, and stir the mixture well. Pack it in jars, leaving about Jin. spiace at the topr, which fill up with clarified butter. Cover the jars -with stout paprer, and tie down securely. Keep them hi a cool dry cupboard. (13) Stone and finely chop 31b. of raisins, lib. of dates, and lib. of French prlums ; put them in a basin and mix