THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 863 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Liquorice—continued. in rolls of Sin. or Gin. long, about tlie thickness of a man’s thumb (see Fig. 1076), and is packed in the leaves of the sweet bay. What is known as “ refined Fig. 1076. Spanish Liquorice. Liquorice ” is common Liquorice dissolved in water, strained, and again evaporated. Liquorice Drops.—(1) Mix together 6oz. of confectioners’ sugar and 2oz. of powdered Liquorice. Work them into a thick paste with gum Arabic dissolved in a little water, cut the paste into drops with a tin mould, and dry them in a clcset. (2) Dissolve Joz. of gum Arabic in \ pint of water, mix in loz. of powdered Liquorice and ^lb. of lump sugar, put them into a sugar-boiler, and boil to a thick syrup. Have a shallow and wide box full of powdered starch, make it quite level, and then with a marble make indentations all over. Fill the hollows in the starch with the hot syrup, and dry the drops in a drying-oven. Liquorice Jujubes.—Put lib. of picked gum Arabic in 1 pint of tepid water, and soak for an hour, then strain it into a sugar-boiler. Put 2oz. of Spanish Liquorice in a basin with 1 teacupful of boiling water, and stir till dissolved, then strain. Put 14oz. of coarsely-crushed sugar in with the strained gum, boil till reduced to the small pearl degree, and stir in the strained Liquorice. Skim the mixture, and move it off the fire. Have ready a fiat box containing starch imprinted in various shapes with plaster of Paris models, drop the mixture from the spout of the sugar-boiler into these impressions, sift a very little finely-powdered starch over, put the box in a moderately-heated screen, and leave for several hours. When the jujubes are diy, take them out of the starch, dust over with a soft brush, and pack in boxes between layers of white paper. Liquorice Paste.—Take Jib. of Liquorice-root, scrape, bruise, and boil it in a little water till reduced a good deal, then take it from the fire and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear liquor, and put into it loz. of gum dragon; when this is all melted, strain it through a piece of linen, and mix powdered sugar with it till it is of the consistence of paste; it may then be cut into any desired shapes. LITRE. -A measure of capacity in the metric system —equivalent to P76 English pints. See Weights and Measures. LIVER {Fr. Foie; Ger. Leber; Ital. Fegato; Sp. Hidago).—As the Liver plays so important a part in the gastronomic delectation of mankind it is no more than right that when cooked it should play an important part in the cuisine. Indeed, many persons devour it as a presumable cure for biliousness, but as it is deficient Fig. 1077. Liver. in carbonaceous matters, it is usually prepared with much fat. The Liver (see Fig. 1077) is described as a Liver—continued. large abdominal vascular gland through which blood passes in such large streams as to convince our forefathers that it was the keystone of life—hence its name, from the Anglo-Saxon lifer. Subsequent investigations show that the Liver not only creates bile but secretes sugar necessary for the combustion that takes place in the lungs and capillaries. The Livers of most animals, such as the calf, bullock, and pig; of fish, such as cod’s Liver with its nutrient oil; and of poultry, such as goose’s fat Liver, are capable of being converted into very tasty dishes. Most of these are described under their own headings, but there are some receipts in which almost any Liver will do .equally well, these being hereunder appended. Livers should be quite fresh, and of a rich brown colour; they will require to be cut into slices or strips and thoroughly washed in water before cooking. Broiled Liver.—Cut the required quantity of any Liver in thin slices, sprinkle over pepper and salt, dip them in melted dripping on a plate, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear lire, turning to do both sides equally. When cooked put the Liver on a hot plate, and serve. Broiled Liver and Bacon.—Fry some slices of bacon in a frying-pan, cut the Liver in slices, dip in the bacon-fat, then put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, sprinkling with pepper and salt while cooking. When done arrange the Liver on a hot dish, put a rasher of bacon on each slice, pour over a little hot brown gravy, and serve. Curried Liver-and-LTdder-Forcemeat Balls.—Parboil lib. each of Liver and udder, cut up small, put them into a mortar, pound to a pulp, mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and chopped sweet herbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, stir in a well-beaten egg, and make the whole into a thick mass by adding gravy or water. Form the mixture into balls and roll them well in more bread- crumbs. Put 4oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, add a curry composed of loz. of ground onions, I table- spoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, ^ teaspoonful each of ground ginger and peppercorns, and j teaspoonful of ground garlic. Fry these until brown, sprinkling over 1 table-spoonful of water, add the Liver-and-udder-force- meat balls, dredge over a little salt, fry until brown, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water or stock, and simmer gently, with the lid on the pan, for about two hours or until done. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Dried Smoked Liver for Relish.—Wash the Liver, let it remain in salt for four days, then have it smoked and dried (see Curing). When ready to cook the Liver, cut it in very thin slices, dip them in warmed butter, sprinkle with plenty of pepper, and broil over a clear fire; arrange the slices when done on a hot dish, anti serve. Fried Liver.—(1) Cut the required quantity of Liver into slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling put in the slices of Liver, and fry for six minutes, turning when done one side. Put them on a hot dish, pour over some rich brown gravy, and serve. (2) Wash a sheep’s, lamb’s, pig’s, or calf’s Liver, cut it into rather large pieces, and rub well with salt and flour. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the pieces of Liver and fry them. Peel and chop an onion, also a handful of parsley, and fry these after the Liver. Remove and drain the pieces c f Liver, arrange them in nice, order on a folded napkin or a lace,-edged dish-paper placed upon a hot dish, sprinkle the minced onions and parsley over, and serve. (3) Peel two moderate-sized onions and chop them finely ; put loz. each of lard and butter in a flat stewpan, drop in the onions with plenty of finely-chopped sweet herbs, and fry them. Coarsely chop lib. of Liver, put it in with the onions, and fry it for a few minutes only as the Liver does not require much cooking. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Liver and Bacon in Paper Cases.—Boil some calf’s or sheep’s Liver till tender and cut it into thin slices. Open a sheet of