THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 797 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kidneys—continued. minutes, turning1 frequently. Put them on a dish, add a little chopped parsley, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper to the butter, pour it over, and serve. Kidney-and-Bacon Bolls.—Peel and finely chop a small onion, and mix with it 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a small quantity each of pepper and grated nutmeg. Slightly moisten the mixture with beaten egg, spread it over some thin slices of bacon, and place a small Kidney on each. Roll the bacon round the Kidney, and transfix with skewers. Arrange the rolls in a baking- dish, and bake them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Fin. 999. Kidney-and-Bacon rolls. When cooked, put the rolls on a hot dish (see Fig. 999), garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Or they may be left until cold, then served on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper. Kidney Balls.—Finely chop a Kidney, together with a little of the fat, add 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped onion or leek, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix all together with a beaten egg, roll the mixture into balls, and fry them. Serve hot. Kidney Fritter.—Put four eggs into a basin, beat them well, then add 1 teacupful of cream, a little finely-shred parsley and cloves and chopped mushroom, seasoning with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Finely mince the required quantity of Kidney, together with a little of the fat adhering to it, and mix this in with the egg mixture. Well butter a frying-pan, and set it on the fire ; when hot, pour in the mixture, and stir it until cooked, taking care not to spread it out too thin. Remove the pan from the fire, brown the surface with a salamander or by holding the pan in front of the fire, and serve at once. Kidney Gravy.—Cut four small or one large ox-Kidney into slices, sprinkle with flour, and put them in a frying-pan with 2jOz. of butter, half an onion cut up small, and a few sweet herbs. Toss the pan gently over a moderate fire for seven or eight minutes, add 1 pint of water, and simmer gently for about two hours, skimming frequently. Pass it through a fine sieve or strainer, and it is ready for use. Kidney Omelet.—(1) Boil a sheep’s or other Kidney, and when cooked cut it into thin slices. Beat six eggs together with 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 teacupful of milk, seasoning with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, pour in the omelet mixture, and stir it over the fire until set; then lay the slices of Kidney on the top, and fold it over. When cooked, slip the omelet on to a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve immediately. (2) Stew on the hot stove for three minutes three minced sheep’s, lamb’s, or pig’s Kidneys, together with ^ pint of Madeira sauce. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, as described under Omelets, put the Kidneys in the centre, fold the omelet over, and turn it on to a hot dish. Poui- more sauce round, and serve. (3) Chop a Kidney up very small, and fry it in a little butter together with a small quantity of minced shallot, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and add the Kidney mixture. Put ljoz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is quite hot beat the whites of three eggs lightly, add them to the beaten yolks, &c., and pour them in. Stir for two or three minutes, then serve. Kidney Pie.—Chop three Kidneys very finely together with their fat, and mix with them a moderate quantity of finely- Kidneys —continued. chopped sweet herbs and a little chopped celery ; season with grated nutmeg, pounded cloves and mace, and salt and pepper to taste, adding the chopped yolks of four hax-d-boiled eggs, and 1 scant bx-eakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, put in the above mixture, moisten with 1 or 2 table-spooxxfuls of slxerx-y, and cover the pie with a flat layer of pxxff paste; trim off evenly round the edges, moisten, and press them together. Make a slight incision in the top of the pie, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is cooked, stand the pie-dish oxx a flat dish, and serve while hot. Kidney Pudding.—(1) Split and soak a large Kidney. Make a common suet crust, roll it oxxt, and line a basin with soxxxe of it. Cut the Kidney in pieces, put it in, pour in a small quantity of water, cover with another piece of the crust, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for three or four hours. (2) Butter a pie-dish, and lay the Kidneys in it; put 1 teacupful of flour in a basin with 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped onion and chopped parsley, and 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and grated lemon-peel; stir in gx-adually 1 pint of milk and three well-beaten eggs, add 2 scant teacupfuls of vinegar, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated xxxxtmeg, using only a small quantity of this latter ingredient, pour the butter over the Kidneys, pxxt the pudding into a qxxick oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When the batter is fix-m a little butter should be put on the top. Take the pudding oxxt of the oveix when cooked, and serve while very hot. Kidney Sautes.—Skin some Kidneys, wash well, and dry; cut them up into round slices, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Pxxt 1 table-spoonful of butter axxd half that qxxantity of flour into a frying-pan, and wlxeix it is hot place in the Fix;. 1000. Kidney Sautes. Kidneys, stir for two minutes, add 1 gill of water or stock, and boil it up, mixing in 1 teaspoonful of lenxon-juice. Pile 4 table-spoonfuls of mashed potatoes on a plate, arrange the slices of Kidney round the potatoes, and pour over and round the potatoes the gravy, which should be very thick, and garnish the dish with small pieces of toast (see Fig. 1000). Kidney Soup.—Chop four Kidneys, or exit them ixxto small squares, put them into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, and fry for a few minutes; then put in a peeled and clxopjxed onion and shallot, two or three chopped small sticks of celery, and a clove of garlic. Fry the whole until nicely browned, then dx-edge in 1 scant teacupful of flour, stirring that until browned, axxd pour in 5 pints of stock or broth, two wineglassfuls of sherx-y, a few sprigs of thyme, and 1 teaspoonful of peppex-corns. Continue stix-x-ing the soup over the fire xxntil boiling, then move to the side, and let it simmer for an hour or two. Skim the soup well, remove the pieces of thyme, turn the soxxp into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast, or croxitons of fried bread. Kidney Toast.—(1) Mince the Kidneys of a roast loin of veal together with half their fat, season well with pepper, salt, chopped shallots, parsley, and a small qxxantity of green, sweet basil, and bind with beaten yolk of egg. Cut some pieces of bread of an equal thickness, and any shape fancied, spread a layer of the mixtxxre over each piece with a knife dipped in beaten egg, and strew grated breadcrumb on the top. Line the bottom of a baking-dish with slices of fat bacon, lay the pieces of bread on them, and put into a brisk oven. When baked, drain the pieces of bread, lay them on a dish over which has beexx spread a folded napkin or a