766 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensil Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hips—continued. the jam in jars, cover them, and keep in a dry cupboard until wanted. Hip Marmalade.—(1) Cut off the tops of the required quantity of Hips. Put Jib. of lump sugar in a saucepan for every pound of fruit, pour in a small quantity of water, and boil; then put in the fruit, and boil the whole to a smooth thick mass, stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon. Cut a few ounces of preserved ginger into small pieces, and mix it at the last with the Hips. Turn the mar- malade into jars, leave until cold, then cover and tie down. (2) Put some ripe Hips in a bowl of water, wasli thoroughly, and put them into a saucepan with water in the proportion of J pint to every pound of fruit. Boil until they are quite tender, squeeze them through a sieve with the water, taking care to prevent any seeds passing through. Weigh this puree, and to every pound allow an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar; place these in a preserving-pan, and boil them until the syrup will set like a jelly. Let it cool a little, pour it into jars, and drop a little piece of preserved ginger into each. Cover over the pots before the marmalade is cold, and it is then ready for use when wanted. Hip Sauce.—Take all the seeds out of the Hips, which should be quite ripe, put the fruit in a small quantity of water, and boil until soft. Pass the pulp through a coarse wire sieve, return it to the saucepan with sufficient wine to make the required quantity of sauce, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Serve the sauce while hot. Water may be used in the place of wine if preferred. Hips in Vinegar.—Choose large red Hips, taking care that they arc not over ripe, cut off the stalks, leaving a very little on each berry, wash thoroughly, and put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover. Set the pan on the fire and boil the Hips until quite tender, but not broken, and then drain off the water into a basin. Cut off a little of the blossom end when they are cold, and take out the seeds with a knife or quill without damaging the Hips. Weigh them, and for every 21b. of berries take J pint of the strained fruit liquid in the basin, double that quantity of vinegar, loz. each of cloves and cinnamon, and 21b. of crushed loaf sugar. Place these in a preserving-pan, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; then boil for a-quarter-of- an-hour, add the Hips, and boil until the syrup is thick, which will take about twenty or twenty-five minutes. Pour the mixture into jars or glasses, cover them over with parchment, put them in a cool place, and they will keep good for a long time. This preparation of Hips is sometimes used instead of red-currant jelly, especially with game, boar’s head, and roasted saddle of mutton; indeed, some cooks consider Hips to bo far superior to currants for making these jellies. Preserved Hips.—Procure the Hips as soon as ripened, cut the stalks to within lin. at the end of the berries, put them in a stewpan with plenty of water, and boil gently until tender. Drain the Hips beforo they break, cut a thin slice off tlio broad end of each berry, and with a thin pointed knife scoop out all the seeds. Put an equal weight of sugar as there is fruit in the preserving-pan, with a moderate quantity of cinnamon and a very small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Next put in the fruit, and boil gently until the syrup is thickly reduced. When somewhat cooled, turn the Hips with their syrup into glass jars, and when quite cold cover them with parchment and tic down. HIPFOCRAS. -This wine is said to have been named after the celebrated Hippocrates, because of his great fondness for it. It was formerly much used in England, and in one form or another still finds favour on the Continent. The original Hippocras is described as a mixture of Lisbon and Canary wines sweetened with sugar, and flavoured with ginger, cinnamon, and other aromatics. Take loz. of cinnamon, 2 drachms of ginger, and 1 pinch each of cloves and nutmeg. Pound together, and infuse them in lqt. of red or white wino; in this dissolve lib. of loaf sugar. HOARHOUND.—See Horehound. HOCK, or HOCKHEIMER—This is the name given to a wine manufactured along the banks of the Rhine. The word Hoch is the German exclamation of approval, equivalent to our hurrah; the additional word heimer alludes to the home manufacture of the wine, from the German lieim—home. The two together therefore may be accepted as excellent home-made wine. Hock is so largely manufactured that almost any German wine may accept the title, merely adding thereto the name of the village, town, or castle nearest to the vineyards. Hock wines are of a light alcoholic strength, acidulous, and with a peculiar aroma. At the commencement of a feast they are taken to create an appetite. As most of the lighter German wines are not very bright, it is usual to serve them in coloured glasses. Hock Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Hock into a large glass, add a very little old whisky, mix in 1 wineglassful of syrup, fill up with broken ice, put a little mint on top, also a few thin slices of orange and lemon, then place a thin slice of pine-apple over all, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and drink through straws. Hock Syrup.—This is obtained by mixing J pint of Hock with 1 pint of simple syrup. It is used in giving a flavour to aerated waters. HODGE-PODGE.—See Hotch-Potch. HOE CAKES.—These cakes are best known in the Southern States of America, where they are made of ground Indian corn, water, and salt. The name originated from the negro habit of cooking them upon the hoes used in the cotton-fields. See Cakes. HOG.—The male pig. See Boar. HOGFLUM. — The fruit of several tropical trees of the genus Spondias. It resembles a small plum in appearance, and is used to manufacture a liqueur by steeping the bruised fruit in rum and sweetening it. HOGSHEAD.—A cask containing 63galls. of wine, or 52J imperial gallons. See Weights and Measures. HOKEY-POKEY.—Although the popular name by which this sweetmeat is known gives to it somewhat of an unattractive character, if made as here described, it will be found a pleasing production, especially for children. Put 2oz. of gelatine into a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk or water, and lot it dissolve. Put lgall. of milk into a bowl with eight slightly-beaten eggs, ljlb. of sugar, the thinly-cut rind of two lemons, and 1 pinch of salt. Stir well, pour the whole into a bright saucepan, set it on a fire or stove, and stir continually until the cream thickens. Remove the pan from the heat, pour the contents into an earthenware pan, and stir until nearly cold; now mix in the dissolved gelatine, turn the preparation into a freezer, and work vigorously. Pack it in small boxes about 2in. wide by 3in. long, and sot it away in the ice-closet for future use. It may bo cut into shapes if preferred, and wrapped round with waxed paper. HOLLANDS.—The name given to a kind of gin made in the Netherlands. See Gin. HOLLAND SAUCE (st la Hollandaise). — See Sauces. HOLSTEIN SAUCE.—See Sauces. HOLSTEIN SOUP.—See Soups. HOME-MADE WINES.—See British Wines. HOMINY.—This is simply maize (Indian corn) hulled and then coarsely ground. It admits of numerous useful culinary applications, as will be seen hereunder. See also Cornflour, Maizena, &c. Boiled Hominy.—(1) Wash the Hominy in cold water, and soak for twelve hours in tepid water; then put it over a moderate fire with the water in which it has been soaking, and boil gently for from three to six hours, adding more water as