THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 042 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk —continued. Milk—continued. Milk Soup flavoured with Almonds.—With a tin cutter Hin. in diameter, cut about t .verity rounds of bread with- out any crust, put them flat on a baking-sheet, sift over caster sugar, and put them in the oven till glazed and lightly browned. Blanch and peel 4oz. of sweet almor.ds and loz. of bitter ones ; put them in a mortar and pound, pouring in occasionally a little Milk to prevent them oiling, then rub them through a fine wire sieve. Boil lqt. of Milk, season it with a small quantity of salt and sugar, and mix the pounded almonds with it; the Milk must not boil after the almonds are added. When nicely browned, put the pieces of bread in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve while very hot. Milk Soup with Egg’s.—Put 3 pints of Milk into a sauce- pan, add a little cinnamon and 1 teacupful of sugar, boil it up, then remove it to the side of the lire. Put three eggs in a basin, work them with a spoon, and add gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of flour and :}lb. of melted butter; work it into a p>aste and add a little seasoning. Put a small colander having rather large holes over the pan containing the Milk, pour tlu^pg mixture into it, so that it will drop in the boiling liaKr. When it has all passed through, remove the pan m the side of the fire, cover it, leave for ten minutes, but without letting it boil, and it is ready to be served. Milk Spatzen.—Prepare a sti.T batter with flour and Milk, mixing a small quantity of salt with it, and beat it well. Pour Milk into a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then drop in flakes of the batter, cut with a knife, which should be constantly dipped in water. Boil the spatzen for five minutes, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and mix in a small piece of butter and the yolks of two eggs ; stir it at the side of the fire for five minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Milk with. Suet.—Finely chop loz. of mutton-suet, put it in a sauce >an with lqt. of Milk, and boil for thirty minutes. Add a little lemon-peel or cinnamon to flavour, strain it through a jelly-bag, sweeten with caster sugar, and serve while warm. Milk Toast.—(1) Toast slices of stale bread to a delicate colour; meantime heat to the boiling-point sufficient Milk to saturate the toast, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of butter to each pint of Milk. When the Milk boils, pour it over the toast, and serve hot at once. The boiling Milk may be thickened with a little flour or cornflour. (2) French Style.—Cut some slices about Jin. thick off a stale loaf, trim off all the crusts, and lay the slices on a deep dish. Beat an egg up in J pint of Milk, mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and pour it over the bread. Butter a gridiron, lay the slices carefully on it before they are too soft, put them over a clear lire, and brown nicely on both sides. When ready, spread the toast with butter, put it on a hot dish on which lias been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-peper, and serve without delay. Sour-Milk Biscuits.—Mix 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda with lqt. of sifted flour; rub loz. of Fig. 1180. Sour-Milk Biscuits. butter in with the flour till quite smooth, then mix in gradually 1 pint of thick sour Milk, using a broad knife and moistening a small part of the flour only with each addition of the Milk. When the dough is stiff enough to be handled, not kneaded, cut it through with the douglnknife; it should look spongy in the cuts if properly mixed, and seem full of air. Dust plenty of flour over a paste-board or table, put the dough on it, and toss it about with a knife till well floured ; roll the dough quickly and lightly till Jin. in thickness, then cut it into rounds. Butter a baking-tin, put the rounds on it, and bake in a quick oven. Sec .Fig. 1180. Sour-Milk Brown Bread.—Mix 1 pint of corn-meal with an equal quantity of fine flour, add 1 teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt, and sift and mix altogether ; pour in slowly 1 pint of sour Milk and 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses or treacle, and beat well. If not moist enough to pour, add a little warm water. Pour it into a well- greased mould to two-thirds the height of the mould, and cover with a tight-fitting lid also greased. Steam it for three hours in a steamer, or put the mould in a saucepan half-full of water. Keep the water simmering, and as it boils away replenish to keep it at the same level. Remove the cover, and place the mould in the oven for fifteen minutes to dry the crust. Thickened Milk.—(1) Put 1 pint of Milk into a saucepan and boil it together with a small piece of lemon-peel. Mix 1 table-spoonful of wheat flour to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water,then stir it in the boiling Milk, and continue stirring till it thickens. The .above mixture can lie served either with sugar or treacle, according to taste. (2) Beat up an egg in a basin, and pour over it 1 break- fast-cupful of boiling Milk ; add a little vanilla, nutmeg, or lemon-peel to flavour it, and when quite cold put it in a glass, and serve. MILKWEED.—A term applied to plants of the genera. Asclepias and Acerates. Their steins abound in a warm-tasting sweet milky juice, which makes them a favourite for salads in America, where they grow wild. The following is a good receipt: The young shoots of the Milkweed should be gathered and thoroughly washed in cold water. Break off the few leaves that have appeared (or if preferred they may be cooked with the shoots), tie the shoots into small bunches, and boil for twenty minutes in slightly salteel water. When cooked, drain the Milkweed, and put it on a dish. Serve with a plain salad dressing or a melted-butter sauce. MILLE-EEUILLES CAKE.—See Cakes. MILLET.—The small round seeds of Panicum rnilia- ceum (see Fig. 1181), a plant which is extensively culti- vated in many parts of the world; they are estimated to be about equal to rice in their nutritive qualities. There are several varieties, all being equally valuable for food-—that which is usually sold in our corn-shops hanging in large elegant plumes (see Fig. 1182). Millet-seeds make very nice pud- dings if prepared as follows: (1) Put 1 teacupful of well- washed Millet-seeds into an ena- melled saucepan with lqt. of milk, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; boil until tender, then take it oft' the fire and leave until somewhat cooled. Beat the yolks of four eggs thoroughly to- gether with the whites of two and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stir them in with the Millet, adding loz. of butter in small pieces, and brown sugar to taste. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, grate a small quantity of nut- meg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve while hot. (2) Wash 1 teacupful of Millet, and mix it with lqt. of new milk, 4oz. of butter broken into small pieces, 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Thickly butter a pie- dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake for an-hour-and-a- lialf in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve. Fig. 1181. Millet-plant.