883 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Loving-Cups—continued. on the unsuspecting King Edward the Martyr, at Corfe Castle, who was slain while drinking : this was why the Loving-cup possessed a cover.” Fig. 1100. Loving-cup. The preparation of the cup depends upon the company or its chief steward, each having a particular receipt, of which the following are as good as any: (1) Two bottles each of sherry and Madeira, 1 bottle each of port and claret, the juice of six lemons, lflb. of loaf sugar, and ) qt. of water. Mix these, and then stir in 1 large table-spoonful of liquid spice and a grated nutmeg. Keep in an ice-closet until wanted for use. (2) Take fib. of loaf sugar and rub it over the rind of a lemon, extracting all the flavour possible. Pour into a large jug f pint of brandy over the peel of another lemon cut very thin. Dissolve the sugar in lqt. of warm water, and let this stand till it is cool. After the brandy has stood on the lemon-peel for an hour, pour on to it 1 pint of Madeira, grate in a whole nutmeg, and then add the sweetened water and 1 teacupful of capillaire. Tut this stand in the ice-cave until it is very cold, then stir in 1 large bottle of champagne cider, and pour it into the cup, which has also been standing in the ice-cave or chest. Have ready a handful in all of freshly-gathered balm and borage, plunge this into the cup stalks downwards, and in a very few minutes the cup will be ready to serve. (3) Ale may be used instead of cider, and the cup may be served warm in winter. LOZENGES.—The earliest use of this word is in association with heraldry, as a lozenge hatchment (see Fig. 1101), and the term has since been applied to small sweet or medicated tablets, bearing that and other shapes. Lozenges are prepared without heat, by powdering the ingredients very finely, mixing thoroughly, and then beating them into a stiff paste with gum. The mass is then rolled out very thin, cut into shapes with cutters, and stamped. After drying in a screen for a short time, they are ready for use. A famous maker recommends this mode of procedure : Break up small lib. of gum and dissolve it in 21b. of water; it will take about twelve hours. Squeeze it through a cloth into a basin. Put the required quantity of very finely-powdered sugar on a marble slab, make a cavity in the centre, pour in the strained gum, and with a spatula commence to work it in. Should it be too soft and sticky, add more sugar; if too dry, more gum, mixing until a stiff paste is obtained. It is now ready to receive any desired colouring and flavouring, which must be well worked in. Dust the slab with starch powder, roll out the mass, lifting it up and Lozenges—continu ed. turning it over several times, always dusting with the starch powder and rubbing the slab with the ball of the hand to smooth the surface. When of the required thickness, handle it as little as possible, using a brush to do what is needful in smoothing. In cutting it into shapes great care must be taken to keep whatever is used quite clean. The following will be found useful and easily manu- factured, and other receipts will be found under special headings, such as Aniseed, Cayenne, &c. Antacid Lozenges.—To 101b. of the gum paste prepared as described above, work in lib. of powdered prepared chalk and (lb. of magnesia, and flavour with about 20 drops of oil of cinnamon. Antibilious Lozenges.—With (lb. of the prepared gum paste described above, work in 6 drachms of ground Turkey rhubarb, 6oz. of magnesia in powder, 1 foz. of bicarbonate of soda, and 20 drops of the oil of cinnamon to flavour. Cachou Lozenges.—Sift 141b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a table, and form a bay in the centre. Put lflb. of glucose into a saucepan on the lire to boil, remove it from the lire, add 4oz. of soaked gelatine, and stir well until thoroughly dissolved. Turn it into the sugar on the table or slab, add a little flavouring of cassia, mix well, colour with carmine, roll out, and cut into shapes. Dust them, as made, with a little corn-starch, put them on trays, also slightly d listed, and set them in the hot closet or drying- room until dry; pack away in boxes, and use as desired. Chalk Lozenges.—These are prepared in the same way as described above, using 12oz. of powdered prepared chalk and 4 drachms of ground nutmeg to Clb. of the gum preparation. Cough Lozenges.—Soak loz. of picked gum dragon in 2oz. of orange-flower water; in about six hours’ time squeeze ami wring the soaked gum in a cloth. Work the prepared gum on a marble slab with the hand till it becomes white and elastic, then work in, gradually, 21b. of line icing sugar and Hoz. of syrup of squills. When the above ingredients are well mixed, add 50 drops of paregoric and 20 drops of ipecacuanha. Sift a small quantity of caster sugar over the slab, roll the paste out to about jin. in thickness, then, if such a thing as a ribbed rolling-pin is available, roll over the surface of the paste with it in cross directions, thus imprinting it with a diamond pattern. Stamp out the Lozenges with a round tin cutter about (in. in diameter, and place each one as it is done on a baking-sheet that has been dusted over with caster sugar. When the baking-sheet is full of Lozenges, place it in a screen to dry. When quite diy, take the Lozenges off the baking-sheet, and keep them in well-stoppered glass jars in a dry store-cupboard. Ipecacuanha Lozenges.—Prepared the same as described above, using 10 drachms of ipecacuanha, (oz. of tartaric acid, and 8 drops of attar of roses to every 71b. of the prepared gum paste. Lettuce Lozenges.—Proceed as described above, working in 4 fluid ounces of extract of Lettuce to each 71b. of gum paste. Long-Life Lozenges.—Prepare 81b. of the gum paste as described above, work in 8oz. of Turkey rhubarb and half that quantity of powdered ginger, and proceed as for other Lozenges. Lozenges for the Chest.—Put 4oz. of gelatine in water to soak. Boil lflb. of glucose, remove from the fire, and stir in the soaked gelatine until dissolved. In the meantime melt lflb. of block juice in a saucepan placed in another one containing boiling water, and when it becomes quite liquid stir in the glucose and gelatine. Then turn the whole into a bay formed in lflb. of finely-crushed and sifted loaf sugar, add cayenne pepper, using only sufficient to make the Lozenges taste warm and not hot, and work the whole well into a paste. Should a dark colour be desired, add the required colouring. Roll out the paste, cut it with cutters into various shapes, dust them, as soon as cut, with corn-starch, dry them in the hot closet, and pack away in boxes or tins until required. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 t 2