THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 824 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. of finely-chopped parsley, and stir them in with the sweet- breads. Grate in a small quantity of nutmeg, and stir the sauce at the side of the fire for a few minutes but do not let it boil again or the eggs will curdle. When ready, put the sweetbreads on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed larded Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Clean the sweet- breads, steep them in cold water for one hour, then partially boil them. Drain and leave them till cold ; out of some fat bacon cut some lardoons, and lard the sweetbreads down the middle with them; lard them down each side with strips of lemon-peel and at each end with a small piece of pickled cucumber. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and the same quantity of mushroom powder in a saucepan, and pour in gradually 1 pint of veal gravy; stir it over the fire till thickened and boiling, then put in the sweet- breads, season with a little lemon-juice and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and stew them gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, put the sweetbreads on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. Timbale of Lamb's Sweetbreads.—Take a timbale-mould, line it with short-paste, having previously buttered it, and put a layer of forcemeat mixed with chives and a little finely-chopped lean raw ham inside. Blanch a score of Lamb’s Sweetbreads, and fry them over a clear fire in bacon- fat till nicely browned. Sprinkle salt and pepper over, take them off the fire, and let them cool. Put them in layers in the timbale-mould, alternating each layer with forcemeat. Put a layer of forcemeat on the top, cover the mould with a round of paste, fixing it carefully to the sides, put the timbale in a moderate oven, and bake for one hour. When cooked turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, make a hole in the top, pour in a little thickened Fig. 1037. Timbale of Lamb’s Sweetbreads. gravy, put back the round that has been removed, garnish with mushrooms and parsley, and serve at once. See Fig. 1037. Lamb’s Tails.—As it is usual to leave these attached to the saddle, haunch, or hind-quarters, they are not usually met with in sufficient quantities to make a dish. Should there be enough at hand, they must first be skinned, and can then be prepared as follow: Lamb's-Tail Soup.—Cut the tails at the joints, and boil them until tender in sufficient water to make the soup. Put a small piece each of uncooked ham and veal into a stewpan with some mushrooms, an onion, a sprig of ; parsley, and half a blade of mace; stew the whole for an hour in a small quantity of water, then strain the liquor in with the tails. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour smoothly together with h teacupful of cream and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stir it into the soup. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, add the strained juice of a lemon, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen and serve it witli a plate of sippets of toast or crofitons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. Stewed Lamb's Tails.—Trim the tails ; line a stewpan with a layer of slices of bacon and some sliced carrots and onions. Put in the tails with a clove of garlic, also a sprig of thyme, two sprigs of parsley and a bay-leaf, tied together. Season to taste with salt, cloves, and pepper- Lamb—continued. corns; put the stewpan over the fire for ten minutes, then pour in 1 pint of water and \ pint of sherry. When boiling move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for nearly three hours. Afterwards take the tails out, strain their cooking-liquor, boil it until almost reduced to a glaze, and put in the tails to warm up again. Prepare a puree of spinach or sorrel, pile it in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the tails round it, pour their sauce over them, and serve. Lamb’s Tongues. — These are generally cooked and served with the head; but when available in sufficient quantity they form most excellent dishes if prepared as follow: Baked Lamb’s Tongues with Jerusalem Artichokes.— Boil the tongues for about two hours, then drain, plunge them into cold water, skin, and cut each tongue in halves lengthwise. Peel and boil some artichokes in salted water till tender, then drain, and cut them in halves. Lay the Fig. 1038. Baked Lamb’s Tongues with Jerusalem Artichokes. halves of tongues in a baking-dish, baste with a few table- spoonfuls of fat, and put them in a quick oven. When the tongues are browned and glazed, drain, put them on a hot dish in circular order, place the artichokes in the centre, pour a teacupful of rich brown gravy over the artichokes, and serve. See Fig. 1038. Boiled Lamb’s Tongues.—(1) Put half-a-dozen or so Lamb’s Tongues into a saucepan with sufficient salted water to cover and add the juice of half a lemon. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil the tongues well until tender; put them on a dish when drained, and serve either hot or cold ; if the latter, tartar sauce should accompany them. (2) Put the tongues in a saucepan with jdenty of salted water and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil. When quite tender, drain the tongues and leave till cold. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Put 1 table- spoonful of the best mustard in a basin, mix in with it 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 table-spoonful of shallot vinegar, and l wine- glassful of claret, stirring the sauce till quite smooth. Put the tongues on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Glazed Lamb's Tongues.—Put three or four corned Lamb’s Tongues (which should be of a good pink colour) into a saucepan of water and boil for two hours, take them out, skin, and cut them lengthwise in halves. Put them into a pan with a little meat glaze, cover well, and Fig. 1039. Glazed Lamb's Tongues. brown in the oven. Place them on a dish and serve with spinach and boiled artichokes for garnish (see Fig. 1039). Lamb’s Tongues a la Royale.—Use tinned Lamb’s Tongues, which should be cut into rather thin slices.