THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 914 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Marsala—continued. Lay-leaf, mixing well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-hag tied in a jelly-stand. Stir the prepara- tion, and when coming to the boil, set it on a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir, while boiling, for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the lire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding J pint of Marsala wine and 1 teaspoonful of browned sugar. Let it drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel under- neath, and let it drain a second time. Pour the jelly from the vessel into a quart mould, and set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and afterwards pack it in ice to harden. Dip the mould almost to its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately, and turn it out on to a cold dish; garnish with crystallised fruits and angelica points, and serve. See Fig. 1131. Marsala-Wine Soup.—Germans are famous for this dish. Put lqt. of Marsala wine and 1 pint of water into a sauce- pan with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to taste with sugar, and place it over the fire till boiling. Cut some slices of bread, toast them, cut into small pieces, roll them in sugar, then place in a quick oven until the sugar spreads over. Beat the yolks of four eggs, move the -wine soup to the side of the fire, and stir in the eggs quickly. Put the pieces of toast in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve while very hot. MARSBEIT CAKE.—See Veal. MARSEILLAISE BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. MARSH-MALLOW (Fr. Guimauve; Ger. Sammet- pappel).—The very demulcent properties of the juice of the Marsh-mallow root (Althaea officinalis) has brought it into great repute as a pleasing sweetmeat in cases of bronchial, laryngeal, or throat irritation. This has led confectioners to make several preparations, the greatest favourite of all being the French “pates guimauve.” The following receipts will be found very effective as medicine, and pleasant as simple confectionery: Marsh-Mallow Paste.—Pound lib. of gum arabic in a mortar until very fine, sift it through a fine hair sieve, put it in lqt. oc water in which 2oz. of finely-shred Marsh-mallow has been boiled, stir occasionally, and leave until quite dissolved. Strain the gum again through aline hair sieve, and mix it with \ pint of apple-juice and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup. Pour the mixture into a sugar- boiler, place it over a moderate fire, and stir until reduced to a paste. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in with the paste. Try the paste with the finger; if it does not stick, it is done. Mix a few drops of essence of neroli with it. Dust plenty of powdered starch over a marble slab, pour the paste on to it, and spread out with a knife. Leave the paste for several hours for it to become diy and set; cut it into any shapes liked, dust over lightly with starch to prevent sticking, and pack them between sheets of paper in boxes for use. The apple-juice is now generally used as a substitute .for Marsh-mallow root, owing to the disagreeable flavour given by the latter. Marsh-Mallow Syrup.—(1) Put loz. of finely-shred Marsh mallow roots into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until the water is reduced to 1 breakfast-cupful, then strain. Make a syrup of 32deg. strength with 1 lb. of sugar; dissolve loz. of gum arabic in 1 teacupful of hot water; mix the extract of Marsh-mallows and the dissolved gum arabic with the syrup and 2 table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water. Pour the mixture into bottles, cork well, and fasten them down with wire or string. Stand the bottles upright in a saucepan of cold water, putting a little straw round to prevent them knocking together and cracking, and boil gently. In seven or eight minutes’ time, move the saucepan away from the fire ; leave the bottles in the water until cold, dip the nozzles in bottle-wax, and pack in a cellar, where they should be kept in a reclining position until used. (2) Scrape and wash Alb. of Marsh-mallow root, cut it in small pieces, and put them in a saucepan over the Marsh-Mallow—continued. fire with 3 pints of water; when it is boiled enough, the water will be a thin jelly. Strain this liquor, put it over the fire with 41b. of sugar, and boil to a syrup (see Sugak- BOILING); clarify it with the white of an egg, and boil to the degree of heat at which, if a drop of the sugar be put on the tip of the thumb and touched until the tip of the forefinger, it will draw to a fine thread on separating the finger and thumb, and when the thread breaks a drop will be left on both finger and thumb. Take it from the fire, and when cold, bottle and cork it. Marsh-Mallow Toffy.—Put 31b. of gum arabic dissolved in lqt. of water in which 4oz. of Marsh-mallow root has been boiled, into a saucepan until 4Alb. of sugar, and boil until they become of a stiflish consistence; stir well, put in the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, and let the whole reduce until it is of the required con- sistence. Have ready a marble slab, with iron bars on it, placed at such a distance from one another as to give the thickness of the toffy required; dust the slab with powdered starch, pour over the syrup, let it cool, cut it into cubes, dust them with starch, wrap singly in waxed papers, and they are ready for use. Marsli-Mallow Twists.—Soak loz. of best gum dragon in 2oz. of orange-flower water ; cut into fine shreds 2oz. of Marsh- mallow roots, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until reduced to J pint. Place the prepared gum on a marble slab, and work with the hand until it becomes white and elastic ; work in with it lib. of the finest icing sugar and the extract of Marsh-mallows, and after that another pound of icing sugar and a few drops of wet cobalt blue. When the whole is worked into a rather soft elastic paste, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, roll out and twist them. Dust the interior of some cardboard boxes over with fine white sugar, put in a layer of the twists, dust them also with sugar, and continue thus until the boxes are full. The object of the sugar is to keep the twists from sticking together. MARTINOES.—The pods of the Martynia are known by this name in America. They are peculiar for being hard and woody when ripe, and possessed of two hooks at the end (see Fig. 1132), which has gained for them, on account of their mischievous tendencies, the name of the “ Devil’s finger-nails.” In Mexico, Martinoes grow wild abundantly, the hooks of the pods sometimes exceeding 4in. in length. Another name for them is the Unicorn- plant. Martino Salad.—Rub off the downy covering of the young pods of the martynia, or unicorn-plant, with a towel; cut the pods into slices, lay them in a dish, sprinkle with salt, pour over a few drops of vinegar, and let them stand for an hour. Line a salad-bowl with some blanched chicory, put in a sliced tomato, and then the martynia-pods, and sprinkle over some chopped spring onions. Mix some salad- oil and vinegar together, oil predominating, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. Pickled Martinoes.—Martinoes should be gathered early in the morning, when they are sufficiently tender to push the