796 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sa/uces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Kid—continued. fat or butter into a saucepan, boil it, add 'about twenty onions cut up in slices, fry, take them out, put in I tea- spoonful of ground chillies, and \ teaspoonful of turmeric; brown them slightly, add the pieces of Kid’s meat and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and continue to cook until the meat is perfectly tender. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with the onions for garnish. Kid Cutlets.—Take some cutlets from a loin of Kid, and dust over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; roll them in beaten yolk of egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumbs, coating them well; put a large piece of butter or clarified fat into a deep frying-pan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry until nicely browned. As the cutlets are cooked, place them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain. Put 2oz. of flour into a stewpan with § table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Fry until it begins to brown, then dredge in | table- spoonful of flour, and stir for a few minutes longer over the fire, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water and boil for a few minutes. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Kid Pilau.—Cut up two legs of Kid into small slices, put them into a saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to cover them, and simmer slowly until done. In the meantime put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice into a saucepan, cover it with gravy strongly seasoned with onions, green ginger, salt, and spices, and continue to boil until the rice is quite soft. Then put the slices in the centre of a dish, and pour the rice mixture on them. Garnish over the meat and rice with fried onions, and round the dish with bits of fried bacon and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Cold cooked meat is frequently used to make this dish, or the slices of raw meat may be partly browned in a frying-pan before boiling. Ilinced Kid.—Cut the remains of any part of cooked Kid into thin slices ; put 1 pint of piquant sauce in a saucepan and place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and throw in the pieces of meat. Season well, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly. The sauce should not boil after the pieces are added. When the meat is hot, turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Boasted Kid.—(1) Procure a young Kid. Mix together 1 pint of vinegar, 1 pint of water, ^ pint of port wine, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 2 smaller table-spoonfuls of salt, a bay-leaf, and a few peppercorns. Pour this mixture over the Kid, and let it steep for several hours, turning occasionally. Afterwards hang the Kid up for two days, and wash over once or twice with its marinading liquor. When ready, roast it whole. Prepare the following sauce : Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed, then pour in | pint of clear veal stock, add half a blade of mace, one shallot, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for half-an- hour. Strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan, and boil up once; mix in 1 wineglassful of port wine, the strained juice of half a lemon, a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and a small quantity of loaf sugar. When cooked, put the Kid on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. (2) Kid is commonly cooked in the following way in India : Clean a Kid, leaving on the head, stuff with stuffing the same as for sucking-pig, break the joints of the legs, and truss it in the same way as a pig. Put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, baste frequently with melted beef-suet mixed with hot water and salt, and let it remain until done. Put it on a dish, with a lemon or lime in its mouth, and serve. KIDNEYS (Fr. Rognons ; Ger. Nieren ; Ital. Arnioni; Sp. Rihons).—The word Kidney is of very ancient ex- traction, and originally referred to the womb or belly; but custom has conferred the title solely upon the glands which excrete urea and other waste products of the body. In using the word, it may be taken for granted that either sheep’s or lamb’s Kidneys are referred to, unless others are specified, although the Kidneys of other animals butchered for food are many of them very good and make excellent dishes. The following receipts are Kidneys—continued. applicable to any kind of Kidneys, but when a Kidney is specially named it will be found under the name of the animal to which it belongs : Broiled Kidneys. — (1) Put the Kidneys in boiling salted water, and let them soak for a few minutes. Take them out, dry on a cloth, cut in halves, but do not sever them, remove the skin, and fasten open with a skewer. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip into a little warmed butter, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Put them on a dish, pour over a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and a squeeze or so of lemon-juice, and serve. (2) Skin, wash, wipe, and split some small Kidneys, run a skewer through to keep them open, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip them first in softened butter and then in flour, put them in a double boiler, and cook over a clear fire for six minutes. Place them on a dish, and serve. Broiled Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Plunge the Kidneys into boiling water for an instant, split down the middle without cutting them right through, skin, and run a fine skewer through each to keep them open flat. Season well with pepper and salt, warm a little butter, and brush over with it. Lay them on a hot, well-greased gridiron, cut-side down- wards ; when that side is done, turn them over and cook the other side. Take the skewers out, lay the Kidneys hollow side up on a hot dish, put a bit of maitre-d’hotel butter on each, and serve immediately. Devilled Kidneys.—Remove the skin fi'om as many Kidneys as are required, parboil them in a little water, cut down the centre, and dip in warmed butter. Dust over with salt and pepper (and a little cayenne if desired), broil over a clear fire, and serve on a dish with some butter worked in with minced parsley, salt, and pepper. Fried Kidneys.—(1) Cut some Kidneys in halves down the centre, without severing, remove all the skin and fat, dust over with cayenne and salt. Put them in a heated frying- pan, pour a little clarified butter over, fry quickly, and serve upon pieces of toast. Add a little ketchup or sauce to the gravy, and pour it over before serving. (2) Take off the skin from half-a-dozen Kidneys, cut them in quarters, dip in flour, and fry in a little butter for five minutes, turning so that the flour will be well coloured on both sides. Add 4 wineglassful of white wine, a few mush- rooms, a little minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and cook for eight minutes longer. Stir well, and when all are done, serve very hot. (3) Cut the Kidneys into slices; make a thick batter with two well-beaten eggs, 1 pint of milk, and a sufficient quantity of flour, season to taste with salt and pepper, and if at all lumpy pass it through a fine sieve. Put a large piece of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises. Dip the slices of Kidney in the batter, coating them thickly, put them into the boiling butter, and fry a bright golden brown. Drain the slices on a sieve, or lay them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire for a minute, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Grilled Kidneys.—(1) Skin half-a-dozen Kidneys, cut or split them lengthwise, but do not cut right through, rub with a little warmed butter, and broil over a clear fire, cut side first, on a well-greased gridiron, which should be hot when the Kidneys are laid on it. When nicely done on both sides put them on a hot dish, and lay on each a piece of butter, a drop or two of lemon-juice, some fried parsley, fried chopped onion, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve very hot. (2) Take off the skin from two or three Kidneys, cut them down the centre, and dip first in egg beaten up together with salt and pepper and then into breadcrumbs. Put lfoz. of butter in a pan, and when melted dip the Kidneys in it and then in more breadcrumbs, grill them before a clear fire, and serve with a little piquant sauce. (3) Cut some Kidneys down the middle, put them on a skewer, and cook in a dish with a few slices of bacon, and when done, serve with the bacon. Kidneys a la Brocliette. — Remove the skin from some Kidneys, and cut them nearly through, keeping them in a spread-out position with small skewers. Dip in a little warmed butter, put them on a buttered gridiron, and cook for eight