740 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. K ams—continued. H am cooked in Cider.—Soak a Ham over night in sufficient cold water to entirely cover it; the next morning trim it neatly and put it in a saucepan over the fire with enough cold water to cover. Add 1 pint of cider and 1 teacupful of I rown sugar, cover the saucepan, and boil the Ham slowly for four hours, or until the skin peels off easily. When the Ham is cooked enough, take it out of the water, remove the skin, and lay the Ham in a dripping-pan; pour in 1 pint of cider, sprinkle the Ham plentifully with brown sugar, and place it in a moderate oven to bake for one hour, basting every fifteen minutes with the cider in the pan. When the Ham is cooked, take it from the pan, free the cider from grease, season it lightly with pepper, and use as a sauce for the Ham, which may be served either hot or cold. Ham Collops a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Cut a little Ham into collops about Jin. in thickness; put some butter in a frying-pan, and when melted, put in the collops and fry them on both sides. When done, drain them and put them on a hot dish. Melt some maitre-d’hotel butter, mix with it a little salt and lemon-juice, pour it over the collops, and serve. For breakfast these collops are very nice, and may be sparsely dusted with cayenne if desired. Ham Croquettes.—(1) Chop very small Jib. of Ham, then mix with it an equal quantity of boiled and mashed potatoes, two chopped hard-boiled eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, seasoning to taste ; then stir in the yolk of an egg. Flour the hands and shape the mixture into little balls; put some fat in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put the croquettes in and fry them an equal brown all over; put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. For a light luncheon or late supper dish, these croquettes are exceptionally suited; or they may be served for breakfast. (2) Chop finely sufficient cold cooked Ham to fill a breakfast-cup, put it in a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of mashed potatoes, 1 large table-spoonful of butter, two beaten eggs, and a very small pinch of cayenne; mix them well, shape the preparation into croquettes, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat for about two minutes; drain them, arrange on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Finely mince some cold Ham and mix with it two- thirds its bulk of mashed potatoes; season with pepper and moderate quantities of chopped parsley and sweet herbs. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when melted put in the mince, moisten it with a small quantity of stock, and stir until hot. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs, and stir them into the mince, with the pan off the fire. Spread the mince on a dish, let it get cold, divide it into small portions, mould them into the shape of corks, and roll them in beaten egg and then in finely-crumbled stale bread; put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan placed over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the croquettes and fry them a golden brown. Drain on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then pile them on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Peel and boil lib. of potatoes; when soft, drain them as dry as possible, and mash them quite smooth together with a lump of butter and two eggs ; mix well in 4oz. of grated Ham, and season to taste. Divide the mixture into small quantities, mould them to any shapes desired, and roll well in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when it runs to oil put in the croquettes and fry them until browned. Drain them as they are done on a sheet of paper, then put them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried narsley, and serve. Ham and Egg's.—Broil some thin slices of Ham, and poach as many eggs as there are slices of Ham. Put the Ham on a hot dish with an egg on each slice, and serve hot. Ham-and-Egg Toasts.—Chop finely some cold cooked Ham, toast some slices of bread, and butter them. Spread the Ham on the toast, and put them in the oven for three or four minutes. Beat six eggs in a teacupful of milk, and add a little pepper and salt. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, pour the beaten eggs in, and stir over the fire till thick, but do not let them boil. Arrange the Ham and toast on a dish, pour the eggs over, and serve at once. Hams—con tinned. Ham Fritters.—Finely mince about lib. of cold cooked Ham, using lean and fat in equal proportions; mix with it 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs and two well-beaten eggs, season- ing with white pepper. Cut a French roll into slices, and soak it in beaten eggs and milk. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt it, then put in the soaked slices, and fry them until of a pule golden colour; drain them, spread them on both sides with a thick layer of the minced Ham, sift grated breadcrumb over them, and fry again in butter to set the forcemeat. Drain the fritters, arrange them in a group on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, with small bunches of parsley here and there, and serve. Ham cooked in Madeira Wine.—Select a Westmoreland or Irish Ham, boil it in water for two hours, then drain it, take off the skin, and put it into a saucepan with a few thin slices of veal at the bottom; put two or three carrots, onions, bay- leaves, a few sprigs of parsley, and some spices in with the Ham, pour in 1 pint of stock and 1 bottle of Madeira, and simmer for two-hours-and-a-half. When the Ham is done, take it out, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot in the oven while the liquor is being reduced. Skim the fat off the liquor, and boil till reduced to the consistency of Spanish sauce; then pour it over the Ham, and serve. Ham cooked in Madeira Wine or Champagne.—Put a Ham into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for a day and night; take it out, drain, tie it up in a cloth, put it into a steamer or a saucepan of boiling water, and half cook it. Take it out, drain, put it into another saucepan, pour over 1 pint of Madeira wine or champagne, and cook gently until done. Put it on a dish, pour the liquor over, and serve hot with a g'arnish of cooked vegetables. Ham Omelets.—(1) Beat twelve eggs in a basin with a little water, season with pepper and salt; mince Jib. of lean Ham, and mix with it a little Spanish sauce. Out of this preparation Fig. 922. Ham Omelets make four or five omelets, each one to be cooked separately in boiling fat and sprinkled with the Ham before it is rolled. Serve on a dish, and garnish with parsley (see Fig. 922). (2) Beat up three eggs, mix with them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped Ham, a little chopped parsley and shallot, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Put some butter in an omelet-pan, and when melted pour in the omelet and fry, turning it to cook both sides equally. When done, put the omelet on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Finely mince 2oz. of Ham, taking fat and lean in equal portions, put the mince in a basin with four eggs and white pepper to taste, and beat them up well. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it has melted, pour in the mixture. Hold the handle of the pan with one hand, and stir the omelet with a spoon held in the other ; when it begins to set, cease stirring, shake the pan for a few minutes until the under- side of the omelet is browned, then fold it over with the spoon. Turn the omelet on to a hot dish with a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Ham Pie.—Trim the cushion of a freshly-smoked Ham, leaving only the firm parts, which cut into lfin. squares. If very salt, the Ham should be previously soaked in milk-and-water for a few hours. Centre each of the squares with a small piece of raw truffle. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying-pan, melt it, then put in the pieces of Ham, and fry them for seven or eight minutes. Finely chop a piece of lean pork, an equal quantity of veal, and double this quantity of fresh fat bacon ; chop the trimming of the truffles, pound them in a mortar, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and