896 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sce., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroons—continued. a baking-sheet, squeeze the paste out through a biscuit- forcer in long cords across the sheet of cake, and then again diagonally to form triangles. Bake in a slack oven without closing the door. When the top is done and well brown, take it out, let it get cold, drop spots of clear fruit jelly in the cavities between the ridges (see Fig. 1115), and serve. Macaroons made with Pistachio Kernels.—(1) Blanch and chop fine lOoz. of pistachios, put them into a basin with lOoz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, a little essence of noyau, and the whites of two eggs. Lay out small quan- tities, about the size of walnuts, on wafer-paper, keeping them Him or 2in. apart, and with a linger moistened with water slightly press down the centre so as to keep them round. But them in a moderate oven, and bake. Serve when cold. (2) Pound |lb. of blanched bitter almonds with the whites of two eggs, put it in a basin, and mix in fib. of caster sugar, 6oz. of finely-shred pistachio-kernels, and 1 table- spoonful of vanilla sugar. Put it into a biscuit-forcer, squeeze it out on wafer-paper on a baking-sheet in pieces about the size of a walnut, and bake in a moderate oven without allowing them to take much colour. Take them wit, remove the paper by damping it with water, and they will be ready for use, or may be stored in tins. Macaroon Puddings.—Put lib. of Macaroons into a basin, and pour over them 1J pints of boiling cream. Leave until cold, then beat them up with a wooden spoon. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs, and mix them in with the Macaroons, adding sugar to taste and 1J wineglassfuls of pale brandy. Butter some small cups or moulds, till them with the mixture, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the puddings out of the cups on to a dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Macaroon Souffles with Chocolate.—Cut into shreds lib. of blanched almonds, mix them up with 4oz. of sugar, and work in a little egg so as form a coating. Place them on a baking-sheet, and colour them in a slack oven. Take them out, let them coal, put them into lib. of sugar, mixed for fifteen minutes with the whites of two eggs, and add Jib. of grated chocolate melted in a slack oven. Should the paste not be stiff enough, add a little white of egg, and mix well until the almonds are well and evenly covered. Take the mixture up, a little at a time, with a teaspoon, place on sheets of paper, slightly moisten their surfaces, put a few small pieces of sugar on each, press them down on more sugar so as to let it adhere to their bottoms, put them back on the paper, and bake in a slack oven until well coloured. Take them out, let them get cold, remove from the paper, and they are then ready for use. Macaroon Trifle (American).—Form a ring round the outside of a mould with lib. of Macaroons, dipping the edges of the Macaroons in sugar boiled to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). Pour 1 pint of cherry jelly into a dome- shaped mould, and pack it in ice to set. Well whip 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, stir in loz. of ,gelatine soaked in 1 wineglassful of brandy and melted over a slow fire, and mix in half a tin of grated pine-apple ; pour this into a glass dish, place the ring of Macaroons on top, turn the jelly into the centre, and serve. The ring of Macaroons may be piped with sugar to give an artistic effect. Moist Macaroons.—Put 8oz. of blanched Jordan almonds in a mortar with a little orange-flower water, and pound them to a paste. Put this into a sugar-boiler, add 12oz. of caster sugar, and stir over a slow fire until the sugar comes to the thread. Remove the pan from the fire, and when the mixture is a little cool, add loz. of green angelica cut up fine, 2oz. of finely-chopped candied peel, and the whites of two eggs. Put this into a biscuit-bag, squeeze it out in small quantities on wafer-paper, and bake in a slow oven until done to a light brown colour. Store in a dry tin or box. Pyramid of Macaroons.—Place 8oz. of caster sugar in a basin with loz. of gum arabic and 2 table-spoonfuls of Macaroons—continued. water, and stir until it is dissolved. Put it over the fire, and stir again until it has the appearance of glue. Rub a little butier over the outside of a tin pyramid-mould to prevent the candy sticking to it, put it on a table, place row of Macaroons at the bottom, and cement them together with a little of the sugar mixture, which must be kept hot whilst being used ; when these are stiff and firmly stuck together, put another row, and so on until the mould is full. When all are fixed, remove the shape from the mould, and fill it with fruit or whipped cream. Spanish Macaroons.—Put Jib. of blanched and dried almonds into a mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding a little yolk of egg. Put lib. of powdered sugar into a saucepan with J pint of water, and boil to the blow (see Sugar-boiling). Add this to the almond-paste, togetiier with 1 table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon and the zest or grated rind of two oranges ; pour the whole into a saucepan, and stir well over the fire for about ten minutes to allow it to evaporate ; now add the yolks of twelve eggs, less the amount previously used in the pounding, and stir over a quick fire until it becomes compact and smooth. Remove the pan from the fire, turn the mass out on to a slab, let it cool, form it into balls of any desired size, using the hands slightly moistened with oil of almonds, lay them out on sheets of wafer-paper spread over baking- sheets, put them into a quick oven, and bake. Take out when done, and serve cold. Spiced Macaroons.—Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding a little white of egg to prevent them oiling. Mix together four cloves, finely powdered, 1 saltspoonful of cinnamon, 1 dessert-spoonful each of finely-chopped candied orange- and lemon-peel, the grated rind of a lemon, and lib. of powdered white sugar, and gradually add to the pounded almonds in the mortar. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, add to the mixture in the mortar, and beat all together for eight or ten minutes. Drop the paste in spoonfuls on wafer-paper laid on a tin baking-sheet, at least lin. apart, as they may spread in baking, sift a little sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. Swiss Macaroons.—(1) Blanch and chop lib. of sw eet and 4oz. of bitter almonds; put them on a dish or sheet of paper, mix Jib. of caster sugar with them, and put them into a cool oven. When lightly browned, put the almonds into a basin, and mix with them ljlb. more caster sugar and a sufficient quantity of well-whisked whites of eggs to knead the whole into a rather stiff paste. Spread a sheet of wafer-paper over a baking-sheet, mould the above mixture into small round cakes, dipping the fingers occa- sionally in water to prevent them sticking, and lay the cakes on the paper. Leave lin. clear space between each cake, as they will spread while baking. Put two or three thin fillets of almonds on each cake, brush them lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in water, and bake in a moderate oven, only lightly browning them. When cooked, leave the Macaroons until cold, and then trim the paper off neatly round the edges with a sharp pair of scissors. (2) Sift ljlb. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix in 4oz. of ground sweet almonds, a small quantity of grated lemon-zest, and about 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Turn the mixture into a mortal, and beat in suffi- cient ' white of egg to form a paste still' enough to be handled. Mould it into small halls about the size of walnuts, roll them in coarsely-sifted loaf sugar, put them on stiff paper spread over a baking-sheet, keeping them about ljin. or 2in. apart, and bake in a slack oven. Take out when done, and use cold. Victoria Macaroons.—Pound 8oz. of burnt almonds and loz. of candied orange-flowers in a mortar together with the whites of two eggs; when it is almost pounded to a pulp, add lOoz. of caster sugar, and mix thoroughly. Lay it out on wafer-paper in small oval shapes, and bake in a moderate oven until done. White Macaroons.—Sift lOoz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix in with a wooden spoon Goz. of blanched sweet almonds cut into shreds crosswise, 4oz. of ground