THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 867 Lobster—continued. meat into a paste, reserving about 1 teaspoonful of the eggs to glaze it. Shape on the dish it is to be served in to the form of a Lobster, pound the red part and the spawn, and spread this over it. Brush over with the beaten egg reserved for the purpose, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot in the dish it was baked in, with the body shells laid over it and the small claws arranged at each Fig. 1083. Baked Lobster. side underneath it to make it look as like a Lobster as possible (see Fig. 1083), and garnish with parsley at each end. Bisk of Lobster.—Two pounds of Lobster boiled in the shell will be sufficient; pound the flesh in a mortar, and put it back into a saucepan with the same water the Lobster was boiled in. Add to this lqt. of white broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, J pint of raw rice, a little pepper, but no salt; boil for forty-five minutes, then strain through a fine sieve, adding J breakfast-cupful of cream. Let it warm up without boiling, and then serve with small fried dice of bread. Boiled Lobster.—(1) Fill a large saucepan, or a fish-kettle, with water, and when boiling fast put the Lobster in, head first, so that it may be killed at once. Place the lid on, and let the Lobster boil quickly for half-an-hour or more. Take it out with the tongs, and leave till well drained; then wipe off all the scum, and mb it over with a little piece of butter tied in a cloth. Lobsters should be boiled according to their size, allowing half-an-hour for lib., and so on. (2) Choose a live Lobster which seems heavy in propor- tion to its size. Have over the fire a large saucepanful of boiling water; put in a handful of salt, plunge the Lobster head first into the boiling water, which will kill it at once, and boil steadily for twenty minutes, or until the shell turns red. Take it up, and as soon as it can be handled break off' the claws and tail, and carefully remove the soft fins which lie close to where the legs join the body. An ordinary iron can-opener is very useful in breaking apart the shell of the Lobster. After the shell is separated, so that the flesh can be reached, save all the green fat and coral, and the white curd-like substance which lies close to the shell, remove all flesh from the claws and body, and cut it into Jin. pieces; split the shell of the tail, remove and throw away the intestine which runs through the centre of the tail, and save the flesh. The Lobster will then be ready to dress. (3) Tie the claws of a large hen Lobster with string, plunge it head first into a saucepan of boiling water, put some sliced carrots, turnips, onions, a little parsley, 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, and salt in with it, and boil from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to the size of the Lobster. When done, let the Lobster remain in the water till cold, then cut the strings which bind the claws, and drain on a, sieve. Remove the spawn out of the shells, sever the claws from the body, split the Lobster lengthwise, and empty the halves of the shell, setting the creamy sub- stance aside; take the halves of the tail-meat carefully out of the shells, and garnish the inside with parsley-leaves. hohstev—continued. Cut the tail of the Lobster in slices, put them back in the shells, the red side uppermost, and place them on a dish; open the shells of the claws, and range them on the sides at one end on a bunch of parsley, putting little sprigs of parsley in the hollow between the shells. Pound to a paste in a mortar the spawn and creamy substance, and the raw yolks of six eggs ; turn it into a basin, and stir in gradually 1 table-spoonful of mustard, f- pint of oil, and nearly 1 teacupful of vinegar; add 1 pinch each of raw shallot, parsley, and tarragon, all chopped, and a sprinkling of salt and cayenne. Serve the sauce in a sauceboat with the Lobster. Broiled Lobster.—(1) After the Lobster has been boiled, split it lengthwise, and carefully pick out all the uneatable parts; open it flat, put two or three small pieces of butter on it, and dust over with pepper; place the halves of the Lobster, just as they are in their shells, on a gridiron, and heat slowly over a clear fire. When done, put them with their shells, on a hot dish, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. (2) Cover the meat of the tail and claws with soft butter, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over a little flour. Put it in a broiler and cook until a delicate brown. Turn out on a dish, pour bechamel sauce round, and serve. (3) Select three medium-sized, good, fresh Lobsters, split them into halves, take out the stony pouch and intestines, glaze slightly with sweet-oil, season with small quantities of salt and pepper, and broil for seven minutes on each side. Place them on a dish, moisten with 1 gill of good maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve. (4) Split a boiled Lobster right down, lay it open, and take out the uneatable parts. Sprinkle the meat with -white pepper, salt, and cayenne, moisten it with a little thin melted-butter sauce, place small pieces of butter over it, and put the halves of the Lobster on a gridiron over a clear fire till hot through. Serve them in their shells on a napkin spread over a hot dish. (5) Procure a large Lobster, and divide the tail into two parts, splitting lengthwise. Break the large claws in two, and free the body from the small claws and stomach. Put the body back in the shell, place the meat from the claws in half of their shells, and lay the other half of the shells where they will get hot. Put the Lobster into a double broiler with the meat side exposed to the fire, and cook for eight minutes ; then turn, and cook for ten minutes longer. Put it on a hot dish, sprinkle slightly with salt and cayenne, and season well with maitre d’hotel butter. Cover the claws with the hot shells, and garnish with parsley. Broiled Lobster a la Ravigote.—Cut three small raw Lobsters each into two equal parts, taking out the gravel from the head, season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, rub with a very little oil, and broil the pieces for ten minutes. Take them from the fire, remove the meat from the heads of the Lobsters, put it in a salad-bowl with J pint of ravigote butter, and mix well together ; take the remainder of the meat from the Lobster, dip it in the sauce, and return it to its shell ; warm again for two minutes in the oven, and serve on a folded napkin, garnish- ing the shells with parsley, and serving the sauce in a sauce-bowl. Buttered Lobster.—Pick out all the meat of a Lobster, and mince it finely; mix with the coral and green inside, leav- ing out the uneatable parts, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, Jib. of fresh butter, and 1 saltspoonful each of cayenne and made mustard ; put it in a stewpan with the chojiped meat, and stir over the fire till thoroughly hot through. Wash and cut in quarters three lettuces, arrange them round a dish, pour in the hot Lobster, put some quarters of hard-boiled egg over the top, and serve at once. Canapes of Lobster.—Spread with Lobster butter a few thin slices of bread fried in butter ; digest for two hours some large Lobster collops in a marinade of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Take them out, set them in the middle of the bread, put a row of capers round each piece of Lobster, and serve on a flat dish. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 s 2