TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 945 Mince Pies—continued. (1) Prepare some puff, short- or tart paste, and roll it out on a floured table to the thickness of Jin. Butter some large patty-pans and line them with the paste; fdl each one with mincemeat, cover with rounds of the paste, trim round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake for from twenty-five to thirty minutes in a brisk oven. Beat some white of egg to a stiff froth; take the pies out when cooked, dip a paste-brush in the beaten egg, and brush them over with it. Sprinkle sugar over each, and put them in the oven again for two or three minutes to glaze. Arrange the pies on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper placed on a dish, garnish with sprigs of holly, and serve while very hot. (2) The pies are made the same as No. 1; then put some punch syrup in a small saucepan, and place it over the fire until hot. When cooked, take the pies out of their tins, pour through a funnel 1 table-spoonful of the syrup into each, sift over caster sugar, place them on a dish, and serve. (3) Take Jib. of puff paste, cut off a piece of about 3oz. in weight, roll it into a flat round lOin. in diameter, and lightly butter a large jilate. Arrange the paste on the plate and put the mincemeat in the centre, flattening it evenly, and leaving lin. space clear round the edge of the paste; take the remaining 5nz., roll it out round the same as the former, fold it, and with a knife make incisions in the centre, of Jin. each. Moisten the edge of the paste with a little beaten egg, then cover with the paste, pressing down with the hand all round the edge so as to enclose the mince- meat entirely, and brush over the top with beaten egg. Place in a moderate oven and bake for fifty minutes; remove it to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered sugar, and return it to the oven, closing the door for two minutes to melt the sugar. Then slide it carefully on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. MINCING.—See Choppers. MINERAL WATERS.—See Aerated Waters. MINION FILLETS.— A term applied to the small delicate under-fillets cut from the breasts of birds. MINNOWS—Very tiny river-fish (Phoxinus Icevis), which are often raised to the dignity of the table under Eig. 1185. Minnow. the guise of whitebait, from which it is very difficult to distinguish them (see Fig. 1185). The posterior ventral fin of the whitebait is narrow, and extends along the body towards the tail, as in the herring, of which it is the young. MINT (Fr. Menthe; Ger. Munze; Ital. Menta; Sp. Mcnta).—This is one of the most powerful herbs (Mentha viridis) used in cookery. Lindley informs us that the name mentha is derived from the Greek Mintha, a daughter of Cocytus, who was metamorphosed into a Mint- plant by Proserpine, doubtless from motives of jealousy. So powerful and characteristic is the flavour of Mint, that cooks almost fear to venture its introduction into anything other than a vinegar sauce for lamb ; but that it is capable of many other uses is shown by the following receipts. It should be used fresh if possible (see Fig. 1186), for when dried it loses much of its flavour. See Peppermint. Cream of Mint Liqueur.—Put lqt. of spirits of wine into a large bottle, add 25 drops of oil of Mint and 3 drops of oil of citron, shake the bottle vigorously, pour in lqt. of syrup, and sufficient green colouring to give a light green tint. Strain the liquid through filtering-paper, put it into small Mint—continued. bottles, cork down, and keep them in a dry cool place until wanted. Mint Beer.—(1) Bruise a small bunch of freshly-gathered Mint- leaves, put them into a jar, pour over 1 pint of iced beer and J pint of iced lemonade, stir in 4oz. of crushed ice, strain the liquor into glasses, and serve. (2) Bruise 1 handful of Mint-leaves, put them into a large jar, pour in 2 tumblerfuls of water and Jgall. of beer, stir well, strain, add crushed ice to cool, pour it into glasses, and serve. If preferred, crushed ice may lie served in the glasses, or the water and beer may be made icy cold before being poured on to the Mint-leaves. By some this drink is preferred to Mint julep. Mint Chutney.—Procure a quantity of freshly-gathered Mint, pick out all the dead leaves and stalks, and chop the remainder very finely. To 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the Mint allow Jib. of caster sugar, J breakfast-cupful of vinegar, two small cloves of minced garlic, and four or five green chillies. Mix the above ingredients well together, put the mixture into a bottle, cork tightly, and stand the bottle near the fire for a fortnight. It will be found a delicious relish for cold meats, but should only be made in small quantities. Mint Cordial.—Pick the leaves from some Mint, pour a little water over them, and then drain. Put 2 handfuls in a jar and pour over lqt. of brandy, cover, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Take out the Mint carefully, add the same quantity again to the liquor, and let it remain also for a day ; repeat this operation once more, and then add jgall. of water and lib. of sugar to the brandy. Mix thoroughly, and when it has settled, pour it off into bottles for use. Mint Juice.—Pick off the leaves from six stalks of fresh Mbit, clean well, and pound in a mortar, adding gradually J table spoonful of brandy or water; squeeze out all the liquor through muslin, put it in a bottle, and it is ready for use. A second quantity may be extracted in the same 'way, bruising the leaves as before, and straining. Mint Julep.—(1) Pull off about twelve young sprigs of Mint, put them into a tumbler, add 1 table-spoonful of peach liqueur and the same of brandy, fill up with pounded ice, and serve. See American Drinks. (2) Put 1 wineglassful each of brandy and syrup into a large glass, and fill up with crushed ice; dip a few sprays of Mint in rum, dust with sugar, put them on the top of the ice, float a few small pieces of orange- and lemon-rind on top, and serve with straws. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 z