780 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to see under their special heads. Italian Wines—continued. known as Barbara, ISTebbiola, Barolo, Braccbeto, Gatti- nara, Grignolino, and Malvasia of Asti; Paparetta, Agliono, Caluso, and Moscata; Ligurian Dolcetto, Pignolo of Neive, and Malvasia of Grinzano and Dinazzono. In Lombardy are the San Colouibano, Monterobbio, Stradella, Bergamo, and Inferno of Valtellina. In Modena are Lambrusco, Piorano, and Scandiano. In Piacenza are Cisolo, San- giovesi, and Vino Sante. In Tuscany are Montepulciano, Alsatico, Montalcino, Broglio, Yalgiano, and Chianti. Besides these there ai-e many others, including Lacryma Christi of Naples and red and white Capri, all excellent wines, and greatly superior to many of the concoctions sent to us as French or Spanish. IVORY.—The dust obtained from Ivory-turners is sometimes used to make jelly. Extraordinary, and most probably fictitious, nutritive virtues are attributed to it. It is made as follows: (1) Put Jib. of Ivory dust or powder into a saucepan with Iqt. of water, place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Strain the liquid through a jolly-bag into a basin, and leave it until cold. Then turn the jelly into the saucepan, removing all the sediment there may be, and make it hot again. Mis Fig. 973. Ivory-dust Jelly. 1 wineglassful of sherry with it, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add any flavouring desired. Rinse out a jelly- mould with cold water, then pour in the jelly, and keep it in a cool place until it has set. When wanted, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a glass or fancy china dish, and serve. See Fig. 973. (2) Put 8oz. of Ivory dust into a saucepan with 3 pints of cold water, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity. Pour it into a basin and let it get cold; then put the clear jelly, without sediment, into a saucepan, warm it, add the juice of a lemon, half the grated peel, two or three cloves, and sugar to taste ; when the jelly is dissolved, strain it, and use as required. (3) Put Jgall. of water in a saucepan with Jib. of Ivory dust, and boil gently until it is reduced to 1 pint (it will take about ten hours). Pass through a jelly-bag, and it is ready for use. (4) Put Jib. of Ivory dust or shavings in a saucepan with 2qts. of water, and boil it gently for nine hours, then dissolve loz. of isinglass in it. Remove the jelly to the side of the fire, and mix in J pint of sherry, the peel of half a lemon, the juice of two lemons, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Boil the jelly for half-an-hour longer, then strain it through a jelly-bag, pour into a mould rinsed out with cold water, and set it in a cool place. When the jelly is firm, turn it out on to a fancy dish, and serve. It will keep for a week in the winter, but not longer than three days in the summer. (5) Put lib. of Ivory dust in a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and place it over the fire until boiling; then put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twelve hours, or until reduced to lqt. Afterwards strain the liquor through a jelly-bag until quite clear, mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and I vory—continued. sweeten and flavour to taste. Pour the jelly into a mould, and leave it until cold before serving. (6) Put 3 table-spoonfuls of Ivory dust into a jar with J breakfast-cupful of water; stand the jar in a saucepan pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and keep it over the fire until the Ivory dust is dissolved. Take the jar out of the water and leave until the contents are cold. Afterwards skim off the mucilage that will have risen to the top, being very careful not to disturb the sediment. This mucilage can be used in the preparation of jellies as a substitute for isinglass. It will require some decided flavour, or it will not be palatable. JACK.—See Pike. JACK.—See Roasting. JACK-SNIPE.—A small species of snipe; called also juddock, half-snipe, and other names. See Snipes. JAGG-ERS.—See Jiggers. JAM (Fr. Conserve; Ger. Conserve; Ital. Confet- tura; Sp. Conserva).—“One of the most unfortunate words ever introduced into the English language,” writes Kettner; “of foreign, probably Oriental origin (Arabian jamad—preserved fruit), it has been only too easy to confound it in meaning with the English word to jam, or crush together ”; upon this slender basis this enter- taining writer premises that from a mistaken idea of the origin of the word, English confectioners smash their fruit and “ jam ” it into fruit cheeses, instead of preserving the berries whole in their syrup. In making Jam the first consideration is the fruit, which should be clean and freshly gathered. Every bit of foreign matter must be carefully picked out, and the fruit should be as whole and sound as possible. The next requirement will be a preserving-pan, and this should lie full large for the amount required to be .made at one boil. The pan should be made of copper Fig. 971. Copper Preserving-pan. (see Fig. 974) or bell metal, and kept scrupulously bright. Stewpans made of iron, glazed inside, are also suitable for Jam-making, but tinned pans should be avoided, as they are apt to turn the colour of the fruit and sugar. A wooden spoon should be used for stirring and skimming. Put the fruit into a pan, and set the pan over a stove, standing it upon a small trivet, which will diminish the chances of burning. Next add the sugar in the quantity prescribed, and let the sugar be either loaf or best crystal. There is no profit in using cheap sugar called “pieces,” as it reduces the quality, deadens the colour, and loses weight in cooking. Raw sugar makes a very inferior Jam, and the addition of glucose, although practised in many large factories, should be entirely discarded from home-makes. Whether Jams are boiled over a fire or gas-stove, the latter for preference, they require a sharp heat, so as to save the colour of the fruit, which stewing destroys. The Jam must also be stirred continuously from the first heating, lest the Jam should catch the heat at the bottom of the pan and burn. This will be readily detected by