TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 752 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sc tecs, it:c., referred to, see under their special heads. H ares—continued. nature it requires being thoroughly done, and yet not dried up. When done, serve with gocd gravy or melted butter in the dish and gravy in a tureen, and accompany it with red- currant jelly. The stuffing is composed of the liver, scalded and minced, sweet herbs, parsley, breadcrumbs, and beef- suet, seasoned to taste. (3) Remove the skin of a small Hare, clean it, and stuff it with a stuffing made as follows: Take equal quantities of breadcrumbs and finely-chopped beef-suet, and mix into it 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, a small quantity of pepper, the grated rind of half a lemon, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Make it into a thick smooth paste by adding one egg j and 1 wineglassful or so of port wine. Sew up the Hare, J cover over the back with slices of fat bacon cut | in. [ thick, tie them on with string, and put the Hare in a roasting- I pan. Place it in the oven, baste frequently, and when nearly done, remove the bacon and finish cooking. When [ done (it will take about one hour), drain off the fat from the pan, and put the Hare in front of the fire, basting j frequently with a little butter tied up in a muslin bag j until it is well browned and frothed, or it may be simply basted with butter. Place it on a dish, pour round any [ gravy that is in the pan, and serve with a sauceboatful of j plain beef gravy, and another one of sauce made as follows: Put the heart, kidneys, and liver into a frying-pan with a ■ little butter, and fry until brown; then put them in a saucepan with 1 gill of strong gravy and one onion, and I cook until the liver is quite tender. Break it up small, rub it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and strain the ^ gravy over it; when it has boiled up, add sufficient red- currant jelly to taste, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a little cayenne. (4) Remove the skin from a Hare, and stuff it with a mixture made as follows : Take 1 handful of breadcrumbs J and mix them up with an equal quantity of finely-chopped beef-suet, then add a little salt, thyme, pepper, butter, milk, chopped parsley, two eggs, and one shallot. Sew up the J Hare, place the fore- and hind-legs under the belly, fastening [ Fig. 935. Roasted Hare. them with skewers, fix the head in an upright position with another skewer, place it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for forty-five minutes, when it should be quite done; then let the belly part be exposed a little while longer to the fire, to cook the stuffing. Place it on a dish with the gravy from it, and serve red-currant jelly sepa- rately. See Pig. 935. (5) Skin and clean a Hare, put it into a deep dish with a few slices of onions, two bay-leaves, and 1 table-spoonful of juniper-berries, dust it over with, black pepper, and baste with 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Leave the Hare in \ this marinade until ready to cook it, turning or basting | two or three times each day. Truss and lard it, put it into a baking-dish, dust over with salt and pepper, pour the marinade in, place it in the oven, and in twenty minutes’ time put a lump of butter over the Hare, and baste it continually until cooked. Twenty minutes before the Hare is taken out of the oven, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream over it, and continue basting. When cooked, put the Hare on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over, and serve. (6) Prepare a Hare, stuff it with well-flavoured veal force- meat, and sew up; wipe it over with a dry cloth, but do not wet it at all, or the Hare will be spoilt. Beat up four Hares—continued. eggs together with 1 pint of milk, then beat in gradually a sufficient quantity of flour to make a moderately thick batter. Fix the Hare on a spit, and put it before a clear fire, a little distance off at first; baste it continually with the batter, and as it begins to cook move it nearer the fire. The batter should be well browned, but care must be taken not to let it burn. When cooked, put the Hare on a hot dish, and serve with red-currant jelly and a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Roasted Rare a la Brochette.— Clean a Hare, and cut its flesh into small pieces, about the size of half an egg, all being of the same size. Cut also into pieces of the same size an equal quantity of loin of mntton. Season all with salt and pepper, and rub them well with finely-chopped parsley and onions. Cover the meat with a cloth, and leave it for two or three hours. Put the pieces of Hare and Fig. 936. Roasted Hare 1 la Brochette. mutton alternately on skewers, and wrap them round with thin caul, or if that cannot be obtained, some thickly- buttered paper. Turn them often in front of a clear fire, and when the gravy begins to drop, remove the paper and dredge them over with flour. When the meats are tender and well browned, arrange them, with the skewers still in, on a hot dish, strain the gravy from the dripping-pan over them, and serve. See Fig. 936. Roasted Hare a la Finnoise.—Chop up a few carrots, onions, turnips, laurel-leaves, and sweet herbs; put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of butter, and brown them. Skin and clean a Hare, lard it, put it into a deep dish with the browned vegetables, pour over sufficient stock and vinegar in equal proportions to moisten, cover the pan, and let the Hare remain in this pickle for fifteen or sixteen hours. Take out the Hare, put it in the oven, and bake until done, basting frequently with the liquor in which it was soaked. When done, put it on a dish ; strain the liquor, mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sour cream, pour it over the Hare, and serve. Roasted Hare a la Soyer.— Select a fine Hare, and truss it as for roasting. Chop the liver, and put it in a mortar with 4oz. of chopped beef-suet, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bread- crumbs, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and thyme, and pound them all together. Season the mixture with a small quantity of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix it to a smooth paste with four eggs. Stuff the Hare with the forcemeat, put it on the spit, baste with a few table- spoonfuls of oil, and roast in front of a clear fire, dredging it occasionally with flour. Cut the fillets off three more Hares, skin them, “ lard with strips of bacon, put them in a frying-pan with a small piece of butter, and fry lightly, keeping them rather underdone. Fry in butter some evenly-shaped pieces of bread. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes, and turn it on to a hot dish ; cut the fillets into halves, and arrange them alternately with the heart-shaped pieces of bread on the potato border. Glaze the fillets and croutons. When the Hare is cooked, place it in the centre of the disli. Mix 1 table-spoonful of orange marmalade in H pints of poivrade sauce, pour it round the Hare, and serve. Roasted Hare with Cream Sauce.—(1) Prepare a Hare, and if it is an old one lard it with fine strips of fat bacon. Boil the liver, finely chop it, and mix half of it with a sufficient quantity of chopped bacon to make the stuffing; also add one washed, boned, and chopped anchovy, some grated breadcrumbs, a small quantity of chopped beef-suet,