THE ENCYCLOPAiDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 920 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. Curried Meat.—(1) Take l|lb. of any kind of fresh Meat, and cut it neatly into small square pieces. Mix together on a plate 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, 1 table-spoonful of flour or arrowroot, and a little salt. Peel and slice two onions and one apple, and fry them in 2oz. of butter or good dripping. Rub the squares of Meat in the mixture of curry powder, arrowroot, and salt so as to use it all up; turn the Meat into a saucepan and fry slightly, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of water or gravy, and simmer very gently for an-hour-and-a-half; add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve in a dish with a border of plain boiled rice piled round it. If the Meat to be curried is fowl, instead of water or gravy use 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. (2) Peel an onion, chop it, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butier, and toss about over a brisk fire until lightly browned, then take it out. Cut into small pieces about 21b. of any kind of tender Meat; put them into the saucepan in which the onion was cooked, with more butter, and brown well all over. When the Meat is cooked, move ! the saucepan to the side of the fire and mix in 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, more or less, according to its strength. Peel a large apple, grate it on a coarse bread- grater over the curry, add 1A breakfast-cupfuls of white stock, season to taste with salt, and stir it over the fire until boiling; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put in the browned onion, and let the whole simmer gently for from an-hour-and a-half to two hours, keeping | the saucepan uncovered. Thoroughly wash 1A breakfast- cupfuls of rice, then drain, put it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and add a lump of salt. Put the saucepan over the fire with the lid fixed on tightly, boil the rice for five minutes, then remove the lid, and boil rapidly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When the Meat j is cooked and the liquor, reduced somewhat, mix with it \ teacupful of cream and the juice of half a lemon. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried crofitons of bread or sippets of toast, and serve with the rice in a separate dish. When cooked, the rice should be immediately thrown into a colander to drain free from water. (3) Persian.—Cut about 21b. of rather fat Meat of any kind into small pieces, and rub them lightly with salt. Put a good 4oz. of but;er in a stewpan, melt it, then put in three or four moderate-sized onions, peeled and cut into thin slices, fry quickly until crisp and brown, then take them out. Put in with the butter 1 table-spoonful of pounded onions, a minced clove of garlic, 1 teaspoonful each of ground corian ler-seeds and chillies, A teaspoonful of ginger, and a small quantity of cinnamon. Fry these in- gredients for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of Meat and fry them. When the Meat is brown, put in the onions, with a few cloves, peppercorns, cardamoms, two bay-leaves, and 1 breakfast-cupful of curds. Stir the whole until well mixed, then put the lid on the stewpan and simmer at the edge of the fire for nearly two hours. Look at the curry occasionally, and if it seems to be getting rather dry, pour in a small quantity of water. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve with plain boiled rice on a separate dish. Matelote of Meat.—Take a large slice each of pork, beef, mutton, and veal, and a small slice of leg of lamb. Cut all these into small pieces and put them into a saucepan, just cover with a mixture of stock and champagne in equal quantities and add salt and spice to taste. Cover the sauce- pan close, and keep it on hot ashes for six hours, then serve. Meat-ancl-Bread-and-Butter Pudding.—Butter a large pudding-basin, and line it with thin slices of hread-and- butter, lay over them a slice or two of any kind of fresh Meat, seasoning with finely-chopped onion and parsley, mixed herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Proceed as before until the basin is full of alternate slices of bread- and-butter and Meat, putting a small quantity of the season- ing between the layers. Beat three eggs together with A table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of gravy or broth, and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and pour it over the pudding. Let it soak for ten minutes, then stand the basin in a saucepan, with boiling water to three-parts its height, and ‘ Meat—continued. steam for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Meat Cakes.—Trim oil the fat and skin of some Raw Meat, and finely mince the lean ; mix with it about three finely- rninced onions, and season with pepper, salt, and cumin. Work the mixture well, then divide and mould it into small cakes. Grease a gridiron, lay the cakes on it, side by side, and broil over a clear but not too brisk' fire, turning them when browned on one side. When cooked, arrange the cakes tastefully on a hot dish, sprinkle with finely-minced onions and parsley, and serve. Meat Pricassee.—Cut off several slices of any kind of fresh Meat, dust over with salt, put them in a stewpan, cover with water, and boil gently for half-an-liour. Drain the slices of Meat, rub over with curds, put them in a frying- pan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned ; take out the Meat, put some sliced onions in the butter, and brown them. Put the Meat and onions in a saucepan with the liquor in which the Meat was stewed, place the lid on the pan, and let the liquor simmer at the side of the fire till reduced to a thick consistency, and the Meat quite tender. When cooked, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, and serve. Meat Gravy.—Cut off the rind from lib. of raw, lean ham, put it in a saucepan with a little butter, and add four onions, each cut up into four pieces. Put about 61b. of fillet of veal and the same of gravy-beef in the saucepan, add 1 pint of general stock put the pan on the fire, and reduce the liquor to a dark glaze, taking care not to let it burn. Now add 2galls. of stock, one fowl, a fagot of herbs, and Joz. of salt; boil up again, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for tlnee- hours-and-a-half. Strain through a cloth, remove the fat, and it is ready for use. It may be clarified for jelly, if necessary, with the whites of two eggs and lib. of pounded raw veal. Meat Jelly.—(1) Bone and blanch eight calf’s feet, and put them together with 61b. of fillet of veal, 21b. of boned knuckle of veal, three fowls (from which the fillets have been previously removed) and 4lb. of leg of beef, into a stockpot with 4oz. of salt; pour over 2£galls. of water, let it boil, then skim the liquor; allow it to cool, put in one double fagot of herbs, four onions (with four cloves stuck in one), four leeks, and four large carrots, whole. Place the sauce- pan at the side of the fire, let the contents simmer till the Meat is done, then take it out; as the calf’s feet will re- quire more cooking, they should be left in to stew till tender. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve into a large saucepan, boil up again, then remove it to the side of the fire and let it simmer, skimming till the jelly is quite clear; when reduced to the proper consistency, stand it on ice till cold. Pound the fillets of the fowls, put them in a saucepan, with 1 pint of French white wine and the whites of eight eggs, and season with a little pepper and salt. Put the jelly in with the fillets, whisk it over a brisk fire till boiling, then take it off and let it settle for two or three minutes ; strain through a jelly-bag till quite clear. Leave the jelly in a basin to cool, then set it on ice. It is ready for use when firm. (2) Put a good-sized piece of beef into a saucepan with a knuckle of veal, two calf’s feet, some trimmings of poultry or game, a few onions, cloves, shallots, carrots,5 a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, a bunch of green onions, a few small pieces of ham, and some mixed spices. Put the saucepan over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in some clear broth, and let it simmer very gently for five hours, keeping the lid on the sauce] >rn. At the end of that time, season the liquor with a little salt and pepper, skim off all the fat, and strain it through a fine hair or silk sieve. Put the liquor into a saucepan with the beaten whites of four eggs and 1 wineglassful of tarragon vinegar, stir over a moderate fire till it becomes very white, then move it to the side, put the lid on with some hot ashes on it, and leave till clear. Filter through a jelly-bag till very clear, and keep it in a basin in a cold place, or else on ice, till ready to use it. (3) Take lib. of lean beef, cut it in pieces, and put if into a saucepan, together with about lib. of hock of ham