THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 788 For details respecting Culinary Processes, UtensilSy Saucest &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. J ellies—continued. apricots, greengages, and dried cherries. Pour a little ' Jelly at the bottom of a plain cylinder-mould, then a layer I of fruit, a layer of Jelly, and so on until the m'ould is j nearly full. Pack the mould in ice ; when set, fill the mould up with plain Jelly, put a baking-sheet with ice on it over i the mould, and let it freeze for two hours. Turn the Jelly out of the mould, and serve. Sweet Jelly with Macedoine of Fruits flavoured with Maraschino.—Procure a double-bottomed macedoine-mould, pack it in pounded ice, filling the double bottom also with ice. Prepare a clear Jelly, and when cool mix with it 1 wine- glassful of maraschino; fill the hollow of the mould round the double bottom with the Jelly, and leave it for half-an- liour to set. Prepare a macedoine with several kinds of raw or cooked fruit. Put some more maraschino Jelly in a copper basin, and stand it on ice till thick ; then mix in the mace- doine of fruit. Take the ice out of the double bottom of the Jelly-mould, fill it with hot water, then unhook the double bottom and lift it out at once, fill the hollow that is left with the macedoine, and leave it packed fast in the ice for one hour longer. Make a gum-paste stand, either red or | green, ornamented with white, turn the Jelly on to it, surround | the base with slices of raw pine-apple that have soaked in syrup or syrup and rum for an hour, and serve quickly. Sweet Jelly with Whipped Cream.- Prepare IV pints of clear Jelly, flavoured to taste. Binse the inside of a cylinder- [ mould with cold water, fill it with the Jelly, and stand it on ice till set. Whip f pint of thick cream together with a glass of white wine and a little sugar. When the Jelly is firm, turn it on to a dish, fill the centre with whipped cream, pour a little round the dish, garnish the Jelly with candied cherries, and serve. See Fig. 989. Venetian Jelly.—Put loz. of soaked gelatine into a saucepan with f pint of hot water, and place it over the fire until dis- solved ; then add the juice of three lemons and jib. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar. Beat the whites and shells of three eggs, stir them into the Jelly, and boil for five minutes longer. Take the Jelly off the fire, strain it, and mix in 3 wine- glassfuls of sherry and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Decorate the interior of a plain mould with small pieces of candied peel, dipping in the Jelly to make them stick, then half-fill the mould with the Jelly and leave it until set. Put Joz. of soaked gelatine in a saucepan with J- pint of milk and 2oz. of caster sugar, stir over the fire until dissolved, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Move the custard away from the fire and let it cool. Moisten jib. of sponge cakes with as much sherry as they will absorb, then lay them on the top of the set Jelly in the mould; when the custard has cooled sufficiently fill the mould up with it, and stand it on ice for an hour or two. When ready, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Whipped Sweet Jelly with Fruits.—Put a salpi?on of pre- served fruits in a large basin, and pour a little kirschen- wasser over them. Apricots, greengages, pine-apple, and whole cherries are the best fruits to use. Prepare a calf’s- foot Jelly, boiled a third less than is usually done, strain, pour it into a copper basin, and whip over ice until it begins to thicken, adding the strained juice of two lemons; take it off the ice, mix with it the salpi^on of preserved fruit, pour all into a cylinder-mould, surround with ice, and leave it to set for one hour. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it round, and turn the Jelly out on to a very cold dish. JENNY LIND PUDDING.—See Puddings. JERSEY WONDERS. —For these famous local favourites there is at all times a great demand; but with the usual increase of resources and advancement of trade competition those manufactured for public sale are not generally equal to the home-made production. The follow- ing receipts are given as authentic: (1) Work together with a spoon before the fire ilb. of caster sugar with fib. of best butter until they are thoroughly incorporated. Beat up thoroughly three or four eggs, ac- cording to size, and add these to the sugar and butter. Gradually sift in lib. of white flour and a grating of nutmeg. Knead this together for some time, cover it with a cloth, and set in a warm place to prove a little. Then cut the mass up into pieces about the size of a small apple, roll them round in the hand, using flour to prevent sticking, and then Fig. 990. Jersey Wonders. roll out each ball on a floured paste-board to an oval about tin. thick. Cut with a floured knife three parallel slits along the middle of each, but not through at the ends, cross the two slips with your fingers, and draw up the two sides between. Put your fingers through, and drop each wonder into boiling lard. They will rise as they are done, and can then be turned so as to brown them all over equally. Take them out with a fork, and lay them on a drainer, or folded paper, to drain. A very slight dusting of caster sugar is an im- provement. See Fig. 990. (2) Put 3oz. of butter into lib. of flour and mix in 3oz. of caster sugar, a small quantity each of grated nutmeg, lemon- peel, and ground ginger; then add four well-beaten eggs, and if desired a small quantity of brandy, and form the whole into a paste, kneading it well. Eoll it out to about l|in. in thickness ; from this cut off small pieces of equal size and roll them out to an oval shape, but taking care not to have them less than |in. thick. Cut two or three parallel slits down the centre of each, but not to the ends, fold the sides over, tucking one under each, and with the pieces in the centre forming a handle lift them up, plunge into a pan of boiling fat, let them cook for four minutes on one side and about two minutes on the other ; take out carefully with a skimmer, drain them of fat, and serve. They are very nice served hot with wine or jam sauce, or lemon and sugar. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES.—See Artichokes. JESSAMINE. —An essence made from the flowers of this plant gives a pleasant flavour to some confections. It is made as follows: Put a pressed quart measureful of the fresh petals of Jessa- mine into a jar with 2oz. of coriander-seeds, and steep them in 2qts. of over-proof spirit and lqt. of distilled water. Let them remain for three weeks, drain off or filter, and bottle. Jessamine Water-Ice.—Mix the juice of seven lemons and the zest of three in a pan with 3 gills of syrup, a few drops of essence of Jessamine, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and a little water; pass it through a fine sieve into the freezer, put it in moulds, and serve. JESUITS’ TEA.—An infusion made in Chili of the leaves of Psoralea glandidosa. JEWFISH. — A huge fish, often weighing 5001b., caught along the shores of the Gulf of Mexico, and used 1 by the natives for food.