871 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. mix all well together. Procure six silver skewers ; arrange in the centre of one a piece of Lobster, then a mushroom, another piece of Lobster, and another mushroom. Continue the same for the other skewers. Place them in the broiler, and broil for eight minutes, turning over carefully occa- sionally. Remove from the broiler, dress them on a hot dish on six slices of broiled bacon, pour over 1 gill of maitre d’hotel butter and serve very hot. See Fig. 1088. Lobster Butter.—(1) Take out the head and spawn of two boiled hen Lobsters, put them in a mortar, and pound; add an equal quantity of fresh butter, and pound them both together till thoroughly well mixed. Pass them through a fine hair sieve, and the butter is then ready for use. It is very handy for garnishing or making sandwiches. (2) Put the spawn of a cooked Lobster in a mortar, pound, then mix with it a little fresh butter and 1 tea- spoonful of mustard. Pass all through a fine hair sieve and it is ready for use. Lobster Cake.—Pick the meat out of two boiled Lobsters, put it in a mortar with half its quantity of chopped lean raw ham, and one-third of beef-marrow, and pound well; then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and a slice of crumb of bread soaked in a little cream, and season to taste with pounded mace, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; then mix in the Lobster spawn. Line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, put the mixture into it, pressing it down well, lay a few more slices of bacon on the toji, cover the mould, and bake for an-hour-and-a- half. At the end of that time take the cake out of the oven, and let it remain in the mould until cold. Turn it out of the mould, removing all the fat, on to a dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly and neat groups of washed parsley, and serve. Lobster Chowder.—Put lqt. of milk into a pan, and boil it. Then take three crackers, roll them very fine, mix them with 2oz. of butter and the green fat of a Lobster, and season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, h saltspoonful of pepper, and half the latter quantity of cayenne. Pour the boiling milk slowly over the paste, turn the whole into a double boiler, or a bain-marie, and put in lib. of the meat of Lobsters cut into small dice, boil up very fast, and serve. Lobster Cream.—(1) Pick the flesh out of a Lobster, and chop it small; put it into a saucepan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, moisten with J table-spoonful of vinegar and 1 teaspoonful of sherry, stir over the fire until hot, then dredge it lightly with flour, and add 2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of cream. Boil the mixture slowly for ten minutes, stirring it at the same time. Wash the body-shell of the Lobster, and dry well, then pour the mixture into it. Place a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper on a dish, put the Lobster on it, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Pick all the flesh out of two mo derate-sized Lobsters, cut it into small pieces, then put them in a mortar with the spawn, and pound until reduced to a smooth paste ; next rub through a fine hair sieve, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of thick cream Fig. 1089. Lobster Cream. to bring it to the consistency of a thick puree. Turn the mixture into a small lined saucepan, and stir over the fire until hot. Fill some small fancy paper cases with the mixture, and when quite cold stand them on a dish over Lobster—continued. which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, sprinkle some of the spawn on the top of each, also a small quantity of very finely-chopped parsley and serve. See Fig. 1089. (3) Take from a Lobster sufficient meat to fill 2 break - fastcups, and cut it fine; make 1 pint of white sauce, heat the Lobster in the sauce, and season with a little salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Serve on toast. Lobster Croquettes.—(1) Carefully pick out all the meat from a large boiled Lobster, mince it finely, then mix with it 1 heaped-up teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 table-spoonfuls oi thick cream, the strained juice of one lemon, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and stir in a saucepan over the fire till very hot. Then take it off, mix in the beaten yolk of one egg, and leave till cold. Shape the Lobster preparation into little balls, brush over with beaten egg, plunge them in boiling fat, and fry. When cooked, drain, arrange the croquettes on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Procure from a Lobster sufficient meat to fill 2 breakfast-cups, cut it fine, season with 1 saltspoonful each of salt and mustard, a little cayenne, and mix it with a cupful of thick cream sauce. When cool, shape it into rolls, dip first in egg, and then in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on a paper, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Cook 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and | table-spoonful of flour together till they bubble; add \ teacupful of cream and the meat of a 21b. Lobster cut fine, a little salt and pepper, and when hot, an egg well beaten. When cool, shape, dip in heaten egg and cracker-crumbs, and fry. (4) Take a fine large Lobster, pound all that is eatable in a mortar, mix with it 1 teacupful of sifted bread- crumbs and a seasoning of pepper and salt; mix in then about 2oz. of butter warmed till very soft, and the beaten yolk of one egg. With floured hands roll the paste into pieces all the same size, brush them over with beaten egg, roll in sifted breadcrumbs, fry in boiling lard or dripping to a nice golden brown, and drain on kitchen-paper. Arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and garnish with a border of fried parsley. (5) Pick the meat out of a Lobster, cut it in dice, and mix with it an equal quantity of mushrooms, also cut in dice; measure the above, and for each breakfast-cui>ful use 1 teacupful of thin veloute sauce. Put the sauce in a stewpan, boil it till reduced, then thicken with a liaison of egg and Lobster butter. Mix the Lobster and mush- rooms in the sauce, then take it off the fire, and leave till cold. Shape the preparation when ready into equal- sized balls or corks, dip them in beaten eggs that have been mixed with oil, pepper, and salt, then roll them well in breadcrumbs. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when boiling, put in the croquettes, and fry them till crisp and lightly browned. When cooked, drain them on a cloth, sprinkle with salt, put a folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange the croquettes on it, and serve with tomato sauce. Perigueux or poivrade sauces can be used instead of tomato. (6) Pick the flesh out of the shell of a good-sized Lobster, mince finely, and mix with it about a quarter the quan- tity of finely-grated breadcrumb, seasoning with salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon-juice and anchovy sauce, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg. Moisten with cream, keeping it rather thick. Put the mixture into a stewpan, stir it over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until hot, move it to the side, stir in the beaten yolk of an egg, turn it on to a plate, and leave until cool. When ready mould the mixture into small egg-shaped pieces, brush them over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard. When nicely and equally browned, take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the croquettes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (7) Indian.—Pick the flesh out of a Lobster, and cut it into small squares; mix with them a moderate quantity of