THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 915 Martinoes—continued. head of a pin into them. Wash perfectly clean, and then let them lie in a brine of salt-and-water for three or four days. When taken out of this brine, put them into fresh water, and let them lie in it for twelve hours; then boil them for a few minutes in vinegar, with a seasoning of allspice and cloves. Four vinegar and all into a jar, and when cold cover it down, and let it stand for four or five weeks. The Martinoes are then ready for use. MARZIPAN.—There are several different modes of spelling this, such as Marchpane, Massepain, and some others; the origin and meaning of the first part of the j term is doubtful, hence it is impossible to say which is correct. Marzipan is the name given to a sort of almond paste that is much used by Continental confectioners for making edible table-ornaments and other things, the variety of application being almost unlimited. When properly made, Marzipan should he as plastic as potters’ clay. The following receipts will give some notion of the modes of preparing Marzipan, and its use: (1) Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, and a few bitter \ ones, put them in a mortar, and pound until smooth, add- ing a few drops of rose-water, to keep them from oiling. Put the almond paste into a lined saucepan, with lib. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until it will not stick to the fingers when touched by them. Dredge a paste-board well with caster sugar, spread the paste out on it as thinly as possible, and cut it into cakes of any desired shape or size. Cover a baking-sheet with white paper, dust it over with caster sugar, and lay the cakes on it. Put them into a slow oven, and bake until of a pale yellow colour. Store and keep the cakes dry in tins. (2) Prepare an almond paste by blanching ill), of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, and pounding them in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of orange- Fig. 1133. Marzipan. flower water to keep them from oiling. When the almonds are pounded to a paste, put them into a stewpan with Jib. of caster sugar, and stir them over the fire until of a smooth consistency. Strew caster sugar thickly over a paste-board, put the paste on to it, and knead it to an oval shape. When the paste is cool, roll it out as thinly as possible, and cut it into cakes with a round tin cutter 3in. in diameter. Cover a baking-sheet with a sheet of white paper, and put one of the cakes on it; coat it with a layer of preserve, of any kind, and put another on the top of that,' which also coat with a layer of preserve, and Marzipan—continued. so on until all the cakes are used. Do not put preserve on the top cake, but brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, and decorate with the trimmings of the paste cut into small fancy shapes. Brash the cake over with the white of one egg beaten up together with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, ornament with coloured icing, lightly brown in a moderate oven, and garnish round the dish with dried cherries before serving. See Fig. 1133. (3) Put Jib. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar, and pound them to a pulp, adding a little orange-flower water to prevent oiling. Put the almonds and Jib. of sugar into a preserving-pan, and stir well over a slow fire until it forms a mass round the spoon. Try it by pressing a finger on it, and if it does not stick it is done; but if the reverse, continue to dry it. Turn the preparation out on to a sheet of paper well dusted with sugar, flavour it with orange or lemon sugar, well work in, and form it into rolls Jin. in thickness; cut these slantwise into 4in. lengths, make them into rings, and put them on a wire sieve. Mask them with lemon-flavoured icing, let them drain, put them on pieces of paper spread over copper sheets, and bake in a slow oven until lightly coloured. Take them out, let them get cold, remove them from the paper, and they are ready for use. Any kind of flavour- ing may be used instead of the orange or lemon, but it must be well worked in. (4) Roll out some almond paste till nearly lin. thick, cut it into squares about 2in. each way, and press them down with a square piece of wood a little smaller, so that a border is formed all round. Bake these pieces of paste, anil when cold, pour into them any well-flavoured cream, filling them as high as the borders; cover with sugar icing, and brown with a salamander. MASATA.—A South American spirit distilled from bananas. It is now manufactured very largely in India. MASHING.—The difference between this mode of breaking up potatoes, turnips, &c., and the preparation of the puree, is that while Mashing is purely a British process, the puree belongs to the French. The object of Mashing vegetables is to render them soft and digestible:—it stands to reason, therefore, that all lumps, or hard pieces, which are apt to exist in potatoes; | turnips, parsnips, and other roots, should be carefully re- moved, not broken up, as their hardness indicates at once that the particles of which they are composed are tough and indigestible. The French cook speaks of Mashing as tripotage, which is literally a grinding to powder, pulverizing; and it would be much more accurate if British cooks spoke of the process as smashing rather than mashing, the term mash having quite a different signification in other industries, such as brewing, or in feeding horses. The good plain cook, or amateur, is apt to make a very great mistake in preparing a mash of any vegetable; with mashed potatoes, grease, such as dripping or butter, or milk is frequently worked in, but quite unnecessarily; indeed, mashed potatoes are spoiled in this way, the same observation applying to all others. Nothing is necessary beyond a seasoning of salt. The ingenuity of those who make ordinary apparatus has procured for us some very useful tools for Mashing, one is a metal perforated vessel into which potatoes are put, and then by bringing the handles together a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. 3x2