737 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Hams—continued. Small Hams cured in Ireland and sold as Irish Hams make capital breakfast or luncheon dishes; larger Hams being better suited for culinary service. Canadian Hams re- semble Irish Hams in some particulars; they are small, long, and generally quite as well cured as any, but the fat is not so white or marrowy as the larger York or Westphalian. The following receipts for pickling Hams are very reliable. They can be either smoked or not after drying, and wrapped in paper, or sewn up in canvas, to keep off the flies that usually infest our kitchens : (1) A peck of common salt is mixed up and pounded with 51b. of bay-salt and 2oz. each of saltpetre and sal-prunella. The Ham is first sprinkled with common salt, and laid down for twenty-four hours. It is then well rubbed with the above mixture, and left for three or four days in a cool place. The meat is then placed in the pickling-trough, and the brine boiled in 2galls. of water until it is sufficiently strong to float an egg—that being the test usually accepted as the proof of the strength of brine. When this pickle is cold, it is to be poured over the Ham in the trough, and the Ham left for a fortnight or three weeks to soak. At the end of this time take out the Ham, and having roughly wiped it and tied it up in paper to keep the flies off, hang it up over a fireplace to dry. (2) Make a brine by adding to every gallon of water Joz. of potash, 2oz. of saltpetre, lib. of sugar, and 41b. of salt, put it over the fire, and boil till all the dirt from the salt and sugar has risen to the top and been skimmed off, then pour into a tub and let it stand till cold. Pack the Hams into an iron-bound cask, laying clean bricks or stones over to keep them down; pour the brine over, when quite cold, till they are well covered, and let them remain for a month or five weeks ; then take out, drain, and dry. (3) Strew the Ham over with common salt, and leave it until the next day; then throw over it a mixture of 141b. of salt, 2oz. of saltpetre, 2oz. of pounded coriander-seeds, loz. of black pepper, lib. of coarse brown sugar, and 4oz. of treacle. Rub the Ham well with the mixture every day for three weeks. Afterwards, soak it for one night in cold water, then let it be dried in the usual way. When boiling the Ham, put Jib. of treacle and a bunch of sweet herbs in the water with it. (4) For a Ham weighing 141b. allow lib. of salt, lib. of dark brown sugar, 2oz. of sal-prunella, loz. of bay-salt, loz. of saltpetre, and 4oz. of pepper. Rub the Ham well with these. Leave the Ham in the pickle for a month, basting it well every day, then take it out and dry. (5) For a Ham weighing about lSlb. allow 41b. of common salt, fib. of bay-salt, and loz. of saltpetre; pound these ingredients together, and rub the Ham with them. Continue the rubbing once every day for a week, then take the Ham out of the pickle, pour lib. of treadle over, and leave it for a month, turning occasionally. Hams prepared in this way do not require soaking'. Dry in the usual manner. (6) American Mode.—Put in a large tub 1 peck and ljgalls. of fine salt, lflb. of saltpetre, lqt. of hickory ashes well sifted, lqt. of molasses, 1 breakfast-cupful of cayenne, and 1 teacupful of black pepper. The above quantities are sufficient for 5001b. of Ham. Mix these ingredients together, rub it into each Ham with an ordinary brick or something- rough to get the pickle well in, pack in a light clean tub, and press down by laying bricks over the Hams. Let the Hams soak for six weeks; then take them out and rub each one on the fleshy side with some black pepper. Hang them in the meat-house, and smoke with green hickory from ten to twelve hours a day for six weeks, not allowing the wood to blaze. In the spring of the year take them down, and pack in any well-slaked coal ashes or pine ashes. (7) Virginian Mode.—Rub 1 teaspoonful of saltpetre on the fleshy side of each Ham. Salt, not too heavily, for five weeks (if in frosty weather, for six weeks), then brush the Hams well, and rub them with hickory ashes; let them lie for one week, then hang and smoke them for six weeks with green-hickory chips. After brushing, pack them in hickory ashes. (8) Westphalian Mode.—Select two fine legs of dairy-fed pork, cut off the round knobs of the hip-bones, and then rub the flesh well with salt, and leave them in a large pan for For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hams—continued. three days, by which time the salt will have drawn the blood out; then take the Hams out of the brine. Mix together lib. of brown sugar, lib. of salt, and 2oz. of saltpetre, rub the Hams well with it, put them in a large vessel, leaving them for three days, then pour in lqt. of vinegar. It will take a month to cure them, and during that time they should often be turned in the brine. At the expiration of the month take them out, drain, and dredge some coarse flour over, and hang them in a dry place. If they are smoked they will not be so subject to infection by vermin, the smoke of wood being better than the smoke of coal. The Hams should be hung as far from the fire as possible, or else the fat will melt, and make the Hams dry and hard. For farther information on the subject of Curing, reference should be made to that heading. All experienced cooks agree that for culinary purposes Hams should not be too new—they are always better for a few months, keeping. It is usual, after smoking, to wrap Hams in paper, or sew them up in canvas, to keep off flies and dust, and then to hang them, by means of a string through the knuckle, on hooks or frames near the kitchen ceiling; but a dry pantry or dairy is a far better place to keep them, and then they should be laid, the cut surfaces uppermost, on shelves. In cookery, Hams are used for a variety of purposes; indeed, they are the very keystone to many dishes with which their names are not even associated. Continental cooks are especially indebted to Hams for their successes, hence they pay great attention to their treatment. The following is a very useful mode of preparing Ham for occasional use, the bone being removed and used for flavouring soups or sauces: With a sharp knife cut round the knuckle and lengthwise along and right down to the edge of the bone, until the aitch-bone is reached; then make a straight cross-cut right round, and the bone can be removed. Keep the Ham hung up in a dry place, and when any slices are required, say for frying or broiling, they are easily obtained, and the skin trimmed off. Baked Ham.— Put a Ham weighing about 101b. into a bowl with a good supply of water, and let it soak for twelve hours or so. Take it out, trim off all the rusty or uneatable parts from the underneath side, and spread it over thickly with a paste of flour and water. Put it in a baking-dish, set it in a well-heated oven, and bake for about four hours. When done, take it out, carefully remove the flour-and-water crust, skin, brush over with glaze or grate a little crust of bread over it, place a paper frill on the knuckle, and serve with a garnish of vegetables cooked and cut up into various shapes. By this mode of cooking a Ham, it is stewed in its own juice, loses nothing, and is very full of flavour. Baked stuffed Ham. -Boil the Ham till it can easily be skinned, take off the skin, and gash the Ham to the bone; fill up the cuts with a forcemeat of sifted breadcrumbs, finely- chopped parsley, a very little thyme, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and sufficient butter to mix these ingredients to a paste. Brush over the Ham with well-beaten yolks of eggs, sprinkle it with sifted breadcrumbs, and bake slowly till quite done. Or if a hot boiled Ham be served up, and but a little of it used, the space where the slices have been taken from may be filled with forcemeat, brushed over with beaten egg, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and put into the oven till browned, the Ham being already sufficiently cooked. Boiled Ham.—(1) Wash the Ham, put it in a saucepan, and cover with hot water ; simmer gently for five hours, then move the saucepan on one side, and let the Ham remain in the water for one or two hours longer. When nearly cold, take it out, skin it, and sprinkle over baked breadcrumbs and about 3 table-spoonfuls of fine moist sugar. (2) Select a freshly-smoked York Ham, soak it in cold water for a few hours, scrape it, put it in a kettle or a large sauce- pan, cover with water, and put in a few vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, two or three cloves and pepper- corns, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; simmer for three-and-a- half-hours, then take the kettle off the fire, and let the Ham remain three-quarters-of-an-hour in its liquor. When ready 3 K Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY