TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 887 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. (2) Put 4oz. of Macaroni, broken up into short pieces, into a saucepan; pour over lqt. of milk and 1 pint of cream, and let it soak fora few hours. Put the pan over a slow lire, add loz. of blanched and finely-chopped sweet and bitter almonds, and simmer the contents gently until the Macaroni is tender. In the meantime, beat six eggs, and add 1 ioz. of butter and lib. of caster sugar; mix this with the Macaroni mixture when sufficiently simmered, stir well, and pour it into a well-buttered pie dish. Sprinkle the top with a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, put the dish in a moderate oven for an hour to bake, and the Macaroni pudding Is then ready to be served. Macaroni Boiled in Sherry.—Put joz. of Italian Macaroni into a saucepan with j pint of sherry and water in equal quantities, and boil the Macaroni gently till tender and the moisture has evaporated. Put on a hot dish, sift over caster sugar and 1 pinch of ground cinnamon, and serve. Macaroni with Cheese.—(1) Put in a large saucepan plenty of water and a lump of salt, and place it over the fire ; when the water boils quickly throw in the Macaroni, first breaking it into moderate lengths. Stir frequently until tender, then pour in a jug of cold water, and drain the water off. Put about jib. of butter in a stewpan and place it over the fire until lightly browned ; turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, pour over the butter, strew plenty of grated Parmesan cheese on it, and serve. (2) Boil 5oz. or Goz. of Macaroni in salted water until tender, take it out, drain, and put it into a baking-dish. Chop 2oz. of cheese, add it, together with the same quantity of butter, to the Macaroni, pour over two eggs beaten up in l pint of milk, or milk-and-water, put it in the oven, and bake. In the meantime, boil j pint of milk, thicken it with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a little salt. When the Macaroni is so set that it will not mix, pour over the other mixture, close the oven, and bake until a yellowish-brown colour, then serve. This dish is very attractive, as the clieese- and-custanl mixture boils up in spots and appears amongst the white sauce and parsley. (3) Boil jib. of Macaroni till tender, strain off the water, put the Macaroni back into the saucepan, add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and a very little cayenne, and stir in a small piece of butter and a small quantity of cream ; when quite hot, put it on a hot dish, lay some very thin slices of cheese on top, and leave it before the fire till the cheese is melted; then serve hot. Macaroni with Cockles.—Teel a quantity of tomatoes, cut them in slices, and remove the seeds ; put them in a stew- pan with a peeled clove of garlic, and keep simmering gently at the side of the fire for two hours, stirring frequently. Season with salt and pepper, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and boil for ten minutes longer ; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Put plenty of cockles in a saucepan, place over a brisk fire until their shells open, then pick them out, strain the liquor of the cockles through a piece of muslin, and mix it and the cockles with the tomatoes. Have ready boiled jib. of Macaroni, place it on a hot dish, pour the tomatoes and cockles over it, mix well with a fork, and serve. • Macaroni Croquettes.—(1) Boil 8oz. of Macaroni until tender in a. saucepan containing salted water, drain, and put it in a stewpan with 5oz. of butter, 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a few table-spoonfuls of pickled tongue cut in small pieces, and the same quantity of truffles. When these are all cooked and well mixed, pour out into a well-buttered saute-pan to about lin. in thickness. Cover with paper, place a weight on the top, and when cool cut it into rounds about lin. in diameter ; roll them in more grated Parmesan cheese, dip in well-beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry in a little butter until of a light brown colour. Take them out, drain, put in a pile on an ornamental dish-paper laid over a dish (see Fig. 1105), and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of cold cooked Macaroni into a saucepan, and warm it up together with a little thick white sauce ; when hot, add 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese and Macaroni—continued. the well-beaten yolk of an egg, with salt and pepper to taste. Let it cool, and shape it into rolls ; put them in crumbs, egg and then breadcrumb them again, fry in hot fat until done, then serve. Macaroni with Game.—Put jib. of Macaroni into a stew- pan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of stock and any required spices, and cook for an hour or so. When done, add 1 teacupful of red wine, 1 table spoonful of any kind of jelly, and two or three slices of lemon; mix well, then add lib. of finely-minced game, warm them all up together, sprinkle over 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, brown in the oven or with a salamander, and serve quickly. Macaroni with Gravy.—Prepare a little veal gravy, skim off the fat, and mix it with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, a little raw ham, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of pepper. Set this on the side of the fire where it will simmer gently until wanted. In the meantime, boil some Macaroni in a little salted water ; when tender, drain, and before it gets cold take up small quantities with a skimmer and put them in layers in a deep dish. Cover each layer with grated Parmesan cheese, moisten with a little of the gravy strained through a strainer and mixed with a little butter, and serve very hot. If the gravy is too thin, thicken it with a little meat glaze. Macaroni with Ham. Put2oz. of (Macaroni broken in pieces in a saucepan with 1 pint of highly-seasoned stock, and boil until quite tender ; add a little butter, salt, and pepper, and turn it out on to a dish with 2oz. of minced cooked fat ham or streaky bacon, sprinkle a few fried breadcrumbs over, and serve. Macaroni with Kidneys.—Boil jib. of Macaroni. Take tbe fat from six mutton-kidneys, or one ox-kidney, skin them, cut them open, setoson with cayenne, salt, and powdered mixed herbs, and fry in butter, browning nicely on both sides; then stir in j pint of gravy flavoured with Fio. 1106. Macaroni and Kidneys. tomatoes. Lay the kidneys on a hot dish, surround them with the hot boiled Macaroni (see Fig. 1106), pour over the gravy, and sprinkle with a little salt and pepper and some chopped hard-boiled eggs, with a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese. Serve hot. Macaroni with Meat.—(1) Scald Goz. of Macaroni till tender, but not long enough to break or to let it stick together.