THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 873 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, sec under their special heads. Lobster—continued. sauce, and about ^lb. of flour. Mix the flour in very thoroughly, then roll the paste out about fin. thick. Cut this into strips about lin. wide and 3in. long; fry in boiling lard or dripping, and lay them on kitchen-paper to drain. Have ready in a small saucepan at the side of the fire J pint of butter sauce, and stir into this half the coral of the Lobster, pounded fine, and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; let it come nearly to the boil and then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream. Arrange the cutlets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Cutlets in Aspic.—Take out all the meat of a couple of Lobsters, put it into a mortar with a little cayenne and 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and pound well, adding a small lump of Lobster butter and 1 teacupful of warm aspic jelly. When these are well incorporated, turn the mixture out on to a flat dish, spreading it to about Jin. in thickness; let it get icy cold, and cut it up into the shape of cutlets, working the trimmings up and using them as well. Pour 1J pints of white sauce into a sauce- pan with the Lobster heads finely chopped or broken, reduce it, and add a little red Lobster spawn rubbed through a fine sieve, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and sufficient dissolved gelatine to make it set. Pass this sauce through a fine sieve into a basin packed in ice, stir it well until nearly cold, mask the cutlets with it before it is quite firm, and let it remain until wanted. Decorate the cutlets with truffles and the whites of hard- boiled eggs cut into various shapes, and cover them with more of the jelly. Pack a sufficient number of small cutlet-moulds in ice, pour in a little of the jelly slightly warmed, place the cutlets in carefully, and fill up the moulds with more of the jelly; turn them all out on to a dish when set, put a garnish of chopped lettuce, hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, and small lumps of coloured aspic round them, and serve. Lobster-and-Egg Patties.—Boil two eggs until hard, then shell them and put them into a mortar with J teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and dry mustard, and a small quantity of pepper. Pound the mixture well, and moisten it with 1 table-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, and J table-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Butter some small patty-pans, and line them with the mixture. Fill each pan with either fresh-boiled or tinned Lobster chopped small, then cover with a layer of the egg mixture. Strew a small quantity of breadcrumbs over the top, put a small lump of butter on each, and place in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, turn the patties out of the tins on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Forcemeat.—(1) Fry an onion chopped very fine in loz. of butter until it is a golden colour, adding 1 table-spoonful of flour to make a roux. Moisten with J pint of stock, stirring well and continuously until the sauce hardens. Season with J table-spoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of white pepper, the same of cayenne, 1 table- spoonful of English sauce, J teaspoonful of mustard, a j crushed grain of garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well, adding 21b. of cooked Lobster, cut up very fine, with twelve mushrooms, also chopped up small. Cook for thirty minutes in a saucepan, then put it back off the hot fire ; add the yolks of four eggs, stir again for a moment, cool, and use as required. (2) Take the flesh of a Lobster, the larger the better, and pound it in a mortar with half an anchovy, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a small piece of boiled celery, a little cayenne, and salt and pepper; add | pint of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, and two eggs to bind it. Form the forcemeat into small balls, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown colour. A few oysters, if added, are a great improvement, b or fisb, soups, or stews, these balls are excellent. Lobster Fricassee.—(1) Select two moderately large Lobsters and partially boil them. Pick the flesh out of the claws and tails, and cut it into small pieces; put it into Lobster—continued. a saucepan with nearly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bechamel sauce, and let the contents stew gently for ten minutes. Strain the juice of half a lemon in the fricassee, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Take all the meat of a large Lobster, cut it into pieces about Jin. square, put them over the fire in a saucepan together with J pint of good veal broth or chicken broth (the broth ought to be quite a jelly) and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let them simmer for five minutes ; then add 1 gill of cream, and when it is again at the point of boiling stir in loz. of butter; as soon as this is quite melted, take the saucepan from the fire, stir in quickly the strained juice of half a lemon, pour the fricassee into a covered dish, and serve. Boston crackers, split, toasted, and buttered hot, may be served with it. (3) Pick all the flesh out of the shell of a Lobster; put 1 table-spoonful of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, then pour in 1 teacupful of cream and 2 scant teacupfuls of milk ; continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, put in the Lobster-meat, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and let the contents boil gently for fifteen minutes. Squeeze in the juice of one Lemon, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, and serve. Lobster Fritters.—(1) Finely chop the meat of a Lobster and a few skinned prawns ; put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss over the fire until hot. Prepare some y 'ood paste, roll it out about Jin. in thickness, cut it into 'ounds with a tin cutter ljin. in diameter, put them into a flat stewpan of boiling lard or butter, and fry until nicely browned; drain them, pile some of the Lobster mixture on each, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Pick the meat from a boiled Lobster and cut it into collops as evenly as possible. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when this fat is boiling put in the collops, after dipping each piece into frying-batter in which has been mixed a few drops of essence of anchovies and a little cayenne pepper, and fry quickly. When cooked, drain them, arrange on a hot dish, and serve at once. Lobster Ketchup.—Take a Lobster that weighs 31b. or as near that weight as possible, pick out all the meat, and pound the coral in a mortar. When that is well pounded, add the meat, pound both together, and mix in 1 tea- spoonful of cayenne pepper. Open a bottle of sherry, use a little of it to moisten the meat during the pounding, and when all is pounded smooth add the remainder of the bottle of sherry, and mix it well in. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into two wide-necked bottles, putting on tbe top of each 1 table-spoonful of whole pepper; cork the bottles well, and tie leather over the corks. This ketchup will keep for a year. It tastes just like fresh Lobster sauce. One teacupful of it is sufficient to flavour a large sauce-tureenful of melted-butter sauce. Lobster Loaf or Cheese.—Take out the flesh from the claws of six Lobsters without breaking; pick the flesh out of the bodies of the Lobsters, and chop it finely. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it with a wooden spoon Then pour in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and continue stirring over tbe fire till boiling, keeping it very smooth ; season the mixture with salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and 1 teaspoonful each of anchovy and Worcestershire sauces. Beat four eggs well, stir them into the above ingredients, moving the sauce- pan oft' the fire, and add the chopped body flesh of the Lobsters. Butter a cylinder-mould, pour the mixture into it, tie a sheet of paper over the top, put it in a saucepan, with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam gently for forty-five minutes. Put J table-spoonful of cornflour in a saucepan, mix in gradually J pint of clear brown stock, and stir it over the fire till boiling ; season this sauce with a squeeze of lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne pepper; put the legs of the Lobsters in, and warm them. Turn the Lobster out of the mould on to a hot dish, stick a head at the top and a pair of claws at the