777 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Indian Corn—continued. break off the corn; then drain the corn, throw it into cold water, and rub between the hands through several waters, until the hulls are all removed ; it will then be ready for use. (3) Cover 2qts. of dried corn with cold water, add 1 table- spoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia (saleratus), .and boil the corn until the hulls crack and begin to curl up. Wash the corn three or four times in cold water, rubbing between the hands to free it from husks or hulls, and after all the hulls are removed, boil it in salted water, or milk-and-water until tender ; season with pepper and butter, and serve either as a vegetable or with milk or cream and sugar. Fried Corn.—(1) Put j tin of Indian Corn in a bowl and mash it; add one egg, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, pepper and salt to taste, and mix well. Put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, shape the corn like oysters witli a table-spoon, and when the butter is melted, drop in the corn, flatten it, and fry on botli sides to a light golden brown. (2) Put 1 pint of grated green corn into a basin, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and one egg. Mix the ingredients together, drop small quantities at a time into melted lard, and fry. In taste they resemble fried oysters. They are an excellent relish for breakfast, and a good side dish for dinner. Grated Corn. — Put the required number of ears of Indian Corn into a saucepan of water, and boil them. Grate off the cob, add a little butter, salt, and cream, put the mixture into a dish, and serve like a vegetable. Grated Corn Pudding-.—To lqt. of grated boiled corn add the yolks of four eggs, 1 teacupful each of butter and milk, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, turn it into a buttered tin pan or dish, set it in the oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve. Green-Corn Cakes.—(1) Mix well together lqt. of green Indian Corn, rasped from the ear with a coarse grater, 2 teacupfuls of new milk, 1 teacupful of flour, and two well-beaten eggs ; season the batter with salt and pepper, and bake in cakes upon a griddle. The corn should be in a state most suitable for roasting or boiling. This is an excellent dish. (2) Remove the husk and the silky fibre from some green corn, put it in boiling water, cover with the clean inner husks, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When the liquor has thickened, strain off the corn, cut through each row of kernels with a sharp-pointed knife, and press out the pulp with the back of the knife, leaving the hull on the cob. To 1 pint of corn pulp add two well-beaten eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. 1 pinch of pepper, and 1 saltspoonful of salt; shape the corn paste into small cakes, and cook them on a buttered griddle till dark brown on both sides. Servo hot. (3) Grate enough green corn to fill a pint measure, add to it 1 gill of milk, the yolks of two eggs, not beaten, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, i saltspoonful of pepper, and flour enough to form a medium stiff batter. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix them lightly with the batter, form the paste into cakes, and cook them on a griddle. Green-Corn Fritters.—(1) Prepare four fresh ears of green Indian Corn as for Boiled Green Coen (No. 2); after draining them carefully, place them in a bowl, season with salt and Fig. 970. Green-Corn Fritters. pepper, and add two eggs, ^lb. of sifted flour, and ^ pint of cold milk. Stir it vigorously (but do not beat it) with a wooden spoon for five minutes, and it will be sufficiently firm. Butter a frying-pan, put it on the fire, then take a ladle holding Indian Corn—continued. 1 gill, and with this put the preparation into the pan in twelve parts, being careful they do not touch one another, and let them get a good golden colour, cooking for four minutes on each side. Dress them on a folded napkin, and serve. See Pig. 970. (2) Remove the cob from a little more than a breakfast- cupful of green Indian Corn. Put 1 teacupful of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add an equal quantity of flour; stir well over the fire for a few minutes, then add the corn, salt and pepper to taste, and turn the whole into a deep dish, making it about lin. in depth. Cut it up into 2in. lengths, dip them into batter, and fry to a good colour in a frying-pan containing boiling lard. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish with a little sweet sauce under, and serve (3) Take eight ears of corn and boil them. Put pb. of flour into a basin, drop in the yolks of four eggs, pour in gradually J pint of milk, stirring meanwhile so as to mix the flour smoothly, then shake in 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper ; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and lightly stir them in. Take the corn from the cobs and stir it into the batter; then take up large spoonfuls of it, drop them into boiling-hot lard or clarified fat, and fry till they are brown all over, turning them constantly. When they are done, lift out of the fat with a strainer, let them drain for a minute on a sheet of paper, and serve on a hot napkin spread over a dish. Green-Corn Pudding-. —(1) Grate six large ears of green corn ; mix with it 1 piled teaspoonful of salt, 5 saltspoonful each of pepper and grated nutmeg, six eggs, and pints of milk; put the pudding into a buttered earthenware dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. (2) Mix with breakfast-cupfuls of grated green corn, 2qts. of milk, eight well-beaten eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, one grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. When well mixed, turn the pudding into a pie-dish, and bake for an hour. When cooked, serve the pudding hot with sweet sauce. Green-Corn Saute au Beurre.—Proceed as for Green-Corn Saute a la Creme, adding- loz. of butter, but without the other ingredients; season, and cook for eight minutes, tossing it well. Place in a hot dish, and serve. Gi'een-Corn Saute a la Creme.—Take six ears of cooked green Indian Corn, prepared as for Boiled Green Corn (No. 2), drain, cut off the corn from the cobs with a sharp knife, being very careful that none of the cob adheres to the corn, and place it in a saute-pan with 1 teacupful of hot bechamel sauce, i breakfast-cupful of cream, and -J-oz. of butter ; season with salt and pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Cook gently on the stove for five minutes, place it in a hot dish, and serve. Green-Corn Soup.—(1) With a very sharp knife scrape the thinnest possible shaving from six ears of sweet corn, and with the back of the knife scrape out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. Break the cobs if long, put them on to boil in cold water sufficient to cover, and boil for thirty minutes, then strain. There should be about 1 pint of water after straining. Put the corn-water on to boil again, and when boiling add the corn pulp. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, i saltspoonful of white pepper, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and 1 pint of boiling milk. Thicken with 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter, cooked together. Boil for five minutes, and serve at once. (2) Boil 1 pint of grated green corn and one large onion in 1 pint of water for thirty minutes. Put in another sauce- pan lqt. of milk, and boil it; mix 1 large table-spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, add a few table-spoonfuls of the boiling milk to mix smooth, then turn it into the rest of the milk and boil for eight minutes. Take out the onion, add the corn and a little salt and pepper, season to taste, and serve. (3) Put the required quantity of green corn into a saucepan with broth or water, and boil until quite soft; rub it through a fine sieve, add more vegetable broth if required, boil up quickly, pour it into a tureen, and serve with small pieces of toasted bread. To obtain a dark green colour, a few spinach- leaves may be boiled with it. (4) Put 1 pint of green corn into a saucepan of water, and boil until quite soft; drain the corn and pass it through a