THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 841 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. and place it over a gentle fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs, mix them with the cream, moving the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir until thickened. Squeeze the juice of a Lemon into a dish, strain the cream over it, and heat lightly until cold. The cream is then ready for serving. (7) Put the thinly-pared rinds of three Lemons into § breakfast-cupful of water and let them steep for an hour or two. Strain the juice of the Lemons and mix with it 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Beat the yolks of live eggs thoroughly, then mix with them the juice and sugar and the water from the peels. Strain the mixture into a lined stewpan and stir it over a gentle lire until thickened, but do not let it boil. When cold, serve the cream in small custard-glasses. (8) Empty a loz. packet of gelatine into a basin, cover with h pint of milk, and let it soak for three or four hours. Afterwards turn it into a stewpan, put in the thinly-pared rinds of two Lemons, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir the whole over the tire until the gelatine has dissolved. Next strain the milk, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and whisk gently until nearly cold, adding from time to time a little strained Lemon-juice. Pour the cream into a mould, and stand it in a cool temperature or on ice until quite cold and set. Before serving, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a dish. (9) Put 1 pint of water into a lined saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of a Lemon and boil until flavoured, then remove the Lemon-rind. Mix 1 heaped table-spoonful of cornflour with 1 teacupful of cold water, and stir in the boiling water. If at all lumpy, strain the mixture, pour it into the saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, then move it to the side. Beat two eggs well together with the juice of two Lemons, strain, mix them in with the cornflour, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir for a few minutes at the edge of the fire, but do not let it boil again. Leave the cornflour until somewhat cooled, then turn it into a glass dish and stand it in a cool place. When cold, this is an excellent cream to be served with stewed fruit, or it is very nice alone. (10) Thinly pare two larre Lemons, and put their peels in a stewpan with 2£ teacupfuls of caster sugar, joz. of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste, 2oz. of isin- glass, and lqt. of new milk; boil over a moderate fire till the isinglass has dissolved (it will take from eight to ten minutes). Strain the preparation through a fine hair sieve into a jug, stir in the yolks of seven well-beaten eggs, then pour the mixture from one jug to another; when nearly cold, add the strained juice of two Lemons, mix thoroughly together, then pour it into an oiled mould. When ready to serve, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish (see Fig. 1062). (11) Steep the thinly-peeled rinds of two Lemons in h pint of boiling water; when it has stood long enough to draw the flavour from the peel, dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in it. When nearly cold, stir in the strained juice of two Lemons and three well-beaten eggs. Pour the preparation into .a jug, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it over the tire till thick ; then remove it and leave Lemons—continued. till cold, giving an occasional stir. This cream is better served on the following day. It should be turned either into glasses or into a glass dish. (12) Boil lqt. of cream and when half cold mix with it the beaten yolks of seven or eight eggs, and stir until quite cold. Pour the cream into a lined saucepan, put in ilb. of caster sugar and l table-spoonful of grated Lemon-peel, and stir it constantly over a gentle fire. When almost on the point of boiling, take the cream oil the lire and let it get cool. Serve the cream cold in small glasses. (1.3) Mix 1^ table-spoonfuls of arrowroot till smooth in a small quantity of cold water, and stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling water. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan and stir it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until thick ; boil for a few minutes, colour it lightly with a small quantity of safl'ron, add 1 teaspoonful of Lemon-juice and a small quantity of grated Lemon-peel, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and move it to the side of the lire. Beat the yolks of four eggs well and stir them quickly into the arrowroot. Continue stirring at the side of the lire a sufficient time to cook the eggs without letting them curdle, then move it away and leave until cold. Serve the cream in small glasses. (14) Dissolve ioz. of isinglass in i pint of white wine, then mix with it the juice of one large Lemon or two small ones and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and strain the mixture into a mould. When nearly cold, fill up the mould with cream, stir all well together, and pack in pounded ice and salt. When sufficiently frozen dip the mould in hot water, quickly removing it again, wipe, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (15) Rub the peel of two Lemons on loaf sugar. Put 12oz. of sugar in a stewpan with the Lemon-sugar, a small piece of stick cinnamon, 1£ pints of cream or milk, the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and h saltspoonful .of salt, and stir the mixture over a slow fire till thick and on the point of boiling; then remove it at once, work all together vigorously, and pass it through a line hair sieve. Turn the cream into a freezing-pot, and work it till frozen, or else put the lid on, with ice on that, and leave for an hour or more. Turn the frozen cream into moulds, close them, pack in ice, and leave for two hours. Previous to serving, dip the moulds in tepid water, to facilitate moving the cream, wipe them, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. (10) Put the yellow rinds of two and the juice of four large Lemons into a basin with 1 pint of hot water, and let them steep until the water is quite cold. Beat well the yolks of six eggs, the whites of three, and lib. of caster sugar. Strain the water oil' the peel in with the beaten eggs, turn the whole into a lined .saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until of the thickness of good cream, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle. When ready, strain the cream through a line sieve, and let it get cold before serving. (17) Put the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan and beat well, mix in 9oz. of caster sugar and 1 h pints of milk, and stir the mixture over the fire till hot; mix with it a piece of Lemon-peel, and continue stirring till thickened to the requisite degree. When cooked, strain the cream through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and serve either hot or cold. (18) Grate the rinds of two Lemons, squeeze and strain the juice over, then mix with it Alb. of caster sugar, 3 wineglassfuls of sherry, or any kind of pale wine, and 1 pint of thick cream. Leave the cream for one hour, then whip it for twenty minutes. Fill jelly-glasses with it, and serve. (19) Put the peel of three large Lemons in 1 pint of water, let it stand till the flavour is well drawn out (it will take from four to five hours), then take out the peel and put in the strained juice of four Lemons and 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth. Mix all together, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a lined saucepan, and stir in one direction over a slow fire until thick like cream, then take it off and continue stir- ring until cold. Pour it into a glass dish or basin, sprinkle over with chopped candied fruits (see Fig. 10G3), and serve.