TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 814 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. fat. Add six small peeled onions, and when browned (it should take about ten minutes) dredge in about 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir well for two minutes, moisten with 3 pints of water or white broth, continue stirring, and add 2 pinches of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, two crushed cloves of garlic, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty-five minutes. Two minutes after it begins to boil, thoroughly skim it, remove the bouquet, and pour the ragout on a hot dish. Garnish with flageolets, cooked Lima beans, or any other vegetable garnish. (2) Trim off all the skin and remove the knuckle-bone of a fore-quarter of Lamb; lard the meat with thin strips of bacon, put it in a stewpan with one lump of lard, and fry until nicely browned. Next put it into a clean saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, and sufficient clear gravy to cover ; season to taste with salt and pepper, put the lid on the saucepan, keep the whole boiling gently for half-an-hour, then place the Lamb on a hot dish and keep it hot. Skim all the fat off the cooking-liquor, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of port wine, loz. of butter that has been kneaded with £ table-spoonful of flour, half-a-dozen mushrooms, and several oysters that have been blanched in their own liquor and bearded. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then mix in the strained juice of half a lemon, pour it over the mutton, and serve. Boasted Fore-quarter of Iamb.—(1) Cover a fore-quarter of Lamb with slices of bacon, and wrap it up in sheets of buttered paper. Boast in front of a clear fire or in the oven, and when' sufficiently cooked, raise the shoulder from the neck with a knife, fill the cavity with maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve with its own gravy. (2) Stuffed.—Mix with the meat of two or three sausages an equal quantity of chopped bacon, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and a sprinkling of chopped mixed herbs; mix all well together, and moisten with the beaten yolks of eggs. Have ready a fore-quarter of Lamb, raise the shoulder with a knife without cutting the skin, stuff it with the stuffing, sew it up with a trussing-needlc and string, fix a sheet of buttered paper round it, and roast in front of a clear fire; take the buttered paper off five minutes before dishing, to brown it. When the Lamb is cooked, put it on a hot dish, and serve with Spanish sauce. Boasted Haunch of Lamb.— Trim the shank-bone of a haunch of Lamb, fold the loin underneath, fastening it with skewers, wrap some thickly-buttered paper round, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting continually with butter. When nearly cooked, take the buttered paper off the Lamb, sprinkle some stale breadcrumbs and a little salt over, baste with butter, and let the joint brown. Put the haunch on a hot dish, tie a ruffle round the bone, make a rich gravy, and serve it with the meat, also some mint sauce, both separately, in sauceboats. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb.—(1) Select a hind-quarter of Lamb (see Fig. 1023), trim the bone, fix the Lamb on an Fig. 1023. Hind-quauter of Lamb. iron spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting occa- sionally with butter ; when nearly done, sprinkle with bread- crumbs, continue basting, let them brown, and sprinkle salt over. When the Lamb is cooked, put it on a hot dish, surround with a little rich gravy, and serve with mint sauce. (2) Saw tho knuckle-bone off a hind-quarter of Lamb, and roast it before a clear fire, basting occasionally. When cooked, take it off the spit, put it on a hot dish, garnish round with watercress, and serve with poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. Lamb—continued. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb with Celery.—Truss the joint, wrap a sheet of buttered paper round, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Clean and trim three or four fresh heads of celery, cutting off the tops and the outside leaves, put them for ten minutes in boiling water, then refresh them with cold water, and tie together in bundles. Put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of sliced carrot and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, 5 pint of chicken broth, ^ pint of water, and 1 teacupful of clarified poultry fat. Put a sheet of paper over the whole, put the lid on the saucepan, and keep the contents cooking gently by the side of the fire. When the Lamb is cooked, remove the sheet of paper, and put it on a hot dish; place the celery round, and serve with a sauceboatfnl of half-glaze. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb with Croquettes.—Boast the joint in front of a clear fire, keeping it covered with a sheet of buttered paper till nearly done, then remove the paper to give it more colour. For the croquettes, a mixture of cold cooked tongue, chicken truffles, and macaroni will be required, all of which arc to be used in equal quantities and cut into small squares. Boil some German sauce till stiffly reduced, then put the chicken, &c., in with it, together with 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Leave the mixture till cool, then divide it into small equal-sized parts, put them on a table strewn with breadcrumbs, and roll them into the shape of balls. Beat one or two eggs up with a little salad- oil, and season with salt and pepper. Dip the croquettes in it, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in a basket in a deep frying-pan with plenty of hot fat, and fry till nicely browned. When the meat is cooked, take it up from the fire, put it on a hot dish, and brush over with melted glaze. Arrange the croquettes round the meat, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Potato croquettes may be used if preferred. Boasted Hind-quarter of Lamb -with Tomatoes.—Truss the Lamb, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast in front of a clear fire, removing the paper ten minutes before taking it up, so that it may gain more colour. Select some large tomatoes of an equal size, cut off the stalks, and remove the seeds. Boil the requisite quantity of Spanish sauce till stiffly reduced, then mix some d’Uxelles sauce with it. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture. Put about 5oz. of butter in a deep baking-dish, melt it, then put in the tomatoes; sift some finely-grated breadcrumbs over, put them in a quick oven, and bake. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot oblong-shaped dish, arrange tho stuffed tomatoes round, and servo it with a sauceboatful of d’Uxelles sauce. Boasted Neck of Lamb a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Trim the neck to a nice shape, and roast it in front of a clear fire, bast- ing well with the drippings in the pan. Mix together 4oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and the strained juice of two lemons; work these ingredients well with the flat blade of a knife. Place the prepared butter in a small saucepan with 1 teacupful of thick cream, and stir it over the fire until boiling and the butter has dissolved. When cooked, place the Lamb on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boasted Neck of Lamb a la Soyer.—Select a white-looking neck of Lamb, and trim it to a neat square shape, running a skewer through to keep it firm. Cover a large stout sheet of paper with slices of carrots, turnips, onions, a leek, two or three bay-leaves, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, and a few pieces of celery. Wrap the paper and vegetables care- fully round tho Lamb, tie the paper round securely to keep the vegetables in, fix it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, keeping it well basted. Peel and turn to a nice shape an equal quantity each of young turnips, carrots, and onions, and boil them separately in white stock. Boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes to fill a border mould the same size as tho dish intended to be used, and when soft mash them together with a little butter, and press into the mould. Keep the mould hot in a bain-marie. About a-quarter-of-an- hour before taking the Lamb up from the fire, remove the paper and vegetables, so that it may take a little colour. When ready, turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, place the Lamb in the centre, arrange the stewed vege- tables tastefully on the potato border, pour a thin half-glaze sauce round tho meat, and serve very hot.