947 T11E ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Molasses—continued. water can be added, or if not stiff enough a little more flour. Put the dough in a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a rather quick oven. When cut, the interior should be quite dark. See Fig. 1187. (2) Rub ill), of butter into 6J pints of flour, add lib. of stoned raisins, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and lqt. of Molasses, and mix in six well-beaten eggs. Dissolve Joz. of alum in J pint of boiling water, and when cool, mix it with J pint more water, and stir in with the other in- gredients. Make into a dough, put it into greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Put 6oz. of butter into a large basin, stand it near the fire until warmed, then mix with it 6oz. of moist sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of Molasses; beat them together for a few minutes with a wooden spoon, and add two eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Mix 1 teaspoon- ful each of powdered cinnamon and ginger with 1 Jib. of flour, then stir in gradually the beaten mixture, and work the whole until quite smooth. Butter a cake-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. This cake is better if left for a day before being served. (4) Stone and chop Jib. of raisins, and wash and thoroughly dry Jib. of currants. Rub 3oz. of butter into fib. of flour until smooth, then mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 teacupful of Molasses, and the fruit. Dissolve J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teacupful of sour milk, beat it well together with one egg, pour it over the above ingredients, and work the whole with a wooden spoon until •well mixed. Butter a shallow tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, cut the mixture into squares. (5) Beat 6oz. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar to a cream. Warm fib. of treacle and stir it in, together with J saltspoonful each of grated nutmeg and powdered ginger, and 1 saltspoonful each of powdered cloves and cin- namon. When the spice and Molasses are well stirred in, add the beaten yolks of three eggs ; whisk the whites of the three eggs to a still' froth, and mix them in, in small quantities, alternately with fib. of flour, added also in small quan- tities. Then stir in 1 piled saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water, and add lib. of raisins, stoned, cut into pieces, and well floured. Continue beating and stirring for a few minutes after all the ingredients are mixed in. Bake this cake slowly in well-buttered tins, taking care that it does not burn. Molasses Candy.—(1) Mix well together 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, J pint of water, and 21b. each of moist sugar and Molasses; when thoroughly mixed, pour this mixture into a clean pan (carefully wiping the edges with a soft damp cloth or sponge), fit the lid on, set it over a moderate fire, and let the contents cook gently till they begin to thicken. Put a little into cold water, and if when cooled it is brittle, the candy is done enough. Then stir into it ljoz. of butter, take it from the fire, and turn it into buttered tins. When cool enough to touch, cut it, and pull into any desired shape. (2) Put over the fire in a sugar-boiler 2qts. of Molasses, 2Jlb. of brown sugar, and 2oz. of butter; let them boil till they candy well, then pour the candy into well-buttered dishes, and pull it till very white. (3) Put 41b. of West Indian Molasses into a preserving- pan, mix in lib. of brown sugar, set it over the fire, and boil for three hours, stirring frequently and taking care that it does not burn. When it has been boiling for two-hours-and-a-half, add a small quantity of very finely- grated lemon-rind and the strained juice of two lemons, and continue to boil for about half-an-hour longer ; when quite done, it will cease boiling, and should be crisp and brittle when it cools ; if not done, it will be tough, and will have to be boiled again. If desired, some blanched ground nuts, or some blanched almonds, cut in pieces, may be stirred in gradually a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. When done, pour it into buttered tin pans and let it cool. It may be made yellow by being pulled backwards and forwards in a thick string while still warm, and then twisted into sticks. It requires a good deal of pulling to make it yellow. Molasses—continued. (4) Boil 1 pint of Molasses in a sugar-boiler, or large enamelled stewpan, over a slow fire, stirring to prevent it running over. When it has boiled for some time, try it by putting a little in a saucer ; if brittle and hard when cold, it is done. Flavour with essence of lemon or other essence ; or pull it with the hands, after having first nibbed them over with butter to prevent the candy adhering during the process. When cool, mark it into shapes, let it get cold, break where marked, and it is ready. Molasses Pudding1.—(1) Warm |lb. of butter, and beat it well together with |lb. of moist sugar; then mix in two eggs and 1 scant breakfast-cupful of sour milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Put lib. of flour in a basin with fib. each of well-washed and dried currants and stoned chopped raisins, and any kind of ground spices that may be desired ; add the beaten ingredients and f breakfast-cupful of Molasses, and stir until thoroughly mixed. Butter a pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, put it into a saucepan with water to three- parts its height, and steam for three hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy together with 4oz. of raw sugar ; then whip in four eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of Molasses. Mix 1 table-spoonful of ginger with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour and a small quantity of warmed milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, and stir in the beaten mixture, making it quite smooth. Pour the mixture into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for one-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. (3) Warm slightly 2oz. each of butter and lard, and beat them well together with three eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of Molasses. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a scant breakfast-cupful of butter-milk, mix this with the other ingredients, and stir in sufficient flour to make a rather stiff' batter. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a rather brisk oven. Serve the pudding while hot. (4) Warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, then mix it with nine beaten eggs and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of Molasses. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good tart-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, serve the pudding while hot. Molasses Roll Pudding.—Mix fib. of flour with rather more than :f- pint of cold water and about J saltspoonful of salt. Bet the dough be very soft, knead it a little, and roll out quickly; place on it in little pieces 3oz. of lard or butter, fold the paste in three, roll it out, sprinkle over 1J saltspoonfuls of baking-powder, fold up, and roll it out; again sprinkle with 1J saltspoonfuls of baking-powder, fold, and roll it out. Repeat the folding and rolling once again but without sprinkling with either baking-powder or iard, spreading over instead 1J gills of Molasses mixed with 3 dessert-spoonfuls of flour and 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar; the dough should be rolled out very thin before spreading this mixture over it. When the Molasses mixture is spread on the dough, roll it up, put a floured cloth round, pin it in the centre, and tie the ends. Boil the pudding for one hour, plunging it into boiling water, and keeping it at a fast boil all the time. When taken from the boiling water dip the pudding for an instant into cold water before taking oft' the cloth. Serve plain sauce with it. Molasses Tart.—Beat the yolks of three eggs, and mix with them 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Molasses and 1 table- Fig. 1188. Molasses Tart. spoonful of warmed butter; then whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces, d’c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 Z 2