THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 874 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. Lobster—continued. sides (see Fig. 1092), and pour the sauce round it. If there was any coral with the Lobster, it should be nibbed Fig. 1092. Lobster Loaf or Cheese. through a fine hair sieve over it, having washed and dried the whole beforehand. Garnish round with the legs. Lobster Mayonnaise.—(1) Take the flesh out of one or two Lobsters, and cut it into pieces of a convenient size. Have a border mould, and pour into it a layer (about Jin. thick) of pale-coloured aspic jelly just sufficiently melted. When tlie jelly begins to set, arrange round and over it some of the pieces of Lobster and a few tarragon-leaves, filling up by degrees with jelly. Put the mould in a cold place, and when the jelly is firmly set turn it out on a dish; fill the centre with lettuce cut into shreds, and mixed with the remainder of the Lobster seasoned with pepper, salt, tarragon vinegar, and oil. Heap the lettuce and Lobster high, and cover it with mayonnaise sauce laid on very evenly. Garnish the heap of salad and the top of the mould with capers, stoned olives, 'tarragon, chervil, and garden cress chopped very fine, slices of hard-boiled eggs, slices of truffles, anil the coral of the Lobster. (2) Having procured a large boiled Lobster, separate the tail from the body, split both in two, break the claws off, and crack them; arrange them on a dish, putting the body in the centre, and some little sprigs of fresh parsley round. Fill a sauceboat with mayonnaise sauce, and serve with the Lobster. Lobster Omelet.—(1) Take 6oz. of boiled Lobster-meat and cut it into small pieces ; put them into a saute-pan with 1 wineglassful of white wine and J'oz. of butter, moisten with J pint of strong, hot bechamel sauce, and let them cook for five minutes. Make an omelet with twelve eggs, and with a skimmer place the stewed Lobster in the middle, fold over the side opposite the handle, lay in more garnishing, fold the other side up, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) Cut the flesh of a small Lobster into little pieces, and season it with salt and pepper. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, mix them well over the fire, then pour in 1 teacupful of stock; stir it until boiling, when put in the Lobster and the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the whole quickly without allowing it to boil. Make one or two plain omelets, spread the above mixture over them, and fold up. Put a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the omelets on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Patties.—(1) Pick the meat out of one or two Lobsters, and chop it very finely with the spawn; mix with it half its bulk of finely-grated breadcrumb, about 2oz. of butter, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sweet herbs. Bind the mixture to a smooth paste with the beaten yolk of one egg and a small quantity of white wine. Make some puff paste, roll it out to Jin. in thickness, and line some buttered patty-pans with it; put in each a lump of bread about the size of a walnut, then cover with flats of putt' paste, trimming them off neatly, and moistening and pressing them together round the edges. Brush lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes. Put the Lobster mixture into a small lined saucepan, and stir it over the fire until hot; when the patties are cooked, lift the covers off, remove the bread, and fill them with the Lobster. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a dish, arrange the patties on it, garnish them with neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. (2) Pick all the meat from a Lobster, chop it small, and put it over the fire in a saucepan with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, a small quantity of lemon-peel, a little cream, and a bit of butter, and let them stew for two minutes. Line some small patty-pans with puff paste, put a small quantity of the Lobster-meat into each, cover with puff paste, and bake in a pretty quick oven. (3) Boil a Lobster in fish broth. When cooked, drain it, split the shell, pick out all the eatable parts, and clop very finely. Put it in a small stewpan with a little bechamel sauce, and when warm stir hi a little Lobster butter; line some patty-pans, previously buttered, with puff paste of six turns, glaze them with wuite of egg, cut some small rounds of the paste, put them on the top, glazing them also, and bake in a quick oven. When done, take the patties out, cut the covers off carefully with a sharp penknife, fill them with the Lobster preparation, arrange on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, put a few dainty sprigs of fried parsley here and there, and serve while very hot. (4) Cut eighteen pieces out of some Jin. thick rolled puff paste (see Pastes) of six turns with a fluted cutter 2in. in diameter, put them on a baking-sheet, and let it rest on ice for ten minutes. Dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush them over with it, dip a plain ljin. cutter in hot water, and cut through one-third of the thickness of the paste in the centre of each to form the covers when baked. Put these in a brisk oven, and when baked take off the covers, trim out the inside of the patties, and smooth them with the handle of a knife. Cut the flesh of a Lobster into Jin. dice, fill the patties with it, pour some hot Lobster sauce over them, put the covers on, arrange on a dish, and serve. Lobster Pie.—(1) Pick out all the eatable meat from a boiled Lobster, put it in a mortar, and pound well, seasoning with salt, mustard, cayenne pepper, and vinegar. Then mix with it Jib. of butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb. Line a small dish with puff paste, put the Lobster preparation in, place a cover of the paste over, ornament the top of the pie with some leaves and flowers cut out of the paste, put it hi a moderate oven, and bake slowly. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Pick the meat out of the tails of two or three Lobsters, previously boiled, and cut it into pieces; put the meat from the claws and the spawn in a mortar, and pound them, mixing with them 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 1 table- spoonful of essence of anchovies (see Anchovies), and a little pepper and salt. Warm Alb. of butter, mix with it the finely-sifted crumb of a small French roll and the well- beaten yolks of ten eggs, then mix all with the pounded spawn. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put the meat from the tails of the Lobsters in, place the other preparation over them, cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, and make a hole in the toil. Dip a paste-brusli in beaten egg, brush over the top of the pie, bake it for an-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Take out the flesh from the tails of two large or three small boiled Lobsters, cut them in halves, put them in a small dish together with the underneath part of the bodies,