770 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. H oney—continued. almonds, blanched and thoroughly dried; blend all well together, and spread it 2in. thick on oiled papers, lay it between two boards, put a heavy weight on top, and leave till quite cold. Then cut it into strips. See Fig. 960. Honey Sweetmeats.—Put VIb. of butter in a saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then mix in gradually lib. of flour mixed to a smooth batter with 1 pint of water, and add 11b. of the best white Honey. Stir the mixture over the fire until the butter begins to rise to the top, take it off the fire, and stir for a few minutes longer, pressing it to the sides of the pan with the back of the spoon. When ready, pile the sweetmeats in a pyramid on a hot dish, and serve. Honey Vinegar.—Dissolve Honey in water in the proportion j of lib. of Honey to lqt. of water, which must be put in a cask in a sunny place so that it is well exposed to the heat j of the sun. The bung-hole of the cask should not be covered except with a piece of coarse linen to keep insects from getting in. In about six weeks the liquor will have turned to very strong vinegar. Imitation Honey.—Put 51b. of the best white sugar in a lined pan with lqt. of water, and place it over a slow fire. When boiling, skim well, mix with it ioz. of pulverised alum, and move it from the fire. When somewhat cooled, stir in Joz. of cream of tartar and 1 table-spoonful of extract of roses. Pour the imitation Honey into jars, and when quite cold, cover the jars with parchment. HONOLULU PICKLE—See Pickles. HOPS (Fr. Houblons; Ger. Hopfen).—"What are com- mercially known as Hops are the catkins (see Fig. 961) of the female plant of the Humulus Lupulus, or common Hop; but these are not much used for culinary purposes, although the tops or shoots of the young plants are sometimes prepared and cooked as vegetables, and are highly prized by epicures, probably as much for the 1 difficulty of obtaining them as for their gustatory value. An enterprising manufacturer has been making ex- { tensive efforts to introduce Hop-flavours into tea, coffee, and cocoa, and presumably with good effect. As “ bitters ” there are few to equal those made from strong infusions of Hops. Boiled Hop-Shoots served as Asparagus.—Take the young shoots of the Hops, tie them in bundles, and boil them in | water with a little meat in it for twenty minutes. Lay a piece of toasted bread on a hot dish, put the Hops on it, and serve. Fried Hop-Shoots.—Slightly scrape some Hop-shoots, wash, and three-parts boil them in acidulated salted water; this done, drain them, sprinkle salt over, and let them get cold, j When about to serve, flour the shoots, dip them in beaten eggs, and fry in boiling fat. Arrange on a hot dish, sprinkle salt over them, and serve. Fried Hop-Shoots a la Poulette.—Select the required quantity of Hop-shoots, slightly scrape them, and boil in salted water with a little lemon-juice or vinegar added. When done, drain, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry them for a few minutes; pour white sauce over them, thicken with a liaison, put in a little chopped parsley and lemon-juice, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then turn them out and serve. Hops—continued. Hop Beer.— (1) Boil 6oz. of Hops in 5qts. of water for four hours ; strain the liquid and mix with it 4oz. of bruised ginger and 5qts. more of water; boil again for an hour, then strain and mix in 41b. of sugar ; leave it to cool, and stir in 1 pint of yeast. Let it remain for two days, then draw it off, and bottle. (2) Put Jib- of Hops in a large copper boiler with 4 table- spoonfuls of ground ginger and about 4Jgalls. of water. Boil for three hours, then strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a tub; "our in Jgall. of molasses, and mix * thoroughly with a wooden ladle. Put the beer into a barrel, fill it up to the bung with water, shake the barrel well so as to thoroughly blend the contents, and leave the bung open to allow the beer to work. The barrel should be filled up with water whenever it works over. When sufficiently fer- mented, draw the beer off, bottle it, and put 1 table-spoonful of molasses in each bottle. (3) Put 1 small handful of Hops into a pan with lqt. of water, and boil them for an hour ; then strain the water through a fine hair sieve, mix with it Jib. of treacle and sufficient water to make lgall. altogether. When nearly cold, stir into the liquor 5 teacupful of yeast, and let it stand for twelve hours. When ready, skim the beer, strain it care- fully without disturbing the sediment, pour it into bottles, cork them tightly, and stow away in a cellar. Hop Salad.—Procure the Hop-shoots before the heads are developed, and soak them in slightly-salted water for thirty minutes or more. Drain them, put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil for ten minutes. When boiled, plunge the shoots into a bowl of cold water, and when cooled, drain them, tie in bunches, arrange on a dish, and serve with a plain dressing or vinaigrette sauce. Hop-shoots are not only wholesome, but are a most excellent vegetable. In Hop-growing districts the surplus shoots are generally thrown away. Hop Tea.—Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of Hops in a jug, and pour 1J teacupfuls of boiling water over them. Cover the jug close with a cup (a cloth will not do), and let it stand for twelve hours. When ready, strain the tea through muslin, and for each wineglassful mix in 1 teaspoonful of sal volatile. Serve immediately. HOREHOUND.-It is chiefly as a medicine that this herb (Marrubium vulgare) finds favour, especially for the cure of coughs and colds. It grows wild in almost all parts of the British Isles. Horehotind Beer. -— Put Jib. of fresh Horehound into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil gently for about an hour; add lib. of loaf sugar and sufficient water to make lgall. in all, add a small quantity of soluble essence of lemon and gum extract according to taste, and about Joz. of tartaric acid, and if desired a little yeast to accelerate the fermentation; let it fine down until perfectly clear, bottle, and in two or three weeks’ time it will be ready for use. A small quantity of ground ginger and coriander- seeds may be put in to improve the flavour, and a little dark colouring should also be added. Horehound Candy.—(1) In the first place make a decoction of Horehound by putting loz. of the dried leaves of the herb into a basin with sufficient water to cover them, and boiling for ten or twelve minutes. Remove the basin from the fire, cover it over, let it get cold, and press and strain through a fine sieve. Put this into a quart measure, fill up with water, pour it into a saucepan on the fire, and add 41b. of granulated sugar and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Boil to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), pour the mass on to a slightly-greased marble slab, let it get nearly cold, turn in the edges, and cut the batch into bars by means of a cutter. When quite cold, the bars must be separated, and are then ready for use. (2) Make 1 pint of strong tea of Horekound-leavcs, strain it, and add to it 31b. of brown sugar and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. When the sugar is melted, stir it well, and boil over a moderate fire till a little of it tried in cold water is brittle. Pour the candy on a well-oiled marble slab, and when cool cut it into squares. (3) Put loz. of herb Horehound into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil for about ten minutes; strain the liquor into