THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 825 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jbc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Blanch some Lamb's brains, disgorge them in salted water, by putting them in a saucepan over a gentle fire until the water comes to the boil, when it should be drained off and replaced by fresh. Stew the brains very slowly in white stock for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then drain, and leave until cold. Peel and mince finely three or four button- mushrooms and one or two stoned French olives, mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of very finely-grated breadcrumb, J table-spoonful of grated lemon- peel, and a small quantity each of powdered and sifted parsley, thyme, and chervil, bind- ing the whole together with beaten egg. Cut the cold brains into slices, and cover each slice, as well as the slices of tongues, with a layer of the stuffing; squeeze a small quantity of lemon- juice over each, roll round, securing them with small wire skewers, roll them in egg-and-breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling clarified fat until a golden brown. Drain the rolls, lay them on a hot dish, pour over a rich brown sauce mixed with a wineglassful of port wine, garnish with small crofitons of bread browned in butter, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. Lamb’s-Tongue Salad.—Have six cooked, pickled Lamb’s Tongues ; pare neatly, and cut them into very thin slices ; lay them in a dish, adding two cooked and sliced potatoes, 1 pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of sweet-oil. Mix the whole well together, then dress it in a bowl, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, decorate with a few small lettuce- leaves, and send to table. Pickled Lamb’s Tongues.—Put six or eight Lamb’s Tongues into a saucepan with sufficient salted water to cover, add the juice of half a lemon, and boil until they are tender; they should take about two hours. Take out, drain, put them into a jar, pour over sufficient hot spiced vinegar to cover, and let them remain for several days, when they will be ready for use. Stewed Lamb's Tongues.—(1) Put six Lamb’s Tongues into a saucepan of water and boil for an-liour-and-a-half ; take out, plunge them into cold water for a few minutes, take them out again, and skin. Put a little more than 3 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan with an onion cut in slices, two slices of carrot and three of turnip, and cook gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Sprinkle in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir well until it is brown; pour in lqt. of stock, boil it up, put in the tongue, and sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of salt and a little pepper, and add a bunch of sweet herbs. Set the saucepan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for two hours. When done put the tongues in the centre of a dish, garnish with the vegetables, strain the gravy over, and serve. (2) Soak the tongues in cold water for an hour or so, then drain, plunge them into boiling water, drain again, and refresh them in cold water. Trim the tongues, put them in a saucepan with sufficient broth to cover, and boil gently for thirty minutes. Cut a few carrots, turnips, and onions into slices and line a stewpan with them; drain the tongues, trim off the white skin, and lay them side by side in the stewpan; pour in some Madeira and broth in equal quantities to three-parts the height of the tongues, and boil gently till the tongues are quite done. Peel and chop four or five large onions, put them in a small saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and fry over a brisk fire till nicely browned; dredge a small quantity of flour over the onions, dust with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, add a bunch of parsley, pour in gradually l pint of milk, and stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then let it simmer at the side of the fire for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream ; take the parsley out of the sauce, stir in the eggs, and grate in a small quantity of nutmeg. When the tongues are cooked, drain and glaze them, arrange in a circle upon a hot dish, pour the sauce in the middle, and serve. LAMB’S LETTUCE.—See Corn-Salad. LAMBIE.—The name given to a strong beer brewed in Belgium. LAMPREYS (Fr. Lamproies; Ger. Lampreten ; Ital. Lamprede; Sp. Lampreas).—These famous eel-like fish (Petromyzon marinus) (see Fig. 1040) take their name from the Latin lambere—to lick, and some add petra— a stone, from a habit they have of hanging by their mouths on to stones, roots of trees, or any other fixed substances under water, leaving the rest of their bodies to be washed about by the stream. There are two kinds known in England, which so closely resemble each other that it would be difficult to tell them apart, excepting by their size, the larger ones being known as Lampreys, and the smaller as Lamperns, the latter being generally used as bait for other fish. Both have seven openings on each side of the neck instead of the usual gills. The Lamprey visits certain rivers during the spring for the purpose of spawning, and remains there for a short time before it returns to the sea. It is in season during March, April, May, and the early part of June ; but after that it becomes so exceedingly scarce that a single Lamprey in winter is valued at a guinea; for which reason it may be supposed that the city of Gloucester has elected to send a Lamprey pie at Christmas to the Royal table. The best fish and the greatest numbers are caught in the Severn, those of the Thames being usually much smaller, and scarcer. The flesh of the Lamprey is soft and glutinous, and though esteemed a delicacy is extremely difficult of digestion; hence the story that attributes the death of King Henry I. to a surfeit of them. Lampreys should always be supplied alive, as they soon dry and lose flavour after death. The cook kills the Lamprey by making a cut at each side of the tail and letting it bleed, saving the blood for sauce; after a little time the head and tail can be cut off, the gristle or “ string,” which answers for a backbone, removed, and the fish thoroughly cleaned. Baked Lampreys.—(1) Skin and draw the fish, and split it lengthwise down the back, remove the string from the back, and truss it round. Put the fish into a saucepan with a lump of salt, water to cover, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and partially boil it. Drain, ieave until cold, then dust over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a pie-dish, line it with paste, put in the Lamprey, with a few well-washed currants, two or three peeled and sliced onions, four cloves, and two or three small lumps of butter; pour in i, pint of boiling claret, cover the dish with a flat of paste, trim it off neatly round the edges, moisten and press them together, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Remove the skin from a Lamprey, carefully draw it, split the back from mouth to tail, taking out the string at the back, and tie it round. Put it into a sauce- pan with salted water to cover, a seasoning of powdered herbs, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, and par- boil it. In the meantime, line a pie-dish with suitable paste, place a few lumps of butter at the bottom, then put in the parboiled Lamprey, with two or three onions cut up into pieces, and a few cloves and currants ; cover the dish with more of the paste, make a hole in the centre, fill up the dish with warmed butter, place the pie in the oven, and bake until done. Take it out and serve. Should it be desired, this fish may be baked in an earthenware jar, and if required to be kept for any length of time a seasoning of cloves, pepper, and salt should be added. When baked in this way no crust is required. Boiled Lamprey.—Cut the head and the end of the tail off a Lamprey, then divide the body in pieces, put them in a stewpan with cold water and vinegar, and let them grad- ually heat till the skin can be easily removed. Then drain Fig. 1040. Lamprey.