THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 754 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. The foregoing method of stewing Hare is recommended by several of our best cooks, who have given it the fanciful title of “a la Daube.” (3) Wipe the outside of a cleaned Hare without washing it, cut off the legs, and split the back into four pieces, placing the Hare on a dish so as to catch the blood. Baste it with \ pint of red wine mixed with the blood, cover the dish, and set it in a cool place for two or three days. When about to cook, put the Hare into a stewpan in which a lump of butter has been melted, and turn it about over a brisk fire until browned; take out the Hare for a few minutes while 2oz. of flour is browned in the stewpan, then pour in about 1 pint of broth or water, and put the Hare back again, with two or three slices of lemon, 2oz. of finely-chopped fat bacon, two or three cloves, salt and pepper, and the marinade. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents gently at the side of the fire until the flesh is tender. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot dish, pour the cooking-stock through a fine hair sieve over it, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (4) Skin a Hare, clean it thoroughly, and bone it, saving all the blood. Cut the meat into even-sized pieces, and lard them with thin fillets of bacon. Melt a lump of butter in a small saucepan, put in the pieces of Hare, dredge them with salt and pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and chives, a chopped clove of garlic, and 2 wineglass- fuls of brandy. Stew the whole very slowly until the liquor has almost all evaporated; then pour in the blood of the Hare, and warm without boiling. Place the Hare on a dish, arranging in its original form as nearly as possible, and pour the gravy over. This is to be served when cold. (5) Skin a Hare, draw, but do not wash it, cut it in pieces, put them into a stewpan with jib. of butter, cover it, put it over a slow fire, and stew till the blood is set; then add 1 pint of gravy, a couple of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half-a-dozen cloves, a blade of mace, and a few grains of black pepper. When the flesh is done enough, take it out, strain the gravy, put it over the fire again, and thicken with flour; then put the pieces of Hare into it, sprinkle in a little salt, add a few chopped mushrooms and hard-boiled eggs, i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 dessert- spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of port wine, and serve hot. Stewed Hare with NouiUes.—Remove the skin and sinews from the flesh of a cooked Hare, chop it up into small dice, and put it in a basin with its equal bulk of mushrooms, also ohopped small. Put a small onion cut in pieces in a frying- pan with a little butter, fry gently without letting it take colour, dust over with salt, and add gradually ^ pint of gravy to moisten it. Boil for seven or eight minutes, stirring continually, and add to it the Hare mixture, working them together; then sprinkle in more salt and cayenne, and remove from the fire. Put 1 handful or so of nouilles in a saucepan of salted water, and poach them. Take them out, drain, put them back into the saucepan, grate over a little nutmeg and Parmesan cheese, and pour over a little liquefied butter. Put half of these nouilles on a dish, make a space in the centre, place the Hare mixture in this, cover it with the Fig. 938. Stewed Hake with Nouilles. rest of the nouilles (see Fig. 938), dust with a little more Parmesan cheese, brush over with warmed butter, glaze them in the oven or with a salamander, and serve. Stuffed boned Hare.—Let the animal hang as long as possible; then skin it, wash thoroughly, being particularly Hares—continued. careful about cleaning the ears, remove the eyes, and bone it. Make a forcemeat of minced ham, veal, and brown bread- crumbs, season it with chopped shallot, laurel-leaf, thyme, and one or two chopped canned mushrooms, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste; add £ table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and 1 wineglassful of claret, also a beaten egg. Stuff the Hare with this, making it to its original shape as nearly as possible, and bind tightly round with a cloth; then put it into a large stewpan with brown stock to cover, and boil very slowly for one hour. Take out the Hare, and leave it until cold, then pour boiling water over, and remove the cloth. Brush the Hare with beaten yolk of egg, and roll it in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs, lay it in a large frying-basket, put it in the frying-kettle with plenty of fat, and fry until of a golden brown all over. Prepare a suflicient quantity of brown gravy sauce, mixing with it 1 wineglassful of red wine. Place the Hare on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a tureen and a dish of red- currant jelly. Terrine of Hare.—Line the bottom and sides of a terrine with slices of fat bacon cut very thin. Take off all the flesh of a Hare, mince it very finely with Jib. each of fresh pork- fat and veal, season with thyme, parsley, mace, laurel-leaf, salt, and pepper, mix in a few long thin strips of bacon, and pour over 1 table-spoonful of brandy; put the mixture into the terrine, cover with more slices of fat bacon, put on the cover, hermetically sealing it with a paste made of flour and water so as to keep in the steam, and bake in a moderate oven for four or five hours, setting the terrine in a pan of water while cooking. Take it out when done, remove the paste and cover, fasten a frill of paper round the terrine, and serve hot. Timbales of Hare.—Trim off all the skin of some cold cooked Hare, chop the flesh, put it in a mortar, and pound smoothly; mix with it a third of its quantity of grated breadcrumb, a little finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff snow, stir them in with the mixture, and add a few Fig. 939. Timbales of Hare. drops of clear gravy to bring the whole to the proper con- sistence. Butter some small timbale-moulds, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and steam for about half-an-hour. Warm a little rich gravy, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of claret. When ready, turn the timbales out on to a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve. See Fig. 939. Leverets.—These are young Hares; but as the change from youth to maturity, and from maturity to old age, is not very easily defined, it is not always easy to distinguish a late Leveret from a Hare. Very young Hares are excellent food for invalids, and can be cooked as follows: Fried Leveret a la Bretonne.—Cut the back and legs of a Leveret into middling-sized pieces, removing as much of the bony part as possible, put them in a frying-pan with a little rasped bacon melted over a moderate fire, and fry them. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, add one onion chopped fine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When the meat is done, drain off the fat, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, place the pan again on the fire, and as soon as the liquor is reduced pour over a little glaze, and roll the pieces of meat in it. Put these pieces in a pile on a dish, cover with a mince of onions thickened with brown sauce, and serve. Leveret cooked in Bavarian Style.—Skin and draw a Leveret, and chop off the fillets; bone the four legs, cut