THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 760 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Herbs—continued. the beer. If the beer is required to be vei'y rich, brown ^lb. of bread before the fire, and put it into the liquor. If the liquor is too thick, dilute it with cold water. When just lukewarm, put in 1 pint of fresh yeast, or jib. of dissolved German yeast. Keep it in a moderately-warmed place covered over, but not so closely as to exclude the air entirely. When fermented, keep it in a tightly-corked cask or bottles. Herb Flavouring for Sauces, Soups, and Stews.— (1) Remove all the stalks from loz. each of dried thyme, marjoram, sweet basil, and bay-leaves, and pound them in a mortar with loz. each of grated nutmeg, ground mace, cloves, and white pepper. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, and bottle. (2) Take |oz. each of dried mint and dried sage, 1 drachm each of celery-seeds and allspice, and ^ drachm of cayenne. Pound them to a fine powder in a mortar, and rub through a fine sieve. This is useful for flavouring pea soup, or for flavouring gruel to imitate jiea soup. (3) Take jib. each of lemon-thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, and winter savory, 2oz. each of lemon-peel and sweet basil, |oz. of celery-seeds, and six bay-leaves. Remove the stalks from the Herbs (which should be gathered before they begin to flower), put them on paper, and dry in a slow oven. Dry the lemon-peel, and pound it; pound the celery-seeds, also the Herbs, but separately. Mix all together, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and bottle. Herb-and-Forcemeat Quenelles.—Mix together in equal quantities celery, chervil, parsley, and green onions, with a small quantity of tarragon, and double their united bulk of spinach-leaves. The latter should be washed in several waters to remove the grit. Put the Herbs in a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, and boil for a few minutes. When soft, drain, put them in a bowl of cold salted water, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and chop them finely. Make about two-thirds of the quantity of veal or fowl forcemeat, season it highly, and mix with the Herbs. Shape the mixture into small, egg-shaped quenelles, using two tea- spoons for the purpose, dipping them into warm water each time. Throw the quenelles into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until firm. Drain them, and serve in a soup-tureen with any soup. Herb Fie.—(1) Boil together lqt. of oatmeal and three small onions, chopped fine. Boil for a few minutes in small equal quantities some lettuce, leeks, spinach, beetroot, and parsley, then drain and chop them; put them in a saucepan with the groats and onions, add about ilb. of butter and a few thinly- sliced apples, and stew for a few minutes. Line a buttered pie-dish with a crust, fill it with the mixture, bake for an hour, and serve hot. If preferred, a small quantity of drip- ping can be used in place of butter. (2) Pick off the leaves from some freshly-gathered parsley and half the quantity each of spinach and mustard-and-cress, a few leaves of white beet, and two hearts of lettuces; wash them and boil in water with 1 handful of chives for a few minutes, then turn them on to a sieve and press well to squeeze out all the water. Chop them finely and season with salt and pepper. Beat up two eggs in a small stewpan, together with 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream, sift in sufficient flour to make a thin batter, stirring it well all the time with a wooden spoon; if there are any lumps in the batter, strain it through a fine sieve. Mix the Herbs with the butter, and when it is ready pour all into a well- buttered pie-dish; cover the top with a good crust, bake in a moderate oven, and serve hot. Herb Pudding'.—Put 1 pint of coarse oatmeal in a basin with warm water to cover, and soak for an hour. Finely mince ^lb. of uncooked meat of any kind, and equal quantities each of leeks, spinach, and parsley, the two latter having been well washed in several waters and scalded. Strain the soaked oatmeal, mix the Herbs with them, also a finely-chopped onion. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, turn it into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Herb Soup.—Well wash and chop 2 handfuls each of spinach, chervil, and sorrel, put them in a stewpan with a few chopped sprigs of parsley and a small piece of butter, and steam by the Herbs—continued. side of the fire till the Herbs are soft; then mix in smoothly J teacupful of flour and 2qts. of clear stock, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, seasoning with salt and a little grated nutmeg. Boil some eggs till hard, peel them, cut each into four pieces, put them in a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve with sippets of fried bread. Herb Soup with Parmesan Cheese.—Wash in plenty of water a head of young celery, 1 handful each of chervil, chives, and sorrel, a few sprigs of parsley, and a small quantity of tarragon; drain the Herbs thoroughly, and cut them into pieces. Put them in a saucepan with 3 pints of clear broth, and boil gently till tender. Cut some slices, iin. thick, of stale bread or French rolls into pieces about the size round of a shilling, using a small tin cutter for the purpose, dip them in hot butter, and roll in finely-grated Parmesan cheese, giving them a good coating. Spread a sheet of white paper over a baking-tin, arrange the pieces of bread on it, and bake until lightly browned. Put the croutons in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Herb Tea.—Put 1 table-spoonful of mixed Herbs of all sorts in a basin, and pour over them pint of boiling water. Cover the bowl, stand it in a small saucepan containing boiling water, and let it steep for ten minutes. This tea can be sweetened if desired. A few sprigs of sage, burnet, balm, and sorrel, half a lemon sliced, with 3 pints of boiling water poured over it, sweetened to taste, and left closely covered till cold, make an agreeable medicinal drink. Herb Vinegar.—(1) Put 1 pint of tarragon-leaves in a stone or earthenware jar with one-quarter the quantity each of chives and chervil, pour in 2qts. of vinegar, and leave them for a fortnight. Strain the vinegar into small bottles, and cork them down. Pour another quart of boiling vinegar over the Herbs, and leave them for a month, putting a plate or cover over the jar. Strain the vinegar off the Herbs, and bottle as before. Keep the bottles of vinegar in a dry cup- board. (2) Put into a large wide-mouthed bottle or jar ljoz. each of shallots, chives, savory, and tarragon, and § teacupful each of the tops of mint and the tops of balm; pour over 2qts. of boiling vinegar, cork the bottle, and let it stand in the sun for a fortnight. Then strain through a cloth, squeezing the Herbs well. Let it stand for a day that the sediment may settle, run it through a filter or flannel bag, and put it into small bottles, corking them well. Puree of Herbs with Vegetables.—Wash a savoy-cabbage, slice it, and put it in a stewpan with two sliced leeks and a little butter; let them fry gently for one hour, then put in with them four sliced heads of cabbage-lettuce, one small sliced beetroot, 1 handful each of borage-leaves and sorrel, and 1 pinch of chervil. When the Herbs are done, sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in 2qts. of broth, and stir over the fire till the liquor begins to boil. Pass all through a sieve to make a puree, pour this into another stewpan, add some broth and a little sugar, and stir over the fire till boiling. Beat six eggs and j pint of cream, and stir it into the broth to thicken. Cut fib. of butter into little bits, and put it in the soup. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, garnish with potato quenelles, and serve. HEREFORDSHIRE PUDDING.—See Puddings. HERMITS.—See Cakes. HERMITAGE.—A very favourite after-dinner French wine, famous for its deep purple colour and dry nutty flavour. HERRINGS (Fr. Harengs; Ger. Haringe; Ital. Aringe; Sp. Arenques).—“One of those productions,” writes De Lacepede, a French naturalist, who lived in the early part of this century, “which decide the destiny of Empires—not much to look at, but as the sea-sand for multitude.” Certainly, the Herring has made the fortunes of Holland; and Amsterdam, its capital, is said to be built on Herring-bones. The common Herring (Clupea harengus) (see Fig. 952) derives its name from some very ancient source—it is called lisering in Anglo-Saxon, and probably inherited it from the word here—an army, because of the immense