TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 847 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, efcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. dividing it equally, and Lake in a quick oven for ten minutes or until well set. When cooked, turn the omelets on to a hot dish, spread about 1 teaspoonful of Lemon honey over half of each omelet, fold them over, sift a little caster sugar ou the top, and serve while hot. Lnnon Paste.—Squeeze the juice out of some Lemons, then boil the rinds till very tender. Drain, scrape out all the pulp, put the rinds in a mortar, and pound them. Put the paste on to a sieve, press it through with a spatula into a preserving-pan, and reduce till thick; weigh the pulp, and for every pound use 2lb. of loaf sugar. C’la ify the sugar, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), then mix in the Lemon paste, and boil up again. Spread the paste on plates, put it in the stove for a day, then take it out, cut it into strips, and shape it into any form preferred. Lemon Pastilles.—Add to -Jib. of very finely-powdered white sugar the strained juice of three large Lemons or four small ones, and mix it well till it forms a paste thick enough to be taken up with a knife. If too thin add a little more sugar. When the paste is the required thick- ness, drop it in small flat drops, about the size of a six- pence, on to a sheet of paper. Dry them in a stove with a slow fire, and when quite dry take them off the paper. Lemon Patties.—Put the grated crumb of two stale penny loaves in a basin, and pour over them 4 pint of boiling milk. When cold, mix with them the grated peel of two Lemons, three well-beaten eggs, ^lb. of butter beaten to a cream, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Butter some small cups, fill them with the mixture, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Turn the patties on to a hot dish, pour some wine sauce over, and serve. Lemon Pie.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of corn-starch with 1 breakfast-cupful of hot water, pour it into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till boiling; then mix in the grated rinds and juice of two Lemons and fib. of caster sugar; when cool, stir in the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, line some buttered plates with a good rich crust, pour the mixture in, and bake until the crust is done. Beat the whites of the four eggs together with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and when very light and frothy pour it over the pies, put them in the oven again, and bake till slightly browned. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Mix 1 teaspoonful of corn Hour with 1 small teacupful of milk, then put it into a saucepan and stir over the lire till boiling. Take it off, let it cool, then add the yolks of two beaten eggs, 4 large table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and the grated rind and strained juice of one Lemon, and beat all well together. Butter a deep plate, line with short-paste, fill it with the above preparation, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-liour. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth together with 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, cover the pic with it, and brown slowly. (3) Put 1 teacupful of caster sugar in a saucepan, grate in the rind of one Lemon, squeeze in the juice, being careful to keep back the seeds, pour in 4 pint of water, and stand it over the tire; mix 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour with a little water, and stir it in with the sugar when boiling. Take the saucepan off, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs. (4) Grate the rinds of three Lemons in with 1 break- fastcupful of sugar, then squeeze in the juice. Beat the yolks of six eggs till light, mix with them 1 breakfast- cupful of rich cream, and stir in the Lemon-and-sugar. Line some buttered pic-clishes with puff paste • whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the Lemon cream, pour all into the pie-dishes, put a cover of the paste on, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, they should be very lightly coloured, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. (5) Put the grated rind, the juice, and pulp, freed of the pips and chopped, of a Lemon in a saucepan with 1 pint of water. Boil it, then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar and 1 teacupful of flour, previously mixed while dry; when Lemons—continued. half thickened take it off Line some buttered pie-dishes with puff paste, pour the above preparation in, cover with some more paste, pinch round the edges to fasten them together, ancl bake in a moderate oven till lightly coloured. These pies can be served either hot or cold. (6) Put 1 Alb. of ajiple sauce into a basin, add loz. of powdered loaf sugar and loz. of corn starch, grate in the peel of a me lium-sized Lemon, squeezing in the juice of two others, and mix the whole well together with a spoon for three minutes. Pour the preparation in a pie-dish lined with paste, damp the edges with beaten egg, cover with more paste, make a small hole in the top, and brush the surface over with more of the beaten egg. Place the pie in a moderate oven to bake for fifty minutes, remove it to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered sugar, melt this -in the oven for two or three minutes, take out the pic, and serve hot or cold as desired. (7) Grate the yellow rinds of three Lemons in a basin, then chop the pulp finely and mix it with the rind, add 3 table-spoonfuls of cornflour, and stir in gradually teacupfuls of cold milk, mixing it till quite smooth. Add 3oz. of caster sugar and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good pie-crust, pour in the Lemon mixture, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for nearly half-an-liour. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth together with 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar. When the pie is cooked, spread the beaten white of egg over the top, return it to the oven, and bake until the froth is lightly browned. Serve while hot. (8) Make a good paste, and line a deep pie-dish with it. Mix together the following ingredients: The grated rinds and juice of two Lemons, 1 breakfast-cupful of raisins, stoned and chopped fine, 1 teacupful of cracker-dust, 1 break ;ast-cupful of boiling water, and 14 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. Stir all these ingredients in a saucepan over the fire until they boil, and then fill the dish with them ; put an upper crust on the pie, wetting the edges to make it adhere, brush the surface with beaten egg, make two or three little cuts in it, and bake in a moderate oven until well browned. (9) Remove the seeds of two Lemons, and finely chop the rinds and pulps; mix them with 1 teacupful of flour, 1 4 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, loz. of butter, one beaten egg, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Line a buttered pie-dish with short-paste, fill it with the mixture, cover the top with paste, trim off round the edges (which damp with water and pinch together), and bake the pie in a quick oven. When cooked, dust caster sugar over, stand the pie- dish on another dish, and serve. Lemon Points. —Cut fresh Lemons in thin slices; divide each slice into halves, then again into quarters, not quite dividing them in the centre for double points, quite divid- ing for single points. They are used for garnishing salads, minces, calls head, and other dishes. Lemon Posset.—(1) Squeeze and strain the juice of three Lemons into a large china bowl (one that will hold 2qts.), add sugar to the Lemon-juice till it is a syrup, and put 1 dessert- spoonful of brandy into it. Boil 14 pints of cream together with a small piece of Lemon-peel, and when the cream boils take it from the fire and let it stand till cold, taking out the bit of Lemon-peel. When the cream is quite cold, pour it from a jug held high over the bowl with the. Lemon- juice in it. Do not dash it in all at once but pour from the spout of the jug. Let it stand till the following day, and it is ready for use. (2) Trim off the crust of a penny stale French roll, grate the crumb finely, put it into a saucepan with the grated rind of a small Lemon, pour in breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil the mixture until thick. Next beat it up well with a wooden spoon and mix in the strained juice of the Lemon and 1 pint of light French wine. Blanch and pound 4oz. of Jordan almonds, add them to the above mixture, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of orange-flower water. Turn the mixture into a china bowl and serve with a dish of macaroons.