THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 845 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Lemons—continued. in a cool place until firm. When ready to serve the jelly, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish. (11) With lOoz. of loaf sugar grate off all the rind of eight Lemons, add to it the strained juice of the eight Lemons and 1 pint of water, mix well, put it in a sugar- boiler and boil, skimming off all scum that rises, till char; then add a few drops of burnt sugar to colour, ljmz. of isinglass soaked and dissolved in % pint of water, and 1 wineglassful of gin or whisky ; strain it through a jelly- bag, pour it when nearly cold into a shape, and let it stand on ice or in a cold place till firm enough to turn out. (12) Put loz. of isinglass in a small saucepan with In- break fast-cupful of water, stir it over the fire until dis- solved, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it through a tammy-clotli into a basin. Put the thinly-pared rind of one Lemon into a basin, and squeeze the juice of five Lemons over it. Boil Alb. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of water till reduced to a syrup, then take it off the fire and put in the rind and juice of the Lemons. Place it over the fire again until boiling, then mix in by degrees 6 table-spoonfuls of water, and boil for a minute or two longer. Mix the dissolved isinglass with the jelly, and pass it through a jelly-bag until quite clear. It may be flavoured if liked with a small quantity of rose-water. Turn the jelly into a je iy-mould, and pack it in ice for two hours, or it may be put in a cold place and left until the following day. Dip the mould in warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, wipe it, turn it on to a fancy dish, and serve. If the weather is very hot, a larger amount of isinglass will be required than the above-mentioned quantity. Lemon-Juice.—Select a dozen large new Lemons, put them in a lined saucepan with some cold water, and let the water gradually come to the boil; simmer gently till the Lemons are soft, then take them out of the water, squeeze all the juice out into a basin, and strain it; mix in for every pint of juice 211). of caster sugar, stir, and boil it over a slow fire till the sugar has dissolved, then skim it carefully and keep it in bottles till wanted for use. This prepara- tion will be found very useful for many culinary purposes, or would make the foundation of a pleasant summer beverage. Lemon Julep.—Put into a large glass 1 wineglassful of Lemon cordial, with a very little cachou syrup, till up with ice, place a little mint and thin slices of Lemon on the top, put over this a very small bunch of grapes dipped in sugar, and serve. Lemon Kali.—(1) Mix with Alb. of caster sugar a little more than half the quantity of bicarbonate of potash and |lb. of drbd and powdered citric acid. Mix these ingre- dients in a mortar, then put the mixture into a bottle and keep it closely stoppered. When using, stir 1 tea- spoonful of the mixture into a tumbler two-thirds full of water. (2) Mix 50 drops of essence of Lemon with Alb. of caster sugar, then add rjlb. of powdered tartaric acid and lib. of bicarbonate of soda. Keep the mixture in closely-stop- pered bottles. When using, mix 1 teaspoonful in a tumbler- ful of water. Lemon Liqueur.—Cut the rind thinly off four Lemons, put it in a vessel with lqt. of pure colourless spirit and leave it for twelve days. Put lib. of lump sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until small trans- parent beads rise to the top, then take it off the fire and leave until cold. Filter the spirit through flannel, then mix with it the cold syrup and the juice of four Lemons. Bottle the liqueur and keep it tightly corked for use. Lemon Lozenges.—(l) Put 4oz. of dry gelatine in water to soak, and sift 16^1b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a slab or table making a bay in the centre. Put If lb. of glucose in a sugar-pan on the fire, bring it to the boil, remove from the fire, add the softened gelatine, and stir well until dissolved. Pour this into the sugar on the slab, add a flavouring of Lemon, and a yellow colouring. A little tartaric acid is a great improvement. Roll out the Lemons—continued. paste, cut it into shapes, dust over with corn-starch, dry in the hot closet, and pack away in boxes. (2) Work loz. of picked gum dragon previously soaked in a little tepid water with the doubled fist on a marble slab until it becomes elastic and white, then work in till perfectly smooth lAlb. of icing sugar, 2oz. of Lemon sugar, and a few drops of acetic acid. Dredge thickly some caster sugar over the slab, and roll the paste out on it with a ribbed rolling-pin, rolling it in cross directions to give the surface a diamond pattern ; procure a small round tin cutter about Ain. in diameter, and stamp the lozenges out with it. Sprinkle caster sugar over some baking-sheets, arrange the lozenges in rows upon it, anti put them to dry in a screen. Put the lozenges in well-stoppered glass jars and keep them in a dry place. Lemon-aud-Maraschino-Cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of gum Arabic, strain, and mix with it J pint of maraschino and sufficient icing sugar to make a stiff paste ; next prepare some royal icing with the whites of two eggs, loz. of Lemon sugar, and what is left of 21b. of icing sugar after the paste has been made. Procure a biscuit-forcer with a :}in. tube fitted to it, fill it with the maraschino paste, sprinkle caster sugar on some sheets of paper, and as the paste is forced out with one hand, with the other hand use a small knife to cut it off into pieces the size of small filbert kernels ; as each sheet of paper is filled with these drops, put it on a baking-slieet, and stand it in the screen for ten minutes to dry the surface of the creams. Take these up one by one on the tip of a fork and dip them into the Lemon icing. As each one is covered, put it on a wire tray, and when all are done, set the tray in the screen Fig. 1065. Lemon-and-Maraschino-Cheam Bonbons. and dry them for ten minutes. Serve on a small glass- dish (see Fig. 1066), or pack the bonbons carefully between sheets of paper in a cardboard box and keep them thus till wanted. Lemon Marmalade.—(1) Soak 61b. of Lemon-peel in brine for several days. Before preserving, soak the peels in pure water till all the taste of the salt is extracted, and boil till soft enough to pierce with a straw. Put in a copper preserving-pan 91b. of preserving-sugar and lqt. of water; when boiling, put in the Lemon-peel and 31b. of apples cut in slices. Stir all over the fire till very thick. AN hen done, turn the marmalade into jars, and leave till cold. Cover them down tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard till wanted for use. (2) Cut the rinds off and squeeze out the juice of sufficient Lemons to make 61b., weighing both together. Boil the rinds in plenty of water till quite soft, then drain, and put them into cold water to steep for three hours. Drain the peels on a sieve, scrape out the white pulp, and cut the rinds into straw-like threads. Boil 611). of preserving- sugar to the feather degree, then put in the peels and strained Lemon-juice; stir it while boiling for twenty minutes over the fire. When cooked, turn the marmalade into pots and leave it till cool. Cut some round pieces of paper the size of the pots, dip them in brandy, put them on the tops, cover with more paper, and tie down tightly. (3) Allow an equal weight of fruit and sugar, cut the Lemons into halves, squeeze out the juice, and strain it. Put the peels in a saucepan with plenty of water and boil. When quite tender drain the peels, scoop out as much of the insides as possible, and cut the yellow rinds into thin shreds. Put the juice of the Lemons into a preserving-