776 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Icing—continued. enough to drop in fine threads from the spoon from which a little is poured. "While the sugar is thus being boiled to the thread degree (see Sugar-boiling), beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and when the sugar is ready pour it gradually into the egg, beating all the time, until the Icing is white and smooth. It is then ready for use. Francatelli was a great adept at making what he termed “ Transparent Icing,” flavoured with fruit juices or liqueurs, and coloured to suit. They were made as follows, hut their prime difficulty is the time and trouble required to prepare them: Put whatever fruit is intended to be used with the Icing in a fine hair sieve placed over a bowl, and press it well with a wooden spoon to extract the juice. Or it may be pressed in a mortar, and the juice afterwards strained through a fine hair or silk sieve. Measure the juice, and for every teacupful of it clarify lib. of fine Icing sugar, and boil it to the blow degree. Eemove the sugar from the fire, stand the pan in a bowl containing cold water, and leave it till the sugar has cooled a little; then mix the fruit juice in with it, and work it against the side of the pan with the back of the bowl of a spoon or spatula till the sugar grains. Some other special Icings are described under their appropriate headings, such as Almonds, Caramel, Chocolate, Coffee, Fruit, Raspberries, Tea, &c. ICING SUGAR. —A very finely - powdered white sugar, prepared specially for confectioners. IMPERIAL.—This is the name given to a very refreshing medicinal or summer drink, prepared as follows: (1) Put R>z. of cream of tartar, 2oz. of lump sugar, and a sliced lemon into a large jug, and pour in lqt. of boiling water. Let it stand until cold. It may be cooled with ice or refrigerated. (2) Slice up one lemon to 1 pint of boiling water, and sweeten with 1 dessert-spoonful of crushed sugar. (3) Same as No. 1, adding 1 teaspoonful of citric acid and lumps of ice. IMPERIAL BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. IMPERIAL CAKE.—See Cakes. IMPERIAL CREAM.—See Cream. IMPERIAL PUDDING.—See Puddings. IMPERIAL PUNCH.—See Punch. IMPERIAL WINE. — A French dry orange-wine made from fruit produced in January. INDIAN CAKE.- See Cakes. INDIAN CORN (Fr. Ma'is; Ger. Mais).—-In America, where this grows to perfection, it is commonly known as corn, whereas in most other countries it takes its popular name from the botanical one (Zea Mays). To us it is better known in its prepared form of cornflour, or corn- starch, hominy, maizena, polenta, and a variety of other preparations of it; but enterprising Americans have been preparing for use the corn itself, in such a manner that it can be supplied to us green, preserved, or dried. The following are some good receipts for its preparation: Boiled Green Corn.— (1) Choose short, thick ears of fresh green corn; remove all the husk except the inner layer; strip that down to remove all the silk from the corn and to permit the cutting away of any defective grains, and then replace it, and tie it at the upper end of each ear of corn. Have ready a large pot half-full of boiling water, put in the corn, and boil steadily for about twenty minutes if the ears are large, or fifteen minutes if they are of medium size; then take it from the boiling water, remove the strings, and serve hot at once. If it seems desirable to strip off the inner husk before sending to table, this must be done very quickly, and the corn covered with a clean napkin to pre- vent the escape of heat. Serve plenty of butter, pepper, and salt with the corn. Sometimes the butter, pepper, and salt Indian Corn—continued. are mixed by heating them together, and then served in a gravy-bowl. The fresher the corn, the sweeter it is; it seems to lose its most delicate flavour after having been gathered a few hours. (2) Eemove the outer leaves and silk of six young and tender ears of Indian Corn, and place them in a saucepan, covering with water. Add l breakfast-cupful of milk, Joz. of butter, and 1 handful of salt. Cook for twenty minutes, and serve on a folded napkin spread over a dish. Green corn preserved in tins should be cooked in the same manner. Corn Beer.—(1) Put 1 pint of Indian Corn into a saucepan containing water, and boil it till a little soft; then turn it into a 2gall. jar, add lgall. of water and 1 pint of molasses, shake well, set the jar in a warm place to ferment, and in about twenty-four hours the beer will be ready. When all this beer has been used, by adding more water and molasses to the corn, another quantity can be made. The corn will last for fully six months, and the beer will be fit for use in twelve hours after making by keeping the jar warm. It is far cheaper and more wholesome than cider. A little yeast will greatly assist the working. (2) Put into a jar 2qts. of hulled Indian Corn, and add 5qts. of lukewarm water, 1 pint of yeast, the same of molasses, and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of winter-green. This should be made early in the morning, bottled in the evening, and can be used the following day. The yeast used should be of the best. (3) Put 1 pint of Indian Corn in a saucepan, cover it with water, and boil till soft; pour it into a jar, add lqt. of molasses, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, lqt. of dried apples, 2oz. of pulverised ginger, and 1 breakfast-cupful of German yeast dissolved in a little warm water, and lastly pour in 3galls. of water. Keep the jar in a warm place if in the winter, or in a cool place if in the summer, let it ferment thoroughly, and then clarify with the whites of two eggs or gelatine. Draw off into a clean cask or bottles. (4) Put in a cask lqt. of Indian Corn, 2qts. of molasses, and 5galls. of water; shake well, and flavour with oil of lemon. It will ferment in a few days without yeast. Keep it bunged tight. The corn will do for several makings ; should it get sour, add more water and molasses in the proportions first used. When the fermentation has ceased, clarify with whites of eggs or gelatine, and rack off. Corn Chowder.—Scrape lqt. of raw sweet Indian Corn from the cob, put it into a saucepan with enough water to cover, and boil for twenty minutes. Skim out the corn as it floats on the top. Pare some potatoes, so that when cut into slices they will fill a pint measure, soak, and put them into hot water to scald. Fry an onion together with a piece of salted pork of about 2in. cube, and strain the fat into the saucepan with the corn-water. Put in the potatoes, corn, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, place the pan on the fire, and let the liquor simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour or until the corn and potatoes are tender; put in 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 pint of milk, and 1 pint of tomatoes, and boil up again. It must be served very hot with crisped crackers. Corn Pie.—Cut the corn from the cobs of four ears of cold boiled corn; mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour and 1 tea- cupful of milk, and when quite smooth add the yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten separately, 1 table-spoonful of butter, warmed to melting, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a little pepper; turn the mixture into two squash pie-plates, and bake for twenty minutes. This makes a very good breakfast dish. Dried Corn.—(1) Cut the grains from ears of tender Indian Corn, spread them on large sheets of paper in the sun, and dry thoroughly; or put them on pans in a cool oven, and dry ; after which keep them in a cool, dry place. When wanted for use, soak the corn overnight in enough water or milk to cover, and the next day boil in the same liquor till tender ; season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve hot. (2) Put 1 pint of clear wood ashes in a saucepan with 2qts. of cold water, set it over the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes ; then let the lye cool until the ashes settle at the bottom of the pan. Pour off the clear liquid and strain it. Use enough of the lye thus made, mixed with an equal quantity of cold water, to cover the dried corn placed in a saucepan over the fire, and boil until the hulls begin to