806 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. uces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Lamb—continued. and pepper to taste. Simmer at the edge of the fire until the meat is tender, then stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, garnish with small croutons of bread delicately browned in butter, and serve. Soiled Leg of Lamb.—(1) Dust a leg of Lamb over with salt, put it in a bowl with sufficient soft water to cover, make the water acid with a few drops of vinegar or lemon- juice, and let the Lamb steep for an hour. Afterwards dry it, dredge with flour, wrap it in a piece of linen, put it in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs and water to cover, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half, more or less accord- ing to the size of the joint. When cooked, remove the cloth, place the Lamb on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and thin slices of lemon (see Fig. 1012), and serve. (2) Cut off the leg of a ewe Lamb (there being more fat on this), saw off the knuckle, trim it, and remove the thick skin on the back. Put it into a bowl of warm water, and soak for fully three hours; then put it into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil gently until done, the time required being determined by the size. When cooked, place the leg on a dish, and serve hot with white sauce poured over it. A leg of Lamb should not weigh more than 3|lb., and should be very fat. (3) Put a leg of Lamb into a saucepan with sufficient clear cold soft water to cover, and let it remain for half-an- hour, with ^ handful of salt thrown over it. Tie it up in a thin white cloth which has been floured, and boil in water sufficient to cover it. A good-sized bundle of sweet herbs should be added. It will be done in about an-hour-and-a-half, and should be served with spinach or French beans. If required cold, garnish with sprigs of parsley. (4) Wipe and trim off the fat of a leg of Lamb, put the meat in a saucepan, cover with boiling salted water, and let it simmer till done, allowing twelve minutes for each pound of meat. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with caper sauce. (5) Select a small, nicely-shaped leg of Lamb, put it in boiling salted water, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Prepare a sorrel puree, put it on a hot dish, place the leg of Lamb on it, and serve with caper sauce. Braised Breast of Lamb.—(1) Cut out the bones from a breast of Lamb with a sharp-pointed knife, season the meat well with salt and pepper, then roll it up and tie it tightly round with twine. Chop finely one onion, a slice of carrot, and a slice of turnip. Put them in a braising-pan with a lump of butter, and stir over a brisk fire for five minutes; then put in the Lamb, sprinkling it plentifully with flour. Put the lid on, and stand the stewpan where the meat will cook slowly for half-an-hour; then pour in lqt. of boiling water or stock, and let it cook slowly for one hour longer, basting it frequently. When ready, take the meat out, cut off the string, and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain the latter over the meat, and serve while very hot, with a sauceboatful of either tomato or bechamel sauce. (2) Line the bottom of a braising-pan with thin slices of beef and bacon; put in some shoes of carrots and onions, a few sprigs of thyme, two or three laurel-leaves, some mixed herbs, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and mixed spices. Put in two breasts of Lamb nicely trimmed, and cover them with the vegetable seasoning till the pan is full; place the lid on, and place a strip of flour-and-water paste all round the edge, to prevent the air getting in. Heap soma Lamb—continued. hot coals on the lid, and cook the meat till tender; then take the pan off the fire, and leave till the contents are cold. Take the breasts out, cut them in pieces, put in a sauce- pan with some clear stock, and boil till the gravy is reduced to a glaze. Arrange the meat in a circle on a hot dish, put Fig. 1013. Braised Breasts of Lamb with Asparagus. a fried slice of bread between each piece of Lamb, with plenty of stewed asparagus in the centre, and serve. See Fig. 1013. Braised. Breast of Lamb a la Milanaise.—Trim a breast of Lamb, and put it in a saucepan in which there is a layer of thin slices of fat bacon; put some slices of lemon on the breast, then cover it with more slices of fat bacon ; pour in ^ pint of stock, and pack in an onion cut in quarters. Place the lid on the saucepan, with a few live ashes on the top, and braise slowly by the side of the fire till the breast is done, glazing it when cooked. Put some dressed macaroni on a hot dish, lay the joints on it, pour over a rich brown gravy, and serve. Braised Neck of Lamb with Brussels Sprouts.—Trim a neck of Lamb to a nice square shape (see Fig. 1014), and braise it, keeping it as white as possible. Meanwhile prepare a puree of Brussels sprouts a3 follows: Trim off the out- side leaves, and wash thoroughly 31b. of Brussels sprouts, put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and plenty of boiling water, and boil. When tender, drain the sprouts, squeezing out as much of the water as possible, and finely chop them. Peel and thinly slice a moderate-sized onion. Fig. 1011. Neck of Lamb. put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss it about over a brisk fire for a few minutes; then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, a few sprigs of parsley, and the sprouts. Dredge lightly with flour, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white veal stock and the same quantity of milk, stirring at the same time to mix them very smoothly. Stir the whole over the fire until boiling, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and i teaspoonful of sugar. Pass the sprouts thorough a fine sieve on to a hot dish, place the Lamb upon it, and serve. Braised Neck of Lamb with Sweetbread.—Trim a neck of Lamb to a neat shape, and braise it. Procure six of each