840 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemons, 4oz. of moist sugar, and -jib- of butter. Beat four eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients. Turn the whole into a lined stewpan, and stir it over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, then move to the side. Butter some patty-pans, line them with a good puff paste, put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each, and bake in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes. When cooked, put the cheese cakes on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve hot or cold. See Fig. 10G1. (7) Boil a Lemon until tender, then drain, put it in a wooden mortar, and pound, draining off all the juice ; mix with the Lemon Jib. of caster sugar and Jib. of butter. Beat the yolks of five eggs thoroughly, then mix with the above ingredients and beat the whole well together. Butter some small tartlet-tins, line them with puff paste, half fill each with the above mixture, and bake in a moderate oven; they may be served either hot or cold. (8) Mix and gently melt Jib. each of sugar and butter; add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, the grated rinds of three and the juice of one and a half Lemons, one small Savoy or sponge biscuit, some ground almonds, and 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Mix well, and bake in rich paste, either as an open tart or tartlet. Iietnon-Cheese-Cake Mixture.—Put Jib. of butter into a lined saucepan with 21b. of loaf sugar, the grated rinds of six and the strained juice of eight Lemons. Beat a dozen eggs well, pour them in with the ab >ve ingredients, and stir the whole gently over a slow fire until very thick. Turn the mixture into jars, leave it until cold, then cover with paper, and tie down. The above Lemon mixture may be kept between two and three years in a dry store-cup- board. Lemon Chips and Bings.—(1) Choose some Lemons with thick smooth peels, and cut off the rinds in small chips or rings with a sharp-pointed knife. The peel should be cut off as thick as possible without taking any of the fruit. Boil the peel till tender, then strain and put them in cold water. Pour the cold water off carefully, and place the peel on a sieve to drain. Boil sufficient syrup to the small thread to cover (see SUGAR-BOILING), and pour it while hot over the peel. Let them stand till the following day, then strain the syrup off and boil it to the large thread ; pour it over the chips again, repeat the operation on the third day, and on the fourth day boil the syrup to the large pearl, having mixed with it a little fresh syrup if any should have been required; put in the chips, and boil them up for the last time. These chips may be candied, in which case they should be well drained on a sieve. (2) Take some large Lemons with smooth rinds, and with a small knife cut off the rinds in small chips (it requires practice to do this properly); put these chips into salted water and let them remain in it all night. Next day drain, plunge them into boiling water, and boil till tender, then drain again and lay them in cold water. When they are cold, drain well, put them in an earthen- ware pan, and pour over sufficient boiling-hot clarified sugar to cover and let them stand in this for two days ; strain off the syrup, add more sugar, boil till quite thick, then put in the chips again and simmer for a few minutes. Remove from the fire, let them stand in the syrup for two days, and Iiemons—continued. proceed as before. Repeat this process once more, and the chips are fit for candying. The quantity of sugar required for this depends, of course, on the quantity of chips to be candied, lqt. of clarified sugar being sufficient for 31b. of chips. Boil the requisite quantity of clarified sugar to the blow degree, which is when if a skimmerful of sugar be taken up and blown through little bubbles appear (see Sugar-boiling). Drain the chips thoroughly, wipe them on a clean cloth, and, when the sugar is boiled to the re- quired degree, put them into it and keep stirring about with the skimmer till the syrup turns white, then lift the chips out with a couple of forks, lay them lightly on a wire sieve, and put them into the stove to dry. Lemon Conserve.—Take a piece of loaf sugar weighing about lib. and grate on it the rind of one Lemon, scraping off the surface of the sugar from time to time as it be- comes yellowed with the rind; when all the yellow rind is grated, and all the yellowed sugar scraped off the lump, cut the Lemon in halves, and add the strained juice of one half to the yellowed sugar. Boil the remainder of the lump of sugar to the degree of heat at which if a skimmerful be taken up and blown through large sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar boiling), take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and gently stir in the scraped yellow sugar and lemon-juice, and when it foims a kind of glaze on the top and is sufficiently cool, pour it into moulds. Lemon Cordial.—Macerate for one week 2oz. each of fresh and dried Lemon-peel and loz. of fresh orange-peel in 1 gall, of proof spirit. Filter this off and press the peel. Dissolve 31b. of loaf sugar in 1 gall, of distilled water and add this to the spirit. A little orange-flower or rose-water improves this cordial. Lemon Cream.—(1) Well beat the yolks of two eggs, add to them 1 pint of thick cream, Jib. of caster sugar, and the thin rind of a Lemon; turn all into a saucepan, boil up once, remove from the fire, and stir till cold. Squeeze the juice of the Lemon on a dish, pour over the cream, and serve. (2) Rub off the zest of a Lemon with lumps of sugar, put them into a bowl with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, whip until dissolved, and add more sugar and Lemon-juice to taste. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a little hot water and let it cool. When thick add it to the Lemon cream, turn all into a mould, and let it set before turning out. (3) Mix the grated peel of three Lemons with 1 pint of rich cream, then strain in the juice of the three Lemons and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the cream until very thick, then put it in a cool place for one night. The next day, put a few sponge cakes in the centre of a glass dish, and baste them with 3 or 4 wineglassfuls of white wine. When the cakes are well soaked with the wine, pour the cream round, and serve. (4) Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of arrowroot in a basin and mix it smoothly together with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling water. Pour the arrowroot into an enamelled saucepan and stir it with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire. When boiled for a few minutes, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire and mix in the strained juice of half a Lemon, a small quantity of grated Lemon-peel, and loaf sugar to taste. Beat the-whites of six eggs well, but without frothing, mix them quickly in with the cream, stir for a few minutes, then strain the cream through a fine hair sieve. Serve it when cold in small glasses. (5) Beat the whites of two eggs and one whole one together, put them into a saucepan with J pint of water, Jib. of caster sugar, and the strained juice of two Lemons. When the ingredients are well mixed, place the saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir continually in one direction; when hot put into the cream the thinly-pared rind of one Lemon, stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling, then remove at once. Strain the cream into a basin and leave till cold. This cream is delicious eaten with either stewed fruit or fruit tarts. (6) Put 1 pint of thick cream in a lined saucepan with 4oz. of caster sugar and the thinly-pared rind of a Lemon,