936 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. MIGNONETTE PEPPER.—See Pepper. MIKADO SOUP.—-See Soups. MILAN CAKES—-See Cakes. MILAN SOUFFLE.—-See Souffles. MILANESE CROQUETTES.—-See Croquettes. MILDEW.—This and clean cooks should be strangers. In spite, however, of every care it will occasionally appear in damp cupboards when the circulation of air is insuffi- cient. Lime-washing will remove it from the walls, but when it has taken possession of foods, although the effect at first is merely superficial, its influence rapidly extends. This suggests the unhesitating destruction of the article affected. MILK (Fr. Lait; Ger. Milch; Ital. Latte; Sp. Leche). —Containing as it does all the elements that are required for the growth and maintenance of the human body, Milk is rightly regarded as the type of an alimentary substance (says Blyth in his “ Dictionary of Hygiene ”); and these are nitrogenous matters—fat, sugar, water, and salts. The fat is held in a very finely-divided state in the form of minute globules suspended in the fluid. These appear to be surrounded by an envelope of casein or albumenised matter, which during the process of churn- ing becomes broken up. Good Milk is a white homogeneous fluid secreted by the mammary glands of animals. Cow’s Milk is usually employed in this country; but in Sweden and Denmark, sheep’s Milk; in Switzerland goat’s Milk; in Lapland, reindeer’s Milk; and in Tartary, mare’s Milk is used. The Milk of goats and asses is occasionally used here, but unless otherwise stated, these observations apply to cow’s Milk. In India large quantities of buffalo Milk are used for dietary purposes, especially for the manufacture of Ghee. The composition of Cow’s Milk is very constant, showing in analysis much the same results whether obtained from an ill- nourished cow or the best Alderney, the only difference being in the proportion of fat. This fat rises and collects on the surface of the Milk after standing, and when skimmed off is called cream, the Milk underneath being known as separated, or skimmed Milk; from the cream we get butter, and from the separated Milk, which is deprived of the greater portion of its fat, may be obtained good curds for cheese. From this it will be understood that separated Milk, although deprived of its fat, contains a large proportion of nutrient casein. Unfortunately, Milk is subject to much adulteration at the hands of unscrupulous dealers. Water, starch, dextrine, or gum, and emulsions from seeds, have all been found in adulterated Milk, but in these days the Adulteration Act is so rigidly enforced concerning Milk that the worst adulteration to be met with nowadays is- water. This can be dis- covered by floating in the Milk an in- (Dairy Supply Co.), strument called a lactometer (see Fig. 1163). The specific gravity of good Milk varies between 1‘026 and 1'031. Anything below that would lead the examiner to suspect the addition of water. The lacto- meter takes its degrees from water, which is reckoned as l'OOO. But, it might happen that Milk containing a larger proportion of fat than usual might cause the lactometer to register even lower than water, fat being so much lighter than water. The milkman, however, usually lets down his Milk with sugar and water, which Fig. 1163. Lactometer. Milk—continued. gives a higher specific gravity, so that some other means besides the lactometer is necessary to test the quality of Milk with any degree of certainty. The next step is to ascertain the amount of cream contained in a given quantity of Milk. The proportion of cream can be tested by what is called a registering-stand (see Fig. 1164), which should be Fig. 1164. Registering-stand for Milk (Dairy Supply Co.). used by every conscientious retailer of Milk; lie would then be in a position to guarantee the proportion of nourishing properties contained by the Milk he sold. Fig. 1165. Registering-stand, Lactometer, and Thermometer (Dairy Supply Co.). If a stand of this kind be placed in a conspicuous part of the dairy, and one of the glasses filled at every milking, the public would see for themselves the layer of cream as it rises to the top. A very useful little arrangement made up of lactometer, thermometer, and registering glasses complete (see Fig. 1165), which is sold by the Dairy Supply Com- Fig. 1166. Block-tin Milk-bucket (Dairy Supply Co.). pany, must be of great value to all dealers who care to make sure of the quality of the Milk they sell. Full directions are given with each stand, and these are rendered sufficiently simple to be readily understood and