TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 851 Lemons—continued. (3) Mix 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot'smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in about 1 pint of boiling water, and pour it into a lined saucepan. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar that has been rubbed on the yellow rind of one Lemon, and squeeze in the Lemon- juice. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened and boiling, when it will be ready for serving. Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowls.—(1) Select a large Lemon, peel it, cut it in slices, pick out all the pips, and cut each slice into small square pieces. Boil a fowl’s liver, chop and add it to the Lemon, pour h pint of hot melted butter over it, stir well, and serve in a sauceboat with the fowl. (2) Peel a Lemon, cut it in slices, and take out all the pips; put the liver of a fou l in a mortar and pound it, moistening with a few table-spoonfuls of good gravy. Put a lump of butter in a small stewpan, pour in the pounded liver and gravy, add the slices of Lemon and a small piece of the peel, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and serve. (3) Thinly pare the rind of a small Lemon, put it into a saucepan with a sprig of Lemon-thyme and a few white peppercorns, pour in 1 pint of thick cream, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till well flavoured with the Lemon-peel. Strain the cream through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in jib. of butter that has been worked with h table-spoonful of Hour, and stir it over the fire till thick and boiling; then mix in the strained juice of a Lemon, keeping it well stirred. When the fowls are ready and dished, mix a little hot gravy with the sauce, season to taste with salt, and serve with the fowls. Lemon Sauce for Fish.—Squeeze and strain the juice of a large Lemon into a lined saucepan ; put in with it jib. of buffer, and pepper and salt to taste. Beat it over the fire till thick and hot, but do not let it boil. When done, mix with the sauce the beaten yolks of two eggs. It is then ready to be served. Lemon Sauce for Buddings.—Boil 1 pint of water and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar for five minutes, then stir in 3 large teaspoonfuls of corn-starch previously mixed with a little cold water, continue stirring over the fire for eight or ten minutes, then add the grated rind and juice of one Lemon and 1 table-spoonful of butter. When the butter is melted, the sauce is ready to be served. Lemon Sherbet.—(1) Thinly pare one Lemon, and squeeze on the rind the juice of two, taking care to keep back the pips. Mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. When the sugar has dissolved (it will take about lialf-an-hour) pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Strain and use. It can be iced or not as preferred. (2) Soak 1 table-spoonful of gelatine in a little water ; pour lqt. of boiling water over it, and add the strained juice of five Lemons and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. When co< 1, turn it into the freezing-pot and freeze. (3) Squeeze the juice from twelve Lemons, then cut the rinds in slices and pour over them 6qts. of boiling water. Mix 31b. of caster sugar with the Lemon-juice, previously straining it. Add 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to lqt. of milk, stir it over the fire in a stewpan till boiling, then mix in the Lemon-juice and sugar. Strain the water from the sliced Lemon, put it in the freezing-pot, and when it begins to freeze stir in the thickened milk and the lightly-beaten whites of six eggs. (4) Boil lib. of sugar in 1 pint of water; grate the rinds of two large Lemons into a basin, squeeze the juice in, taking care to keep back the pips, pour the boiling syrup on them, and let it remain till cold. Mix 1 pint of cold water with the above preparation, strain it into a freezer, and freeze; when pretty well frozen, mix in the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and freeze again. (5) Squeeze and strain the juice of six Lemons. Make a thick syrup of 1 Alb. of loaf sugar and pour it hot over Lemons—continued. the Lemon-juice, then add sufficient boiling water to make 3qts. Stand it in ice water to cool, and then put it in the freezer. Beat the whites of two small eggs to a stiff froth and stir them well into the sherbet while freezing. When frozen quite hard, re pack with ice and cover till required for use. Lemon Shrub.—(1) Squeeze the juice of twelve Lemons into a bowl, and add the thin rinds of two, lib. of crushed loaf sugar, the well-whisked whites of two eggs, | pint each of rum and brandy, and 1 pint of water. Mix thoroughly, strain, and it is ready for use. (2) Squeeze the juice of sixteen Lemons into a bowl, and add 6oz. of the juice of barberries, loz. of loaf sugar, and 1 pint of white wine; mix well and strain before using. A little milk, if added, makes a light and refreshing drink, but must be used at once, as it will not keep long. (3) Squeeze and strain the juice of twelve Lemons. Mix with it lib. of loaf sugar the thinly-pared rinds of two Lemons, the well-whipped whites of two eggs, 1 pint of water, and h pint each of brandy and rum. When thoroughly mixed, strain, and it is ready for use. (4) Procure a dozen fresh Lemons, pare the rinds off thinly, then squeeze out the juice and strain it. To 1 pint of the juice add lib. of white sugar, broken into small pieces. Measure out for each pint of the syrup 3 table- spoonfuls of French brandy, and soak the rinds of the Lemons in it. Let the whole remain for a day, stirring up the Lemon-juice and sugar frequently. On the follow- ing day strain off the syrup, mix it with the brandy and Lemon rinds, put the whole in clean bottles, cork, seal them tightly, and keep in a dry, cool place. (5) Grate the yellow rinds of two Lemons and one orange ; pour over it 3 pints of brandy or whisky, and let it steep for two days. Then boil 31b. of loaf sugar in 3 pints of cold water to a thick syrup, let it cool, and when cold add the strained juice of six Lemons and the strained spirit that the grated peel has been steeping in. Stir well for five minutes and then bottle. Cork the bottles, seal the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust. Lemon Snow.—(1) Put loz. of gelatine in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and place it over the lire until the gelatine has dissolved, then add lib. of caster sugar and the juice of six or seven large Lemons. Stir the mix- ture and boil it for ten minutes, then strain through a jelly-bag into a basin. Whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and when the jelly is cold and beginning to thicken mix them in and whisk the whole until light. Pile the pudding in a fancy glass dish, leave it until quite cold, garnish with ratafias, and serve. (2) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in ^ pint of cold water for four hours, then add the grated peel of two Lemons, the juice of three or four, according to size, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and lib. of powdered white sugar, and let it stand for another hour. Pour in 1 pint of boiling water and stir till both gelatine and sugar are quite dissolved ; strain, and let it stand in a wide bowl to cool. When nearly cold add 4 table-spoonfuls of sherry, and when quite cold whisk in by degrees the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; continue to whisk till the snow is white and smooth and quite thick. Pour it into a mould, wetted inside with cold water, let it stand in a ccol place for at least eight hours, and then turn it out. Lemon Souffle.—(1) Stir into loz. of warmed butter 4oz. of flour ; when quite smooth, mix in j pint of milk, previously sweetened with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, grate in the rind of one small Lemon, and stir all over the fire until thickened. Take off tire saucepan, stir in gradually the beaten yolks of three eggs, beat the whites of four to a stiff froth, then mix them lightly with the rest. Butter a pudding-mould, tie a strip of buttered paper round the outside to prevent the souffle coming over as it rises, pour the preparation into the mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and let it simmer by the side of the fire until firm enough to turn out. Make a sauce with the following : Boil 2 table- spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar in 1 teacupful of cold water for ten minutes, then put in the strained juice of a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£•<■., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 R 2