THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 842 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemons— continued. (20) Put \ pint of water into a saucepan and when boil- ing put in the thinly-shred peel of two Lemons and let it simmer by the side of the lire for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then add 4lb. of caster svgar, boil for two minutes, strain it through a fine hair sieve, add three well-beaten eggs and the juice of two Lemons, pour the mixture into a copper pan, and stir until thick. In the meantime soak -joz. of gela- tine in a very little cold water. When quite thick, turn the cream into a basin; dissolve the gi latine in a little boiling water, and when nearly cold mix it with the cream. Put the whole into a mould and let it stand till set. When ready to serve, turn [it out of the mould on to an orm menial dish. (21) Boil 1 pint of cream together with 1 pint of new milk ; when boiling, throw in a small lump of sugar, l pinch of salt and the peel of one Lemon, and leave the cream for a time to draw the flavour out of the Lemon. Beat the yolks of sixteen eggs, mix them with the cream, strain two or three times through a jelly-bag, pour it into a mould, stand it in a saucepan, and surround with b( iling water ; the mould should he covered to keep the steam from drip- ping in. When cooked, take the mould out of the water, leave it till cold, then turn the contents on to a dish, and serve. Lemon-Cream Candy.—Steep the grated peel of half a Lemon in the juice of one for an hour, then strain it through a cloth squeezing well to get the flavour of the rind. Put 31b. of loaf sugar over the fire with f pint of water, stir till dissolved, and boil steadily till a little dropped into cold water hardens as it cools. Then stir the strained Lemon- juice into it, boil for one minute, and mix in 1 saltspoonful of dry bicarbonate of soda. Blend thoroughly, and turn the candy out directly into shallow dishes. As soon as it is cold enough to t< uch pull it out long and white, and when brittle cut it into lengths. Lemon-Cream Cheese Cakes.—Steep the thinly-pared rinds of six Lemons in 1J breakfast-cupfuls of water. Strain the juice of the Lemon and mix with it ^lb. of caster sugar. Whisk the whites of ten eggs well, and mix in with them gradually the juice-and-sugar, the water strained from the peels, and five or six finely-grated stale Savoy biscuits. Butter some pattv-pans, and line them with a good puff paste ; put a small quantity of the above mixture in each, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot or cold. Lemon Cream-Ice.—,1) Add to the juice of four Lemons the grated peel of one, \ pint of clarified sugar (see Sugar- boiling', and 1 pint of cream ; mix all these thoroughly together, then strain through a sieve into a mould or glasses packed in ice, and freeze. (2) Rub eff the rind of a Lemon with lumps of sugar, scrape it off the lumps as soon as they become charged with the essential oil of the fiuit, put it in a copper basin, add lqt. of cream, Jib. more sugar, and one egg; mix well, place the basin on the stove or fire, and stir well until it is about to boil. Remove from the fire, strain at once, let it cool, and then freeze. When frozen add the juice of a Lemon, stir well, and use as required. The juice must on no account he added befoie the cream is frozen, as it is apt to curdle and spoil. (3) Put Lib. of powdered sugar into a basin; grate in the rinds of two Lemons, add tiie whites of four eggs, mix well with a wire whisk for two minutes, add 1 pint of cold milk, and stir again for one minute. 1 lace the basin on the hot stove, stir briskly with the whisk, take it off when coming to tiie br.il, lay it on the table, and pour in l pint of sweet cream, mixing well for two minutes. Let it cool for half-an-hour, strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, put on the lid, lay the freezer in an ice-tub tilling in all round with broken ice mixed slightly with rock-salt, and turn the handle of the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the cream from the sides and bottom of the freezer, re-cover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more; uncover and detach the cream as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on and repeat the operation thiee times more. The cream should by this time lie quite firm. Turn it out on to a cold dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and semi to table. (4) Grate the peel of six Lemons and tie it up in a piece of coarse muslin. Cut ep„ch Lemon in halves and squeeze the juice from them ; strain the juice anti soak the muslin bag of Lemon-peel in it, squeezing the bag fre- quently till the juice becomes highly flavoured and coloured, then stir in 2 teacupfuls of caster sugar; mix 2 breakfast- cupfuls of sugar in 1 gall, of cream, stir the Lemon-juice in slowly, whisk it to a froth, pour it into a freezing-pot, reserving a portion of the cream to pour in as it sinks in freezing. When the cream is frozen, put it into moulds, close them, and embed in ice. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents out on to a dish. (5) Boil 1 pint of milk; beat 1 teacupful of caster svgar and \ teacupful of flour together with two eggs, turn it into the boiling milk, and stir over the lire for twenty minutes. Pour it into a basin, and leave till cold, then mix with it another teacupful of svgar, 1 table-spoonful of Lemon extract, and lqt. of cream; put it in a freezer and work till frozen. Pill a fancy-shaped mould with the cream, place a piece of thick white paper over the ti p, put on the tin cover, and embed the mould in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (G) Boil 1 pint of water together with the strained juice of three Lemons and 14 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of eight eggs and 1 pinch of salt; pour the syrup in a basin, and stand it in a larger one containing hot water. Stir the yolks of the eggs into the syrup and beat rapidly for three minutes. Take the basin out of the boiling water, stand it in a pan of iced water, and heat until cold. Add the cream, pour all into a freezer, and work it till frozen. Finish as directed for Lemon Cream-Ice, No. 1. (7) Put in a stewpan 1| pints of milk or cream, 12oz. of sugar, the rinds of two Lemons rubbed on lumps of sugar, a small piece of cinnamon, 1 pinch of salt, and the beaten yolks of eight eggs; stir the preparation quickly over the fire till it thickens, but on no account letting it boil, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot, and freeze. Select some fancy ice-moulds, using a Neapc litan ice-spoon to fill them, close them when properly filled, and pack in ice. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents on to dishes. (8) Mix lqt. of milk with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 4lb. of caster sugar, the peel of half a Lemon, and. l°pint of thick cream; pour all into a lined stewpan, stir it with a silver spoon over a moderate fire till on the point of boiling, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Alien cold pour the cream into a freezing-pot, and freeze. Lemon-Cream Pies.—Line some small buttered plates with a good short-paste, and bake till lightly browned. Boil 1 pint of milk, then put with it 1 teacupful of erster sugar; mix together the grated rind of half a Lemon and 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, pour a little of the milk over gradually to make a thin paste, then mix all together and whisk it