THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 898 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. vinegar and claret, 1 table-spoonful each of Worcestershire sauce, soy, and Harvey and anchovy sauces. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake. When the fish is quite done, take it out of the liquor, put on a dish, and pour over the strained sauce; when cold it is ready to be served, and should have a garnish of sprigs oS parsley round the dish. Baked Mackerel.—(1) Clean two or three Mackerel, wash them in plenty of water, split them open down the back, cut across, making four pieces of each fish, and lay them in a pie-dish in layers, putting between each layer a few bay-leaves, cloves, peppercorns, and pimento-berries, and a few sliced shallots. Mix with h pint of stock perfectly freed of fat 1 wineglassful each of white wine and vinegar, \ wineglassful each of anchovy and Harvey sauces and mush- room ketchup, and ^ table-spoonful each of Worcestershire sauce and soy. Pour this mixture over the fish, cover it with a flat dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine sieve over them, and leave until quite cold. When ready to serve, arrange a few neat sprigs of parsley or fennel round the dish. (2) Chop off the head of a large Mackerel, split it down the back, and take out the bone. Prepare a stuffing with roasted chestnuts, butter, a few button-mushrooms, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, salt, pepper, chopped fennel, and parsley (scalded and wrung dry). Place the stuffing in the belly of the fish, fold it over, secure it with tape, put it in a baking-dish, pour round a little white stock, cover the fish with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven until well cooked. In the meantime, well wash |gall. of sorrel, boil, drain, and chop it fine; season with salt and pepper, put it into a saute-pan with a lump of butter, warm up, put it on a dish to form a bed, place the fish on top, and serve with a fish sauce made with the soft roc or milt, which is usually retained for the purpose. (3) Make a stuffing of sifted breadcrumbs, onion, parsley, oysters or skinned shrimps, all chopped, and butter. Clean the Mackerel well, diy it thoroughly, put in the stuffing, sew up the fish, lay it in a baking-dish, spread a little of the stuffing over, and bake in a hot oven. (4) Clean and bone two or three Mackerel, and fill them with a mixture of butter, chopped shallot, parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; wrap eacli separately in well-buttered paper, and put them in the oven. When cooked, take off the papers, and put the fish on a hot dish. A good-sized Mackerel should take about twenty-five minutes, but the time will depend on the size of the fish and state of the oven, which should be moderately hot. (5) Clean two fine fresh Mackerel, make six small in- cisions on both sides, and place them in a buttered baking- dish with £ wineglassful of white wine, 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a finely-chopped shallot, I pinch of salt, and J pinch of pepper. Cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes; then place the fish on a dish. Pour the gravy into a stevpan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs, 1 pint of German sauce, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of butter, stir well until dissolved, and pour the sauce over the Mackerel when serving. (6) Oil three sheets of white paper a little larger than the length of the fish. Cut six thin slices of cooked lean ham, lay one slice on each piece of paper, and on top of these 1 table-spoonful of cooked fine herbs. Select three Mackerel, make four or five incisions on each side, season with a good pinch each of salt and pepper, divided evenly for each side of the fish, roll lightly, and lay them on the top of the fine herbs ; spread 1 table-spoonful more herbs over each Mackerel, and cover with a slice of ham. Then lift up the other side of the paper, and twist the edges together with the fingers. When ready, put them on a baking-sheet, place in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Have ready a hot dish, and after taking them from the oven use a cake-turner to lift the fish gently ; dress them on the dish, leaving the paper undisturbed, and they are then ready to be served. Baked Spanish Mackerel.—Scale about fifteen or twenty Mackerel, pull out the gills, and draw them without cutting Mackerel—continued. open. Wash thoroughly inside and out, dry on a cloth, stuff with some fish forcemeat, and put them in a pan with some butter at the bottom. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, sprinkle with salt, and add the juice of a c raple of lemons. Put the pan in a brisk oven, and bake the Mackerel for about half-an-hour, basting frequently with the liquor, which should be nearly dried up when the fish are done, and they should be glazed and well browned. Put them on a dish, and serve with some piquante sauce in a saucebcat. Baked stuffed Mackerel.—Cut the Mackerel down the backs, remove the backbones (without interfering with the heads), pepper them well inside, stuff' with fish forcemeat, put a -small lump of butter in each, tie up, flour w ell, put them into a Dutch oven, place small pieces of butter all over, and cook in front of a clear fire. When done, put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve with a sauceboatful of sauce made with fennel, parsley, and butter. This sauce should be made very thick, anil may be served poured over the fish. Boiled Mackerel.—(1) Prepare and clean three good-sized Mackerel, put them in boiling salted water, and boil till done. When cooked, drain the Mackerel, and put them on a hot dish (see Fig. 1119). Blanch some fennel in salted water, and when quite soft drain and chop it finely; put 1 table-spoonful in h pint of butter sauce (melted butter), and serve in a sauceboat with the fish. (2) Select the required quantity of Mackerel, chan them, leaving the rocs in, score them diagonally down the sides, tie up the heads with string, and boil gently for twenty minutes in salted water; season with an onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and a little pepper. When the fish are cooked, take them out carefully, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with either caper or mussel sauce in a beat. (3) Pick out half-a-dozen equal-sized Mackerel, chan, wash them in vinegar and water, dry, put them in a fisli-kettle, throw over a handful of salt, cover with cold water, and boil for twenty minutes. When done, take up carefully on the drainer, remove them one by one to a hot dish on which a folded napkin has been laid, garnish w ith parsley, and serve with parsley and butter sauce or gooseberry sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Put a small quantity of weak broth into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a few small onions or one large one, stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of su'eet herbs, and salt and pepper. Boil well for an hour, then put in the required number of well-cleaned and washed Mackerel, and boil until cooked, but without breaking. Take out the fish, drain, and keep them hot on a dish. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, boil until it thickens, add a little chopped parsley and fennel to give it a green appearance, cook for a few minutes longer, add 1 teaspoonful of any kind of fish sauce, and serve either poured over the fish or in a sauceboat. Boiled Mackerel stuffed with Green Gooseberries.—Snip the tops and stalks off some half-ripe gooseberries, and pick out all the seeds. Chop some pieces of fresh herring and sweet herbs (see Herbs), mix them with the gooseberries, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; stuff the Mackerel, pre- viously cleaned and opened, with the preparation, and boil them in salted water with sliced carrots, onions, and turnips. When cooked, drain the fish, put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of green gooseberry sauce.