792 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Jumbles—continued. baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. They will curl easily before cooling. (7) Bub 2oz. of butter into 8oz. of flour, mix in 8oz. of sugar, one egg, 1 dessert-spoonful of ratafia, and form the whole into a paste. Should it be too thick, add a little cream, and proceed as for No. 6. (8) Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it well with 4oz. of caster sugar; when frothy, beat in one egg and a few drops each of essence of almonds and essence of nutmegs. When quite smooth, stir the beaten mixture into 6oz. of flour, and knead the whole lightly. Divide it into small pieces, and form into rings, rolling them in caster sugar. Lay them a short dis- tance from each other on tins, and bake in a good oven. When cooked and cold, put the Jumbles into biscuit-tins until wanted. (9) Bub Jib. of butter into lib. of finely-sifted flour until quite smooth, then mix in lOoz. of caster sugar, a few drops of essence of lemon, and two well-beaten eggs; if not suffi- ciently moistened, mix a small quantity of milk with the paste. Dredge caster sugar over a table, lay the paste on it, roll out as thinly as possible, cut into rounds with a tin cutter about 3in. in diameter, and bake. When done, curl them, and set to cool. (10) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with Jib. of treacle and set it over the fire until melted ; put lib. of finely-sifted flour in a basin with Joz. of ground ginger and 6oz. of brown sugar, mix in gradually the treacle and dissolved butter, and work the whole until quite smooth. Boll the dough out as thinly as possible, cut it into rounds, lay them on a baking- sheet, and bake quickly, curling them before cooling. (11) Mix Jib. of flour and Jib. of sugar into a smooth paste with a sufficient quantity of well-whisked whites of eggs, then work in 4oz. of butter, Jib. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and 1 teacupful of milk. When well worked and quite smooth, form the paste into thin cakes, and bake in a slow oven. Curl, and keep them in biscuit-tins. Pried Jumbles.—Warm Jib. of butter till quite soft, and beat it to a cream with Jib. of powdered white sugar. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 gill of milk and 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it, then beat eggs and milk into the creamed butter and sugar, with a seasoning of grated nutmeg; mix in quickly and lightly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir in very quickly sufficient flour to make a soft dough, first mixing with the flour 1 dessert-spoonful of cream of tartar. Boll the dough out quickly to about lin. thick, cut it into small cakes, and fry at once in boiling lard. Lay them on kitchen-paper to drain, dredge powdered white sugar over, and serve hot. Norfolk Jumbles.—(1) Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds with five or six bitter ones, moistening them occasionally while pounding with a few drops of rose- or orange-flower water. Bub Jib. of butter until smooth in Jib. of flour, mix the almonds with the flour, also 6oz. of caster sugar, and one well-beaten egg, moistening if necessary with a small quantity of milk. Spread a sheet of white paper over a baking-sheet, and drop the mixture on it in small equal portions, leaving a clear space between them. Lay a sheet of paper lightly over the top of them, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, dust over with caster sugar. They must not be browned. (2) Warm 3oz. of butter and work it until creamy, then beat it up with Jib. of caster sugar, two eggs, the grated rind of two lemons, and the strained juice of one. When this mixture is sufficiently beaten, work in with it Jib. of finely-sifted flour. When quite smooth, drop the mixture in small quantities on a sheet of paper spread over a baking- sheet with lin. or so space between them. Bake until lightly browned in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave the Jumbles until cold, then pack them into dry tins. Wafer Jumbles.—Warm 14oz. of butter and beat it with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sugar till creamy ; beat in eleven eggs, two at a time, sift in gradually 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, and continue beating till quite smooth. Slightly butter some baking-tins, put the preparation into a paper cornet, and press it out in rings on the baking-tins ; bake them in a slack oven. They will run out flat and thin, and should be crisp and brown when baked. If the first lot of cakes lose the ring form altogether, thicken with a little more flour. As they are baked, take them off the bakingv sheets, curl them, and leave till cold, then pack in biscuit-tins. JUNIPER.—This name is given to a shrub (Juni- perus communis) which bears blue berries used for flavour- ing gin. They have a warm, pungent taste, which can be used for other purposes, as seen in the following receipts : Juniper-berry Ice.—Take about 1 teacupful of Juniper berries, and give them one boil in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, a small bit of cinnamon, and Jib. of sugar ; strain and pass through a sieve. Pour the juice into a mould, put it into a freezer, freeze, and turn out. Juniper-berry Ratafia.—Take 18grs. each of cloves, cinna- mon, anise, and coriander, and 3oz. of Juniper berries, bruise all well, put them into 3 pints of brandy, and let them steep in it for a month; strain and add to the liquor fib. of sugar dissolved in J pint of water. Stir this well in, then strain through a jelly-bag, bottle, and cork tightly. JUNK.—The name applied by sailors to salted beef. Probably a corruption of Chunk. JUNKET.—See Devonshire Junket. JUS.—A French term applied to gravy of meat, and meat when served with its own gravy is said to be served au jus. Jus lie is thickened gravy. KABOB.—As in the case of other Hindustani words converted into English, the spelling of this one is entirely at the mercy of the individual. Hence we find Cabob, Kebob, Kebab, Kibab, Kepap, and other varieties, the word signifying the same as the original Kabab, a roast, with sundry modifications. The modern accepta- tion of the term is a piece of meat i-oasted on a skewer or small spit, whereas the original Kabab was a leg of mutton and sometimes a whole sheep, boned, and stuffed with sweet herbs and herrings. The following receipts have been collected from several sources, and may be considered sufficiently representative of the various modes of preparation, including Turkish and Persian. In curry they are highly appreciated by Anglo- Indians. See Aiguillettes and Atteeeaux. Curried Nabobs.—(1) For this any cold cooked or raw meat can be used; it should be cut up into pieces about lin. in diameter, and placed on skewers alternately with onion and green ginger, also cut up small, and when all are ready, put the meat, skewers and all, into a saucepan with sufficient curry sauce to moisten, and cook gently until done. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve with hot boiled rice. (2) Cut 21b. of lean mutton into lin. squares ; peel and slice a few onions; arrange the meat and onions alternately on skewers, with a thin slice of preserved g-inger next to each slice of meat, and a few thin slices of apples here and there. Put about 3oz. of butter in a flat stewpan, warm it, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped garlic, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls Fig. 995. Curried Kabobs. according to strength, of curry powder. Season to taste with salt, and fry until brown ; then put in the skewers of meat, and when brown put in J teacupful of curd, and a small quantity of water. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for three-quarters of an hour, or until the meat is tender. When cooked, put the skewers of meat on a hot dish (see Fig. 995), and serve them with a separate dish of plain boiled rice.