THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 865 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Iiiver—continued. Liver—continued. and a little boiled parsley, add salt to taste, mix together with butter, boil up once, and pour it over roast rabbits or fowls. (5) Procure some Livers of either rabbits, hares, or any kind of poultry, and mince them finely. Rub the interior of a small saucepan with garlic, put in loz. of butter, and a scant table-spoonful of liour, and stir it over the fire until mixed ; then put in 1 table-spoonful of minced shallot, a third of that quantity of minced parsley, and a small quantity each of finely-powdered nutmeg, thyme, marjoram, and cloves, also a small quantity of salt and pepper. Pour in f pint or more of clear stock, and stir the sauce over the fire until boiling; then put in the minced Livers, and boil for a few minutes longer. When ready to serve, add to the sauce the juice of half a lemon, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Liver Sausages.—(1) Finely chop a raw pig’s Liver and rub it through a coarse wire sieve ; mix in half its quan- tity of finely-chopped boiled pork, and about a third of the quantity of fat bacon, cut into small squares. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded cloves or allspice; then stuff it into thick pig skins, and tie round securely. The skins should be well cleansed befoie the meat is put into them. Put the sausages into a sauce- pan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, drain, leave until cold, and then serve with a dish of bread-and-butter. (2) Smoked.—Boil about lib. of cuttings of pork and an equal quantity of sward in as small a quantity of water as possible. Put a pig’s lights into hot water, and keep at the side of the fire until firm, but without boiling. The sward will require longer boiling than the meat, so it should be put over the fire first. Cut up a pig’s Liver into very small pieces, then rub through a coarse wire sieve. Finely chop all the above-mentioned ingredients, and mix them with the Liver. Season with salt, pepper, a finely-chopped onion, the grated peel of half a Lemon, and a small quantity of grated ginger. Moisten the mixture with a few table-spoonfuls of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, taking care not to make it too soft, stuff it into well-cleaned skins, only about three- parts filling them, as room must be left for swelling, and fasten securely at the ends. Put the sausages into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, drain, and hang them for three days in cool smoke. Liver Saveloys.—(1) Scrape and finely cut up lib. of pig’s Liver; chop lib. each of fat bacon and lean pork, and mix all together. Season to taste with salt, saltpetre, spices, and a -small quantity of cayenne pepper. Fry three chopped onions in fat; when cooked, drain, add them to the above mixture, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of kirschemvasser. Chop the whole together for ten minutes. Have ready washed and soaked some pig’s guts, and fill them as full as possible with the mixture. Tie them up into 4in. lengths (see Fig. 1080). Hang up the saveloys until dry, then put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil very gently for an hour. Leave the saveloys in the water until half cold, then drain, and wrap them in cloths until quite cold. (2) Chop as finely as possible 41b. of raw pig’s Liver and 21b. of fat pork; mix them and chop again for a few minutes. Season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded cloves; stuff it well into some prepared guts, filling as full as possible. Tie up into equal lengths, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling- water. Boil the saveloys very gently, keeping them well covered with water. In an hour’s time, drain, and wrap them tightly in a cloth. When cold, the saveloys are ready for serving. Liver Saveloys with Truffles.—Cut Jib. of fat Liver into small squares, and put them in a basin; peel and cut into small pieces 41b. of truffles, place them in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, and boil for two minutes ; then put them in with the Liver, and season with salt and spices. Scrape and chop 1 ill), of pig’s Liver, and pass it through a fine wire sieve; cut into small squares ljlb. each of fresh fat bacon and neck of pork. Fry the pork in lard until cooked, let it cool, then mix all the ingredients together. Season the mixture highly, adding J table-spoonful of saltpetre and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stuff some pig’s guts with the mixture, having- well cleansed and soaked them, and tie round tightly in short lengths. Hang up the saveloys for a day to dry, then put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer for an hour. At the end of that time, take the saucepan away from the fire, leave the saveloys in the liquor until nearly cold, then drain and wrap them in a towel. When quite cold, the saveloys are ready for serving. They may be cut into thin slices, or served whole. Liver Soup.— Cut Jib. of Liver in slices, dredge with flour, put them in a frying-pan with one onion cut in slices and a small lump of butter, anti fry till brown ; then pound the Liver, and put it in a saucepan with the onions, a French roll cut in slices, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, anil 3 pints of rich brown broth; boil for ten minutes, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and boil up again. Put two well-beaten eggs in a soup- tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. Liver Soup a la Turque.—Wash a Liver, and cut it into little squares; put them into a saucepan with a small lump of salt and a little water, and boil till nearly cooked, then pour in 4 pints of clear soup stock, and let it simmer gently till the Liver is quite done. Put the yolks of three eggs into a small saucepan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar and the strained juice of two lemons; beat them, then stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon till thick, but they must not boil. Mix the -sauce gradually into the soup, stirring it quickly at the same time to prevent the eggs from curdling. Pour the soup into a tureen, dust a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or small crofltons of bread fried in butter. Potted Liver.—Put the Liver (any kind), with a little highly-seasoned stock, into a stewpan and braise it. When done and quite tender, cut it up very fine and put it into' a mortar and pound to a paste, adding sufficient of the stock to moisten. Take Jib. of butter, melt, strain, add it to the paste, season with salt, pepper, ground allspice and mace, and rub the whole through a fine hair sieve ; then put it into jars, cover with melted butter, and put the jars in a cool place till wr nted. Poultry Livers may be treated in the same way; if truffles or mushrooms are added, they are very good imitations of foies gras. LIVERNAISE SAUCE—See Sauces. LOACH.—A small fish (see Fig. 1081) (Nemacheilus Fig. 1081. Stone Loach. barbatula) found in our rivers, and used as food I when caught in sufficient numbers. Cooked as Smelts