844 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. in a freezing-pot (see Ices). The granite should be served in small glasses. Lemon Honey.—(1) Beat a dozen eggs till very light, add to and mix with them 2lb. of sugar, ilb. of butter beaten to a cream, and the strained juice of six Lemons, and set the mixture over a slow fire till it boils. Keep well stirred and be careful that it does not burn. This is a good remedy for a cough. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar into a saucepan, also the grated rinds and juice of three Lemons, and a piece of butter weighing about 2oz. Stir it over the fire till boiling, then add the beaten yolks of six eggs, and continue stirring till thick. This preparation can be used for tarts, or eaten on bread-and-butter; it makes a splendid substitute for jam, and is a general favourite. Lemon Honeycomb.—(1) Strain the juice of one or two Lemons into a glass dish, and add sugar to taste. Beat the white of an egg into h pint of cream, and whisk it to .a strong froth; as the froth forms lay it on the sweetened Lemon-juice in the dish, piling it high. When all the cream is frothed and piled on the dish lay over it lightly here and there a few small ratafias. (2) Strain the juice of two Lemons into a glass bowl, and sweeten it with 2oz. of caster sugar. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with H pints of cream, sweeten with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and whisk the whole, skimming off the froth and putting it on the Lemon-juice. When all the cream is frothed, stand the dish in a cool place, and serve it on the following day. Lemon Jelly.—(1) Steep 2oz. of gelatine in J pint of cold water for one hour; then mix with it 1J pints of boil- ing water, raisin or cowslip wine, the thinly-pared rind of one and the strained juice of three Lemons, and loaf sugar to taste. Boil all for five minutes, then take it off the fire and leave till cool; stir in quickly the crushed shells and beaten whites of two eggs, and boil the jelly up again without stirring. Let the jelly settle for two minutes, strain through a jelly-bag, and stir in A pint of sherry mixed with a little brandy; pour the jelly into a fancy jelly-mould and leave till set. When ready to serve turn the jelly on to a dish. (2) Cut the rind off one Lemon and put it in a basin, then squeeze the juice of six Lemons on to it, taking care to keep back the pips. Put jdb. of preserving-sugar into a stewpan with | pint of water and let it boil till it becomes a thick syrup, then take it off and mix in the juice and rind ; place the lid on the stewpan and put it over the fire again. Add gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water, let it boil for another minute, then stir in Joz. of isinglass that has been dissolved. Strain it through a jelly- bag, mix in J pint of bucellas, pour it into a mould, put the cover on, and embed it in ice. When ready to serve dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Lemons—continued. (3) Put loz. of gelatine into a basin with a little water and let it soak for about three hours, then put it into a pan with 3 break iast-cupfuls of water together with the finely-chopped peel and strained juice of two Lemons, six cloves, J teaspoonful of coriander seeds, lin. of stick cinnamon, a little nutmeg (not grated', ^lb. of sugar, and the whites and shells of two eggs. Set the pin on the fire and whisk vigorously until the contents come to the boil ; let them boil for a few minutes or until they rise well in the pan, then strain through a fine cloth, stir in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and it is ready for use, either for moulding or any other desired style. (4) Put lqt. of calf's-foot jelly into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of Lemon-juice, 12oz. of loaf sugar, and the thin rinds of two Lemons ; boil well, then clarify with the beaten whites and shells of five eggs, and strain. The jelly should now be quite clear and can be moulded or used as desired. (5) Soak ljoz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water until soft, then pour it in a saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of a large Lemon, 1 teacupful of Lemon-juice, Jib. of loaf sugar, and the beaten whites and shells of five eggs. Stir the mixture over the fire, and boil for several minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag. Pour it into a mould and leave until quite cold and set before serving. (6) Put the thinly-pared rind of a Lemon and a half into a cup, pour over it $ pint of boiling water, cover up, and let it stand. Pour \ pint of cold water over loz. of gelatine and let it steep for lialf-an-hour; then pour over it h pint of boiling water and stir till the gelatine has completely dissolved, if it does not melt quickly stir it over the fire. When the gelatine has melted take it from the * fire, add to it the strained juice of three Lemons, the water in which the Lemon-peel has been steeping, and 1 pint of water with Coz. of sugar dissolved in it. Stir all well together and put it into a cool place to stiffen, either in the vessel it has been mixed in (in which case the jelly when cold must be broken up with a spoon or a knife and serVed in glasses, or used as a garnish for blanc-mange) or poured into a mould. (7) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for about three hours, then stir in the juice of six and the grated rinds of two Lemons, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Cover, let it stand for an hour, then pour in 1 pint of boiling water, and stir till the gelatine has co’mpletely dissolved; strain it, add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, strain it again through a flannel bag, pour it into a mould wetted inside with cold water, and let it stand all night. Turn it out next day on a glass dish. (8) Dissolve loz. of gelatine in § pint of water, then mix witli it the juice of two Lemons and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with the above mixture, turn the whole into a lined saucepan, and continue whisking it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then put in the thinly-pared rinds of the two Lemons, and let them steep for ten minutes. Afterwards strain the jelly through a jelly-bag until quite clear, pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it on ice. When cold and firm, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (9) Soak loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of cold water for about ten minutes, then dissolve it over the fire. When dissolved add lib. of loaf sugar and the juice and rinds of two Lemons; stir till the sugar has dissolved, then let it come to the boil and boil for ten minutes. Strain, and put it into a mould wetted inside with cold water. (10) Peel as thinly as possible the yellow rinds of two small Lemons or one large one, put them into a jug with loz. of isinglass, Joz. of gum Arabic, -]lb. of loaf sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves. Pour over these ingredients 1 pint of port wine, cover the jug, and let them infuse for one night. On the following morning, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, place it over the fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the isinglass has dissolved. When ready, pour the jelly through a jelly- bag, strain until clear, pour it into a mould, and stand it