879 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. (7) Take half-a-dozen small Lobsters, split them in halves lengthwise, crack the large claws, and pick out all the meat, keeping the meat of the tail separate from the rest. Then scrape the brown fur from the shells and the bag in the head, place the shells, tins, and the small claws into a mortar, and beat well; put them over the lire with two anchovies, a good-sized onion, a few sprigs of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the crumb of a French roll; pour over 2qts. of water, boil all the goodness out of them, then strain the liquor. Beat the coral in a mortar with a little butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated ; mix into it gradually lqt. of cream, and add it to the liquor the Lobster-shells were boiled in. Take the meat of the bodies and claws of the Lobsters, mince it fine, mix with it a small quantity of sifted breadcrumbs, season with pepper, salt, and a very little powdered mace, and mix to a forcemeat with beaten yolk of egg; then form it into balls with a [little flour, and heat them in the soup after the cream and coral have been added. Cut the meat of the tails into pieces, give them a boil in the soup, pour it into the tureen, and serve. (8) Peel twelve medium-sized onions, and stew them in about loz. of butter, with a slice of lean beef and a slice or two of lean ham; when they are stewed quite soft, add to them, a little at a time, about 5 pints of rich stock ; let it boil up, and strain through a hair sieve, rubbing the onions through with a wooden spoon. Put this soup back in the saucepan, and let it boil, skimming well. Take the meat from the body of a large Lobster, the spawn also, and the meat of a boiled codling, and beat them fine in a mortar ; add this by degrees to the soup, stirring quite smooth ; let it boil again, and skim. Just before taking the soup from the fire, season with white pepper and cayenne; cut up the tail and claws of the Lobster, and add them together with 1 wineglassful of white wine. Forcemeat balls may also be added, made of the flesh and soft parts of a medium-sized Lobster, a good-sized piece of boiled celery, half an anchovy, and the yolk of a hard- boiled egg, all beaten together, seasoned with a little cayenne, salt, white pepper, and ground mace, and mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, two well- beaten eggs, 2oz. of butter melted to oil, and 1 table- spoonful of oyster liquor, and filed before being added. (9) Allow equal quantities of Lobster-flesh and butter, and twice the quantity of breadcrumbs; soak the crumbs in as much clear stock as they will absorb, pound the Lobster and butter together in a mortar, and when smooth add the breadcrumbs; pound again, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 heaped table- spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire ; put in the above mixture, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of clear stock to make a very thin puree. Stir the whole over the fire until boiling and thickened, skim the soup, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, and boil up again. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. (10) Plunge a large Lobster, or two of medium size, into a large pot half-full of boiling salted water, and boil until the shell is quite red : then take it from the water, coo] until it can be handled, and remove the flesh from the shell, rejecting the soft fins which lie close to the body under the legs, the stomach, which is enclosed in a rather hard membrane, back of the eyes, and the intestine which runs down the middle of the tail, saving all the coral and green fat. Cut the flesh of the Lobster in small pieces. Put over the fire a saucepan containing 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour, and stir them until they bubble; then gradually add 3qts. of boiling water, stir until very smooth, add the Lobster, prepared as already directed, season the soup rather highly with salt and red pepper, let it boil for two or three minutes, and serve hot. (11) Put 1 pint of stock into a saucepan with a carrot, turnip, small onion, a few pieces of celery, and six or seven peppercorns, and stew at the side of the fire for an hour. Strain through a fine sieve back into the saucepan, add a Lobster—continued. dessert-spoonful of cornflour, smoothly blended with a break- fast-cupful of milk, stir till the soup boils, and season with J teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and salt and pepper. Put the yolk of an egg in the soup-tureen, break it, stir in the soup, and mix in the chopped meat of a Lobster ; leave the soup for a few minutes, and serve. Tinned Lobster can be substituted for the Lobster-meat, but should not be used if the other can be obtained. (12) Pick the meat out of the tails, claws, and bodies of three or four large Lobsters, and pound the remainder in a mortar. Put the pounded Lobster in a saucepan with a couple of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, three boned anchovies, and a small piece of lemon-peel; pour in 5 pints of water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire. Put the spawn of the Lobster in a mortar with loz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and pound until smooth, then stir in slowly 1 pint of milk and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cream. Strain the Lobster liquor, add it to the above mixture, season with a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour into the saucepan; cut the flesh from the tails, &c., into small pieces, put them in the soup, and let it just come to the boil. When ready, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve, while very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or small crohtons of fried bread. (13) American.—Remove the meat from a boiled Lobster and cut it into small pieces; pound two or three plain biscuits or crackers, and mix them with the Lobster. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan with lqt. of water, sprinkle a little salt and pepper in, and when boiling stir in the Lobster, biscuit, and jib. of butter; put the lid on and simmer for half-an-hour. Turn it into a tureen, and serve while very hot with sippets of toast on a plate. Lobster Toast.—(1) Pick all the meat from the shell of a nice large Lobster and chop it finely; work 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of cream in with loz. of butter, then mix it with the chopped Lobster, adding a boned, washed, and chopped anchovy, and salt and pepper to taste. Work the whole together with the blade of a knife until thoroughly in- corporated, then mix in lightly 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of washed and chopped watercress. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. in thickness, trim off all the crusts, and toast them ; cut them into squares, butter them, and spread some of the Lobster mixture over each square. Strew finely- grated breadcrumbs over, and put them into a brisk oven for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the pieces of toast nicely on it, garnish with a border of well-washed and nicely-picked watercress, and serve. (2) Pick the meat from a boiled Lobster, chop it fine, and put it over the fire in a saucepan together with a small quantity of cream. Season with salt and cayenne pepper, let it stew till quite hot, then spread it on hot buttered toast, and serve. Lobster with Tomatoes.—Put two or three small live Lobsters in some slightly-acidulated water, and boil them. When cooked, drain the Lobsters, pick the meat out care- fully, cut that of the tails in two, but keep the meat of the claws whole, place them in a small stewpan with a little of their liquor, and keep warm. Put the creamy part of the bodies in a mortar and pound it; mix with it 6 table-spoonfuls each of brown sauce and tomato sauce, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper and salt in, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a 1 ain-marie. Infuse five or six allspice in a little broth, then 2>ass it through a sieve into the sauce. Cut six large tomatoes through the middle, pick out the seeds, sprinkle pepper and salt over the tomatoes, and fry them in a little butter. Drain and arrange the tomatoes in a circle on a hot dish, put the Lobster-tails and claws in the middle, and pour the sauce over. Have some rice boiled in fish broth seasoned with salt and nutmeg, putting in when done 1 pinch of sugar and a few drops of essence of green mint, and serve with the Lobster. Miroton of Lobster.—Pick out the meat from a large hen Lobster, and put it in a mortar with the spawn; pound and mix ■with it the crumb of a French roll that has been