88G TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. (2) Mix a little flour in 1 b teacupfuls of milk or cream, work in Joz. of butter and a little parsley and onion very finely minced, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. Put this in a pan, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; then strain through a fine sieve. In the meantime boil .{-lb. of Macaroni in a saucepan with a little salted water, and when done, take it out, drain, and plunge it into some cold water to make firm. Take it out, drain again, and stir it in with the cream mixture, adding loz. each of grated Parmesan and Grayiire cheeses, and loz. of butter in small pieces. Put this in a well-buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with cheese, and pour over all a little butter made quite net. Put the dish in the oven, and bake until quite brown. (3) Put 3ioz. of Macaroni and 2l2 pints of milk or stock into a saucepan, and boil for about twenty minutes ; pour in a little cold water, remove the Macaroni, and drain thoroughly. Put it in a baking-dish in layers, with 3Joz. of grated Parmesan cheese spread over them, and loz. of butter (in small pieces) on the top ; place the dish in a moderate oven, bake until of a light golden colour (it should take about ten minutes), and serve very hot. (4) Put into a saucepan 2oz. of Macaroni broken in pieces and 1 pint of well-flavoured stock, and simmer gently at the side of the lire until quite tender. If there is sufficient stock to keep the Macaroni well covered, it will take about one hour; but it must be frequently tried, for if allowed to get pulpy it will be spoilt. Add a little butter, toss the pan (oil' the fire), sprinkle with salt and pepper, put the Macaroni on a dish, cover with fried breadcrumbs, and serve very hot. (5) Well wash the required quantity of Macaroni in slightly-salted water, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of broth, add a little each of salt and pounded mace, and simmer gently until the Macaroni is tender. Take out, drain, place it at the bottom of a dish, grate plenty of cheese over, cover witli very finely sifted bread- crumbs, pour over, through a small colander, some warmed butter, but without oiling, set the dish in a Dutch oven, and cook until the crumbs are well browned. Although this is a common way of serving Macaroni, the cheese is apt to get hard on the top, and give a slightly rancid taste to the whole. Macaroni a l’ltalienne.—(1) Boil fib. of Macaroni, place it in a saucepan with 1 gill each of tomato and Madeira sauces and fib. of grated Parmesan cheese, season with \ pinch of pepper and \ pinch of nutmeg, and cook slowly for ten minutes, tossing frequently. Arrange on a hot dish, and serve with grated cheese separately. (2) Boil fib. of Macaroni in water till tender, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and thicken with flour and water. Now add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, l teaspoonful of made mustard, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and cnyenne. Stir in fib. of grated Parmesan cheese, boil for a few minutes longer, and serve. Macaroni a la Milanraise.—Cut a piece of lean veal and 2oz. of raw ham into moderate-sized pieces, put them into a stewpan with a chopped onion and carrot and a sufficient quantity of butter, anil fry until nicely browned, adding 1 wineglassful of white wine and stock to cover. Put in a bunch of sweet herbs, including a few sprigs of parsley, a small bottle of tomato sauce, and a few chopped mushrooms. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and stew the contents gently for three hours. Next strain the gravy through a fine sieve; put the other ingredients, with the exception of the bundle of herbs, into a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste ; then return the mixture to the stewpan with the gravy, and boil it gently for twenty or thirty minutes longer. Boil the required quantity of Macaroni and drain it thoroughly; cut some ricotta (milk cheese) into slices. Strain the above gravy again into an- other stewpan, put in lfoz. of butter broken into small pieces, and keep it hot at the edge of the fire. Arrange the Macaroni and slices of ricotta in layers in a deep dish with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese over them, moisten with the above gravy, dust a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over the top, and cover the dish. Put it into a very slow oven, and leave for an hour. At the end of that Macaroni—continued. time, take it out of the oven, and serve while very hot in the same dish. Macaroni a la Neapolitaine.—(1) Have a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and put into it 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt; as soon as it boils up again, throw in lib. of Macaroni, let it boil for thirty minutes, and then drain in a colander. Grate 6oz. of cheese ; put a layer of the boiled Macaroni into a deep dish, sprinkle it with grated cheese, then add another layer of Macaroni, again sprinkle with cheese, and so on till the dish is full. Pour over it some hot gravy. Melt before the fire Jib- of fresh butter, pour it over the top, and serve as hot as possible. (2) Put a layer of boiled Macaroni at the bottom of a dish, season with salt and pepper, cover with a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, and continue in this way until three layers of each have been used, having the last layer of cheese. Pour round a rich brown gravy, warm up in the oven, and serve. (3) Put the required quantity of Macaroni into a sauce- pan with weak veal broth, slightly salted, and boil until soft ; take it out, drain, put it on a dish, grate over Par- mesan cheese, put a few lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in a hot oven, and bake for fifteen minutes, taking care that the cheese does not become hard. Serve hot. (4) Put a sweetbread in a little water to soak ; wash well, and boil it in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover. When done, let it cool, and trim away all the skin and fat. Put it into another saucepan with 1 pint of water and a small minced onion, and boil slowly for an hour; then take it out, and cut it in small pieces. Remove all the onion from the stock, add Jib. of Maraeoni washed and cut up into pieces lin. in length, and boil for twenty minutes. Put in the chopped sweetbread, and add 1 table- spoonful of butter, lh saltspoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoon- ful of minced parsley, and a little pepper. Cover the pan, cook for another five minutes, and serve. Macaroni a la Pontiffe.—Prepare and boil in equal quan- tities some potatoes and chestnuts, or, if the latter are not in season, use carrots. When the vegetables are cooked, turn them on to a sieve to drain, and cut into convenient- sized pieces. Boil some long strips of lasagna in salted water until tender, then thoroughly drain it. Butter a plain mould, twist the strips of Macaroni round and round the inside, lining it completely; fill the hollow space tastefully with the boiled vegetables, a few fried button- mushrooms, and some egg-balls that have been boiled in clear stock. Mix a small quantity of arrowroot smoothly with some of the cooking-liquor of the Macaroni, and stir over the fire until thickened and boiling; then pour it over the contents of the mould, and bake in the oven for a quarter-of-an-hour. When ready, turn the Maraeoni care- fully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with some clear rich gravy poured round. Macaroni a la Heine.—Boil Jib. of Macaroni in slightly- salted water until very tender ; put 2oz. of butter into a lined stewpan with 2oz. of grated Stilton cheese and f pint of cream, season with pounded mace and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until thickened and smooth. Drain the Macaroni, put it into the sauce, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes. Next, turn the Macaroni on to a hot dish, strew plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs over, and put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Brown it under a sala- mander, or in a brisk oven,* and serve while very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni-and-Almoud Pudding. (1) Break Mb. of Italian Macaroni into pieces lin. long, put them over the fire in 1 pint of milk, and simmer gently for half-an-hour ; then throw in ij saltspoonful of salt, stir in 2oz. of butter, take the Macaroni from the fire, and let it cool. Whip five eggs, beat into them Mb. of powdered white sugar, and mix in by degrees Iqt. of milk; when the Macaroni is nearly cold, stir this mixture in carefully without break- ing the Macaroni, add a flavouring of grated nutmeg, rose- water, and essence of ratafia, and stir in lastly Mb. of sweet almonds blanched and chopped up small. Bake in a moderate oven.