THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PPACTICAL COOKERY. £06 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ilc., referred to, see under their special heads. MALMSEY.—A kind of sweet wine, which, although numbered amongst those of Madeira, is prepared in large quantities in the Canary Islands and the Azores. A very good imitation can be made as follows: Imitation Malmsey Wine.—(1) Mix Ipgalls. of cold spring water with 3Jgalls. of ale, taken from the vat whilst fer- menting ; add 271b. of sugar, and stir well until the sugar is dissolved; turn it into a cask, set it in a warm place, and leave for about seven weeks, by which time it should have fermented. Finely chop 21b. of Malaga raisins, mix with them ilb. of blanched and chopped bitter almonds, put them into a wide-mouthed bottle, and pour in 1 pint of brandy. When the fermentation in the cask has ceased, pour in the brandy and raisins, bung up the cask tightly, and leave it for six or even seven months ; pour off the clear into another cask, add ioz. of gelatine dissolved in a little of the wine, leave it for one month longer, and bottle. (2) Put 15galls. of sweet-wort into a large bowl with j 22jlb. of loaf sugar, set the bowl on the fire, boil the liquor for half-an-hour, and before it is allowed to cool, j pour it into a cask with lib. of chopped Malaga raisins, j loz. of dissolved isinglass, and about 1 breakfast-cupful j of yeast, also ljoz. of hops. Stir well with a wooden j stick for fourteen or eighteen days, then lightly put in the j bung until fermentation ceases; next add lgall. of brandy, leave it for twelve months, then rack off and bottle. The longer it is kept, the better it will be; and for all culinary purposes it will be found excellent. MALT (Fr. Malt or Dreche; Ger. Malz).—A name j given to various kinds of grain, but chiefly barley, I which have become sweet from the conversion of their ! starch into sugar, the result of incipient fermentation, i There are various kinds of Malt, such as pure Malt, yellow, or pale amber Malt—amber Malts differing in j quality and character according to the temperature to which they have been exposed in drying. Good Malt has an agreeable smell and a sweet taste, is friable, and | when broken discloses a floury kernel. It is used chiefly in brewing and distillation, but sometimes occupies the attention of the caterer, who prepares a most nutritive tea from it by infusing a certain quantity in boiling water. The following preparations are very highly esteemed: Malt Wine.—(1) Mash 2 pecks of Malt together with 44galls. of water, and boil it for forty-five minutes with 6oz. of hops to make a strong sweet-wort. The first wort only must be used for making the wine. Boil 121b. of sugar in 4galls. of water for about thirty minutes. Skim it well, and pour it into a tub to cool; when lukewarm, add lgall. of the sweet-wort, of which the fermentation should have commenced. Let it remain for three days, put it into a cask, filling this up constantly until the fermentation has completely ceased. Take out sufficient to make room for 21b. of chopped raisins, 8oz. of brown sugar candy, 2oz. of bitter almonds, and Joz. of isinglass. Put the bung in the cask, but only very lightly, as the addition of the raisins, &c., veiy often causes a second fermentation. Should this occur, add 1 pint of brandy, and bung down securely. It should remain for two years at least before being used. (2) Put 91b. of sugar in a bovl, and pour over 6qts. of boiling water; let it get quite cold, and add 3qts. of sweet- wort ; mix thoroughly, pour it into a cask, and add 8oz. of chopped raisins, £ pint of brandy, and Joz. of isinglass. Let it remain until clear, then put it into bottles, and leave for a time before using. It will keep good for yews. Malt Extract or Food.—As this has become such a favourite food for invalids, and is frequently ordered by physicians, a description of its mode of preparation will be useful. Make an infusion by soaking 1 pint of amber Malt hi 2qts. of scalding hot water. Let this stand until cool, then strain off the bright liquor, put it into an open stewpan, and boil fast until the quantity of liquor is reduced about two-thirds. Then set this in a double boiler or bain-marie, and leave until the extract is quite thick and treacly. A Malt —continued. little gelatine may be added to make it set in a jelly, or lemon-juice and honey may be added to make the extract more palatable and tasty. MALVASIA — An Italian wine of no very great repute, sometimes confounded with Malmsey. MALVERN PUDDING.—See Puddings. MAMMEE APPLE.—The fruit of a lofty tree (Mainmea americana) growing in tropical America. It is about the size of a small melon, and is covered with a tough outer rind of a brownish-yellow, enclosing a fine yellow flesh. It has a pleasant taste and a sweet aromatic odour, and is known as the Wild Apricot. MANCHESTER PUDDING.—See Pud-dings. MANDARIN.—A small kind of orange supposed to be of Chinese origin. See Oranges. MANDOLETTI.—These delicious Italian sweet- cakes are so called from their being made principally of almonds (Mandola). They are made as follows: Blanch and cut into thin slices 3i>z. of hazel-nuts and 2oz. of almonds; beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with them 4lh. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and the nuts and almonds. Spread some wafer-paper about fin. thick with the mixture, cover with another sheet, and cut the cake into strips about 4in. long and 2in. wide; lay them on a baking-sheet, and dry the biscuits in a moderately cool oven without colouring them. When cold, store in tin boxes. MANDRAM SAUCE.—See Sauces. MANGEL-WURZELS.—See Mangold-Wurzels. MANGOES (Fr. Mangues; Ger. Mangos).—“What the peach, apricot, and apple are to the European, the Mango is to the Indian, and those alone who have tasted it can form any idea of its exquisite flavour, it having been pronounced by competent judges incom- parably superior to any fruit the earth can produce.” These are the words of a very popular writer, and for that reason alone they claim our attention. The Mango-tree (Mangifera indica) is a native of Asia Fig. 1126. Mangoes. and its islands, and of some other parts of the world, but the Asiatic Mango (see Pig. 1126) is greatly superior to all others, both in size and flavour. In some parts of India, especially at Mazagong, the better kinds are so highly prized that guards are stationed over the