THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 930 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Melons—continued. is smooth and nearly spherical, with orange or reddish- orange flesh; it is not very prominently ribbed. The Fig. 1154. Figari Melon. Figari Melon (see Fig. 1154) is not larger than a hen’s egg, smooth, and yellow; it exhales a decided Melon Fig. 1155. Persian Melon. odour, but is not edible, being used only for ornament, garnishing, &c. The Persian Melon (see Fig. 1155) is long, pear-shaped, yellow, marbled with dark-green, and Fig. 1156. Queen Anne’s Pocket or Dudaim Melon. its greenish-white flesh is very sweet. Queen Anne’s Pocket or Dudaim Melon (see Fig. 1156) is very small, orange or orange-yellow, marbled with brown; it has a very strong odour, but, like Figari, is not edible, Fig. 1157. Winter Melon. be in «■ used only for garnishing and other decorative purposes. The Winter Melon (see Fig. 1157) is the largest of the white-fleshed kinds, but is also one of the least desirable; it is long-elliptic or rarely nearly spherical, and varies in colour from dark green to creamy-white or yellow. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” gives the following limited selection of the best varieties of Melons. Green or White-fleshed.—Cashmere, Colston Basset Seedling, Eastnor Castle, Gilbert’s Green-fleshed, Golden Gem, Golden Queen, Hero of Lockinge, Queen Emma, Victory of Bath, and William Tillery. Scarlet-fleshed.—Blenheim Orange, Bead's Scarlet- fleshed, Scarlet Gem, and Scarlet Premier. Melons—continued. Baked stuffed Musk Melon.—Cut the stalk part off a Melon, leaving an opening about Sin. in diameter (the stalk part will afterwards be used as a lid), and scoop out all the seeds and part of the inside. Finely mince two onions and sufficient mutton to fill the Melon. Put the mince into a deep frying-pan, with a lump of butter, and fry till brown; then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of washed and dried rice, the same quantity each of blanched and skinned almonds and pistachios, 1 table-spoonful of washed currants, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then take it off and stuff the Melon with it, fix the stalk-part on again, and fasten it down with a few small wooden skewers or pins. Lay the Melon in a baking-dish, put it in a moderate oven, and when nicely baked serve on a dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Compote of Melons.—Peel the Melons, cut them into slices, remove the seeds, and trim them. Put the slices of Melon into a sugar-boiler with sufficient syrup to cover them, add a small piece of cinnamon, and let them simmer for a-quarter- of-an-hour over a slow fire. At the end of that time, move the boiler from the fire, and let the contents steep for several hours in the syrup. Arrange the slices in a compote-dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. Melon in Claret Jelly.—Soak loz. of isinglass in 1 tea- cupful of cold water for half an-hour, then put it into a lined saucepan with § pint of claret, the juice and thinly- pared yellow rind of a moderate-sized lemon, half a stick of cinnamon, a few cloves, and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Add the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, to- gether with the juice from a tin of Melons, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling; then move the saucepan to the side, put the lid on, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Cut the slices of Melon into small fancy-shaped pieces, and strain the jelly two or three times through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Thoroughly clean the interior of a mould, and arrange at the bottom a few pieces of Melon; pour over them a thin layer of the jelly, and let it set. Fill the mould in this manner with alternate layers of fruit and jelly, and stand it in a cool place for a few hours. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, and whisk it to a stiff froth. Dip the mould containing the jelly quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a fancy china or glass dish, pile the whipped cream up all round it, and serve. This is an extremely pretty dish. Melon-Seed Water-Ice.—Put Mb. of Melon-seeds in a mortar and pound them to a paste, pouring in gradually at the same timej 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, mix with it 1 pint of clarified syrup, and flavour with a few drops of orange-flower water. Pour the mixture into a freezing-machine, and when suffi- ciently frozen turn it into a mould, which must be closed, and pack in pounded ice and salt for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Melon Stew (German).—Peel one Melon, and cut it into very thin slices ; lay these in a glass dish, sprinkle them with plenty of crushed loaf sugar, and squeeze the juice of two lemons over them. Stand the dish in a cool place, and leave it for two or three hours. Pour 1 pint of white wine and h pint of water over the slices of Melon, stir it round, and serve with a dish of sponge biscuits. Melon Water-Ice.—Pound 8oz. of ripe Melon in a mortar, and add 2oz. of orange-flower water, the juice of two lemons, 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and 1 pint of clarified sugar. Stir the mixture thoroughly and strain through a fine sieve, put it into the freezer, and it is ready for use. Musk-Melon Pie (Turkish Style).—Select a small musk Melon, peel it, cut it into halves, and scoop out the seeds; put the Melon into a mortar, and pound it to a paste. Make 1 111), of flaky paste, roll it out very thin, and cut it into rounds between 5in. and Gin. in diameter. Butter a baking-tin of the same shape and diameter as the paste, lay in one of the rounds, and brush it over with a paste- brush dipped in warmed butter; then put in another round,