913 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Marmalade—continued. in the water, and let them soak for twenty-four hours; then turn all into a preserving-pan with the seeds tied up in a muslin bag, and boil until tender. On the following day remove the bag of seeds, weigh the fruit again, and put in with it 1 til), of coarsely-crushed preserving-sugar for each pound; boil the whole, stirring constantly wit h a wooden spoon, until the slices of orange are clear and the syrup reduced to a jelly. When ready, turn the preserve into jars, and let it get cold ; then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, tie down perfectly air-tight, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. The strained juice and grated rinds of two or three lemons added to the marmalade in the last boiling is an improve- ment. MAEMANBE.—A low-class French brandy. Marmalade—continued. mixture, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for three hours. Turn the Fig. 1130. Marmalade Pudding. pudding on to a hot dish when cooked, pour a Marmalade sauce over and round it (see Fig. 1130), and serve. (3) Warm 2oz. of lard, and beat it up well together with 2oz. of moist sugar and 1 teacupful of Marmalade ; whip one egg in 1 teacupful of milk, and beat it in with the other ingredients. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with Jib. of dour, and stir in the above mixture. Work the whole until well incorporated, then turn the mixture into a buttered mould, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and proceed as for No. 2. (4) Warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy together with Jib. of caster sugar; whip the yolks of five eggs well, and mix them and Jib. of Marmalade with the above ingredients. Butter a dish and line it with paste, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Put 4oz. of well-washed rice into a lined saucepan with lqt. of milk, and boil until quite tender and the moisture somewhat reduced. Warm 2oz. of butter, whip it well together with Jib. of caster sugar, then beat in one at a time four eggs; add this mixture to the rice, with 1 teacupful of Marmalade, a small quantity each of grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and salt, and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Mix the whole together until thoroughly incor- porated. Butter a mould, iill it with the mixture, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. A well-flavoured custard poured over is a good addition. (6) Grate 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bread, and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar; put a thick layer of Mar- malade at the bottom of a pie-disli, and cover it with the breadcrumbs. Beat two eggs well, mix with 1 pint of milk, and pour them over the breadcrumbs. Bake the pudding for about an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. When cooked it should be lightly browned on the top. Serve hot. Marmalade Sauce.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Marmalade into a small saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and stir them over a gentle fire until very hot. Strain the sauce, and it is ready for serving. Brandy and water in equal parts can be substituted for the wine if preferred. (2) Put 1 teacupful of Marmalade into a saucepan with J pint of water, stir it over the fire until hot, pour in 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, strain, and keep it hot in the bain-marie until ready to serve. Mixed Marmalade. —Cut open about fifty plums, take out the stones, crack them, blanch the kernels, and pound in a mortar with a little orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. Peel and core two dozen each of apples and pears, put them with the plums and kernels into a jar, with a small quantity of sugar but no water, and bake till tender in a cool oven. Turn all out into a preserving-pan, crush the fruit with a spoon, stir in 31b. of crushed loaf-sugar, and boil for an hour. Pour the Marmalade into small deep dishes, place them in the oven, and after a time let the Marmalade cool gently to ensure its setting. Royal Marmalade.—Use Seville oranges; cut them into very thin slices, and remove all the seeds; weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow 3 pints of cold water. Put them MARQUE PUDDING.—See Puddings. MARROW.—See Ox-Marrow and Yegetable- Marrows. MARSALA.—This is the name of a rich amber- coloured wine exported from Sicily. It is shipped into Italy in large quantities, where it is said to undergo certain changes before being imported into France under another name, whence, also, it comes to the British markets still further transmogrified. The genuine Marsala imported into England, which is considerably in excess of 500,000 gallons yearly, is estimated to be about one-tenth of the Marsala, or concoction known by that name, sold in this victimised country. Imitation Marsala Wine.—Put 41b. of moist sugar into a pan with 24 galls, of water, and boil for from thirty to forty-five minutes. In the meantime, run 71b. of raisins through a mincing-machine into a tub, pour over the boil- ing liquor (wort as it is called), stir well until thoroughly mixed, cover with a thick cloth or blanket, stir well again for three days, then let it stand for three weeks. By this time it will be perfectly still. Skim, strain, pressing out all the liquor into a cask holding about 3 galls., do not bung up for a few days, add finings if required, and in a few days’ time it will be ready for bottling. If left for six months before bottling, the flavour will be far better, and more like the real Marsala. Marsala-Wine Jelly.—Put lqt. of cold water into a sauce- pan with Jib. of granulated sugar ; break in 2oz. of gelatine, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, put them in with the other ingredients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, and add six cloves and one For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 x