941 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk—continued. Mix all well, and add 1 gill each of ram, Milk, arrack, and tea infusion. Strain the liquid through a fine sieve into a basin, freeze it on the ice, put it into glasses, and serve. (12) Put igall. of Milk into a basin, and mix in half the quantity of brandy, 6oz. of caster sugar, and the juice of six lemons and six oranges. Mix well, and strain through a jolly-bag in which the rinds of two lemons have been placed. Pour it into bottles, and it will keep good for a long time. (13) Beat four eggs in a china bowl, and add £ pint of noyau, then the same quantity each of ram and brandy, and lastly h pint of all of them mixed. Pour over igall. of boiling Milk, with loz. of sugar dissolved in it, mix thoroughly, grate a little nutmeg over, and it is ready for use. Milk-Punch Syrup.—Put 1 pint of simple or plain spirit into a bottle with 8oz. each of brandy and Jamaica rum and mix thoroughly ; 2 teaspoonfuls of an extract prepared by macerating 2oz. of ground nutmeg in 8oz. of alcohol may be added to flavour. When used with soda-water, the required quantity of the syrup is poured into a glass, an equal quantity of cream syrup added, and the aerated water poured over and served at once. Milk Rolls.—Scald h pint of Milk without letting it boil, then let it cool, and when cool add and stir into it Jib. of flour and 1 table-spoonful of sugar mixed with 2 table- spoonfuls of yeast. Put Jib. of flour and a very little salt into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, and pour in the mixture; cover, and let it stand in a moderately warm place all night. Next day work in loz. of butter warmed quite soft and let it stand for six hours in a warm place. Fig. 1179. Milk Kolls. Form the dough into oblong rolls, lay them in a corru- gated baking-tin, too far apart from one another to run together, and let them stand for three hours longer, then bake in a quick oven, and glaze with white of egg. See Fig. 1179. Milk Soup.—(1) Mix h teacupful of flour smoothly with 2qts. of Milk, pour it into a lined saucepan, put in three or four peach-leaves, and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon, boil for five minutes, then move it to the side. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat the yolks, and stir them into the soup ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stitt' froth together with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, drop the whisked whites in small table-spoonfuls on the top of it, dust over a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and serve. (2) Put 2lb. of peeled potatoes and a couple of leeks or onions in a saucepan with igall. of water and boil until tender. Pass them through a sieve and put them all back as a puree into the saucepan. Add 2oz. of butter, and, when melted, pour in 1 pint of Milk, with salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture frequently while over the fire, and when it boils add 6 table-spoonfuls of powdered tapioca ; boil for ten minutes longer, and it is ready for use. (3) Put a cow-heel or knuckle of veal into a saucepan with a chopped onion, carrot, and turnip, pour over Agall. of Milk, and season with whole pepper and mace. Let the soup simmer gently for two hours, strain it into another saucepan, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of cornflour mixed smoothly with a little cold Milk, then add salt to taste. Cut off all the meat from the cow-heel, chop it into small squares or dice, put them into the soup, and serve ; or the cow-heel may be served separately with parsley-and- butter sauce. Milk—continued. (4) Make a good strong stock of veal or an old fowl, strain, set it to cool, and then skim off the fat. Put it over the fire again and boil in it a little rice, macaroni, or vermicelli: add, when this is boiled soft, a lump of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Mix the beaten yolks of five eggs with 1 pint of Milk or cream, warm it over the fire till it begins to thicken, then add to the stock, pour it into the tureen, and serve. (5) Blanch and pound half-a-dozen bitter almonds, put them into a saucepan with 2qts. of Milk, and boil; sweeten to taste, and add a small pinch of salt. Whisk the whites and yolks of four eggs separately, then mix them; remove the saucepan containing the boiling Milk from the fire, and as soon as the bubbling ceases, whisk in the eggs until a froth appears. Pour it at once into a bowl, and serve. Sweet sponge biscuits should accompany this. (6) Peel and wash three large potatoes, put them in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and place them over the fire until the water boils, then pour it off. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of dripping in with the potatoes, and place the saucepan over the fire ; stir until the dripping lias melted, then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, pour in H pints of boiling water, add 2 saltspoonfuls of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and stew the potatoes for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, rub the potatoes and their cooking-liquor through a fine wire sieve; return all to the saucepan with f pint of Milk, and stir in 2oz. of seed-sago. Place the saucepan over the fire and continue stirring the contents until boiling, then move it to the edge and boil slowly for fifteen minutes. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or crofttons of bread fried brown in butter. (7) Dutch Style.—Blanch and pound loz. of bitter almonds, put them in a saucepan with 2qts. of Milk, and boil. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 saltspoonful of salt; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stitt' snow, and mix them with the yolks. When the Milk boils, move it to the side of the fire, leave for two minutes, then whisk in the eggs until it froths. Put seven or eight small sponge biscuits in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve without delay. (8) German Style.—Put lqt. of Milk in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until boiling. Beat one egg together with a small quantity of salt and sufficient flour to make a still' batter, then drop it in small quantities into the boiling Milk. Let the soup simmer at the side of the fire for four or live minutes, season to taste with salt or powdered cinnamon and sugar, turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve while hot. (9) Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, then stir in gradually 3 pints of Milk and the beaten yolks of two eggs; put in a small piece of lemon-peel or two peach- leaves, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sweeten to taste. Stir the above ingredients over the fire until on the point of boiling ; beat the whites of the two eggs to a stitt' froth, together with a small quantity of crushed loaf sugar. When ready, turn the soupi into a soup-tureen, then pour in the beaten white of eggs in table-spoonfuls, dusting each table-spoonful with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Serve without delay. (10) Put 2qts. of Milk into an enamelled saucepan with 1 saltspoonful of salt and loaf sugar to taste ; colour it with a small quantity of saffron, and boil for two or three minutes. Break two eggs in a basin and beat them with a knife, dredging in at the same time as much flour as will make a stitt' paste. Chop the paste into very small pieces, and put them into the boiling Milk. Boil the soup for ten or fifteen minutes longer, then turn it into a soup-tureen and serve. The sugar may be omitted if desired, in which case more salt should be used. Milk Soup A la Royale.—Boil Jgall. of Milk, and add a little salt and sugar, and a liaison of the yolks of twelve eggs diluted with cream. Cut thirty-six crottons of the crumb from a household loaf, put them on a gridiron, dust over with sugar, and glaze in the oven. Put them in a tureen, pour over the Milk soup, and serve hot.