835 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Leeks—continued. Leeks for Garnish.—(1) Wash the Leeks and trim them, cut- ting off the green close to the white. Put them into salted water, and parboil. Drain, dry in a cloth, and cut them up rather small; put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, just enough stock to moisten, and stew gently till done; then mix in a little cream or the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little milk. (2) Trim off the tops and most of the green part of the Leeks; wash in plenty of water, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover, and partially boil. Drain the Leeks, dry well on a cloth, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire until well mixed, but not browned. Stir in slowly a small quantity of stock, and when it boils put in the Leeks, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them simmer gently until quite tender. Peat, up the yolks of two eggs in 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, stir them in with the Leeks, then move them o f the fire, and serve. Leek Salad.—Cut the white part of some young Leeks into small, equal-sized pieces. Scald a large tomato, pare off the skin, leave till cold, then cut it into slices. Wash a lettuce, break off the leaves, and arrange them in a fancy Fio. 1052. Leek Salad. dish; then put in the sliced tomato, and next the Leeks. Mix together some oil and vinegar, using more of the former, sprinkle in some salt and pepper, and pour it over the salad. Sprinkle over all a few tarragon-leaves, garnish round with small tomatoes, and serve. Sec Fig. 1052. Leek Soup.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of fine oatmeal with a little cold water; put it in a saucepan, stir in about Iqt. of boiling mutton hr itli, adding it gradually, then put in as many Leeks as are required, and boil until tender and the liquor of the consistency of cream. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a little of the hrjth, turn the whole into a tureen, and serve. (2) Carefully wash three dozen Leeks, drain thoroughly, cut them into pieces 1 Ain. long, put them in a saucepan with 4qts. of beef stock, flavour according to taste, and let it boil gently. In an hour’s time put in a small fowl, and let it continue boiling for two hours. When ready to serve take out the fowl; pour the soup into a tureen, put some sippets of toast on a plate, and serve them with the soup. (3) For this only the very fresh green parts of the Leeks must he used. Put the required quantity into a bowl of cold water, and let them soak so as to he quite crisp. Cut them up into lengths from lin. to 2in. long, put them into a saucepan with as much rich stock as will be wanted for table, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil until quite soft and tender. Turn out into a bowl, and serve. The soup to be of proper consistency should he quite thick with the bulk of the Leeks usei, and not have only a few pieces floating in it. Puree of Leeks.—Trim and wash the required quantity -of Leeks, put them in boiling salted water, and boil till tender. Pass the Leeks through a fine hair sieve, put them hi a saucepan with a lump of butter, l pint of cream, and 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and flour. Stir over the fire, and boil till reduced, then thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, garnish with crohtons of fried bread, and serve. Leeks—continued. Stawed Leeks.—(1) Trim off all the green outside of the re- quired quantity of Leeks; wash them well in hot water, cut each in two, boil till tender, then drain and press out the water, ami chop up small. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, with 1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, the Leeks, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Stir over the fire for three or four minutes, then mix with them the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. When done, turn the Leeks on to a hot dish, garnish with crofiti ns of fried hreal, and serve. (2) Turkish.—Wash about twenty Leeks, and cut off all hut the white parts, which cut into small pieces ; peel and mince four moderate-sized onions ; put \ pint of the best salad-oil into a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the onions ; when lightly browned, add the Leeks, together with 1 table spoonful of minced parsley, season to taste, and pour in 1 pint of hot water. Roil the Leeks slowly until tender, then remove them from the lire, and, when cold, serve. LEGUMES.-This word properly refers to pulse, or to any plant which bears Legumes (pods). French cooks, however, have adopted the term as applying to vegetables generally. LEICESTER PUDDING.—See Puddings. LEIGHTON CAKE. -See Cakes. LEMONS (Fr. Citrons; Ger. Citronen; Ital. Limone; Sp. Limons).—Of all the fruits this earth can produce there is none of such deep importance in the kitchen as the Lemon. Citrons, limes, bergamots, oranges, and others of this perfumed tribe have all their culinary value, but no successful attempt has ever been made Fig. 1053. Lemon-plant. to provide an artificial substitute for the true Lemon (Citrus Limonum). See Fig. 1053. The word is of Arabian extract, probably derived from the Hindustani limbu or limu, indicating an Indian origin. The plant is supposed to be a native of the forests of For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 q 2