853 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Lemons—continued. (7) Steep loz. of gelatine in cold water for half-an-hour then turn it into a stewpan and place it on the fire until dissolved. Peel off very thinly the yellow rinds of two Lemons, put it in with the gelatine, adding the juice of three Lemons and |lb. of loaf sugar. Stir and boil the whole together foy three or four minutes, then strain it into a basin, and leave until nearly cold. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff snow, mix them in with the cooled mixture, and beat the whole until very light and frothy. Pile it up on a glass dish, and serve without delay. (8) Put loz. of gelatine in \ pint of water, let it soak for half-an-hour, then turn it into a stewpan and place it over the fire until dissolved. Add 6oz. of caster sugar, the strained juice of four Lemons, and one large orange. Con- tinue stirring over the fire, and boil for two or three minutes, then strain it into a basin, and whisk until nearly cold. Next turn the sponge into a mould, and stand it on ice or in a cool temperature. When quite cold and set, turn the sponge on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. (9) Rub fib. of loaf sugar over the yellow rinds of three Lemons, then dissolve it in § breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Strain the juice of the Lemons, anti mix it with the dissolved sugar. Separate the yolks and whites of eight eggs; beat the yolks, mix them with the above in- gredients, and beat the whole well together for a few minutes; then mix in gradually tlb. of sifted flour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them in lightly at the last. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, and sift in plenty of caster sugar. Pour in the mixture, which should only about three-parts fill the mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters-of-an- liour. When cooked, turn the sponge out of the mould. Lemon Sugar.—Rub the rinds off twelve Lemons on some lumps of sugar, then scrape the Lemoned sugar off on to a sheet of paper, put it on a plate, and dry in the screen. Put the prepared sugar in well-stoppered bottles, and keep in a dry place till ready for use. Lemon Sweetmeats.—Mix beaten yolks of eggs with mar zipan till it is thin enough to spread with a knife; flavour to taste with grated Lemon-peel, and mix well. Cut some wafer-paper into any shapes that may be desired, spread the paste over about Jin. thick, put them on a sheet of paper laid over a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. If they are to be glazed, boil some sugar and orange-flower water to the degree of heat at which, if a skimmerful be taken from the boiling sugar and blown through, tolerably large sparks of sugar will lie emitted (see SUGAR-BOILING). When the sweetmeats are taken from the oven, brush them over with this syrup, which will dry almost directly. Lemon Syllabub. -Sec Syllabubs. Lemon Syrup.—(1) Squeeze the juice from sufficient Lemons to make l pint, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Boil 2 pints of syrup to the little crack (see Sugar-boiling), then pour in the Lemon-juice, put the pan on the fire, and boil the syrup to the pearl. Skim off all scum as it rises. Take the pan off the fire, and bottle the syrup when quite cool. (2) Make a syrup with lib. of loaf sugar boiled to 30deg. (see Syrups), then mix with it the peels of four Lemons rubbed on pieces of lump sugar and scraped off, and l pint of strained Lemon-juice; stir all well together, then pour it into bottles, cork them, wire down tightly, stand the bottles in a saucepan of cold water, and heat the water gradually ; after a few minutes’ boiling take the saucepan off the fire, leave the bottles till cold, then dip the nozzles in bottle- wax. They should be kept in a reclining position till wanted. (3) Having selected the required quantity of sound new Lemons, grate off the peel, and mix with it an equal quan- tity of caster sugar ; squeeze and strain the juice from the Lemons, and to each pint of juice add 1 pint of water and the remainder of 3Mb. of sugar, that is, 3Mb. in- cluding that mixed with the rind ; pour all into a lined stewpan, and warm slowly until the sugar is dissolved, care being taken that the liquor does not boil. Strain the syrup, and it is then ready for use. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Lemons—continued. (4) Squeeze the juice out of the requisite quantity of Lemons, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and let it stand until well settled. Afterwards remove the thin skin that will be found at the top, filter the juice into the pan, and mix in for every 1\ pints 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and the grated yellow rind of half of the Lemons. Boil the whole gently until reduced to a syrup, then strain it and leave until cold. Bottle, and cork tightly. (5) Put 4Mb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a pan with a small quantity of water, and place it over the fire; when the sugar has dissolved, stir in 15 drops of essence of Lemons. Boil the syrup until quite clear, pour it into a bowl, and mix in l^oz. of citric acid in crystals. Stir the syrup until almost cold and the acid has dis- solved, then pour it into bottles and cork them. When serving the syrup, allow 4 table-spoonful of it for every tumblerful of cold water. (6) Beat the white of an egg to a firm froth, then put it in a saucepan with 31b. of caster sugar and lqt. of water, stir well until the sugar has dissolved, place it over the fire until boiling, then skim the syrup and mix with it H breakfast cupfuls of Lemon-juice, and boil for half a minute longer. Take the syrup off the tire, leave until nearly cold, then strain it through a silk sieve or a cloth, and bottle. Cork the bottle tightly, and put the syrup by for use. (7) Put the finely-grated rinds of the required number of Lemons into a mortar with a little sugar and beat them well. Put the mixture into a sugar-boiler, with the juice of the Lemons squeezed and strained, and to each pint add an equal quantity of water and 3Mh. of sugar, minus that already used. Warm over the fire until the sugar has dissolved, then strain and bottle. (8) Rub in a mortar twenty-five drops of oil of Lemons with 10 drachms of citric acid and a little syrup ; pour in lgall. of syrup, less the quantity previously used, mix well, and bottle. (9) Put 6 drachms of tartaric acid and loz. of gum Arabic in pieces into a bowl with lgall. of simple syrup, and let them dissolve. Add a flavouring of 1 h fluid drachms of best oil of Lemons, and bottle; or the flavour- ing may be made with saturated tincture of the peel in Cologne spirits. Lemon Tart.—(1) Butter a pie-disli and line it with a rich paste ; thinly slice four or live Lemons if small, lay them in the dish, dredge over 1 table-spoonful of flour, put in 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and pour in 1 pint of water. Cover the pie with a flat of the same paste, moistening it round the edges and trimming off neatly, put it into a brisk oven, and bake for nearly an hour. When cooked, dust caster sugar over the tart, and serve. (2) Cut the rinds thickly oft' two Lemons, and boil them till tender, changing the water once ; take the rinds out, beat in a mortar, and add £lb. of blanched and finely-shred almonds, an equal quantity of caster sugar, the juice of four Lemons, and a little grated Lemon-peel. Turn all into a saucepan, and simmer until a syrup is obtained, then put it into a shallow tart-mould lined with rich putt' paste, place a few strips of the paste on the top, and bake until the paste is done. Serve hot or cold. Lemon Tartlets.—Grate off the rinds of two Lemons, and remove what remains on the grater by rubbing with stale bread, using only just sufficient to remove the zest. Put all into a basin, mix in the juice of the two Lemons, two eggs, Mb- crushed loaf sugar, and j-B5- of liquefied butter, and beat well with a whisk. Line twelve tartlet- moulds with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, bake, and .serve hot or cold. Lemon Tea.—Peel as thinly as possible the yellow rind of one Lemon, put it in a jug with 1 table-spoonful of loaf sugar, pour over 1 pint of boiling water, and let it infuse until nearly cold. Stir 10 grains of cream of tartar into the liquor, and when quite cold strain it and serve. This makes a very pleasant, refreshing drink in the summer. Lemon Toast.—Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, and beat the yolks together with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.