807 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. kind of Lamb’s sweetbreads, and blancb them. Lard tbe large sweetbreads, also the bottom of a flat stewpan, with slices of fat bacon, put in the larded sweetbreads, moisten to about 2in. high with stock, and place the stewpan over the fire till boiling; then put it in the oven and bake the sweetbreads for half-an-hour, or more if large ones. Cut the smaller sweetbreads into slices ; melt a small lump of butter in another stewpan, put in 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and the slices of sweetbreads, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and dust with small quantities of salt and pepper; place them over the fire for ten minutes, then pour in 4 breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce and half that quantity of white sauce, adding a small bunch of parsley. When boil- ing, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for twenty minutes. Put about one-and-a-half-dozen of prepared cocks’ combs into a frying- pan with a good-sized lump of butter, a sliced onion, and the juice of a lemon; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook over a gentle fire until tender. Take out the parsley from the stewed sweetbreads, put in the cocks’ combs, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs beaten together with £ teacupful of cream ; then glaze the larded sweetbreads. Pour the sauce on to a hot dish, place the neck on it, garnish round with the larded sweetbreads, and serve. Braised. Shoulder of Lamb. —(1) Bone a shoulder of Lamb, and lard it with lightly-seasoned strips of bacon-fat in the thick part of the shoulder; roll the joint to a good shape, tie it round, put it into a braising-pan with a lump of butter, and braise gently over a slow clear fire till browned all over. Put in seven or eight small onions, a bundle of chopped parsley, and lqt. of broth, keep the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the onions are tender. Put the meat on a hot dish, cut off the string, and garnish with the onions. Boil the cooking-liquor till reduced to a thick gravy, then pour it over the Lamb, and serve. (2) Remove the bone from a shoulder of Lamb, leaving only the knuckle-bone, sawing this off about 2in. below the knuckle. Tie the shoulder in a round shape, sprinkle it with salt, put it in a braising-stewpan, cover with mirepoix, and let it simmer till done ; then glaze it, place it on a layer of cooked mixed vegetables on a hot dish, and tie a paper frill round the knuckle-bone. Strain and reduce some good gravy, pour it in a sauceboat, and serve with the Lamb. (3) Stuffed.—Bone a shoulder of Lamb, leaving only the knuckle-bone; take out a little of the meat from the shoulder, trim, chop, and pound it, mix with it some veal stuffing and a few table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs ; fill the shoulder with this preparation, and sew it up, making it as round as possible. Spread the bottom of a long-shaped stewpan with some trim- mings of bacon and minced vegetables, put in the shoulder, season with salt and pepper, and moisten to a third of its height with wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities ; braize and baste it over a clear fire, giving it an even colour. When cooked, take the shoulder out, put it on a hot dish, and having trimmed the knuckle-bone put a paper ruffle round it. Pass the stock in which they were cooked through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, and reduce to half-glaze. Serve the sauce separately in a boat. Braised Shoulder of Lamb a l’Africaine.—Take a shoulder of Lamb weighing about 31b., season with 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and tie it up. Place it in a saucepan with one sliced onion and carrot, and brown for six minutes. Moisten with 1 pint each of broth and Spanish sauce, and cook for forty-five minutes. Skim all the fat from the gravy, remove the shoulder to a hot dish, and untie it. Garnish the dish with three stuffed egg-plants and £ pint of cooked okra gumbos. Strain the gravy over the shoulder of Lamb, and serve. Braised Shoulder of Lamb a la ITamande.—The same as for Braised Shoulder of Lamb a l’Africaine, serving for garnishing pint each of cooked carrots, turnips, and red cabbage, nicely arrange 1 in clusters round the dish. Braised Shoulder of Lamb served a 1’Italienne.—Procure two, shoulders of Lamb, and bone them without removing the thin end-bone, which is to be sawn below the joint of the leg; then spread the shoulders on the table, and sprinkle them plentifully inside with pepper and salt. Mix with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of finely-chopped streaky bacon one chopped onion, Lamb—continued. 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, and 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs, previously soaked in a little milk and well pressed; season this preparation highly, and when well mixed stir in two beaten eggs. Stuff the shoulders with the mince and sew them up. Put some slices of vegetables at the bottom of a saute-pan, put the shoulders in, and pour in broth to half their height; when the liquid boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and braize the shoulders, basting frequently. When cooked, take them out, drain, cut off the string, and put them on a hot dish. Boil their cooking-stock till reduced to half its ori- ginal quantity, mix with it a little tomato sauce, pour some of it in the dish, the remainder in a sauceboat, and serve very hot. Braised Shoulder of Lamb a la Kouennaise.—Braise a shoulder of Lamb as for Braised Shoulder of Lamb a l’Africaine. Cut three medium-sized turnips the shape of a large clove of garlic, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar sprinkled on the top. Place them in the oven, and leave in until they become thoroughly brown, tossing the pan frequently to pre- vent burning. Pour the gravy from the meat over the turnips, dish up the shoulder, arrange the turnips round, and serve. Braised Shoulders of Lamb resembling1 Bucks. — This fanciful mode of dressing shoulders of Lamb is described by Dubois, and is worthy of attention, especially from its in- genuity. Bone three shoulders of Lamb that have part of the foot adhering- to them, leaving the thin end bone, and sprinkle salt and pepper inside. Make some quenelle forcemeat with Lamb or veal, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it half its volume of salpi^on composed of Lamb’s sweetbreads, cooked ham, and mushrooms. Stuff the shoulders with the salpi90n, shape them to an oblong form, truss them with the thin end bone upright, shaping them as nearly like ducks as possible. Place them afterwards in a stewpan the same way they are to be served, cover with warm water, and let it gradually get hot till the skin is set; then drain the shoulders, steep them in cold water, wipe, and lard on both sides the part that is to form the body of the duck; surround the thin end bone of the shoulders with layers of bacon, put them in the bottom of the stewpan, prepared as for braising, support them in position with carrots, turnips, or any large vegetable, pour in broth to reach the top of the shoulders, and boil quickly for ten minutes. Move the pan to the side of the fire, place buttered paper over the Lamb, put the lid on, with hot ashes on the top, and finish braising, basting frequently. When braised to a good colour, take the shoulders carefully out, drain, remove the string, and cut them slightly underneath, thus giving them the required shape. Trim and pare the top of the bone, imitating the eyes with a tiny round of ham, put them back to back on a large hot dish, and garnish with groups of mushrooms and olives. Mix a little white wine with the cooking-stock, skim off the fat, and add the liquor of the mushrooms; boil till reduced to half, thicken with a little brown sauce, pour some of it in the dish with the shoulders, and serve, with the rest of the sauce in a sauceboat. Fig. 1015. Brochettes of Lamb. Brochettes of Lamb.—Take a raw leg of Lamb weighing about 31b., remove the bone and pare off the skin, then cut it into several pieces of equal size. Put them in a vessel with two very finely-chopped shallots, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, 1 teaspoonful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic.