724 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Grouse—continued. a small quantity of the soup. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, and stir in the mince. Boil up again, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bi-ead. Larded Grouse. -Clean and wash a Grouse, and lard the breast and legs, putting a skewer through the legs and tail; rub some warmed butter over the breast, then dredge it over with a little salt and plenty of flour. Set it on a baking-dish, put it into a brisk oven, and cook for twenty or thirty minutes. Cover a hot dish with bread sauce, put the Grouse on it, and sprinkle over some fried breadcrumbs. Garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 899. Roasted Grouse.—(1) Pluck and singe a Grouse, draw it, and let it hang in a cool place for several days. Wipe it well inside without washing, chop off its head, and truss it; put a large lump of butter inside, place it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for from thirty to thirty- five minutes, basting frequently with butter. Put the liver of the Grouse into a saucepan of water with a small lump of butter and salt, and pepper to taste, boil until it is like a paste, take it out, spread it over a piece or pieces of toast on a dish, place the Grouse on the top, and serve with a sauceboatful each of hot rich gYavy and bread sauce. (2) Prepare and truss the required number of Grouse, tie a thin rasher of fat bacon over the breast of each, and roast them on a spit. Toast as many slices of bread as there are Grouse, cut oft' the crusts, arrange them on a dish, and when the Grouse are roasted serve them on the toast. (3) Pluck and singe a Grouse, making a small cut at the back of the neck to take out the crop ; let the head remain on, draw the bird, and wipe it well inside with a cloth. Pass the head under the wing’, run a trussing-needle with a piece of string attached through the wing and under part of the thigh, and through the body to the wing and thigh on the other side, press the feet close to the body, and tie tightly. Then pass the needle and string through the hollow of the back, just below the thigh, pass it again through legs and body, and tie tightly. Put the bird on a spit in front of a clear sharp fire, and cook for about thirty-five minutes, basting it well with flour and butter towards the end of the cooking. Put a round or two of toast on a dish, place the bird on it, pour round hot rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of bread sauce. (4) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two fine fat Grouse, place them in a roasting-pan with J breakfast-cupful of water, spread over each a little butter, and season with salt. Put them into a brisk oven, cook for eighteen minutes, taking care to baste frequently with their own gravy, and then untruss. Have a hot dish ready, place two bread canapes on it, arrange the Grouse over, and decorate the dish with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauceboat, and serve. (5) Take two fat Grouse, and pick, singe, draw, dry, and truss them, taking care to dry them well; place them in a roasting-pan, putting inside of each bird a piece of toast 4in. long and 2in. wide. Drip in on each toast, with a spoon, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine or sherry; season the Grouse with salt, spread over a little butter, put them in a brisk oven, and cook for eighteen minutes, basting frequently. Lay them on a hot dish, untruss, strain the gravy over, and decorate with a little watercress. Serve red-currant jelly separately. Salad of Grouse.—Cut a cold roasted Grouse into eight pieces; prepare in a salad-bowl a salad of lettuce, celery, mustard and cress, and any other vegetables that may be in season. Lay the pieces of Grouse on the salad with four hard-boiled eggs cut into halves lengthwise. Put 1 table- spoonful each of finely-chopped parsley, minced shallot, and caster sugar into a basin, add the raw yolks of two eggs, 1 teacupful of salad-oil, f teacupful of chilli vinegar, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and i teaspoonful of pepper. Stir the whole until well mixed. Whip ^ pint of cream to a stiff froth, add it by degrees to the sauce, and pour it over the salad. Serve directly it is prepared. Salmis of Grouse.—(1) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two Grouse; season with salt, place a few small pieces of butter Grouse—continued. over, put them in a roasting-pan in a brisk oven, and cook for eight minutes. Untruss, and cut away the wings, legs, and breasts. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with half a carrot cut in very small pieces, half an onion cut the same, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and six whole peppers, and fry to a good golden colour (it will take about five minutes). Hash the bodies of the two Grouse, and add them to the other ingredients. Moisten with 1 pint of Spanish sauce, \ wineglassful of sherry, £ breakfast - cupful of mushroom liquor, and the zest of a lemon, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and cook for twenty minutes. Now put the wings, legs, and breasts into a separate sauce- pan, and strain the sauce over them, adding six minced mushrooms and two minced truffles. Cook for three minutes longer, dress them on a hot dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish. (2) Separate the birds at the joints ; put their trimmings into a stewpan with some stock, and boil for an hour. Strain the stock, skim off the fat, and pour it into a clean saucepan; thicken with a brown roux, season with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onion and shallot, and boil again. Half-an-hour before serving, put the pieces of Grouse into the stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep at the side of the fire until they are thoroughly hot through. Serve on a hot dish. (3) Proceed the same as for No. 1, omitting the mushrooms and truffles, and serving with bread sauce separately. (4) The same as for No. 1, but serving with a garnish of hot artichokes in place of the other garnish. Salmis of Grouse with Truffles.—Eoast two Grouse, and when they are done and while still hot, cut them into eight pieces each ; put them in a stewpan, and cover with a thin brown sauce. Put the cover on the stewpan, and stand it in a bain-marie till the pieces of Grouse are hot; in another Fig. 900. Salmis of Grouse with Truffles. stewpan have 1| pints of game sauce, stir it over the fire, and when reduced one-third, put in six truffles cut in small slices and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Arrange the pieces of Grouse in a pyramid on a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, pour the sauce over them, and serve. See Fig. 900. Stewed Grouse.—Take a brace of Grouse, and truss and stuff them. Put ^lb. of butter or good dripping into a frying- pan, and fry in it when it is quite hot, first one Grouse and then the other, turning- so as to brown all over. In the meantime, have -J- pint of good gravy heating in a small saucepan. When both birds are browned, put them in a large saucepan, pour the hot gravy over, put the lid on tight, and let them stew very gently till tender (they will take about an hour); then put them on a hot dish, and cover, to keep the flavour and heat in. Let the gravy cool a little, skim off the fat that rises, and sti’ain it. Put it over the fire again, stir in sufficient browned flour to thicken, and boil hard for five minutes; skim again, put the birds back into the gravy, and let them get quite hot, but do not let the gravy boil after they are put in. Place them on a hot dish, pour a very little of the gravy over them, and serve the rest in a small tureen ; also green peas and currant jelly separate. Stewed Grouse a l’Ailsa.—Cut two roasted Grouse into quarters, dividing them so that the two wings are with the breasts, and the legs with the backbones. Pound the back