TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 952 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Muffins—continued. When done, turn it out on to a dish, pour wine sauce over, and serve very hot. (2) Sweeten 1 pint of milk to taste with loaf sugar, and hoil it for a few minutes together with a piece of lemon- peel and a bay-leaf. Break up three Muffins in a pudding- basin, and when the milk is nicely flavoured with the lemon- peel, strain it over and let them soak until it is quite cold. Mash the Muffins well, taking care that there are no lumps left, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of ground almonds, 1 teacupful of preserved cherries, two well-beaten eggs, a few drops of orange-flower water, \ wineglassful of brandy, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter the edges of a shallow dish, and border them with puff paste; spread the Muffin mixture in it, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Thickly butter the interior of a mould, and arrange in it, in any design, some dried cherries and pieces of candied angelica, pressing them well to make them adhere to the mould; pull three or four Muffins into small pieces, and put them in the mould, mixing plenty of dried cherries with them. There should be about 2in. clear space left at the top of the mould. Beat four eggs well, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste until caster sugar, and whisk over the fire until on the point of boiling; they must not quite boil, or the eggs will curdle. Take the custard off the fire, whisk it until somewhat cooled, then flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and pour it carefully over the contents of the mould. Cover the mould with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a sauce- pan with boiling water a little more than half its height, and steam for an-liour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve it with a wine sauce, either poured round it or in a sauce- boat. It should be served while very hot. (4) Cut four stale Muffins into thin slices, put them in a basin, pour lqt. of boiling milk over, and let them soak until cold. Stone ill), of raisins, and blanch and chop 2oz. of sweet almonds. Thickly butter the interior of a large pudding-basin, and place some of the almonds and raisins all over it, pressing to make them adhere; then fill the mould with the soaked Muffins, strewing over them occa- sionally some almonds and raisins. Mix six beaten eggs with what milk the Muffins did not absorb, sweeten it with 41b. of sugar, and add 1 wineglassful of brandy and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Pour the custard mixture over the Muffins, cover the top of the basin with a sheet of paper, and put a plate on it; stand the basin in a baking- tin, which half fill with water, and put it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, pour 1 teacupful of curafoa round, and serve. MUGUET DES BOIS.—See Asperule Odorants. MULBERRIES.—The fruit of the Moms nigra, or Black Mulberry. This tree is cultivated more for the sake of its leaves as food for silkworms than for the fruit, which is sweetly acid and fruity in flavour, but is only fit to eat when quite ripe, and then it decomposes or mildews so readily that it is almost impossible to in- clude them in the usual market produce. Several very delicious dishes can be prepared with them. Mulberry Compote.—For every pound of Mulberries, put in a preserving-pan fib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of claret. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and boil until the sugar has dissolved. Pick the Mulberries carefully, removing all pieces of leaf or stalk, then put them into the syrup, with the juice of one or two lemons according to the quantity of fruit, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and leave the Mulberries in the syrup until cold ; then pile them hi a deep glass dish, and strain over their syrup. Strew caster sugar lightly over the top, and serve. A plate of sponge biscuits is a very nice accompaniment to this compote. Mulberries for Dessert.—Fix a conical piece of paste- board firmly in the centre of a dish with gum, over that arrange a thin bed of moss, and cover that again with small Mulberries—continued. vine-leaves. Having picked over the Mulberries, pile them up all round the piece of pasteboard, placing moss here Fig. 1193. Mulberries for Dessert. and there so as to raise the pyramid firmly. The pointed ends of the Mulberries should all be arranged upwards. See Fig. 1193. Mulberry Jam.—(1) Carefully pick over the Mulberries, and put them in a preserving-pan with 41b. of coarsely crushed loaf sugar and the juice of half a lemon for each pound of fruit. Place the pan over a slow fire, and boil the contents for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When ready, turn the jam into jars and tie over while hot. Purple or white Mulberries can be used in the same way. (2) Put the required quantity of Mulberries into a jar, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and as the juice of the Mulberries is extracted pour it off'; put it into a preserving-pan with 21b. of loaf sugar to each pint, and stir well until the latter is dissolved ; let it boil for five minutes, constantly stirring and skimming, then add the fruit without any bruised berries, hi the proportion of 211). of fruit to each pint of juice, remove the pan to the fire, and let the jam simmer for half an-liour. Set it aside to cool for a day, boil it up again until it is quite stiff, pour it into pots, cover them, and keep in a dry place until wanted. (3) Tress the juice out of sufficient Mulberries to make 12 pints, and put it into a preserving-pan with 121b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Stir until the sugar has dis- solved, then boil it for five minutes longer. Have ready 121b. of ripe Mulberries that have been carefully picked over, and put them into the boiling juice ; boil the whole quickly for half-an-hour longer, keeping it well stirred at the same time. If the jam is not sufficiently reduced at the end of that time, boil it for fifteen minutes more. When ready, turn it into jars, and stand them in a cool place. When the jam is quite cold, put in each jar a round of white paper soaked in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down. Keep them hi a dry store-cupboard until wanted. Mulberry Jelly.—(1) Pick and clean lib. of Mulberries, put them into a preserving-pan with 1 breakfast cupful of water, place the pan on the fire, leave until the contents begin to simmer, put it into a fine sieve, and press out all the juice. Put fib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), then add the Mulberry-juice, skim frequently, and after about fifteen minutes’ quick boiling the jelly will be of the required consistence. Pour it into pots or jars, and when set cover with pieces of white paper dipped in brandy, and put hi a cool place.