890 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. When cooked, strew caster sugar and a small quantity of grated nutmeg over the top, and serve with fruit sauce. (7) Put ‘2oz. of pipe Macaroni into a saucepan with a small piece of lemon-peel, a piece of stick cinnamon, and 1 pint of milk, and let it boil gently until tender. Butter a pie-dish, line the edge with a light paste, and put in the Macaroni. Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, mis them with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with j- breakfast- cupful of raisin wine, 1 table-spoonful of peach-water, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Spread a layer of marmalade or strawberry jam over the Macaroni, pour the above mixture over, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. (8) Put 1 j pints of milk with the rind of half a lemon and 3oz. of sugar over the fire in a pan, and let it boil; drop in jib. of Macaroni, and let it boil gently till quite soft and swelled, hut do not let it break. If the milk dries away too much as the Macaroni swells, add a little more. When the Macaroni is done, pour it on a dish, pick out the lemon-peel, pour some boiled custard over the hot Macaroni, grate a little nutmeg over it, and when cold garnish with slices of candied citron. (9) Boil jib. of Macaroni in lqt. of milk for lialf-an-hour, let it cool a little, and then mix with it six eggs beaten up together with jll>. of powdered white sugar, nutmeg and lemon-peel to taste, or a few pounded almonds. Put the pudding into a buttered mould, cover, and boil or steam for an hour. Serve hot with wine sauce. (10) Put joz. of Macaroni in a saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful of white broth, and boil for an hour, when it should he quite tender and swollen. Pour a teacupful of boiling milk over a well-beaten egg, and mix it. Put the Macaroni at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour the cream mixture over, add a l'ttle seasoning, and hake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. A little grated nutmeg or cinnamon may he sprinkled over before baking if desired. Macaroni Ragoflt.—Boil about 4oz. of Macaroni: when tender, drain and chop it up into pieces about 2in. in length. Cut jib. of cooked tongue into short strips, put them with the Macaroni into a stewpan, with loz. of butter and 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, stir the mixture over the fire until hot, then move it to the side. Put loz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour into another stewpan, stir them over the fire until browned, then pour in gradually f pint of clear gravy ; continue stirring, and boil for five minutes. Turn the meat mixture on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. Macaroni Rissoles.—Take jib. of Macaroni, selecting long pieces, and roll them up in a cloth, allowing room to swell and to keep their ends open and clear ; place it in a long pan, and boil in salted water for twenty-five minutes; take out, and let it cool. In the meantime, chop 3oz. of Parmesan cheese very small, and mix it with joz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk ; put this in a frying-pan to melt, but without boiling. Take each piece of Macaroni (there should be from eight to ten pieces) out separately, dip them in the melted cheese, covering well, then into egg beaten in a little water, and lastly into dried breadcrumbs ; plunge them into a frying-pan containing boiling lard, and fry until done to a light brown. Take them out, cut each one into lengths of about 2jin., put them on a dish, garnish with a border of grated Parmesan cheese, or with a little tomato sauce poured round, and serve very hot. Macaroni Salad.—Put jib. of Macaroni into a saucepan containing boiling water, with a lump of salt and some peppercorns, and boil for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the Macaroni, taking care not to break it, and leave till cold. Thoroughly clean 2 bleached heads of endive, and let them macerate in oil and vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper. Put the endive in the middle of a flat dish, arrange the stems of Macaroni round it, and pour over some remoula.de sauce. Garnish with slices of hard- boiled eggs and raw tomatoes, also with strips of cold meat, and serve. Macaroni—continued. Macaroni and Salmon.—Boil jib. of Macaroni till tender in milk-and-water (more milk than water) and the liquor out of a tin of salmon. Grease a pie-dish, and lay the pieces of salmon out of the tin in it; when the Macaroni is tender, turn it over the salmon. Sprinkle sifted breadcrumbs on the top, place small bits of butter here and there, put the dish in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Macaroni-and-Sausage Pie.—Break jib. of Macaroni into convenient lengths, put them in a stewpan with common stock to cover, and boil till tender. Cut lib. of sausages in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the meat. When the Macaroni is cooked, drain, place a layer of it in a pie- dish, next a layer of the sausage-meat, dust with salt and pepper, and strew over finely-chopped parsley; then put in another layer of Macaroni, and so on until all is used, seasoning each layer of meat as before. Pour in 1 tea- cupful of clear broth, cover the pie with a light pastry crust, trimming off evenly round the edges, and bake for lialf-an-hour. Serve the pie hot. Macaroni Souffle.—Have ready a saucepan containing boil- ing salted water, and throw into it 2oz. of fine Macaroni broken into convenient lengths. In twenty minutes’ time drain off all the water, and put in with the Macaroni a piece of cinnamon, loaf sugar to taste, and j pint of milk. Boil gently until dry, then remove the cinnamon. When the Macaroni is cold, stir in the beaten yolks of four and the well-whisked whites of six eggs. Pour the mixture into a mould, leaving a clear 2in. space at the top, dredge over with caster sugar, and bake in a brisk oven. When well risen and lightly browned, dust caster sugar over the souffle, and serve at once in the mould. Macaroni Soup.—(1) Put jib. of Macaroni into a saucepan with loz. of butter and an onion stuck with five cloves, and boil until the Macaroni is quite tender; take it out, drain, put it into a saucepan, and pour over jgall. of good gravy. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer the Macaroni gently for about ten minutes, taking care that it does not break or become pulpy. Add a little grated Parmesan cheese, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve. (2) Boil 8:>z. of Macaroni in a saucepan with lqt. of stock ; when tender, take it out, drain quite diy, and put half of it into another saucepan with another quart of stock, and boil to a pulp ; pass it through a sieve, add the 2qts. of stock, 1 pint of boiling cream, 8oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and the remaining half of the Macaroni. Put the pan at the side of the fire so that the soup will thoroughly warm without boiling, then pour it into a tureen, drop in the crust of a French roll cut up small, and serve very hot. (3) Break up 6oz. of Macaroni, and put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water (in which two or three bacon- bones and a large onion have been stewing for about one hour), loz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer gently for one hour until the Macaroni is tender, take it out, put it at the bottom of a tureen, and pour over lqt. of good vegetable soup thickened with Hour. Any white stock or broth may be used instead of the water with the bacon-hones, but care must be taken not to use any that will colour the Macaroni in the slightest, or the effect will be spoilt. (4) Put jib. of Macaroni in boiling salted water and scald it for a few minutes; then take out, drain, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, 2oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer gently until quite done. Grate in a handful of Parmesan and Gruycre cheeses in equal quan- tities, put the Macaroni at the bottom of the tureen, pour the milk soup over, and serve. (5) Fry in butter a finely-minced onion in a saucepan, and when a light golden colour add 6oz. of ham cut in small pieces, a bunch of parsley and fine herbs, and a few pepper- corns. Let these cook for a few minutes, then add eight large tomatoes, having the skin and seeds removed, cut in pieces, and drained quite dry. When the moisture from the tomatoes has reduced, pour in a little melted glaze and a little reduced brown sauce, cook for a few minutes longer, and pass all through a sieve. Boil 1 jib. of Macaroni in salted water; when quite tender, take it out, drain, and put it into a frying-pan with 6oz. of butter pulled in