953 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <he., referred to, see under their special heads. Mulberries—continued. Let them remain for a day or two, cover the jars, and the jelly will then he ready for use. (2) Squeeze out all the juice from some Mulberries, put it together with the pulp into a jar, set it in the oven, and let it remain for several hours. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, and to every pint add ] Ub. of sugar; boil these in a preserving-pan for forty-five minutes, remove the pan from the fire, add a little lemon-juice, pour the jelly into moulds, and turn out when set. Mulberry Salad.—Pick the fruit carefully and arrange it in a compote-dish, then sift caster sugar over it. Put into a basin 1 wineglassful of Chartreuse, 1 table-spoonful of ginger syrup, and the strained juice of an orange. Stir the mixture till well mixed, then pour it over the Mulberries, and serve. See Fig. 1194. Mulberry Smash. -In a half-pint glass mix 1 table spoonful of syrup with 1 wineglassful of strained Mulberry-juice, fill up with ice, put a few berries of any kind of fruit on the top, and serve with straws. Mulberry Syrup.—(1) Remove the stalks from some ripe berries, put them in a tub, and bruise well with a wooden spoon to extract all the juice. Let them remain for three or four hours, and then strain through a flannel bag or fine strainer. Measure the juice, and for every gallon add 3oz. of water in which 4oz. of citric acid has been dissolved, and 141b. of loaf sugar. Pour the syrup into a preserving- pan, add the sugar and acid, and simmer gently without boiling at the side of the fire until all the sugar has dis- solved. Remove the pan from the fire, and when the syrup is quite cold pour it into bottles, cork them up, and it is ready for use. If loo thick, a little water may be added to bring it to the required consistence. (2) Put some Mulberries into a jar with a cover over, place it in a saucepan of water, and boil up, and as the liquor rises from the berries pour it off. Measure the juice, and to every 4 pint use 41b. of caster sugar. Put the juice and sugar into a saucepan over a clear fire, boil until it becomes like cream, skim well, let it get cold, put into bottles, and it is ready for use. Mulberry Water Ice.—Extract the juice from the Mulberries by putting them in a cloth and squeezing it with both hands; for every pint of the juice allow lqt. of syrup and the strained juice of two lemons. Mix them together, put them into a freezing-pot, and work until frozen. Afterwards place the mixture in a fancy mould, close it securely, pack in pounded ice and salt, and leave for about a couple of hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, and turn the ice on to a glass or other kind of fancy dish. MULL.—This term is derived from the Old English mold—such as mold-ale, or ale that was served at a funeral banquet. It is now used to signify a drink, especially wine or beer that has been heated by boiling, spiced and sweetened, or “ mulled ” as it is called. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP.—The name is a slight corruption of the Tamil Mila-gu-tamur, which signifies pepper water. See Soup. MULLER.—A vessel used for mulling. This may be merely a common saucepan, or an elaborate electro-plated apparatus fitted to the counter of a public bar. MULLET (Fr. Mulet; Ger. Meerbarbe).—There is a good deal of confusion usually existing amongst foreign cooks on the score of these famous fish. Those known to us are of two kinds—the Gray Mullet (Mugil ceplialus), and the Red Mullet, or Sur-Mullet (Mullus barbatus), the latter being remarkable for its brilliant colours and a sort of bearded appendage. When cleaning the Red Mullet it is only necessary to scrape it well and pull out the gills, with which all will come that is necessary to re- move of the inside; the liver, which is an especial delicacy, remaining. The roe of the Gray Mullet is most highly esteemed, and is prepared by drying, salting, and forming into a sausage. The following receipts are considered to be a description of the very best methods of cooking these fish; Gray Mullets.—These being river fish should be cooked j almost as soon as caught. They are not considered in Fig. 1195. Gray Mullet. any way equal to the red Mullet, and must be scraped, emptied, and thoroughly cleaned before cooking. See Fig. 1195. Baked Gray Mullet. -Scale and wash the Mullet well, lay it on a dish, dredge with salt, and leave it for an hour or two. Peel four onions, cut them into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a few table spoonfuls of olive oil, and fry until nicely browned. Spread half of the onions over the bottom of a deep baking-dish, lay the Mullet on them, strew over plenty of chopped parsley, cover with a layer of sliced tomatoes, then the remainder of the onions, and lastly some more chopped parsley. Pour over the oil in which the onions were fried, 1 teacupful of water, h teacupful each of tomato sauce and French vinegar, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. When cooked, leave the fish until cold, then lay it on an oval-shaped dish, put the slices of tomatoes and onions round it, and serve. Boiled Gray Mullet.—Clean a Gray Mullet, and put it in a fish kettle with sufficient salted water to cover ; place the kettle on the fire, and when the fish boils remove it to the side. Lift the fish up with a strainer, and let it drain (with the cover over it) over the kettle until wanted; then put it on a hot dish, and serve. Boiled Gray Mullet with Dutch Sauce.—Clean a Gray Mullet, and boil it in a saucepan of salted water for about twenty minutes. Put it on a dish, pour over some Dutch sauce, and serve. Boiled Gray Mullet in Jelly.—Scale and wash a Gray Mullet weighing about 51b., put it in a fish-kettle. pour over enough water to cover, and add two onions with a few cloves stuck in them, a little allspice, the juice of