TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 762 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—continued. Curried Fresh Herrings.—Select ten large Fresh Herrings, drawing and cleaning them ; wash the soft roes and blanch them in water made acid with a little vinegar or lemon-juice. Slice an onion and fry it in butter in a flat stewpan ; sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then put in 1 pinch of chopped parsley, one bay-leaf, 1 pinch of salt, 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and a little fish broth. Put the Herrings side by side in the stewpan (there should be enough liquid to cover them), boil for two or three minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and let it remain for ten minutes. Take out the Herrings with a skimmer, and arrange them with the roes on a hot dish ; thicken the sauce with a liaison of yolks of eggs, pass it through a conical strainer over the fish, and serve. Fresh-Herring Balls. — Remove the skin from three Her- rings by parboiling them, pick oft' all the flesh from the bones, and mix it up with an equal quantity of the pulp of baked potatoes. Add sufficient warmed butter or cream to form the whole into a paste, shape it into balls, dip them in egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and brown. Take them out when done, drain oft all the fat, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Fresh-Herring Hoes.—Take out the soft roes of two-dozen- and-a-half Fresh Herrings, and wash and drain them. Put a small lump of butter in a saucepan, warm it, and add a few mushrooms, onions, shallots, and a little parsley, all finely minced ; warm them slowly over the fire without allowing them to take colour, then add the roes, and simmer for a second or two. Cover the inside of a paper case with fish forcemeat to about ^in. in thickness, oil it well outside, place it on the gridiron to warm the forcemeat, put in the Herring mixture, and bake in a slow oven until done. Take off the fat, place the case on a dish, pour over a little Spanish sauce mixed with vinegar, and serve. Fresh-Herring Salad. —(1) Scale and clean two or three large Fresh Herrings, cut off their fins, and split them lengthwise into halves ; rub a small quantity of salt and lemon-juice over them, and leave for a few hours. Wipe them on a cloth, brush over with a little warmed butter, and broil them over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. Boil two or three potatoes, taking care not to overdo them, Fig. 954. Fresh-Herring Salad. and cut them in slices. Lay the Herrings on a salad-dish with the slices of potatoes and a bunch of washed and care- fully-picked watercress on them, and arrange chopped capers and small bunches of watercress over and around the fish. Mix lj teacupfuls of salad-oil with 1 teacupful of vinegar, season with pepper and salt, pour it over the salad, garnish with some fillets of anchovies, and serve. See Fig. 954. (2) Dutch Style.—Procure soft-roed fish, skin and bone them, and divide into fillets, putting the roes on one side. Boil a couple of eggs till hard, and when cold and peeled separate the whites from the yolks, and well chop them. Mince finely and separately some shallots, parsley, and pickled beetroot. Arrange the fillets in a oircle on a dish, and put the other ingredients in the centre. Pound the roes of the fish in a mortar, and moisten them with oil and vinegar, using two parts of the former to one part of the latter; pour the mixture over the salad, being very careful not to dis- arrange it, and serve. Fried Fresh. Herrings.—(1) Clean and wipe the required quantity of Fresh Herrings, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and flour Herrings—continued. over them; put sufficient dripping in a frying-pan to cover the fish, and when it is boiling put these in and fry them for eight or ten minutes, according to their size, turning to do both sides. When done, drain them, arrange on a hot dish, and serve. It is not unusual to accompany these with a dish of mashed potatoes baked in a mould. (2) Clean and wipe a Fresh Herring, season it with salt and pepper, and dredge lightly over with flour. Put a large lump of dripping in a frying-pan, and when it boils put in the Herring (there should be sufficient fat to cover it), fry it over a brisk fire for eight or ten minutes, according to the size ; then drain it in front of the fire, so that as much of the fat as possible may run away, put the fish on a hot dish, and serve. A Herring being a very rich fish will be found indi- gestible unless properly fried; but if prepared carefully, even a delicate person may eat it with safety. (3) Soak the Herrings in milk for two hours, clean them, take out the roes, and if soft fry them separately. Cut a few onions in shreds, place them -in a frying-pan, then put in the Herrings, and fry. Should there not be enough liquor run from the Herrings, add a little butter to the pan. Serve hot, with the onions and soft roes for garnish. Grilled. Fresh Herrings.—Scale the Herrings very carefully, open and gut them, take out the roes, wipe the fish clean with a cloth, but do not wash them. Wipe the roes, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and replace them inside the fish, then cut off the heads and tails. Mix a seasoning of pepper, salt, olive oil, chopped onions and chopped parsley, and turn the Herrings over and over in this, oiling them well on both sides, and grill over a clear fire on a well-oiled gridiron. When done on one side, raise them from the gridiron, oil it again, and put the fish on to cook the other side. Serve hot with maitre-d’hotel sauce or mustard. Herring Pie.—(1) Soak 1 pint of split peas for one night, then drain them, tie loosely in a cloth, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender. Remove the heads and tails of three good-sized Fresh Herrings. Butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom with a thick layer of the peas, put in the Herrings, then cover with the remainder of the peas, smooth the surface over with the blade of a knife, and lay a few thin slices of very fat bacon on the top. Put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, remove the slices of bacon, and serve. (2) German.—Well wash and scrub 3|lb. of potatoes, and cut them into slices. Put a Herring into a basin of warm water, let it soak, and afterwards divide it into flakes. Mix the Herring and potato together with loz. of dripping, and salt and pepper to taste, and put them at the bottom of a pie-dish. Make a paste with lib. of flour, 3oz. of dripping, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient water ; cover the pie with this rolled out moderately thin, put it into the oven, and bake for two hours; then take it out, and serve. Herring Hoes an Gratin.—Wash fifteen fine soft roes in cold water, then plunge them into boiling water to get firm ; drain, and wipe them. Fry a minced onion in butter lightly so as not to colour it, and put in a few table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. When the butter is reduced, put in the soft roes, sprinkle salt, nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne over them, and warm gradually over the fire till the roes are set; arrange them in layers on a gratin-dish, and sprinkle over each layer a little grated breadcrumb and finely-chopped parsley. Mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with 1 table-spoonful of melted glaze, pour it over the gratin, sprinkle grated breadcrumb and chopped parsley over that, pour a little warmed butter over all, and bake for twelve minutes in a moderate oven. When ready, serve on the same dish. Herring-Roe-and-Mushroom Toasts.— Cut twelve rounds of bread about 2in. in diameter, and fry very lightly in butter the roes of six Fresh Herrings and twelve mushrooms. Toast the rounds of bread, and butter them thickly. Put half a roe on each piece of toast, and a mushroom on the top of that. Dust over lightly with salt and a small quantity of cayenne. Spread an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve.