933 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Menus—continued. A very vexed question amongst cooks is the language that should be used on the Menu, French being usually adopted, or a mixture of French and English, with some very amusing results. As a ride the cook should study the company to be provided for, and the character of the dinnei’—if purely English, the Menu should be in that language as far as possible; if French, then French throughout; and so also of German, Italian, or any other language. Such ridiculous medleys as beef roti, frontage, &c., instead of roasted beef and cheese, are unworthy a place amongst our culinary records. MERINGUES.—There is considerable doubt attend- ing the derivation of this word, and some very extravagant attempts have been made to find its origination, without sufficient success. By some it is supposed that it refers to the word white, but this requires such a very round- about process of explanation that it is not worth enter- taining ; the more probable origin being that of the inventor’s or manufacturer's name. Meringue consists essentially of whites of eggs beaten with caster sugar to a froth, and then set in a quick oven. This would naturally suggest numerous artistic adaptations of Me- ringue, and some of these are described hereunder; other Meringues being found under special headings, such as Almonds, Apples, &c. Florentine Meringues.—Cover the bottom of a baking- pan with a sheet of puff paste rolled out very thin, spread some jelly or any kind of preserve over it, and cover all with Meringue-paste mixed with finely-chopped almonds or desiccated cocoa-nut. Sprinkle it all over with caster sugar, bake gently in a moderate oven, and cut into squares. Iced Meringue.—Boil in a saucepan 1 pint of milk and half a vanilla bean ; put in a vessel Mb. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; add it to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin, placing it on a moderate stove to heat for five minutes, stirring at the bottom continually with the spatula, and being careful not to let it boil. Remove from the fire, place it on a table, and add immediately f pint of sweet cream, mixing it for two minutes ; let it cool for thirty minutes, strain through a sieve into a freezer, and freeze. Arrange over each two Meringue shells, so as to nearly enclose the cream-ice, and send to the table. Italian Meringues.—Put ljlb. of sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), and place A Fig. 1158. Italian Meringues. the boiler in a large basin of cold water to set the sugar. Work the sugar with the back part of the bowl of a table-spoon against the sides of the pan, taking it well from the bottom ; when nearly transparent, pour in the well-whipped whites of four eggs, then the juice of one lemon, and a liqueur-glassful of liqueur, and mix lightly but thoroughly. Have ready some strips of paper cut about 2in. wide, arrange them on a board, put on them small quantities of the paste taken up with a teaspoon and made in the form of half eggs (see Fig. 1158, A) and bake in a moderate oven (with the door open) until they begin to colour. Take out, turn them off the paper with the aid of a knife, and they are ready for use. Italian Meringues require to be dried rather than baked, and therefore the oven must not be hot enough to colour a piece of white paper. The paste previous to being used may be coloured Meringues—continued. either yellow with saffron, brown with chocolate, or a light rose pink with a few drops of cochineal. In making these Meringues more sugar is used than for the ordinary ones, therefore they do not require to be dredged with sugar before baking, but if they are required to imitate different coloured fruits or vegetables, then they must be covered with the coloured sugars to give the effect. They should be taken carefully oil' the paper on which they were dried, and put in the left hand and gently pressed together (see Fig. 1158, C), or they may be scooped out in the centre (see Fig. 1158, B), and before being put together they can be filled with cream, &c., or any kind of preserved fruit, and then left to harden without any more heat. They may also be covered with transparent icing by inserting a fork into them and dipping them in it, but for this they should be dried a little firmer than for the ordinary Italian Meringues. Meringues a la Delmonico.—Put into a sugar-pan lib. of granulated sugar with h pint of cold water, and place on the hot stove. Have 2qts. of ice-water in a bowl, and when the sugar comes to the boil, dip the fingers of the right hand into the ice-water and pass them quickly round the inside of the sugar-pan, after boiling for five minutes. Dip a wooden stick, similar to a pen-holder, in the ice-water, then quickly into the boiling sugar, and again in the ice- water, lifting up the stick to feel the sugar that adheres. If it is not sufficiently consistent to form into a ball, boil a little longer, then try once more; should it be a proper consistency, remove from the fire and set it on the corner of the stove, so that it no longer boils. While the sugar is cooking, beat the. whites of five eggs in a copper basin until they are a firm froth, and while beating, pour the prepared sugar very gradually into the egg froth; when all is added, lay the basin containing the preparation into a vessel half filled with ice-water. Remove the whisk, and, using a wooden spatula, mix gently for five minutes, adding 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Cover fig. 1159. the basin with a napkin, letting it rest Silk Bag or Poche for ten minutes. Butter and flour a baking- F0R MERINUI-E- sheet; slide a fancy tube (No. 3) into a silk bag (see Fig. 1159), fill the bag with the preparation, press it out on to the baking-sheet, in pieces about 2in. long by lin. wide, giving a C shape, and forming others like a letter D. Sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar, place in a very slow oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When baked, these cakes should be perfectly white. Remove from the oven, let them get thoroughly cold, dress on a glass stand (see Fig. 1160), and serve. Meringue Cream.—Put 1 table-spoonful of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water, and soak it for an hour, rut 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan, and when it begins to boil stir the gelatine into it. When dissolved, strain the milk into lqt. of cream; add 1 breakfast-cupful of