THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 921 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cC*c., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. and 41b. or 51b. of knuckle of veal; add a little salt and mace, and sufficient water to cover, then put it over the fire and stew for seven hours. Strain, set it to cool, and when perfectly cold take the fat off; clear the jelly with whites of eggs, and run it through a jelly-bag. Meat Lozenges.—Put 2oz. of gelatine into lqt. of extract of Meat, and soak it for two hours. At the end of that time pour the mixture into a stewpan, and place it over the fire. Skim the liquid until no more scum rises to the top, and boil until reduced to a stiff’ gummy consistency. Pour the liquid on to plates, leave it until cold, then cut into strips, and then across again into diamond-shaped lozenges. For preserving the lozenges any length of time, they must be packed in tins and kept in a cool diy place. Meat Pie.—(1) Lay in a pie-dish layers of any Meat, season well with salt and pepper, and put over each layer of Meat a layer of apple, peeled, cored, and sliced, and a little chopped onion. Sprinkle among it about loz. of sugar, pour in a small quantity of stock, cover the pie with short-crust, put it into a moderate oven, and let it bake rather slowly. (2) Turkish Style.—Sift lib. of flour upon a table, make a bay in the centre, and put in 1 teaspoonful of salt and an egg. Work the ingredients together, then stir in sufficient water to make a softish paste. Divide the £»aste into halves, roll them out to the size of the baking- Fig. 1144. Meat Pie (Turkish Style). dish in which they are to be cooked, sprinkle them with a small quantity of warmed butter, then fold over the edges of the paste, bringing them to the middle. Dredge a small quantity of flour over, roll out again, and repeat the same five times. Butter a baking-tin, and lay one of the pieces of paste in it. Prepare a piece of any kind of raw Meat, spread it over the paste in the baking-tin, and lay the other flat of paste on the top, Make several holes in the top of the pie, put it in a quick oven, and bake till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, slip the pie on to a folded napkin on a hot dish, cut it into squares (see Fig. 1144), and serve with a good gravy in a tureen. Meat Porcupine.—Finely mince lib. of raw pork, fat and lean in equal quantities, and lib. of beef. When very fine, season the mince with chopped shallot, salt and popper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; next mix with the mince ^oz. of gelatine that lias been dissolved in a small quantity of boiling water, and leave until cool, forming it in a smooth oval shape. Lard the mince thickly to give it the appearance of a porcupine; put a large piece of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until hot, then put in the meat, and cook slowly until nicely browned on all sides. In about an hour’s time, or when cooked, drain the Meat porcupine carefully, place it on a hot dish, \ pour some hot rich brown gravy round, and serve. If ] preferred served cold, brush the Meat over with brown glaze when taken out of the butter, leave until cold, then put it on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with parsley. Meat Soup.—Cut into small pieces lib. of lean Meat, either beef or mutton, or both in equal quantities, put it into a saucepan with 2qts. of water, and let it simmer very gently, skimming off any scum that rises, till the broth is reduced to 1 pint; strain, and season to taste with salt. Meat Stuffing.—For 41b. of white uncooked Meat allow |lb. of beef kidney-suet and 41b. of bacon. Chop the suet and bacon, and pound in a mortar ; chop the white Meat Meat—continued. finely, mix it with the pounded mixture, season to taste with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, and bind with beaten eggs and a few drops of water; if liked, a few chopped shallots, truffles, or mushrooms may be mixed in. Try the stuffing by poaching a small quantity of it in boiling water. Meat Tart (Turkish Style).—Prepare a thick paste with lib. of flour, a little salt, and water, roll it out, divide it into three parts, roll out two of them until quite thin, and set them aside. With the third part mix in eight eggs, roll it out until quite thin, divide it into eight parts, and plunge them, one at a time, into a saucepan of boiling water kept on the fire. Spread one part of the uncooked paste over a pie-dish, over this put half of the partly- cooked portions of paste, cover with minced fresh Meat, well seasoned and slightly browned in a frying-pan with butter, mixing in a little chopped parsley ; over this put the remaining half of the parboiled paste, and cover with the rest of the uncooked paste. Pour over a little butter, browned in a frying-pan, set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until done. This may be served either hot or cold. Meat Tea.—Cut lib. of lean Meat, such as chicken, mutton, or beef, into very small pieces, and put them into a jar with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Put the jar into a saucepan and fill up with water to nearly its height. Place the pan on the side of the fire, where it can simmer gently for about four hours, but without boiling. Turn the con- tents of the jar out on to a sieve over a basin, add a little salt and pepper to taste, and it is ready for use. A little cream or yolks of eggs beaten in is a great improve- ment, or it may be thickened with arrowroot or sago, according to fancy. Cold Meats.—It is generally considered that Meats that have already been cooked require warming only; this is best effected and with least injury to the Meat if it is finely divided. Some very useful instru- Fig. 1145. Novelty Meat-mincer. nients have been invented for this purpose, one of the best for family use being the Novelty Mincer (see Fig. 1145), which can be fastened to a table or dresser, and is worked by turning the handle. These increase in size Fig. 1146. American Meat-mincer. and power until we come to giants worked by steam for the wholesale manufacture of sausages. Other mincers specially designed, of which there are numerous kinds i manufactured (see Fig. 1146), or the big-bladed mincing-