891 m.E ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTWAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. small pieces. When the butter is sufficiently melted, add a little pepper, and put the Macaroni in a deep dish in layers, with a handful of grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled over, and a little of the sauce poured over each layer. Sprinkle a little more cheese over the top layer, mask with browned clarified butter, and serve with a good broth in a tureen. (6) Blanch about l'2oz. of Macaroni in boiling water, with a little salt and butter ; take out, strain, cut it up into any desired lengths, and put it into a saucepan. In the meantime, prepare a rich vegetable soup, strain it into a saucepan, add the white of an egg beaten up in a little cold soup to clarify it, then boil and skim free of fat. Strain it into the saucepan containing the Macaroni, and simmer at the side of the lire until nearly done, letting it remain till slightly firm. Prepare a liaison of twelve eggs, mixed with a little well-whipped cream, a lump of warmed butter, 6oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and pepper to taste ; stir this gradually into the soup, taking care that it is not boiling, pour it all into a tureen, and serve. The grated cheese may be served separately if desired. (7) Pour 4 pints of clear chicken broth into a stewpan, and boil, then put in Goz. of Macaroni broken into small pieces. Clean the hearts and livers of three or four chickens, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till half cooked; drain the hearts and livers and cut into small squares, then put them into the soup. When the Macaroni is tender, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, dust over a little pepper and powdered cinnamon, and serve while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast. Macaroni Soup with. Cream.—Pour about 5qts. of water into a stockpot, and add a fowl, a knuckle of veal, and a little salt. Put the pot on the fire, skim the liquor frequently, and when it boils remove the pot to the side, and add a carrot, an onion, a leek, and a root of celery. Simmer gently for four hours, then strain it through a fine sieve and skim off all the fat. Put Goz. of butter into a saucepan, and when melted mix in 2 table spoonfuls of flour ; let it remain on the fire for a few minutes, then pour in the broth. B >il up again, remove it to the side of the fire to simmer for twenty-live minutes longer, and strain again. In the meantime, boil Mb. of Macaroni in salted water, and when done, strain, and add it to the broth. Beat up the yolks of five eggs in a basin, add gradually 1 teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and 1 teacupful of cream. Stir this into the soup together with a little butter, and warm up without letting it boil. Pour it into a tureen, and serve hot. Macaroni with. Sweetbreads.—Put two blanched cold sweet- breads into a saucepan with a little butter, and add to this 1 breakfast-cupful of ham cut in small pieces. Place the pan over the lire, fry for a few minutes, add gravy and Madeira to about three-parts the height of the meat, the trimmings of two or three trullles, and reduce the liquor to half its original quantity. When the sweetbreads are done, take them out, drain, cut them in small slices, and mix with a few small slices of hot lean ham. Add to the stock a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, boil up, and strain through a sieve into another saucepan. Put in two or three truffles cut in slices, boil for five minutes longer, and pour it over the sweetbreads. Whilst this is going on, put Mb- of Macaroni, broken into 2in. lengths, in a sauce- pan of boiling salted water, cover the pan, and boil until the pipes are quite tender ; take out, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, a little of the liquid from the stew, and a small lump of butter. Simmer over a moderate lire for ten minutes, when they should be light brown ; add 3 or 4 teacupfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, pour it all into a deep dish in which the sweetbreads have already been laid, and serve very hot. Macaroni Timbales.—(1) Put Mb. of Macaroni into a sauce- pan of salted water, and boil until tender; drain, and cut it into pieces about 2in. in length. Reduce 1 wineglassful of bechamel sauce in a saucepan over the fire, stirring in gradually a few table-spoonfuls of gravy; when well flavoured, take it from the fire and pour it on the Macaroni, Macaroni—continued. together with 5oz. of butter and a little powdered cin- namon to taste. In the meantime, butter a timbale-mould, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and line it with sweetened tartlet-paste. Pour in the preparation, cover it with a flat of the paste, and put it in a moderate oven to bake. In about forty-five minutes (when it should be done), take out of the oven, turn it out on to a dish, sprinkle over with sugar flavoured with cinnamon, and serve. (2) Mix 4oz. of flour, loz. of butter, the yolks of three eggs, and a little sugar to the thickness of nouille paste; roll it out very thin and cut it into various fancy shapes with biscuit-cutters. Butter a timbale-mould, put these ..pieces of paste round the sides and at the bottom, and place the mould on the ice to set them. When quite firm, brush them over with a little water, and cover with a lining of puff paste, made by using lib. of flour to fib. of butter. Boil sufficient Macaroni in a little stock or gravy; when quite tender, take it out, drain on a cloth, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and sprinkle with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Let it get cold, fill up the mould with it, put a layer of the paste over the top, and bake in a moderate oven until quite done. Turn the timbale out on to a dish, cut out the top within I in. of the side, take out half the Macaroni, and fill up with a ragout made of fillets of fowl, tongue, and truffles, cut into collops, mushrooms cut in slices, and a few cocks’ combs, and well mixed with a little German sauce. Pile this up lfin. above the top of the timbale, pqt a cock’s comb in the centre, and garnish the top of the crust with twelve small fillets of fowl, larded, glazed, and set in a circle, and serve. (3) Boil sufficient Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water, and when tender take it out and drain thoroughly. Mix it with grated Parmesan and G my ere cheese in equal quantities and a little butter, and season with pepper. Butter a timbale-mould, line it with short-paste rolled out thin, fill it up with the Macaroni, cover with more paste, and put it in the oven. Put a sheet of paper over to prevent burning, and bake for about forty-five minutes. When done, turn it out of the mould on a dish, and serve. (4) Boil the required quantity of Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water with a few slices of carrot and one onion stuck with cloves; when quite tender, take it out and drain. Put equal quantities of grated Parmesan and Gray ere cheese in a saucepan with some gravy, and add a little common household cheese also grated, and a little minced breast of fowl. Warm these up, mix in the Macaroni, and pour the whole into a timbale-mould lined with tart paste. Cover with paste, make a hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour or so, according to the size of the mould ; pour in a little gravy, turn it out on to a dish, and serve hot. (5) Boil 4oz. of Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water for about thirty minutes, when it should be quite tender ; take it out, drain, let it get quite cold, then line a buttered mould or basin with it. Put an onion in a sauce- pan with a breakfast-cupful of milk, reduce to half its bulk over a quick fire, and thicken with a table-spoonful of flour mixed with a little milk ; stir well, grate a little nutmeg over, and sprinkle in a small quantity of minced parsley. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg and loz. of butter, and when well mixed add 2oz. of finely-minced tender part of a fowl, rabbit, or any game. Put this mixture into the basin or mould, cover with a little more of the Macaroni, tie it over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water (not quite up to the top of the mould), and simmer gently at the side of the fire for forty-five minutes or so. Turn it out on a dish, pour a little gravy round, and serve. (6) Boil Jib. of Macaroni in white stock, and when cooked mix with it 2oz. or 3oz. each of grated Parmesan cheese and butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, and leave until cold. Butter a timbale-mould, line with a good puff paste, fill it with the Macaroni, and bake in a moderate oven. Meanwhile prepare the follow- ing forcemeat: Chop some of the white flesh of a cooked fowl, and mix with it half its quantity of chopped cooked veal and the same of cooked ham; put them in a mortar