THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 862 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Limes—continued. West Indies, from Jamaica, and from Soutli Africa” (that from Jamaica having the highest percentage of citric acid, 8'6(3). “ The yield from Limes is very small, and the freshly-expressed juice contains a lot of pulp. This, however, on standing a few weeks, separates, and a clear sherry-coloured liquor is obtained.” Limes are, in most parts, usually gathered from September to the end of January; but the Montserrat plantations yield all the year round. The fruit is sliced and afterwards squeezed until all the juice has been expressed. The choicest yield is promptly headed eip in casks, so that it piay not suffer from exposure to the air; but inferior yields are boiled down for the use of the citric acid makers. The juice of the Limes as exported from Montserrat, one of the principal localities of its preparation, is not always quite so bright and clean as may be desirable. When this is the case it can be clarified as follows: Pour the Lime-juice into a bowl, and to every quart add loz. of well-burnt and finely-powdered animal char- coal. Let it stand for about twelve hours, filter it into small bottles, cork them down securely, and put in a co. 1 place. In a few days’ time a thick crust will form underneath the corks, and the mucilage will sink to the bottom. It is then ready for use. Lime-juice Cordial is or should be prepared from the juice of Limes, and has obtained great favour in this country as a refreshing, healthy beverage, especially for summer use. It is made as follows : (1) Put lib. of double-refined pounded and sifted sugar into a basin; pour in 1 pint of Lime-juice and stir well with a silver or plated spoon until the sugar has dissolved. Pour into a bottle, cork and seal it, and put away in a dry cool place until wanted for use. (2) Mix together in a large stone jar pints of strong syrup, 1 pint of Lime juice, 2 pints of water, 1 drachm of essence of Lemon, and 2oz. of triple orange-flower water. Let these blend together, shake the jar occasionally, and keep well corked. LIMPETS—If it were more generally known that these superabundant rock-fish (see Fig’. 1075) (Acmsea testudinalis) are very good to eat, it is just possible that their numbers would di- minish rapidly seeing that they are declared by epicures to be tasty, and capable of being cooked in any way that is suitable to oysters. LINEN.—See Table- Linen. LING.—This fish (Molva vulgaris) may be described as a very large species of cod, which frequents the seas of Northern Europe, and finds its way into our markets chiefly as “ salted cod.” As a rule the flesh is considered coarse and unpalatable, but if well treated by the cook gives good results. Ling Pie.—Cut cfF a piece from the thin part of a Ling, wash it well, and soak to extract the salt. Then put it into a saucepan with water and boil slowly until quite cooked. Take it out, skin and slice it, and put the pieces in a pie-disli, alternately with slices of hard-boiled egg, sprinkling over with chopped parsley, and putting a few bits of butter here and there; continue in this way until all is used, and the dish full. Pour in a teacupful or so of rich gravy seasoned with ground mace and pepper, put a crust of puff paste over the top, and bake. When done lift up the crust, pour in 1 teacupful of hot cream, and serve. Ling—continued. Ling Soup.—Clean about 31b. of Ling, cut the flesh into fillets, and put the bones into a stewpan with any other fish-bones that are obtainable; add also 61b. of leg of beef, cover with water, and boil. Add two each of onions, carrots, and turnips cut in pieces, also a few allspice, and continue to boil until all the goodness is extracted. Put jib. each of butter and lean ham into a stewpan on the tire, put in a little each of basil, marjoram, parsley, and thyme, let them sweat until cooked, and then add suili- cient flour to thicken the soup. When the soup is ready, strain it into the pan with the flour, mix until smooth, and boil for an hour. Strain through a very line sieve, add 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira, and salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Cut the fillets of Ling into pieces about lin. square, having first removed the skin, fry them in butter, seasoning with salt and pepper, drain them free from fat, put them into a tureen, pour over the sou]), and serve. A few oysters added with their liquor are an improvement. Stewed Ling.—Have ready a frying pan warm cn the fire; into this put about lib. of Ling, cut up into slices and well rubbed with flour, and fry until well browned. Piemove this to the side of the pan and in it fry a small stick of celery and a small onion cut into slices or p eces; put these into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of stock; mix in j, table spoonful of flour, and add a small piece of lemonqieel, one or two sprigs of parsley, a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, and salt to taste. Bring the liquor to the boil, add the fish, and simmer gently at the side of the fire or stove until the fish is done (it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes). Place the slices of fish on a hot dish, strain the liquor, pour it over them, and serve. Hard-boiled eggs, cut into slices, make a good garnish for this dish. LINSEED.—The seed of flax from which Linseed oil is obtained. It is exceedingly glutinous and slightly aromatic in flavour; hence it is much used for invalids, in the form of “ tea,” which may be prepared from any of the following receipts : Linseed Tea.—(1) Pour Iqt. of boiling water on foz. of bruised Linseed and ljoz. of sliced liquorice root; cover, and let it stand near the fire for four hours, then strain, and it is fit for use. (2) Boil 3 table-spoonfuls of Linseed in 1 pint of water for ten minutes. Strain the water into a jug, put two lemons cut in slices with it, 1 wineglassful of wine, either port or sherry, and sweeten to taste with moist si: gar. This makes a relishing drink for invalids. (3) Put 2oz. of Linseed in a saucepan, with loz. of barley sugar, a little finely-slired lemon-peel, and H pints of water. Let it simmer gently for two hours, flavour with a little lemon-juice, strain, and let it stand. It may be drank either warm or cold. (4) Put 1 teaspoonful of Linseed, the strained juice of half a lemon, ancl foz. of loaf sugar in a jug; pour over them 1 pint of boiling water, put a plate on the jug, and let it stand till cold. This drink is much used for coughs; more Linseed may be used if liked. LIQUEURS.—See Cordials and Liqueurs. LIQUORICE (Fr. Reglisse; Ger. Lakritze; Ital. Liquarizia; Sp. Regaliza).—Whether this word should be spelled as above or Licorice is an undecided question, it being a roundabout corruption of two Greek words (glukus and rhiza) signifying sweet root. The plant (Glycyrrhiza c/labra) grows wild in all sub-tropical climates, much of that used in this country either growing in it or being imported from Spain or Italy. The root is sometimes dried and powdered; but more generally an extract is obtained from the roots by slicing and boiling them. After a time the liquor is strained and made to evaporate until it becomes of a proper consistence. Large quantities of this extract, Lindley informs us, are imported from Spain, hence the term Spanish, or Spanish Liquorice. It reaches us Fig. 1075. Limpet.