877 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. watercress, mustard and cress, and beetroot, dressed with mayonnaise. The salad should be dished in a pyramid Fig. 1096. Lobster Salad with Aspic Jelly. shape. Lean the slices of Lobster against the salad, in circles overlapping each other; put the meat of the claws on the top, and mask with half-set aspic jelly (see Fig. 1096). Fill a sauceboat with mayonnaise sauce with eggs, and serve it with the salad. Lobster Salad -with Caviare Sippets.—Pick all the soft parts out of a Lobster, put it into a basin, mixing with it 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced shallot, J teaspoonful of minced tarragon-leaves, the yolks of two eggs that have been nibbed through a fine sieve, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and mustard, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teacupful of oil, and a sufficient quantity of white-wine vinegar to thin without making it too sour. Break the firm pieces of the Lobster-flesh into small pieces, and mix them up with the above ingredients. Turn the mixture on to a dish, arrange some slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and strew chopped capers over. Toast some slices of bread, cut them into three-corner shaped pieces, butter them, and spread over with caviare. Arrange the pieces of toast round the dish, and serve. Lobster Salad -with Potatoes.—Cut the meat from a boiled Lobster into small dice, measure it, and mix with it an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes and two hard- boiled eggs, also cut in dice. Put all in a salad-bowl, pour a salad-cream over, stir about a bit to mix tho- roughly, then serve. Lobster Sauce.—(1) Take the meat from a large Lobster and cut it into jin. dice. Put the inner shells and scraggy parts into a saucepan with 1J pints of cold water and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain, and use the water in making 1 pint of drawn-butter sauce. Add the Lobster, the dried and powdered coral, a little cayenne pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. (2) Select a moderate sized cooked hen Lobster, pick all the meat out of it, and cut it into small pieces; mix the coral with it, and put them in a saucepan -with J pint of thick cream and a lump of fresh butter, and stir over the fire till hot. It is then ready for serving. (3) Take the meat out of a large hen Lobster, cut it into moderate-size 1 pieces, put them into a saucepan with J pint of rich gravy, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes. Pound the black unboiled spawn, mix it with the sauce, and stir over the fire till thick. Then pour in h pint of butter sauce, and serve. (4) Pick the meat carefully out of a cooke 1 Lobster and cut it into collops the size of a halfpenny. Put h pint of butter sauce in a saucepan, and when it is boiling put in the Lobster; stand the saucepan by the side of the fire and let the contents simmer slowly for ten minutes. When ready to serve, put in the sauce a small piece of Lobster butter, and stir till dissolved. (5) Procure a nice-sized hen Lobster, put some of the spawn in a mortar, and pound very fine; then mix with it a small piece of butter, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin; keep it covered with a cloth till wanted. Carefully break the Lobster, remove all the flesh, and cut it into middling-sized dice; warm the butter and red spawn, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of essence Lobster—continued. of anchovies, 2 tabla-spoonfuls of double cream, and a little salt and cayenne pepper. When well mixed, put in the meat and heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil; it is then ready to serve. The sauce should be very red. (6) Take out the meat from one small Lobster, and cut it into dice. Pound the coral with 1 table-spoonful of butter. Rub 2 table-spoonfuls of flour together with 3 table- spoonfuls of butter to a smooth paste in a small stewpan, then add 1 pint of boiling water, the pounded coral, a little cayenne, and 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. Simmer for five minutes, then put in the Lobster. Boil up once, and serve. (7) Pick the meat from the tail and claws of a large Lobster. Put 1 pint each of white poivrade and veloute sauces in a stewpan, boil, take it oft' the fire, thicken - with | table-spoonful of Lobster butter and 1 table- spoonful of fresh butter, put in the cut Lobster with J table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and it is ready for serving. (8) Chop the body of a cold boiled hen Lobster into very small pieces, and rub them, together with the soft parts of the body and coral, through a fine sieve. The tail should be split and pounded with the coral. Cut the flesh from the tail and claws into dice, put all into a saucepan with about Jib. of butter, and bring it gently to the boil, then remove the saucepan from the fire ; if too much heated the colour and flavour of the sauce will be destroyed. Strain, add a seasoning of mace and cayenne, J wineglassful of white wine, and 1 teaeupful or so of cream to about 1 pint of the liquor. Serve very hot. (9) Take out all the flesh from a Lobster and cut it up into small pieces. Crush the shell, put it with the broken claws into a saucepan with 1J pints of water, boil till reduced to a little more than J pint, strain back into the saucepan, and thicken with a liaison of flour and water. Put the spawn from the tail into a mortar, pound it well, adding a little water, turn it into the saucepan with the liquor from the claws and shells, add about Jib. of fresb butter, put in the Lobster-meat, season with boned and pounded anchovies, cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice, and serve. (10) Pour 1 pint of Hollandaise sauce into a saucepan, place it on the hot stove, but do not allow it to boil. Chop the meat from the claw of a good-sized boiled Lobster into lozenge-shaped pieces, add them to the sauce, heat well for five minutes, stirring lightly, put in Joz. of Lobster butter, and serve. (11) Takeout all the meat from a boiled Lobster, cut it into small pieces, and rub the coral and fat smooth with a knife, mixing in a small piece of butter and 1 table spoon- ful of flour. Put h pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little cayenne into a saucepan, stir over the fire until about to boil, add the coral, mix well, then put in the Lobster-meat, and stir well until hot, but without boil- ing. Pour it into a hot sauce-bowl, and serve at once. (12) Procure a large hen Lobster, pick out the meat, put the spawn in a mortar, and pound it together with about loz. of butter. Put the shell of the Lobster in a sauce- pan with mace, peppercorns, and grated horseradish in moderate quantities, pour in J pint of veal stock, and boil for twenty minutes. Afterwards strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, or put it in a clean one, with 1 break- fast-cupful of thick cream, the juice of a small lemon, a few drops of anchovy sauce, the meat of the Lobster cut up into small pieces, and the pounded spawn. Stir the whole well at the side of the fire, and simmer for five minutes, but do not let it boil. The sauce is then ready for serving. Lobster Saute.—Pick the meat from the shell of a Lobster; take the large and solid pieces, and cut them to an even size, but not very small. Put a lump of butter about the size of an egg in a frying-pan, and when melted put in the pieces of Lobster; sprinkle pepper and salt over them, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and toss about over the fire till thoroughly hot. Toast some thin broad slices of bread, cut off the crust, butter them, and put them on a hot dish; pour the Lobster over, and serve at once. Lobster in Shells.—(1) Cut an equal quantity of Lobster- meat and mushrooms into dice. Boil some veloute sauce together with some essence of mushrooms till reduced,