THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 823 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. sweetbreads in a group on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve without delay. Blanquette of Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—(1) Select the required quantity of Lamb’s Sweetbreads; steep them in cold water, blanch and drain them, and stew in some white stock. When done, drain and trim the sweetbreads, cut them into small oblong pieces called collops, and put them in a stewpan with sliced truffles. Pour some German sauce over them, and stir over the fire till hot. Make a potato border on a hot dish, fill the centre with the blanquette, and serve. (2) Take three dozen good Lamb’s Sweetbreads, wash well so as to get them white, and cook in plain water. When done, strain and throw them into cold water; and when cold, trim them well, being careful to remove all the pipe and other hard pieces. Cut up half of them into small squares, put them into a stewpan with 1 gill of white sauce, a little chicken glaze, and six yolks of eggs, season well with cayenne pepper and salt, bring to the boil, and pour this out upon a dish ; set the dish upon ice or in a cool place to get firm. When quite cold, roll it into balls about the size of nutmegs, pass them through breadcrumbs, then through whisked eggs, again into the crumbs, and then fry to a golden brown in hot lard. Put the remainder of the sweetbreads into a stewpan with a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt, and eighteen small collops of tongue, fyy these for about five minutes, drain off the butter, add 1 gill of white sauce, some small mushrooms, and sliced truffles; make thoroughly hot, dish up in the form of a dome in the centre of the dish, garnish with the croquettes (see Fig. 1035), mask the blanquette with 1 table-spoonful of white sauce, and serve. Boiled Lamb's Sweetbreads.—Wash the sweetbreads and leave them in water for an hour or two, then blanch them. Put them in a saucepan with a piece of mace, i pint of broth, and salt and pepper. Knead loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it in with the sweet- breads, and keep them boiling gently for thirty-five minutes. Beat three eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the sweetbreads are done, take them out of the saucepan, put them on a hot dish, and keep near the fire. Mix the beaten eggs-and-cream in with the sauce and stir it by the side of the lire till thick, but it must not boil after the eggs are added. Pour the sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve. Fricassee of Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Blanch two or three Lamb’s Sweetbreads, parboil them in broth or stock, and cut into slices. Flour them well and if the slices are too thick cut them in halves. Put them into a frying-pan with butter and a few bearded oysters and fry to a yellow colour. Now drain off' the butter, pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of rich gravy, add a few asparagus-points, two or three finely-chopped chives or shallots, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, and simmer for ten minutes or so. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a basin, add a little of the broth, and then stir it in with the remainder, and replace the pan at the side of the fire and stir, without boiling, until the gravy is moderately thick. Serve on a hot dish with slices of lemon for garnish. Lamb—continued. Lamb’s Sweetbreads en Cassolettes.—Boil 1 breakfast-cupful of rice in 2i breakfast-cupfuls of broth. When the rice is tender, take it off the fire, and beat to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon; fill some small deep patty-pans with it and cut a round on the tops tin. deep with a plain 1 Jfin. cutter. Leave the rice to get cold, then take it out of the moulds, mask it lightly over with warmed butter, and bake till browned in a brisk oven. When done, take the covers off, scoop out the inside of the rice, leaving a wall Jin. thick. Fill these cassolettes with Lamb’s Sweetbreads that have been cooked and cut in small dice, pour a spoonful of reduced German sauce over the contents, and arrange the cassolettes on a hot dish, and serve. Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Cases.—Blanch, pare, and clean six Lamb’s Sweetbreads. Lay them aside to cool, then lard them with either fresh fat pork or truffles. Place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, adding 1 gill of chicken broth or 1 gill of Madeira wine. Cover with a buttered paper, and let them cook to a golden colour in the oven for ten minutes, then lay them on a dish. Put h gill of cooked fine herbs and 1 gill of well-reduced Spanish sauce into the pan, letting it cook for five minutes. Take six small buttered paper cases, pour a little of the gravy at the bottom of each, fill in with sweetbreads, and place them on a baking-dish; keep them for five minutes in an open oven, then serve on a folded napkin. Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Shells.—Boil sixteen Lamb’s Sweetbreads, taking care not to overdo them ; when cold, cut them into dice, and mix with them a third of their quantity of cooked mushrooms, and keep them covered. Pour into a saucepan a little bechamel sauce, let it re- duce, gradually introducing into it the cooking-stock of the Lamb’s Sweetbreads, so as to get half a brown sauce. When it thickens and coats the spoon, put the sweetbreads and mushrooms in with it, and take the preparation off the fire at once. Procure some large table-shells, fill them with the mixture, smoothing it on the top, sprinkle grated breadcrumb over, pour 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter in each, and bake till browned in a quick oven. Fig. 1036. Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Shells. Arrange the shells on a fancy paper over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 1036. Lamb’s Sweetbreads with Villeroy Sauce.—Select the required quantity of sweetbreads, blanch and put them in a stewpan, adding broth to half their height, boil till tender and the gravy is reduced. Put the sweetbreads between two plates, and let them be till cold. Cut each sweetbread in two, dip them in villeroy sauce, and put them on a baking-sheet. When the sauce has cooled on them, take them off the baking-sheet with the aid of a knife, roll them in breadcrumbs, dip them in beaten egg, then roll in breadcrumbs again, and fry in boiling fat; when nicely browned all over, drain, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Blanch the sweetbreads and steep them in cold water for half-an-hour, then put them in a stewpan with some button-onions, boiled asparagus- tops, and a small piece of mace; season to taste until salt and pepper. Knead loz. of butter with flour, put it in until the sweetbreads, and let them simmer at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with h teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful