THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 828 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Larder—continued. communicating with the air outside. If used for storing this is the more important, because then unpleasant odours and microbes of decomposition are carried off almost as fast as they arise. The walls, shelves, and doors should be kept scrupulously clean, being scrubbed with scalding water and washing-powder repeatedly. If possible the walls should be tiled, and the shelves of slate or polished marble; but as these are not always conve- nient, the walls and ceiling should be lime-washed fre- quently, and the shelves scrubbed over with chloride of lime in water, care being taken to paint the shelves with this only, and then to carefully wash it all off. The door and windows should be fitted with perforated zinc, small enough to keep dies out and let air in. See Pantry. LARD (Fr. Saindoux ; Ger. Schweinfett).—This is, or should be, the white fat of the pig melted down and purided; but it is to be feared that Lard is subject to extensive adulterations; veal—and mutton-fat are frequently mixed with it, and beef—or' mutton-suet is sometimes added to give inferior Lard a greater con- sistency. Flour, water, starch, lime, alum, carbonate of soda, potash, and salt are also occasionally mixed in to give some character that the Lard lacked. The best Lard is that taken from the kidneys of the pig; but foreigners preparing Lard for the British markets do not seem to be very particular what fat they “ rend ” down, so long as it remains white after melting. In America, Canada, Hamburg, and Ireland the rending is performed by steam, thus preventing the fat from burning, and preserving its white appearance and its almost odour- less, firm characteristics. There are two kinds of Lard imported—bladder-Lard and keg-Lard, so called from the names of the vessels containing them. Bladder-Lard is usually the best quality, and consequently fetches the I highest prices. The kidney-fat is also known as Flead, J Flear, Flare, and Leaf Lard. Lard may be prepared at home as follows: (1) Directly the fat is removed from the pig it should be cut hi small pieces, washed, and all the water pressed out; put it in a pot to boil, with lgall. of water to a vessel holding 4galls. Boil quickly over a sharp fire till the cracklings begin to brown, then cook slowly to prevent burning. When the Lard is done, the cracklings will sink to the bottom. This is called leaf Lard. (2) Soak the fat procured from the entrails of a pig hi clear cold water for two or three days, changing it fre- quently, and throwing a handful of salt in the water to draw out the blood and impurities. When ready to rend, wash it hi warm water twice, and boil in more water than is done for leaf Lard. When all the cracklings sink to the bottom, the Lard is done. (3) All the skin should be stripped off the inner part of a pig; it should then be put in an earthen jar, and the jar put in a large saucepan with boiling water in it. Let it simmer gently by the side of the fire, and as the Lard melts, take it carefully from the sediment, put it into thoroughly clean bladders, and keep them hi a cool place till ready to use. The Lard should be kept quite free from air, or it will turn rank. Lard Cakes.—Rub 1 jib. of Lard and 6oz. of butter into 2lb. of Hour with h teaspoonful of salt mixed with it. Stir quickly to a stif paste with milk, and roll it out on a floured paste-board with a floured rolling-pin to fin. in thickness. Cut it into small cakes, and bake in a hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Lard Pastry.—For lib. of flour allow fib. of Lard; cut the Lard into thin slices, and roll each slice in a little of the flour; continue thus until all the Lard and flour are used, then mix in gradually sufficient very cold water to make a soft paste. Lay the paste on a floured cloth, and keep it in a very cold place for half-an-hour. Afterwards put it on a floured paste-board, and roll it out with a floured rolling-pin to the thickness of lin. Put the paste again on the floured cloth in a cold place and leave it for lialf-an hour longer. Roll the paste out very thinly, doubling it over six times. The paste should be touched as little as possible with the hands. LARDER.—It is rather a difficult problem to dis- tinguish between the Larder and the pantry. According to its original meaning the Larder is that part of the culinary apartments set aside for preparing foods for cooking; but custom has extended this signification until it represents the store-room for meats, poultry, and fish. The pantry takes its name from pain—bread, and should therefore be reserved for that and pastry ; but to the French cook all these together constitute the “office,” and are known to the German as the speise- kammer. As the British Larder may be used for numerous purposes it should be in a very cool, airy position, with a good upper draught of air right through LARDING.—It has been suggested that larding is not for the poor, as it increases the cost of meat; but, as a matter of fact, larding enhances the nutritive value of fatless meat, and should rather be regarded as an addition to the economical working of the kitchen. The following instructions are very much to the point: Fig. 1043. Larding-needle. All that is required is a larding-needle (see Fig. 1043), which is a piece of steel from 6in. to 9in. long, pointed at one end and having four slits at the other to hold a small strip of bacon (lardoon) when put between them. Daubing is somewhat differently man- aged : A hole is made in the substance of the meat with Fig. 1044. Daubing-needle. a daubing-needle (see Fig. 1044), and a plug of bacon-fat is forced into the hole; this is only done in large joints. Cut some tliin even slices, parallel with the rind, off a piece of young salted pork. Cut the slices into narrow strips to fit the larding-needle. For beef, veal, turkey or chicken, the strips should be about as large as a lead pencil, and about 3Jin. long; for birds, sweetbreads and chops they should be about as large as a lucifer match. Three slices are all that can be cut from one piece of pork, as when cut more than lin. away from the rind, the fat is so tender that it will break in the needle. Put the strips in a basin and cover them with broken ice to harden. If veal or beef is to be larded, free it from all skin and gristle. Put a strip into the needle as far as it will go. With a sharp-pointed knife or a skewer, draw a line along both sides of the meat and along the upper- part. Thrust the needle into the meat at one of the side lines, and when it is about half-way through to the top of the piece, press the steel slightly with the thumb and fore-finger, to hold the lardoon in place till it has entered the meat. Then push the needle through to the top, and gently draw it out, leaving about jin. of the strip exposed at both the side and upper part of the meat. That part of the pork which is hidden should be Jin. under the surface. Continue until all the rows are filled with lardoons. Two rows are enough for a fillet of beef; if the strips are too large for the needle they will be pressed out when the needle enters the meat. LARDOONS (Fr. Lardons).—Strips of bacon-fat used in Larding. LARKS (Fr. Mauviettes or Alouettes ; Ger. Lerehen). —These birds, of the genus Alauda, are so highly esteemed for their “ singing in heaven’s vaults ” that the notion