THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 951 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Zc., referred to, see under their special heads. Muffins—continued. Muffins made with Granulated Wheat.—Put 3 teacupfuls of granulated wheat into a basin, and mix in, in this order, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, one well-beaten egg, 1 breakfast cupful (or a little less if desired) of milk, and 1 teacupful of water. When thoroughly mixed, turn it out into hot Muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes; turn them out, and they are ready for use. Muffins made with Hominy.—(1) Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled hominy into a basin with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, and beat them together until smooth with a wooden spoon ; add 3oz. each of warmed butter and sugar, a small quantity of salt, and four well-beaten eggs. Dredge in 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of Hour, and continue beating until the mixture is perfectly smooth; then add a small quantity of hot water in which has been dissolved 1 heaped teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. When thoroughly beaten, pour the batter into Muffin-tins, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot with butter. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled hominy into a basin, and mix smoothly with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, f teacupful of warmed butter, 14 table-spoon- fuls of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat two eggs well, add them to the above mixture with a good 4 teast^oonful of bicarbonate of soda that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water, and work in f break- fast-cupful of Hour. When quite smooth, cook the Muffins in the ordinary way. The mixture must be thoroughly beaten and cooked quickly, the Muffins are then excellent. (3) Wash 1 teacupiul of hominy and boil it for an hour in 1 pint of water, stirring frequently. When cooked, mix with it 1 pint of milk, 4 breakfast-cupful of liquid yeast, 2 table spoonfuls of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix gradually lqt. of Haxall-flour with the hominy, beating it well at the same time, and let it rise overnight. On the following morning, butter some Muffin-pans, fill them with the mixture, and let it rise for three-quarters-of-an- hour. Put the Muffins in a quick oven, and bake them for thirty-five minutes. Muffins made with Potato-Flour.—Peel four large potatoes weighing altogether about lib., put them into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are quite soft; then take them out and mash. Put the pulp into a basin and work in 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, a small quantity of salt, and pour in suffi- cient lukewarm water to give the mixture the ap>pearance and consistence of cream. Now add two well-beaten eggs, stir them in, and dredge in gradually six breakfast cupfuls of flour that has been dried and sifted. When all are well mixed, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful more of warm water, then add 1 teaspoonful of soda, and lastly 1 gill of yeast. Place a cloth over the basin and put it in a warm place for ten or twelve hours. When it is sufficiently risen, turn it into well-buttered Muffin-rings, place them on a griddle, and cook until done. Take them out of the rings, and they are ready for use. Muffins made with Rice.—To 1 pint of soft-boiled rice add 4 pint of milk, six well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of butter, and flour enough to stiffen it to the consistency of pound-cake batter. Drop the Muffins into the baking- pan at such distances from each other that they will not touch, put them into a quick oven, and bake for ten minutes. Muffins made with Rye-Flour.—Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of rye-flour hi a basin with 4 teacupful of sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Beat up an egg, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Stir it quickly into the flour mixture, put it into hot Muffin- rings or gems, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes, when they will be done. Toasted Muffins.—Take some Muffins, pull open the sides (never cut them), and toast them before a clear fire. When done, pull them apart, when both halves should be of an equal thickness. Put a little butter on each piece, close them together again, put them on a hot plate with muffins —continued. a cover, cut them into quarters (see Fig. 1191), and serve very hot. A\ e The following are a few selected receipts for a cake and puddings made with Muffins : Muffin Cake.—Make a syrup with lib. of loaf sugar and lqt. of water; cut the Muffins open, put them in the syrup, and leave for a few minutes. Take the halves of Muffins out carefully, and lay half of them on a baking-dish; blanch and pound 2oz. or 3oz. of almor.ds or pistachios, sift them over the Muffins, spread a layer of clotted cream on the top, sift more pounded almonds over that, then put the remainder of the Muffins on the top ; pour about 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup over them, put them in a slow Fig 1192. Muffin Cake. oven until the syrup has nearly i.ll soaked in, then set the Muffin cake on a glass dish (see Fig. 1192), and serve either hot or cold. Muffin-and-Crumpet Pudding.—For this two Muffins and three crumpets will be quite sufficient. Open the Muffins, put thin slices of sweet apple or jelly inside them, place them alternately with the crumpets in a buttered earthenware jar, pour over some rich batter, tie over the jar with a cloth, and boil. Serve hot, with or without sweet sauce. Muffin Pudding.—(1) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, with 4 teaspoonful of sugar and a little cinnamon, boil, and strain it over the beaten yolks of six eggs. Put a stale, lightly cooked muffin into a basin, pour over 1 g'H of boiling milk, and let it stand until quite cold. Put a piece of well-buttered paper at the bottom of a round mould, scatter over a few raisins, put the well saturated muffin in the mould, and pour over the eggs and cream, which have been well beaten. Put the pudding in a colander over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for an-hour-and-a-half.