731 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Haddocks—continued. or rubbed with salt. Small Haddocks are often skinned and trussed like whiting, with their tails in their mouths, but the trick is easily discovered by a careful examination of the fish. The Haddock is coarser and darker coloured than the whiting. Fig. 908. Fresii Haddock trimmed for Cooking. Baked Haddock.—(1) Clean a Haddock, remove the eyes, trim it, and pass its tail through the cavity of the eyes, or the tail may be tied to its mouth. Chop 2oz. of fat bacon and a little green parsley to a mince, mix these with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, a little salt and pepper, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and an egg to make it into a stiff paste. Stuff the fish with the mixture, and sew it up. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a basin, work into it 1 table- spoonful of water, pour on 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and mix in loz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Pour this into a baking-tin, put the fish on it, place the pan in a moderate oven, and bake . for an hour, basting frequently, or until done, without it taking colour. It may be served in the baking-tin placed in a dish, or taken out and put on a dish ; but the fish requires very careful handling, or it will break to pieces when moved and thus spoil the appearance. The sauce can be poured round it. A few skinned shrimps, added to the sauce when it is about half cooked, are a great improve- ment, and the dish may be garnished with crayfish-tails. (2) Clean and draw a Haddock, and stuff it with the following: Put the crumb of a roll in a little milk, soak it well, and then squeeze as dry as possible by twisting it in a cloth; put it in a saucepan with Joz. of butter, set the pan over the fire, and work about until the contents are quite stiff; stir in the yolk of an egg, the juice and grated peel of a lemon, a little dried and sifted thyme, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, the same of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Sew up the fish, and put it in a baking- dish with a little sauce, made as follows: Put an onion into a saucepan with | pint of milk, and boil it for fifteen minutes; remove the onion, and stir in smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour to thicken the liquor, also 1 tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, or a handful of skinned shrimps, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour this over the fish, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes, basting frequently with the liquor, and taking care not to let the fish brown in cooking. Should the sauce get too thick, dilute it with a little hot water and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Lay the Haddock on a dish, but be careful that it is not broken in moving, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Clean and draw a Dublin Bay Haddock, stuff it with veal stuffing, sew it up, and tie its tail in its mouth. Bub over it £Ib. of butter, put it on a baking-sheet, place in a moderate oven, and bake for three hours. Lay it on a dish when done, pour fish sauce round, and serve. (4) Clean and thoroughly dry a Haddock, fill the inside with veal stuffing, sew it up, and curl it round by fasten- ing the tail into the mouth. Brush it all over with beaten egg, and cover with sifted breadcrumbs ; if sufficient bread- crumbs to cover it do not adhere at once, let it dry, egg a second time, and again dip it in the crumbs. Lay it in a buttered baking-tin, put it in a hot oven, and bake for half-an-hour or longer, according to the size of the fish. (5) Clean the fish, remove the scales and fins, and wash and dry it. Finely chop 2oz. of beef-suet, and mix it with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, { teaspoonful of mixed parsley, and a small quantity of mixed herbs, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Stuff the fish with the mixture, and sew it up. Dip it in well-beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs. Butter a baking-dish, lay the fish in it, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, plaoe it on a hot dish, over which has been Haddocks—continued. spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter sauce. (6) Clean and wash a large Haddock, stuff it with a mix- ture of highly-seasoned forcemeat, put it into a baking-dish in a hot oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes, basting frequently with rich gravy. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish. Care must be taken in stuffing the fish not to fill it too full, or it may break and spoil the effect. (7) Bemove the tail and fins of a large Haddock, leaving the head on, and clean and dry it. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs into a basin with £ table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, a small quantity of chopped thyme, and a dust of salt and pepper, and bind the mixture with beaten egg. Stuff the fish with the mixture, and sew the sides together with thread. Butter a baking-disli, lay the fish on it, brusli over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, strew breadcrumbs over it, and bake in a moderate oven, basting it occasionally with butter. In about three-quarters- of-an-hour’s time the fish should be sufficiently baked; then lay it on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Boiled Haddock.—(1) Clean a fish, taking out the eyes, and put it in a dish with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar poured over it. Let it remain in this for an hour or so, turning it frequently. Put two onions, one turnip, and one carrot (all cut up small) into a saucepan with £gall. of water, and boil them, adding a little mace, twelve peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When it has boiled for an hour, strain, pour the liquor into a fish-kettle, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt. Put in the fish, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for thirty minutes or so, until it is quite done. It should on no account be allowed to boil, for if it does the skin will crack, and the fish be tough. Take the fish out on a strainer, put it on a hot dish, and serve with a little of the liquor in a tureen. (2) Truss the Haddock with its tail in its mouth, and secure it with string. Put it into a fish-kettle with some salted water, set the kettle on the fire, and when the water commences to boil take out the fish, for it is then probably done, drain it, and serve. It may also be tied in the shape of an S. A large fish may not be quite done when the water boils, but will require to be cooked a little longer. (3) Curl the fish round, after it has been well cleaned and wiped dry, fasten its tail in its mouth, and put it over the fire in a fish-kettle, with cold water sufficient to cover it; throw in 1 dessert-spoonful of salt and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and allow about three minutes’ boiling to each pound of fish. Serve hot, with oyster or shrimp sauce. (4) Clean a Dublin Bay Haddock, and make three or four transverse incisions in the sides about lin. in depth. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover it with salt, and leavo for twelve hours or so. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, plunge the fish in this, and simmer on the side of the fire for about thirty minutes. When done, put the fish on a napkin folded and spread on a dish, and garnish with plain boiled parsnips and parsley. Serve with egg sauce in a tureen. Boiled Haddocks with Crab Sauce.—Put the heads, fins, and skins of four Haddocks in a saucepan over the fire with igall. of water, together with a bit of veal, three peeled onions, a small bunch of parsley, a little black pepper, cayenne, and salt, the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, the strained juice of a lemon, and J pint of white wine, and boil gently for an hour. Make some forcemeat with the meat of a small boiled Haddock minced, and mixed with some chopped parsley, sifted breadcrumbs, grated nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and the beaten whites of two eggs. Boll this forcemeat into balls, and fry them a light brown in boiling lard. Strain the liquor, and put it back over the fire ; add 2oz. of butter, with flour kneaded in it, stir till it boils, and boil for ten minutes; draw it to the side of the fire, and stir in three well-beaten eggs mixed with £ pint of cream. Add and stir in the meat of a crab chopped fine and the forcemeat balls, and let the sauce get very hot, but