794 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, es, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Kale—continued. soft, lift out the bundles, and place them on a sieve. When somewhat drained, cover with a cloth, and put them into a hot screen for ten minutes or a-quarter-of-an-hour. By that time the bundles should be well drained and crisp; then untie the bundles, lay the leaves on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve with plain salad dressing in a sauceboat in the centre. See Pig. 996. Kale Brose.—See Brose. Fan Kale.—Put |- breakfast-cupful of washed pearl barley in a saucepan with 3oz. of dripping, a lump of salt, and 3qts. of cold water, and place it over the fire to boil. Wash, peel, and chop two leeks, one carrot, and one turnip; and wash, dry, and chop a bunch of Kale. Put the vegetables in with the barley-and-water, and boil until tender ; then put in two scraped and washed carrots, and boil for half-an-hour longer. When cooked, the mixture should be quite thick; serve it very hot. White stock may be used instead of water, and will be a great improvement. KANGAROO.—In Australia, the tail of the Kan- garoo or Wallaby is considered superior to our ox-tail for making- soups, and admits of the same treatment. The flesh also is as highly prized as venison. An enterprising manufacturer has found a market for tinned Kangaroo, which can be cooked as follows: Fried Tinned Kangaroo.—Drain off the gravy from a tin of preserved Kangaroo, and with a sharp knife cut the meat into moderately thick slices. Trim to a good shape, and egg-and-breadcrumb them on both sides. Put the gravy and trimmings of the meat in a stewpan with a small quantity of stock, and 1 scant table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Then mix with the sauce 1 wineglassful of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly ; season to taste, and simmer at the side of the fire. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the slices, and fry them until lightly browned. As each slice is cooked, take it out of the fat, and drain for a minute on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Arrange them when done on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Haricot of Tinned Kangaroo. —Stand a tin of preserved Kangaroo in a stewpan of boiling water, and leave it over the fire until the contents are hot through. Put 2oz. of butter into another stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir over the fire until well blended, then mix in gradually the gravy that will be found in the tin; put in also 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, add any other kind of flavouring that may be liked, and move the stew- pan to the side of the fire. Peel two moderate-sized carrots and turnips, slice, and cut them into small rounds with a circular vegetable - cutter ; put them into a frying- pan with some button-onions and a lump of butter, and fry. When' the vegetables are tender and browned, drain as free as possible of butter, and put them into the sauce. Take the meat out of the tin—which should have been left in the hot water—place it upon a hot dish, pour the sauce and vegetables round it, and serve while hot. KAVA. — The name given by the natives of the Pacific Islands to a beverage prepared by them from the root of the Kava, or long pepper (Macropiper methys- ticum). The mode of preparation is by chewing the root, and washing out the disintegrate portions with water, leaving them in the sun to ferment. KEBOB.—See Kabob. KEDGEREE.—One of those fanciful Indian pre- parations which appears to have undergone some peculiar transformations since its English adoption. The spelling of the name appears to be indifferently Kedgeree, Kadgiori, Kitcheeree, Kitcheree, or any other mode that serves to convey the whistling pronunciation of the native cook. By some it is supposed that a genuine Kedgeree should contain fish, but by others the fish seems to be a secondary consideration, as seen in some of the following receipts. Kedgeree—continued. (1) Put any pieces of cold cooked fish in a pan and warm over boiling water. Stir in an egg beaten up with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot milk and a pat of butter. Place the Kedgeree on a dish, put a garnish of boiled rice round it, and serve. (2) Pick off the flesh in flakes of any kind of cold boiled fish. For every pound of fish wash and boil 1 breakfast-cupful of rice in lqt. of white broth. When the rice is nearly done, put in the fish, stir up well, and finish the cooking, taking care to warm it thoroughly ; season with salt, pepper, and a nutmeg, beat in an egg, turn it on a dish, and serve with slices of lemon. (3) Boil 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice in 1 pint of water, and when it is well done strain off the water and put the rice in a stewpan with an equal bulk of cold cooked cleanly-boned fish. Over this sprinkle 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, two cleaned filleted and minced anchovies, three minced chillies, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix these well together, and soften with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter. Set the stewpan on the fire, let the Kedgeree get quite hot, and then serve with lemon, piquant, or tortue sauce. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice in a sauce- pan with a little water and boil until quite tender. In the meantime, boil four eggs until quite hard, let them get cold, shell, chop up small, and mix them with some minced cold cooked fish. Put this mixture with the rice into a saucepan, add a small piece of butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and cook until quite hot, taking care to stir frequently to jirevent it burning. It must not be too moist, or it will spoil the effect. Such fish as turbot, soles, halibut, pike, hake, skate, and codfish are all suitable for Kedgeree. (5) Put 4oz. of fat (ghee) into a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil plunge in twelve larg-e onions cut in slices, and cook to a light brown. Push the onions to the side of the pan, add f breakfast-cupful of rice and 1 tea- cupful of dal or split grain, or rice and dill in equal propor- tions, and continue to cook until all the fat is absorbed ; then add a few slices of green ginger, a few peppercorns, six bay- leaves, three or four cardamoms, and sufficient small sticks of cinnamon to flavour. Stir well to thoroughly incorporate the several ingredients, pour over only sufficient water to Fig. 997. Kedgeree. cover, put on the lid, which should fit closely, place the pan on a slow fire, and cook until the water is all absorbed, reducing the heat gradually. Great care must be taken not to let the rice burn, which can be easily prevented by giving the pan an occasional toss. Turn the whole, when done, out on to a hot dish, strew over a few fried onions, adding a little saffron or turmeric to the rice and dill at the time of frying to give it a good yellow colour. The flavour of the dish is in no way affected, but the appearance is more attractive. Garnish with boiled rice and croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 997), and serve very hot. (6) Put in a saucepan 1| teacupfuls of well-washed rice, four cardamoms, I teaspoonful of cloves, | table-spoonful of coriander-seeds, and a sufficient quantity of cold water ; boil the rice for fifteen minutes, then put in ^ teacupful of well- picked dal, and boil for five minutes longer. Drain off all the water, put in loz. of butter and a moderate quantity of salt, and keep the saucepan at the side of the fire with the lid off for fifteen or twenty minutes. Pile the Kedgeree on a hot dish, garnish with fried onions and hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (7) Soak Jib. of split peas in water, and when ready drain them; put them with Jib. of well-washed rice into a sauce- pan, and a small quantity each of mace, ginger, and salt, pour in a sufficient quantity of cold water, and boil until