931 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Melons—continued. brush that also with butter, and continue thus until all the rounds are used, spreading the prepared Melon over each round of the paste before laying on another. Put the tin into a moderate oven, and bake till of a light brown. When cooked, put the pastry on a hot dish, dredge caster sugar over, and serve while hot. Musk-Melon Salad.—Remove the rind from half a musk Melon, and cut the Melon into slices; put these into a basin, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour over 4 table spoonfuls of olive oil. Mix well, and add only sufficient vinegar to flavour without leaving any at the bottom. Put the slices of Melon on a dish, and serve. Pickled Melons.—Select some hard Melons when they are sufficiently ripe to have a good flavour, cut them length- wise into slices, and remove all the seeds; put the slices into a basin with salt over them, and let them remain for twelve hours or so. Take them out, wash them, wipe dry, and put them into a basin of alum water; when they have been left for an hour, take them out, and wash and wipe them again. Put them into jars, and pour over vinegar seasoned with cloves and cinnamon, and made syrupy by adding 31b. or 41b. of sugar to every gallon of vinegar and boiling until it is quite thick. Cover over the jars, and it is ready for use. Preserved Melons.—(1) Remove all the thin outside skin of a Melon, make a hole in one end, and remove all the seeds ; then plunge it into a bowl of cold water, and leave it for ten or twelve hours. Take it out, drain it, put it into a preserving-pan with a large lump of sugar, pour over suffi- cient water to cover, place the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly for an hour. Reave it for a day, then repeat the process three times. Prepare a thin syrup, drain the Melon, and put it into it; cover over the pan, and let the contents simmer slowly for thirty minutes a day for three days, adding the rind of one and the juice of two lemons on the last day. It can then be packed away in a large jar. Should a musk Melon be used, it will not require any additional flavour; but should a water Melon be used, the flavour can be improved by cutting a piece off the end, scooping out the seeds, and lilling up with sugar and water, or white wine; then replace the piece cut oil', tie it on, and leave the Melon in the sun for several days. (2) Put the Melons into a wide-mouthed jar, and cover them with a strong brine of salt and water. Place some cabbage-leaves on the top of the jar, cover them with paper, and stand the jar in a warm temperature until the leaves turn yellow. Pour the brine off the Melons, put them into a pan, and pour some fresh brine over them. Cover them with fresh cabbage-leaves, place the pan over a gentle fire with the lid on, and let the Melons warm gradually. Next take them out, put them into a clean jar, cover with cold water, and let them stand for two days, changing the water three times every day to remove as much of the saltness as possible; then prick them with a fork, remove the seeds, cut the large ones into convenient- sized pieces, and lay them again in fresh water. Prepare a sufficient quantity of syrup to cover the Melons, allowing for every lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar 1 teacupful of water, the yellow rind of a lemon, and loz. of bruised brown ginger. Boil the sugar and water, skim it well, and add the ginger and lemon. Boil the syrup until very thick, let it get cold, then put in the pieces of Melon. On the following day, take the Melon out, and boil the syrup up again, returning the fruit to it when it is quite cold. Boil the syrup up three times every week for three weeks, taking the fruit out each time, and not putting it in again until it is cold. Pack the Melons and their syrup in jars, cover them with paper, tie down securely, and put them away. (3) Select barely-ripened, medium-sized Melons, peel them, and press the pulp to extract the juice ; pour a little water over the pulp, which strain off and mix with the juice. Cut the Melons lengthwise into slices, lay them in a basin, cover with cold water in which has been mixed a small quantity of salt and vinegar, and let them soak all night. Put the juice of the Melons into a preserving- pan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in some loaf Melons—continued. sugar, allowing lib. to every breakfast-cupful of juice. Boil the sugar until reduced to a syrup, remove it from the fire, and leave it until cold. On the following day, strain the pieces of Melon, put them in the preserving-pan with the cold syrup, and place them over the fire. When the syrup commences to boil, move the pan to the side, and let the contents simmer gently for fifteen minutes, skimming frequently. Take out the slices of Melon, put them in a bowl, and pour the syrup over them.. Next day, strain the syrup off the fruit, boil it up, and pour it over again. Repeat this for the two following days, then put the Melons with the syrup into wide-mouthed bottles, and place a small quantity of bruised ginger in each. When the contents are cold, cover the bottles with bladder, and tie down perfectly air-tight. (4) Peel the Melons, and cut them into thick slices; make a sufficient quantity of syrup to cover them, allow- ing 1 pint of water for each pound of sugar, and boil it until clear and thick, keeping it well skimmed. Put in the pieces of Melon, and boil for ten minutes; take them out, and leave them until the following morning. Boil the syrup up again, put in the Melon, and boil until clear. Put the slices of Melon into glass jars, and when the syrup has somewhat cooled, pour it over them, tie down with parch- ment, and keep in a diy cupboard. (5) German.—Trim off the outer part of the Melon and remove the seeds ; cut it into convenient-sized pieces, put them into a dish with a few pieces of cinnamon and ginger and the thinly-pared rind of one or two lemons, and cover them with white-wine vinegar. Leave them for twenty-four hours, then strain off some of the vinegar, and prepare a syrup of it with some loaf sugar. Skim the syrup, and when cold, drain the pieces of Melon and lay them in it. In two days’ time take out the Melon anti boil up the syrup again, then allow it to get cold and put back the Melon. Repeat this operation once more, the last time boiling the syrup down until thick. Put the preserve into jars, cover, and tie down tightly. Preserved Melons to Imitate Ginger. —To every pound of Melon allow 4lb. of ginger. Scrape the ginger and keep the scrapings. Pour over the ginger lqt. of boiling water, and let it stand for two days. Put the scrapings into water over the fire, and boil up. Scald the Melon with the liquor, but do not soften it too much ; then cut it into pieces as much like preserved ginger as possible. Make a syrup of loaf sugar and water, in the proportion of lib. of sugar to lqt. of water (see Syrups), and boil the ginger in it; then let it stand till cold, and when quite cold, put the pieces of Melon into it, set it over the fire, and let it get very hot, but take it off before it boils. Take out the Melon, boil the syrup with the ginger in it, let it stand till cold, and pour it over the Melon. After doing this every day for a fortnight, put the Melon into a jar or jars ; boil a rich syrup, let it stand till nearly cold, then pour it over the Melon in the jars, and cover them air-tight. Preserved Winter Melons.—(1) Select some ripe winter Melons, pare them, remove the seeds, and cut them into slices. Weigh them, and to every 5lb. of Melon allow 2Ub. of caster sugar and 2 pints of vinegar. Put the vinegar and sugar into a saucepan, and boil them up ; pour the syrup over the Melons, strain it oft", and boil up again, continuing in this way for five times in all; then strain off, add 4oz. of cinnamon, the same of ginger-root, and a few cloves; boil, and pour over the Melon again. Put the whole into a saucepan, boil up once more for ten minutes, take out the Melon, and put it in jars; skim the syrup, pour it over, and it is then ready for use. (2) Scrape the skin off a few Melons, make a small hole in the stem end, and remove all the seeds. Let the Melons remain in water for a day, then put them in a preserving- pan, add 5oz. of sugar, cover them with water, and simmer slowly for thirty minutes. Continue in this way for three days, taking care never to allow it to boil. Drain the water from the Melons, and to every pint of water add 21b. of sugar ; boil this for a few minutes, remove it from the fire, add the Melons, cover the pan, and boil for thirty minutes. Repeat this every day for three days, then put the Melons into jars. Add the peel of a lemon cut very For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces,.etc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 y 2