TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 960 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. Fricassee of Mushrooms.—Select large Mushrooms, peel, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until the outsides are brown. Now put them into a stewpan with a little milk, stew for ten minutes, then add 2 or 3 table spoonfuls each of white wine and browning, thicken with a liaison of Hour and butter, turn all out on to a hot dish, and serve with croft tons of fried bread. Fried Mushrooms.—Trim off the stalks and remove the skins from some very large Mushrooms; put them, the hollow, side up, in a frying-pan with a little butter or lard, dust over with salt and pepper, and fry them very gently until quite tender. Put the Mushrooms on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Fried Mushrooms on Toast. -Clean the Mushrooms, chop them very finely, put them in a stewpan with a good- sized lump of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, pounded mace, and a small quantity of cayenne, and toss about over the fire. Cut two or three slices of bread off a tin-loaf, and toast them a delicate brown on both sides; butter them while hot, cut into quarters, put them on a hot dish, cover with the Mushrooms, and serve. Fumet of Mushrooms.—This is much usod by artistic cooks. It is prepared as follows: Clean some Mushrooms, and chop them up very small. -Put them into a flat stew- pan with some salt over them, the juice of one lemon to every Jib. of Mushrooms, and a piece of fresh butter as large as a fowl’s egg. Let the contents of the pan, with the lid on, stew very slowly at blood-heat only, and in the course of a little time a very strongly-flavoured juice will have exuded from the Mushrooms. Artistic cooks use this fumet in preference to the best ketchup ever made. Imitation Mushrooms.—Put some Italian meringue paste in a biscuit-forcer, and squeeze it out in the shape of long corks and in round drops to represent the head of the Mush- rooms. Dust over very lightly with grated chocolate, and dry them in a hot closet or mouth of the oven. Put two of the long pieces together to represent the stalks and push the thin end into the inside part of the heads. Dip the broad end of the stalk into the white of egg and then in grated chocolate to give it a more natural colour, and they are then ready, anti can be served at once. Mushrooms a la Bordelaise.—Pour oil on a baking-dish, dust it over with breadcrumbs and minced parsley, then put a layer of peeled and cleaned Mushrooms, then more oil, parsley, and breadcrumbs, next more Mushrooms, and lastly Fig. 1205. Mushrooms i la Bordelaise. oil, parsley, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Put the dish in a moderate oven, bake the Mushrooms for thirty minutes or so, and serve hot. See Fig. 1205. Mushrooms en Croustade.—Procure some fresh and very firm hot-bed Mushrooms, cut off the stalks, and wash the heads with a sponge dipped in clear water; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, dredge with salt and pepper, fry till all the moisture has evaporated, then pour in some white sauce, and move them to the side of the fire. Cut a croustade out of bread, mask it well with butter, using a paste-brush for the purpose, place it oh a gridiron, and dry in the oven. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a little cream, mix them with the Mushrooms, stir over a sIoav fire till thickened (they must not boil), then move them to the side, and add the juice of a lemon and a small lump of butter. Put the croustade on a hot dish, pour in the Mushroom mixture, and serve. Mushrooms—continued. Mushrooms au Gratin.—(1) Select a dozen Mushrooms of about 2in. in diameter, cut oft' the stalks, wash thoroughly, and drain on a cloth. Put loz. of butter and Joz. of flour into a saucepan, stir gently over the fire for two minutes, pour in 1 joint of broth, mix well, and boil quickly until reduced to half its original quantity. Pare the stalks, chop them up, drain on a cloth, and add them to the sauce, with 3 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot, and a little salt and pepper. Place the pan over a brisk fire, and boil the contents quickly for eight minutes. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of oil in a saut6-pan, turn the Mushrooms into it, stalk side uppermost, fill them with sweet herbs, and sprinkle over with a little bread crust raspings. Cook quickly for ten minutes, put them on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Clean and chop six or seven moderate-sized Mush- rooms, put them into a sma’l saucepan, mix with them 1 table-spoonful each of scraped fat bacon and grated lean ham, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of finely-chopped thyme. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Procure some large flat Mushrooms, cut off their stalks, peel them, and trim neatly round the edges with a sharp knife. Put about 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each Mushroom, and strew over them some grated stale bread, levelling with the flat blade of a knife. Thickly butter a baking-dish, lay the Mushrooms on it, and put them in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Prepare some rich brown sauce, season it with chopped Mushrooms, shallots, a small quantity of thyme, and a bay-leaf, also mix in f wineglassful of white wine. When the Mushrooms are cooked, arrange them nicely in a pyramid on a dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, and garnish with a border of fried parsley; strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve all together while very hot. (3) Chop a few Mushrooms finely together with half their quantity of parsley and a moderate amount of lean ham and fat bacon ; mix all these together, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of chopped thyme, put the mixture into a stewpan, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes ; then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two or three eggs. Skin and remove the stalks from some large flat Mushrooms, trim them neatly round the edges, and fill each with some of the above mixture; lay them side by side in a baking-dish, strew over them some finely-grated breadcrumb, put a small jnece of butter on each, and place them in a brisk oven. In about fifteen minutes’ time, or when nicely browned over the top, arrange the Mushrooms on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Remove the skins and stalks from lib. of small Mushrooms, and chop) them; put them into a stewpan with Jib. of ham, two or three shallots, and a moderate _ , quantity of parsley all chopped, season with salt and peppier, and fry. Beat the yolks of three eggs, stir them in with the above mixture, and move it away from the fire. Remove the skins and stalks from some large flat Mushrooms, and stuff them with the above mixture. Butter a baking-dish, lay in the Mushrooms, strew plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb over them, and bake in a quick oven for about a-quarter-of-an-hour, or until nicely browned. Prepare a sauce as follows: Finely mince a few small white Mushrooms, put them in a stewpan with a chopped shallot, a few sprigs of thyme and a bay-leaf tied together, and J table-spoonful of salad-oil. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in a small wine- glassful of French white wine, and boil until reduced to half its former quantity. Next add a moderate quantity of white sauce, boil it up, skim off all the oil, and remove the thyme and bay-leaf. When the Mushrooms are ready, arrange them nicely on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, garnish with sippets of toast or small crofttons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Mushrooms a la Poulette.—Prepare and trim lgall. of Mushrooms, and put them into a saucepan with Joz. of flour mixed in 1 teacupful of water and strained. Put