728 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cLc\, referred to, see under their special heads. Guinea Pigs—continued. cook the Cavy fast until the sauce is reduced to two-thirds ; replace the eel and little onions, and finish cooking slowly. Skim off the fat, take out the bouquet, and serve hot. Cavy aux Pines Herbes.—Take a full-grown and fat hog Cavy, killed, scalded, and cleaned as previously described ; blanch it in 1 pint of boiling water, and cut into joints. Make the water thick with a white roux of flour and butter ; put it over the fire in a moderate-sized stewpan, stir till thick and smooth, add 1 table-spoonful each of parsley and green onions, or chives, chopped small, and pepper and salt to taste. Stew the Cavy in this for two hours, or until it is perfectly tender. If 1 pint of stock be used instead of the water, this dish will be much improved. Thicken with the yolk of an egg, and servo. GUISADO.—This is a Spanish dish which answers to our ragout. It is very highly esteemed and, prepared as follows, appears upon the most aristocratic tables: Clean and prepare a fowl, pheasant, rabbit, or hare, whichever is prefei'red, taking care to preserve the liver, giblets, and blood. Cut it up in pieces, and dry them (with- out washing) on a cloth. Brown a few slices of onions in a gill of boiling fat (lard for choice), turn them with the pieces of meat into an earthenware pan or pipkin that will stand the heat of the fire, add a seasoning of herbs, onions, garlic, a few chillies, salt and pepper, put in also a few thin slices of bacon, and pom- over all sufficient red wine and rich stock in equal proportions to moisten. Place the pian over the fire and bring the liquor slowly to the boil; skim and stir frequently, and let it simmer until the meat is quite tender. About thirty minutes before serving, put in the liver, giblets, and blood. When ready, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. GUMBO.—See Okra Gumbo. GUMS—There are not many Gums known by distinctive names in either confectionery or cookery, although it is possible that many are introduced as adulterants to those best known. Gum Arabic, Gum dragon or Tragacantli, are occasionally mentioned, the first for a few preparations to be hereafter described, the second as a prime constituent of Gum-paste, and an ingredient in marzipan. Then, again, there are a few varieties known to the confectioner as Turkey Gums, which are merely Gums Arabic in fancy dress, just as Mogador Gum is a high-sounding title for a mixture of inferior Gums, chiefly Arabic, imported from Morocco or Barbary. The following are a few uses to which Gum Arabic is applied: Gum Drops. —Dissolve |oz. of Gum Arabic in I pint of water, mix with .it |lb. of loaf sugar, put it in'a pan over a fire, and boil to a thick syrup). Have a shallow and wide box full of powdered starch, make it quite level, and then with a marble make indentations all over it. Flavour and colour the hot syrup), and fill the hollows in the box of starch with it. Dry the drops in a hot closet. Gum Milk.—Put loz. of picked Gum Arabic in a jar with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and let it remain for several hours. Put 5 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils piour it over the Gum, place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil, stirring frequently until the Gum is quite dissolved; it is then ready for use. A little sugar and flavouring are a great improvement. Gum Pastilles.—Put lib. of packed Gum Arabic in a jar with 1 pint of water, and when well soaked, strain it through a cloth into a sugar-boiler, and add 14oz. of caster sugar. Stir continually until it boils, and when of the small pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling) add | teacupful of orange-flower water, and mix well. Remove the boiler from the fire, skim, and pour the mixture into impressions previously made in starch powder with different small designs cast in plaster of Paris, and set upon )-in. square pieces of wood. When cold, they are ready for use. Gum Syrup).— Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler, and when it is of 21deg. (see Sugar-boiling) let it get cold, pour it into a basin, and mix in 1 teacupful of orange-flower water, Gums—continued. 2oz. of packed Gum Arabic dissolved in 1 teacupful of hot water, and 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid. Put it into bottles, cork and tie them down, and place them in a pan of cold water. Set the pan on a hot fire, and when the water has boiled for about six minutes, take out the bottles ; when they have cooled a little, cover the corks and mouths of the bottles with wax, and put them in a cellar in a leaning position until wanted for use. Gum Water.—Put loz. of packed Gum Arabic in a jar with 1 punt of water, and add 2oz. of sugar candy. Place the jar in a saucepan of water over a bright fire, and boil until all the Gum is dissolved, stirring frequently. It is then ready, and should be served very hot. With a little lemon-juice or paregoric added it is a capital drink to relieve a cough. GUM PASTE (Fr. Pastillage).—To the artistic con- fectioner Gum Paste has much the same meaning as clay and marble combined have to the sculptor. When well made it is so pliant, firm, and yet workable, that there is no form of decorative construction that cannot be undertaken and successfully carried out by those who understand the manner of its application. It may be rolled out flat to a smooth sheet of any thickness, or it may be pressed solidly into moulds. It may be stained with any colour in mass, or painted after it is worked up. The following are some good receipts for its preparation, the sugar being added as a matter of form rather than under the impression that the ornaments made are likely to be eaten, or even edible: (1) Wash 3oz. of gum dragon, p>ut it into an earthenware pan with just enough hot water to cover it, lay a sheet of paper over the pan to keep out the dust, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Then strain it through a coarse cloth, squeezing well, pmt it into a mortar, shake in as much powdered white sugar and powdered starch as the gum water will absorb, pound it well, and then strain again through a cloth into a pan. Keep it covered with a damp cloth till required for use. It may be coloured to any tint required by mixing it with the proper colouring material. (2) Put some picked gum dragon in a jar or basin, add sufficient cold water to cover, and let it remain for two or three days. Put it into a rather coarse piece of canvas or strong cloth, and twist it so that nearly all the gum will pass through the cloth Work in a mortar to make it white and stiff, adding icing sugar. When quite stiff, put it back into jars, and it is ready for use. If required to make ornaments, a little cornflour may be added to make it smooth and workable. (3) Soak a little more than loz. of gum tragacantli in water for twelve hours. When dissolved, squeeze the gum through a towel, put it in a basin, and mix with it, a small quantity at a time, jib. of the finest powdered sugar ; then add Jib. of corn-starch, working it well with a spatula or wooden spoon. Add a drop of liquid blue to whiten it. As the paste begins to stiffen while working in the starch, pull it out, then double it, pull it out again, and so on until all the starch has been used. Mould the paste into whatever shapes are required, then leave them till dry and hard. Colouring1 Gum Paste. This is done by adding any colour while the paste is in a liquid state, mixing it in with the hands. Pink and rose are made with carmine; brown with burnt umber; and the various shades of blue with indigo, cobalt, and ultramarine. Green shades are obtained by mixing yellow and blue or using spinach-green. The uses to which Gum Paste may be applied are almost indefinite; to any purposes of ornamentation it lends its supple consistence, requiring little more than the skilled hand to evoke a series of such exquisite productions that neither alabaster nor marble can excel in appearance. It admits of colouring, taking delicate tints and high tones (gold or silver) with equal facility, and when dried is stronger than potters’ clay. If Gum Paste were better known it would be more highly appreciated than it is; the great drawback to its use is the mistaken notion that ornaments made with it and sugar are represented as edible. Omit the sugar, and give the paste the credit only that is due to it,