743 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. 8 teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of spice, cloves, grated nutmeg, mustard, ginger, and pounded mace; also a little celery-seed, or celery, and six beaten eggs. If the mixture is too stiff, stir in a little cream. When ready, put the Ham in the oven till browned; then put it on a hot dish, and serve. HAMBURG BITTERS.—See Bitters. HAMBURG FOWL.—See Fowls. HAMBURG POWDER.—-This well-known adul- terant of chicory is known in commercial circles as “ Hauibro’ Powder.” It is composed of roasted and ground peas, coloured with Yenetian red. See Chicory. HAMBURG STEAK.—See Beef. HAMPSHIRE PUDDING. -See Puddings. HANOVER BUNS.—See Buns. HANOVER PUDDING.—See Puddings. HANOVER SAUCE.—See Sauces. HARDBAKE.—This is a sweetmeat made by boiling coarse sugar or molasses with almonds, and orange or lemon flavouring. See Sugar. HARD DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. HARD-TACK.—A name given by sailors to sea- biscuits. HARES (Ft. Lievres ; Ger. Hasen; Thai. Lepri; Sp. Liebres).—The name of Hare seems to have been handed down from the Icelandic heri through the Anglo-Saxon Kara, being akin, in a sense, to the German hase. In America all animals of the genus Lepus are called rabbits, much to the confusion of cooks who are not versed in natural history; and from that country we are supplied annually with a great number of white Hares, more commonly known as prairie rabbits, or American mountain Hares, the two being scarcely distinguishable one from the other during the winter months, when both have coats as white as snow. The European Hare (Lepus timidus) is remarkable for its timidity (hence its name) and marvellous speed. Like all other kinds of the Hare and rabbit tribe, it is exceedingly prolific, bearing young two or three times in the year. The flesh is dark, differing from the flesh of the rabbit, which is white, and if kept long enough assumes a remarkably strong game flavour upon cooking. Hares are in season from August, when leverets (young Hares) are also plentiful, and continue to be prime during the winter months, losing their quality as the breeding season sets in—about March. Old Hares are generally used for making Hare soup, and sometimes for jugging; but for a roast it is quite imperative that the Hare should be yoimg and plump, with a substantial width in the back across the loins. A young Hare may be known by the tenderness of the ear, which should tear readily, by the compressibility of the lower jaw, and by the claws, which should break easily and not be long and worn. The cleft in the upper lip should be narrow, and when the Hare is fresh the body and limbs are stiff. To keep Hares and develop their game flavour, the insides should not be removed for a few days after killing, and they should be hung up by their fore-legs so that they may not lose their juices from the wound that caused their death. In four or five days’ time it is advisable to open them and remove all the paunch, reserving the liver and heart for sauce or stuffing. Let these be scalded, and wipe the insides every day with dry cloths, rubbing the lining with a mixture of ground pepper and ginger. The older a Hare is, the longer it should be hung, and the slower it will require to be cooked, in order to reduce the toughness of the flesh. Hares—continued. Before cooking a Hare it must be skinned, and if intended for roasting it must be trussed so as to give it a good effect. This is done as follows: Chop off the feet at the first joints, lift the skin from the back, and draw it first over the hind-legs and then over the fore-legs ; let the tail remain on with the hair; cut the skin from the head and ears, leaving the latter on, cut through the sinews of the legs, and bring the hind-legs forward, passing a skewer through both of them as well as the body, and bring the fore-legs back, passing a skewer through them also. Fix the head upright by means of a skewer thrust through the mouth to the back of the head and then into the back between the shoulders. Wipe the inside perfectly dry, stuff it, and sew it up. Pass a string round the ends of the skewers which fix the legs, drawing it over the back of the Hare so as to keep the legs well up close to the body. A very favourite mode of preparing Hares for cooking is to remove tlie bones, and make up the body in such a manner that it can be carved without difficulty. The mode of procedure for this boning is given as follows : The Hare should be fresh. Skin and clean it as directed, and then with a sharp knife commence cutting down along the crest of the backbone, and dissect the flesh off the ribs. Do not disconnect the flesh, but leave it hanging. Separate the backbone from the head at the first joint of the neck- bone, leaving the head on, then pass the knife very carefully under the flesh down the middle of the back until the whole of the bone is clear. The legs may either be cut off or dis- sected out. The hollow from where the spine and ribs have been taken should next be stuffed with forcemeat or well- seasoned bread stuffing, the belly sewn up, and the Hare fastened with string and skewers so as to bring it as nearly into its original shape as possible. In some of the receipts given hereunder the fillets, as they are called, are alone used These are merely the thick strips of flesh lying along the backbone, sometimes including the thick parts of the legs. The instructions given for boning will be sufficient guide to their careful removal—the great object being to remove the flesh evenly and not jagged or broken by awkward manipulation of the knife. Baked Hare. — Take two fine Hares, cut them into halves, separating the fore- from the hind-quarters. Bone the saddles down to the legs, but not the legs ; place them in a deep earthenware dish, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, and add one medium-sized sliced lemon, one peeled and sliced onion, and one sprig of thyme, seasoning with salt, pepper, and two cloves. Roll the saddles well several times in the seasoning, and put aside to steep for at least twelve hours. Take out the pieces, stuff the boned saddles with rich stuffing, give them a round shape, and tie so as to hold them firm. Place a piece of fat pork over each saddle, lay them in a roasting-pan with one carrot and one onion cut into slices and placed at the bottom of the pan, and pour over 1 pint of broth. Place the pan in a hot oven, and bake for forty-five minutes, taking care to baste frequently with the gravy that comes from them. Remove from the oven, untie, dress on a hot dish, strain the gravy over the saddles, decorate the dish with heart-shaped croutons, and serve. The fore-quarters can be utilised for civet or other dishes. Boudin of Hare.—Bone a Hare, cut it up into pieces, put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with two or three sprigs of thyme, a bay-leaf, two shallots, and 3 wine- glassfuls of sherry, and toss it over the fire until the moisture is reduced to a glaze; then pour in lqt. of clear stock, leave on the fire until boiling, move it to the side, and simmer for an-hour-and-a-half, keeping it well skimmed. When ready, strain the liquor through a broth- napkin into a basin. Boil lib- of streaky bacon until half cooked, then finely mince it together with the flesh of the Hare, pound in a mortar, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Chop lib. of button-mushrooms, put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter and a few drops of lemon-juice, and toss about over the fire for a few minutes;