723 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Grouse—continued. slices of bacon into 2in. squares, put a small quantity of the Grouse mixture on each, and roll them up tightly. Put a large piece of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling dip the cromeskies in the batter and put them in the fat. Fry until lightly browned, then take them out of the fat and drain for a minute on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cromeskies in a circle on it, fill the centre with fried parsley, and serve at once. Grouse Pie.—(1) Singe and draw three young Grouse, and cut off their feet, necks, and pinions ; divide their bodies each into three pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the pinions and some chopped bacon; fry them, and then put in Goz. of raw ham, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. When the ham is cooked, add about eighteen mushrooms cut in halves and 1 table-spoonful of chopped onion; pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, and reduce the liquor. Take the stewpan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Arrange the meat in a pie-disb, with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters amongst it, pour the gravy over through a conical strainer, and cover with puff paste : brush the crust over with white of eggs, and put in a quick oven till done. Take the pie out of the oven, lift the crust, pour in a little more thickened game gravy, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Clean and draw a brace of Grouse, cut each into five parts, and season with salt and pepper. Put a layer of game forcemeat at the bottom of a pie-dish, put the pieces of Grouse in upon it, and sprinkle a little powdered sweet herbs over them; put in here and there a few yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and cover all with slices of raw ham. Pour in 5 pint of good game gravy, and cover the pio with a puff paste; glaze the crust over with egg, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half. When ready to serve, stand the pie on a flat dish. Grouse Soup.—(1) Cut off all the meat from two or three roasted Grouse, reserving some of the fillets for special use. Put the bones in a stewpan with 2qts. of stock, and boil them for half-an-hour. Pound the flesh in a mortar. Cut two onions, one turnip, and half a carrot in slices, put them in a stewpan with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, six peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and £lb. of butter. Stir them over the fire for ten minutes, then pour in 1 pint of stock, and stew till tender; next put in the pounded flesh, the stock from the bones, -j pint of brown gravy, and sufficient broth to make 5qts. in all; thicken with 4oz. of flour, stir over the fire, and boil for twenty minutes Season the soup with a little salt and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Put some croutons of fried bread at the bottom of a soup-tureen, with the fillets of Grouse cut in thin slices; skim and strain the soup, boiling’ up again so that it may be very hot, then pour it in the tureen, and serve. (2) Put the bones of two roasted Grouse into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and let them simmer for four hours; at the commencement of the fourth hour put in three or four slices each of carrot and turnip, two large onions, two or three pieces of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves; strain the broth back into the saucepan, and add lqt. of stock. Cut the flesh of the breast of one Grouse into small pieces, and put it in with the soup. Fry 3 table- spoonfuls of flour together with 3 table-spoonfuls of butter till brown, then stir it in with the stock. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. When ready, skim off any fat there may be, turn the soup into the tureen, and throw in a few small croutons of fried bread. (3) Chop up the remains of any cold roasted Grouse ; put them in a stewpan with a few pieces of carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a moderate seasoning of salt and pepper, and a sufficient quantity of clear stock to cover. Simmer at the side of the fire for an hour, then strain the' liquor through a fine hair sieve. Cut all the meat from the bones of the Grouse, put it in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth ; then pass it through the sieve, and stir into the liquor. Put ljoz. of butter in a saucepan, melt it, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour; pour in the soup slowly, stirring it at the same time, and boil up again. Beat the I For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, S Grouse—continued. yolks of two eggs with the juice of half a lemon, and strain them; move the soup to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Cut some slices of bread into small squares, fry them in boiling butter until browned, then drain, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (4) Cut 21b. of leg of beef and 21b. of knuckle of veal into pieces ; put them in a stewpan without water, place it over the fire, and when the meat is warmed through, poiu- in 2qts. of hot water, and simmer for four hours. Cut up two Grouse, dividing the meat from the breast into four pieces, and cut each of the legs and wings into four pieces. Chop the bones, and pound them in a mortar ; then put them into the soup with two onions, a head of celery cut up, one carrot, one turnip, two or three bay-leaves, a sprig of marjoram, thi-ee or four cloves, a blade of mace, and eight allspice. Boil the soup for two hours longer, pouring in more hot water as the quantity becomes reduced. Strain the soup through a fine silk sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Grouse, and stew very gently for an hour. If not sufficiently dark in colour, add a little caramel. Pour it into a soup-tureen with the pieces of Grouse, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with it, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (5) Put the cold remains of some roasted Grouse into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a few slices of onion and carrot, and a bay-leaf; pour in sufficient clear stock to cover, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is almost in rags. Strain the liquor, pick the meat off the bones, put it in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth; then pass it through a wire sieve. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; next stir in the strained liquor and the pounded meat, continue stirring over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and a few drops of lemon-juice. Cut some slices of bread into small squares, and fry them in butter until browned. Put the bread in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. (6) Chop up the remains of two or three cold roasted Grouse, put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion and carrot cut into slices, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over sufficient stock or water to cover, and boil until the bones will easily come from the meat. Put the meat into a mortar, pound it, strain the liquor, and put all back into the saucepan; thicken with a lump of butter rolled in flour, stir well, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of two or three eggs and a little lemon-juice (if not objected to), pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Fig. 899. Larded Grouse. (7) Cut the flesh off a brace of cooked Grouse, and put the bones in a saucepan with a knuckle of veal, a couple of old Grouse, 21b. of gravy-beef, a few peeled and sliced carrots and shallots, two or three sticks of celery broken into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and a moderate quantity of salt. Pour in 4qts. of water, and when boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer very slowly for six hours, keeping it well skimmed. Put the meat of the birds in a mortar, and pound it; mix with it a third of the quantity of grated breadcrumb, and rub through a coarse sieve, moistening’ the mixture with 3 I 2 auces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads.