744 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. pour over them 1 teacupful of white sauce and 2 table- I spoonfuls of thick cream, and stir until the liquor is | thickly reduced; then rub them through a fine silk sieve, j Soak lj breakfast-cupfuls of grated breadcrumb in warm * water until soft, then squeeze, and put them in a stewpan | with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, 1 table- spoonful of the liquor from the bones, and a little salt, and stir the mixture over the fire until reduced to a paste; move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Spread this panada out on a plate, and leave it until cool. Boil ilb. or a little more of calf’s udder in stock; when cooked, leave until cool, trim, cut it into small pieces, pound them in a mortar, and rub it through a wire sieve. Put the pounded Hare, calf’s udder, and bread panada into a mortar, add the mushroom puree and a small lump of butter, and pound the whole together until thoroughly mixed Fig. 924] Boudin of Hare and smooth, seasoning the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg', and moistening with two beaten eg'gs and a small quantity of the liquor from the bones. Try a small piece of the mixture by poaching it in boiling water for three minutes, cut it, and if firm it is of the required consistency; but if it falls to pieces, add another egg or two to the mixture. Butter a copper mould, fill it with the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top; then stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour or an-hour-and-a-half. Boil a sufficient quantity of the liquor from the bones until thickly reduced to make the sauce. When the boudin is cooked, turn it carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, garnish with mushrooms and potato croquettes (see Fig. 924), and serve. Boudins of Hare Forcemeat.—Cut an onion into small pieces, put it in boiling water to blanch, and drain it; when cool, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry, but without allowing it to take colour; then stir well for about ten minutes over the fire, and add it to some Hare forcemeat, made very stiff. Cut some pieces of paper 4in. long and 2jin. wide, butter them well, and put a layer of the forcemeat, 3.iin. long by 1 jin. wide and 1 jin. thick, on each. With the handle of a spoon cut out from the inside of the boudins all the forcemeat, so as to make a hollow fin. deep and the same in diameter. Have ready a salpi^on of truffles mixed with cooked fillets of Hare and ox-tongue, and reduced stiffly with a little German sauce. Put this in the hollows, but not quite enough to fill them, cover with a thin layer of forcemeat, so as to completely hide the salpi9on, put them in a saute-pan with a little stock, and simmer gently until the forcemeat is set (it will take about a-quarter-of-an-hour). Place them on a dish, pour over a j little reduced Spanish sauce, and the dish is ready for I serving. Boudins of Hare witli Olives.—Make a forcemeat with a j fillet of uncooked Hare and the cooked heart and liver, and when ready, cut it up into equal parts about the size of eggs. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, place the pieces on it, j and with the hand roll them into the shape of corks; now J flatten with a spatula or blade of a knife to make them into oblong shapes. When a dozen have been made, poach them in boiling salted water, take out, and drain. When quite cold, dip them first into beaten eggs and then into breadcrumbs, put them in a flat stewpan with a little butter, Hares—continued. and fry until done. Place them in a circle on a dish, with a little olive garnish poured in the centre, and serve. Braised Fillets of Hare with. Poivrade Sauce.—Skin the Hares, and cut off the fillets, the best way being to pass a knife along the backbone from the shoulder to the leg, keeping it as near the ribs as possible. When the fillets are cut off, remove the skin, cut them into halves, beat lightly on the table, and lard with fillets of bacon. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the fillets, with some onions, a bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves ; moisten with broth, just sufficient to keep them from sticking to the pan, put on the lid, with some hot cinders on the top, and set the pan over a slow fire. Put a few slices of carrot, turnip, and onion in a stewpan with a leek, a small piece of Fig. 925. Braised Fillets of Hare. celery, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped lean ham, a few peppercorns, and 2oz. of butter, and toss them over a brisk fire till lightly browned; pour in 3 wineg'lassfuls of tarragon vinegar, and boil; then add 1 pint of brown sauce and \ pint of clear broth. When the sauce commences to boil, skim, and boil quickly till reduced to a thick cream. When tender, glaze the fillets of Hare, and brown under a salamander or in the oven. Arrange them on a flattened heap of mashed potatoes on a hot dish. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, pour it round the fillets, garnish with game croquettes (see Fig. 925), and serve. Braised Fillets of Hare a la Soyer.—Cut some fillets of Hare into halves, beat them lightly, trim to a neat shape, lard them, and put into a braising-pan lined with slices of fat bacon ; add a few sliced onions, a bunch of pai'sley, a small quantity of mace, and two or three cloves, and moisten with a little broth ; then put the lid on the pan, with some live ashes on the top, and set it over a slow fire. Peel about lib. of button-onions. Put in a saucepan 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, and stir about over the fire till it browns slightly; then put in loz. of butter and the onions, and toss them about over a slow fire till browned. Pour in 1 pint of brown sauce and barely -j- pint of broth, and simmer by the side of the fire till the onions are tender; then take them out, and boil the sauce till reduced to a thick cream. Cut some bacon into small squares, and cook them. Strain the reduced sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, add the onions and bacon, and keep it hot. The sauce should not boil again. When cooked, glaze, brown the fillets under a salamander, arrange them in circular order on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Broiled Hare.—Rub the shoulders and legs of a Hare with butter, lay them in a deep dish with one larg'e sliced onion, a small quantity of chopped thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, a moderate quantity of salt and pepper, 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, and half that quantity of water. Cover the Hare with another dish, and let it macerate for two days. Drain the pieces of Hare, rub again with butter, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. When cooked, lay the pieces on a hot dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 926), and serve. Civet of Hare.—Skin and clean a Hare, taking care to keep all the blood; chop off the hind-legs, and cut them up into two or three pieces; divide the body also into equal parts. Cut |lb. of bacon into small pieces about lin. in thickness, and blanch in boiling water. Take them out, drain, and fry