TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 803 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. KOHL-RABI.— This plant is a curious variety of the cabbage, tbe edible part being the stem, which is swollen and enlarged to the shape and size of a turnip Fig. 1009. Kohl-Rabi. (see Fig. 1009). The name is a combination of Cole (cabbage) and Rape (turnip). It is not much cultivated, but can be turned to good account as follows: Kohl-Rabi Salad.—Select three Kohl-Rabi or turnip-rooted cabbages, wash them well, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain them, remove the outer layers, and cut the remainder into slices. Cut three boiled potatoes into slices, also two onions. Put all the ingredients into a salad-bowl with about 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped pickle, and pour over them a bacon-salad sauce. If preferred, mix together some oil and vinegar, the oil pre- dominating ; season the mixture with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad in place of the bacon sauce, and serve. Stewed Kohl-Rabi.—Peel a cabbage turnip in the same way that turnips are peeled, cut it into quarters, put them in a saucepan of salted water, and boil until tender. Pick out all the tender green leaves of the Kohl-Rabi, boil them in salted water until soft, then drain and chop them; put the chopped leaves in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and keep them hot at the edge of the fire. When the Kohl-Rabi is Fig. 1010. Stewed Kohl-Rabi. tender, cut it into small slices. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed, but not browned, then pour in gradually J pint of milk and continue stirring until boiling. Season the sauce with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, put in the slices of Kohl-Rabi, and boil them up. Arrange tbe green leaves in a circle on a hot dish, put the Kohl-Rabi in the centre, and serve. See Fig. 1010. KOKUM.—The small round acid fruit of this tree (Garcinia indica) cut into slices and dried is much used in Indian cookery. It grows extensively in the forests of Malabar and other parts of Southern India, and the kidney-shaped seeds furnish a useful fat called Kokum butter. KOLCANNON.—See Colcannon. KOSHER.—This is a term used in Jewish cookery, by which it is inferred that the foods marked “ Kosher ” have undergone special examination, and been stamped with the Rabbi’s seal. The meaning of the word is “ pure.” KOUMISS.—A sort of milk-wine made by fermenting mare’s, camel’s, or other milk. The word itself is of Mongolian origin, and the Koumiss made by Calmucs and Tartars forms a very important liquor amongst those people. It has recently been manufactured in England for the use of delicate persons, and has been especially recommended by physicians for the benefit of consump- tives. The following are receipts for its preparation from mare’s or other milk: (1) Fill a strong quart bottle with mare’s, or skimmed cow’s milk, and mix with it loz. of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of the best yeast. Cork the bottle, wire it, and put it in a cool dark cellar. Shake the Koumiss well every day for five days, after that time it will be ready for drinking. It may be kept good, if well corked, for three or four weeks. (2) Put any quantity of mare’s milk in a wooden vessel and mix in one-sixth its bulk of water. Add one-eighth the quan- tity of the sourest cow’s milk that can be obtained, cover over with a thick cloth, and put it in a warm place for a day, when a thick creamy substance will have gathered on the top. Beat this well with a stick like a churn staff until the thick part of the milk is thoroughly incorporated with the thin. Let it remain for a day longer, then pour into a long narrow vessel like a churn, when it must be well stirred again until thoroughly mixed. Every time it is required for use it must be well stirred. If it is kept secure from the air, it will last for two or three months, and is carried by the Tartars in leather bags when they are travelling any dis- tance. By distillation a spirit can be obtained from it, and this is called arke or arike, but has not a very pleasant taste, and is not generally esteemed by Europeans. KOURABIEDES.—These are a kind of cake made in Turkey, and very much beloved by the ladies of the harem. They are sometimes served in soups, and are manufactured as follows : Work Jib. of butter into the same quantity of flour, and mix in slowly Jib. of caster sugar and a little salt. Make it into a firm paste by adding sufficient orange-flower water, knead it a little, and form it into balls about the size of small oranges. Lay them between sheets of well-buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Remove the paper when they are done, and serve with sugar sprinkled over them. KRAMBAMBOLI.—See Crambamboli. KRAPPE1.—Ger. for Fritters. KRAFLEN.—These very tasty German cakes are manufactured as follows, and form an excellent dish for a tea-table: Put 1 pint of lukewarm milk in a basin, and mix in 21b. of flour, making the paste as dry as possible. Warm 2oz. of butter, rub it well in, and then add five well-beaten eggs, putting a little in at a time and kneading continuously. Then add 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of yeast and rose-water, and 1 pinch of salt. Beat well until air bubbles rise, and divide it into pieces about 3in. long, Jin. thick, and ljin. wide. Put them in a warm place to rise, and then bake on well-buttered tins in a moderate oven until they are of a golden colour. Take them out, and before they are cold sprinkle over with sugar and grated cinnamon, and serve. KREAT.—An infusion of Kreat (Andrographis pani- culata) makes an excellent tonic bitters, commonly known as the “ King of Bitters.” KREATINE.—The active principle of meat. KRINGLES.—A fancy name given to certain cakes made in the form of biscuits : Beat up Jib. of warmed fresh butter with eight yolks and two whites of eggs, and then work in lib. of sifted biscuit- flour and Jib. of caster sugar. Work into a stiff paste, roll out, and cut into biscuits. Dock them (see Biscuits), and bake on greased baking-sheets. 3 o 2