THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 939 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Milk—continued. nutmeg, pour in 1 "breakfast-cupful of Milk, and boil for five minutes. Take out the piece of cinnamon, pour the Milk into a basin, let it cool, skim oft' the skin that will form on the surface, and serve either warm or' cold, with biscuits or pieces of dry toast. German Milk Nuts.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, and stir in loz. of sugar and sufficient flour to thicken ; continue to boil until the mixture no longer adheres to the pan, pour it out into a basin, let it cool, and work in four well-beaten eggs. Put 3 more breakfast-cupfuls of Milk on to boil; cut out pieces from the mass with a spoon, droj) them into the boiling Milk and simmer gently for a few minutes. Turn them out on to a dish, cover with a few lumps of butter, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake the contents until of a pale brown colour; take them out, and serve very hot. Indian Milk Thickening' (Tyre or Dhye).—Put some Milk into a saucepan, make it warm without boiling, stir in a small quantity of stale butter, place the saucepan in a warm temperature, cover it over, let it remain for eight or ten hours, and the tyre will then be ready for use. Milk-and-Beer Soup.—Pour lqt. of Milk into a stewpan and boil it, then move it to the side, and stir in quickly with a wooden spoon the beaten yolks of six eggs; add the grated peel of a small lemon, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, which should first be mixed smoothly with a little cold Milk, 1 scant teaspoonful of grated ginger, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon or nutmeg, sugar to taste, and lqt. of beer. Whisk the whole over the fire with an egg- whisk until on the point of boiling, then turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with toasted slices of Milk rolls. Milk Biscuits.—(1) Rub lib. each of salt and butter into ’4qts. of the best wheaten-flour till quite smooth, add 1 pinch of salt, and stir the mixture to a paste with Milk. Divide the dough into small equal portions, shape them into balls, prick the tops with a fork, put them into buttered pans; and set in a warm temperature to rise for about an hour. When very light, put the biscuits in a moderate oven and bake. When crisp and cooked, take the biscuits out of the tins, and leave them till cold. If to be kept for any time, the biscuits should be put into biscuit-tins, as they will become sodden if at all damp. (2) Put 1J breakfast-cupfuls of Milk into a saucepan with Jib. of butter cut into small pieces and warm by the side of the fire. Sift 21b. of flour into a basin, stir the Milk and butter into it, add two well-beaten eggs and 2 wineglass- fuls of the best brewers’ yeast, and mix well with a knife. Sprinkle some flour over a paste-board, put the dough on it, and knead well; divide the dough into small equal - sized portions, shape them into round balls, prick the tops with a fork, lay them in buttered pans, and set in a warm temperature to rise. When quite light, put the biscuits into a moderate oven and bake. Milk Cakes.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter into fib. of flour, and add Jib. of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Then stir in sufficient warm Milk to make a dough, and knead well ; roll it into sheets, cut into round cakes with a biscuit-cutter, lay them on buttered tins, so as not to touch each other, and bake. (2) Rub 2oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, add 1 salt- spoonful of salt, J table-spoonful of baking-powder, and mix in smoothly a sufficient quantity of Milk to mould it int > a stiff paste. Dredge" a table or paste-board with flour, lay the paste on it, and roll it out as thinly as possible. Cut the paste into cakes with a round tin cutter, lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake for an hour in a brisk oven. When cold, serve the cakes. Milk Crusts.—Thinly slice some French rolls, and lay them on a dish. Beat three eggs with J pint of Milk, sweeten to taste with white sugar, pour it over the rolls, and leave them until well soaked. Blanch and skin 2oz. of sweet almonds, and cut them into strips lengthwise. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pnn, make it hot, then put in the slices, and fry them until lightly browned on both sides. Drain the crusts, arrange them on a hot dish, stick the filleted almonds into them, pour over a sweet sauce, and serve. Milk—continued. Milk Dumplings (Nocken).—Beat 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter until creamy, then stir in the yolks of four eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the other ingredients, and work in sufficient flour to make a thick batter; add a small quantity of salt, and spread the mixture about Jin. thick on a dish. In about an hour’s time, divide the mixture into small egg-shaped pieces with a table-spoon, which should be constantly dipped in Milk. Place a saucepan of Milk over the fire, and when the contents boil, put in the dumplings, and boil until they rise to the top. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and stir over the fire until the sugar has dissolved. Drain the dumplings, put them into the stewpan, and leave until they are nicely browned at the bottoms and sides. Pour some of the Milk in which they were boiled into a small saucepan, and mix with it the beaten yolks of two eggs, sweeten to taste with sugar, and flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce at the side of the fire until thick, but without allowing it to boil. Put Fig. 1178. Milk Dumplings (Nocken). the dumplings on a hot dish, sift caster, sugar over, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (See Pig. 1178). Milk-and-Honey Cakes (Portuguese).—Fill a deep dish with slices of crumb of bread cut Jin. thick, cover with Milk, or cream and Milk in equal proportions, and leave until all the Milk is absorbed. Take out the slices sepa- rately, dip them into beaten egg, covering completely, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat (oil or lard), and fry to a golden brown. Serve hot with honey poured over. The slices of bread may be soaked in wine instead of Milk and proceeded with as above. Treacle may be sub- stituted for the honey, or they may be served with cinnamon and sugar, thickly sprinkled over instead of either the honey or treacle. Milk Jelly.—This is made with calf’s feet after they have been used for making jelly; put them in a saucepan with sufficient Milk to cover, and when they have cooked for several hours, strain off the liquor and flavour with nutmeg, vanilla, or lemon, adding sufficient sugar to sweeten. A little onion, celery, turnips, spice, &c., may be used if a savoury is desired, instead of the sweet flavouring, or a well-beaten egg may be added to make it more nourishing. Put it into a jar or jug, let it settle, pour it into a mould, and when set turn it out and serve, garnished either with whole-fruit jam or parsley. Milk Lemonade.—(1) Put the juice of three lemons and the thin rind of one into a basin with 2oz. of caster sugar, and pour over 1J pints of boiling water; cover the basin, and let it remain for twelve hours. Add 1 gill of milk, let it stand for ten minutes longer, strain all through a jelly-bag, and when clear it is ready for use. (2) Put 8oz. of caster sugar in a basin with lqt. of boil- ing water, and, when dissolved, add 1 breakfast-cupful of lemon-juice and J pint of sherry wine. Mix these well, and add about § pint of Milk. Stir well, strain it, and it is ready for use. (3) Put the peel of two lemons in a basin, squeeze the juice of them over It, and leave for twelve hours or so. Add 21b. of caster sugar, 3qts. of boiling Milk, and lqt. of white wine. Mix thoroughly, and pass it through a fine sieve or jelly-hag until quite clear, and when cold it is fit for use.