956 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t rejerred to, see under their special heads. Mullet—continued. saucepan, adding 5 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree. Boil up again, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire and add 3oz. of butter pulled in small pieces, the juice of a lemon, and a little finely-chopped parsley. Pour this sauce over the fish, and serve hot. Broiled Red Mullets.-—(1) Dry three fish on a clean cloth, season them with salt and pepper, and strew grated parsley over and a few drops of lemon-juice; wrap each fish separately in a sheet of well-oiled paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Chop finely two shallots, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of salad-oil, and fry ; next pour in with the shallots 1 wineglassful of sherry and § pint of Spanish sauce, more or less according to the quantity required; a few chopped mushrooms may he mixed in the sauce if liked ; also add b table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley and the juice of half a lemon. Boil the sauce gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Remove the fish from the paper, and lay them carefully on a hot dish ; skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over the Mullets, and serve. (2) Scale and clean a few Red Mullets, haste them well with oil, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil well on both sides. Fry 2 table spoonfuls of minced shallots in a saucepan with a little butter, and when it has been cooking for five minutes add 1 breakfast-cupful of melted glaze. Boil up again, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add a little maitre d’hotel butter, stirring well until it has dissolved; now add the juice of one lemon, and complete the cooking. Put the Mullets on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve very hot. Broiled Red Mullets in Cases. -Clean and prepare the Mullets; marinade them well, wrap them up in well-oiled paper cases made of a size only sufficient to hold the Mullets with 1 table-spoonful of fine herbs under and over them, set the fish on a gridiron over a slack fire, cook for twenty minutes, then turn them over and cook the other side. Remove from the cases when done, put them on a dish, pour over a thick maitre-d’hdtel sauce mixed with the liquor in the cases from the fish, and serve. Broiled Red Mullet d la Maitre d’Hbtel.—Clean four Red Mullets, remove the gills, score them on the sides, and dip them into water; wipe dry on a cloth, and put them on a dish. Cover with 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, one onion cut in very thin slices, and chopped parsley and a little salt and pepper. Let them remain for an hour or so, then drain, remove all the parsley and onion, put them on a gridiron over a very sharp fire, and broil for five minutes on each side. Pour Jib. of maitre-d’hotel butter on a dish, put the fish on it, and serve hot. A little white wine may lie used instead of the maitre-d’hotel butter if desired. Garnish with fried parsley. Broiled Red Mullet en Papillote.—(1) Clean the required number of fish, wipe them dry both inside and out, dust over with flour, rub them with warmed butter, and season with salt and pepper. Butter as many half-sheets of writing- paper as there are fish, and dust them with salt and pepper ; place the fish on them, fold up, fastening the ends, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for twenty minutes. When done, serve hot in the paper cases with melted-butter sauce in a tureen. (2) Clean, cut off the fins, and draw three Red Mullets; wash them in a little water, and dry on a cloth. Oil a piece of paper, put a layer of reduced d’Uxelles sauce on it about the size of the fish, put the Mullets on it, then another layer of sauce, fold the paper over, closing the two edges so as to form a papillote. Place them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil until done ; put them on a dish, and serve hot. (3) Dry the fish on a clean cloth ; lay each one on a sheet of white paper that has been dipped in salad-oil, strew finely-minced parsley over, and season with salt and pepper ; fold the paper over the fish so as to completely enclose it, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, and when the fish are cooked lay them on it, leaving them in Mullet—co ntin ued. their papers; garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. (4) Put two well-cleaned Mullets into a saute-pan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, and 1 wine- glassful of wine. Put the pan in the oven, and bake the Mullets gently for ten minutes. Place them on a dish, strain the liquor, and add to it four trulHes, a little parsley, six mushrooms, a small quantity of shallots, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a little grated nutmeg and flour. Put the whole into a saucepan, and boil slowly for about seven minutes ; then mix in a liaison of three eggs well beaten in 1 table spoonful of cream. Place the Mullets on oiled paper, cover with a good quantity of the sauce, roll the paper over them, and fasten the edges together. Put them over a clear fire, and broil slowly until warm on both sides, without burning the paper; and as soon as they are done, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve very hot. (5) Remove the gills from four or five Mullets, do not draw them, scale lightly, chop off the fins, and wash and wipe them well. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour sweet-oil over them, and rub frequently for thirty minutes or so. Oil some sheets of paper on both sides, wrap the fish up in them, and broil over a slow fire for fifteen minutes. Remove the paper, put on fresh, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Place them, when done, on a dish, mask with fish glaze, pour round maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve with more sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Stuffed.—Trim oft' the gills of the Mullets, boil with- out removing any of the inside, make an incision from the throat half-way down the belly of each fish, and prepare the following stuffing: Finely crumble some stale bread, mix with it a quarter of its quantity each of finely-minced shallots and mushrooms that have been fried in butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped thyme and parsley in moderate quantities, work in a small lump of butter, and bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg. Stuff the Mullets with this mixture, sew up the incisions, wrap each one separately in a sheet of buttered paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. When the fish are 'cooked, lay them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Broiled Red Mullets with Italian Sauce.—Wipe the fish dry, dredge them over with salt and pepper, and squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juice. Oil with salad-oil as many sheets of note-paper as there are fish, and wrap one of the Mullets up in each sheet. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Finely chop three shallots, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of salad-oil, and fry ; next put in a few minced mushrooms, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and a sufficient quantity of vegetable stock to make the sauce. Add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the strained juice of half a lemon, and let it simmer gently at the side of the lire for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the fish out of the paper, and lay them on a hot dish. Skim the sauce, pour it over them, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. Fried Red Mullets.—Clean some Red Mullets, dry them well, dip them into beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs seasoned with chopped sweet herbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. Put the livers into a saucepan with sufficient water to make the sauce, boil them well, stir in a lump of butter, and the sauce is ready. Set the fish on a hot dish, and serve the sauce in a sauceboat. Ragodt of Fillets of Red Mullet in a Paper Case.— Put some fillets of Red Mullet in a saute-pan with oil, and sautii them; when cooked, drain the fillets, and put them in reduced veloute sauce, with chopped cooked fine herbs. Fill a paper case with a block of bread cut to fit it, then turn it over on to a dish; procure a double plaited case, and stand it on the other. Whip the whites of some eg^s in very hot, but not boiling, bechamel sauce till firm. Put a layer of the prepared ragoftt in the case, next a layer of cooked soft roes, then a layer of oysters, and