751 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respeotiwj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L‘C., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—go ntinued. Hare, cover it with slices of bacon, and tie it tightly over witli stout paper. Put the jar in a moderate oven, and leave it until the Hare is cooked (it will take about three hours), then take it out. On the following day take the fat and bacon off the top, put the pieces of Hare in a mortar, pound them to a smooth paste with jib. of butter, add more salt and pepper if necessary, and press it into small pots, leaving about §in. clear space at the top of each. Pour clarified butter in the jars, tie them over with wet parchment or stout paper, and pack away in a dry cupboard till wanted. (5) Let a Hare hang for four or five days, then skin and cut it into joints; put them in an earthen jar, dust over with salt, pepper, and beaten mace, put in lib. of butter, place the lid on the jar, solder it round the edges with flour-and-water paste, and put it in a good oven. When the Hare is tender, take it out of the oven, pick all the flesh off the bones, and put it in a mortar; then mix the cooking-butter in with it, and pound until quite smooth. Put the meat into small pots, leaving about jin. clear space at the top, and fill up with clarified butter. When the butter is cold, cover the jars with stout paper and tie down. Hares—con tinned. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and arrange the fillets on it. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the marinade into the saute-pan in which the fillets were cooked, pour in also about 1 pint of brown sauce, and boil till it coats the spoon, keeping well stirred. Put 1 teaspoonful of red-currant jelly and a small piece of glaze into the sauce, and stir till dissolved ; then pour it over the fillets, and serve. Minced Hare.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut off all the meat, mince it very fine, and add a finely-chopped onion and a seasoning of ground spice, salt, and pepper. Take small quantities of the mixture, roll them into balls, flour well, put them into a frying-pan with hot dripping, and brown slightly. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich broth, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for about half-an-hour. Pour the liquor into another saucepan, put in the meat collops, add a little flavouring of wine, and simmer gently until they are done (they will take from forty-five to sixty minutes). Skim well and frequently, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve, with thin slices of lemon and small pieces of toast for garnish. Potted Hare.—(1) Take some of the flesh of a Hare that lias been cooked as for Stewed Hare (No. 2), cut off all the flesh, and pound it in a mortar. When quite smooth, rub it through a sieve, press it into a jar, flattening the top quite level, cover witli paper, and place it in the oven. When hot, take it out, remove the paper, let it get cold, and then pour a little liquefied butter over to cover it and keep the air away. Cover again with paper, and it is then ready for use, and will keep for a long time. (2) Select a Hare weighing about 51b., take off the skin, draw, wash, and bone it, keeping the blood to mix in with the forcemeat. Cut off the meat from the shoulders, and half that of the legs, remove all the skin and sinews, and put this flesh into a mortar with 12oz. of veal without skin or gristle, and lib. of fat bacon, both cut up small; pound it, and whilst so doing add loz. of spiced salt and the blood. Lard the body with pieces of fat bacon, cut it in halves, dust it over well with about 2oz. of spiced salt, put it in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and fry for ten minutes. Put a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of a potting-pan to about lin. in thickness, then put in one-half of the body, sprinkling it over with another ounce of spiced salt, then more forcemeat, and so on, finishing up with a layer of forcemeat. Put a thin slice of bacon on the top, a bay-leaf on that, cover the pan, put it in a saucepan with 2in. depth of water, place the saucepan over the fire, and cook for three hours or so until done, which may be ascertained by piercing the flesh with a trussing-needlc, which should return clean. When done, let it get cold, cover with melted fat, and it is ready for use. It should not be used within a day or so of making; and if required to be kept for a time, pork should be used instead of the veal, and in the same proportion. (3) Cut off the meat from the shoulders and legs of a Hare, and put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of fresh bacon ; then sprinkle in a little seasoning, pound well, and rub it through a sieve. Cut half of a calf’s liver in slices, put them in a frying-pan with a little hog’s lard or butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and fry until set. Take them out, and when cold chop up, add them to the Hare forcemeat, pound well for ten minutes or so, and pass it through a sieve again. Cut the fillets of a Hare in small squares, add to them their equal bulk of bacon, blanched and cut in dice, and a few sliced truffles; season well, and mix them in with the forcemeat. Put some strips of bacon at the bottom of a potting-pan, put the forcemeat mixture over it, cover with slices of bacon, and again with a round of paste, put the pan on a baking-sheet in a rather slow oven, and bake from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. Take it out, and when cool it is ready for use. (4) Remove the head from the fore-part of a Hare, and cut the fore-part into small pieces. Line the bottom of a stone or earthenware jar with pieces of unsmoked bacon; put in the pieces of Hare, with one bay-leaf, two or three cloves, a piece of stick mace, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of red wine over the Roasted Hare.—(1) Select a Hare, and let it hang up for four or five days to make the flesh eatable, for if cooked fresh the meat is hard and tough. Skin and draw it, preserving the blood. Cut off the upper end of the body transversely under the fore-legs, and cut the breast its full length so as to disengage the back. Cut out or break all the hind-leg bones, chop off the feet, and pass one leg through the sinew of the other at the knuckle. Take off the sinewy skin of the fillets, and lard them with bacon, also the fleshy part of the legs (see Pig. 934), fixing them with skewers so that they will lie perfectly flat on a dish. Pass a long skewer right through the Hare, fix it on the spit, and moisten the larded parts with a little softened butter. Put a pan under the Hare to catch the drippings caused by the cooking, baste it frequently, and when it has roasted for forty-five minutes or so, sprinkle it over with salt. Take it off the spit, remove the skewers, put it on a dish, and serve with piquant sauce made with the blood and dripping in a tureen. (2) Let a Hare hang as long as possible, for it cannot be hung too long. It is better for not being paunched for a few days unless the weather is warm and muggy; and in no case is it advisable to paunch it when first killed. Keep the inside wiped dry, and well peppered. If the Hare is very old, soak it for a couple of hours in water-and-vinegar. Stuff the belly with plenty of well-seasoned stuffing made as below, put the Hare at some distance from the fire, and roast gradually, because being of a very dry and hard