TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 755 Hares—continued. them up into small squares, lard them with pieces of raw truffles, and sprinkle with salt and spices. Cut ^lb. of fat bacon into small pieces, put it in a stewpan to melt, and pour the fat from it into an earthenware stockpot. Put first a layer of meat in the pot, and cover that with breadcrumbs ; then put in a layer of streaky bacon cut up small, and cover that also with breadcrumbs, continuing in this way until all the materials are used. Add a few sweet herbs and sufficient red wine to nearly cover, put the lid on the pot, seal up the rim with flour-and-water paste, and put it on the fire; when it boils, remove to the side, and put a shovelful of red-hot ashes on the lid. Let it remain in this way for four hours. Put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, strain it over the meat, and serve. Leveret Cheese or Fain with Aspic Jelly.—Cut off the flesh from a Leveret, and chop it up in pieces; cut also an equal quantity of fat bacon in small pieces. Put the bacon in a saute-pan on the fire, and when it has melted slightly, add the meat from the Hare, together with a bay-leaf, a little parsley and thyme, and sprinkle over a little pepper and salt. Place the pan back again on the fire, and fry for a few minutes, stirring frequently. Take out the mixture, chop up very small, pound it in a mortar, and mix in half its bulk of bread panada; when it is all well pounded and thoroughly incorporated, pass it through a sieve, and add £ pint of Spanish sauce, reduced with a little essence of Hare, and three eggs; work this well in, and add some truffles cut in small pieces. Take a small plain round mould and a plain round cylinder-mould, butter them well, fill them both with the forcemeat, and put them in a bain- marie to poach. When cold, turn them out on a dish, trim, and glaze with game glaze. Have ready a round rice socle, put it on a dish, mask it with Montpellier butter, put the large cake on the top, the smaller one on this, and a small aspic shape on the top of all, and serve with a garnish of aspic jelly. Leveret Saute.—Skin and draw a Leveret, cut it up into equal-sized pieces, and put them in a flat saute-pan with a little melted bacon-fat; add a few sprigs of parsley, half a clove of garlic, a few sweet herbs, and three small onions. Put the pan on a quick fire, and cook the mixture for seven or eight minutes; then remove tho pan to the side, cover tho lid with ashes, and let it remain until the meat is done. Pour 1 gill of white wine and a little melted glaze over them, and boil again until the liquor is greatly reduced. Take out the meat, and add four tomatoes, peeled and chopped and freed of their seeds, and lOoz. of soaked raw ham cut in dice, and cook again until the moisture has evaporated from the tomatoes; then pour in a few table- spoonfuls of brown sauce. Remove the onions and sweet herbs, sprinkle in a little ground pimento, put the pieces of Leveret on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Puree of Leveret with. Bice.—Cut off the legs and shoulders of a Leveret, and roast them in the oven ; remove the meat from tho bones, and pound it in a mortar together with a piece of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of cold brown sauce ; then season well with salt and pepper, and pass it through a sieve. Put 2 gall, of game soup in a saucepan on tho side of the fire, and simmer for twenty-five minutes; remove the fat, and stir into it tho puree previously worked up with a small quantity of the soup; pour it through a strainer into a tureen, mix in a few table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, and serve hot. Boasted Leveret (Turkish).— Clean a plump Leveret, cut it into small pieces, and steep them in cold water for three or four hours; then wipe the pieces with a cloth, rub well with salt and pepper, and leave them for half-an- hour. Put them on skewers or small spits, and place them in front of a clear fire, turning often to ensuro equal cooking. Peel four or five cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar, dust with salt, and pound them well. Put 4oz. of butter into a small saucepan, melt it, then stir in the pounded garlic and 2 wineglassfuls of vinegar. Continue stirring over the fire with a wooden spoon till hot, then take it off and keep it at the side. When the pieces of Leveret are about half cooked, baste them with tho garlic mixture; when three-parts cooked, take tho pieces off the skewers, beat them all with a thin cane, then put them on For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the skewers again, and finish cooking, basting as before. Put them on a hot dish, pour the basting-gravy over, cover the dish, and place it on a hot stove till nearly all tho moisture has been absorbed by the meat; then serve. Boasted stuffed Leveret.— Skin and draw a Leveret, lard it with thin strips of bacon, and stuff with forcemeat made as follows : Put the heart, lungs, and liver in a frying-pan with some bacon, parsley, onion, and sweet herbs, also salt and pepper to taste. Fry them, and when done, take them out and pound in a mortar; pass it through a sieve, and mix it up with double its bulk of breadcrumbs and an egg. Truss the Leveret, and roast it on a spit in front of the fire, basting frequently with butter; when done, sprinkle it well with salt, remove Fig. 940. Roasted stuffed Leveret. it from the spit, and put it on a dish (see Fig. 940). Put a finely-minced onion in a stewpan, add a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, bay-leaf, and wild thyme, also 5 table- spoonfuls of ham cut into small pieces, and moisten all with 1 wineglassful of white wine. Reduce this by one half, add a few table-spoonfuls of gravy or melted glaze, let it remain on the fire for two minutes, and add a little kneaded butter to thicken it. Stir well to dissolve the butter, and as soon as it shows signs of boiling, take it off the fire, remove the herbs and spices, stir in a little minced parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of capers, and a dust of pepper, and serve. Boasted Leveret a la Broche.—Take off the skin of a Leveret (leaving the ears on, which must bo scalded), and draw it, preserving tho heart, liver, and blood. Chop off tho first joints of tho legs, and bone the thighs. Have ready lib. of raw pork minced, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put it with tho heart and liver, and chop all up quite fine, with a small piece of onion and a little parsley and thyme. When ready, stuff tho Leveret with it, sew it up, and truss by bringing the fore-legs back to the breast, and the hind-legs forward to the stomach, and tying them round with string, and fix the head back with a skewer. Singe the meat of the fillets and hind-legs, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Put a thin spit lengthwise through the Leveret, place it in front of a clear fire, and roast for forty-five minutes, basting frequently. Put a few slices of bread in the dripping-pan, lay them on a dish, place the Leveret on them, and garnish with twolve small birds, such as larks or thrushes, larded with bacon and roasted, and serve with game sauce to which tho blood has been added. This mode of serving a Leverot is very much advocated by some of our high-class cooks. Stewed Leveret. — Skin and draw a Leveret, and put the heart, lungs, liver, and blood on one side. Put jib. of chopped bacon into a stewpan, place it over tho fire, and let it melt. Chop the Leveret into pieces of as near one size as possible, put them into the stewpan with the bacon, and add 8oz. of streaky bacon, blanched and cut into squares, and 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onion. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and add a bunch of sweet herbs. Place the pan over the fire for a few minutes, and when the meat is set remove it to the side of the fire and finish cooking, or until the meat is tender. Drain off the fat from the pan, and pour a little thickened gravy and a little wine over the meat; now add the liver and heart cut up small, as well as one dozen fresh mushrooms, each one trimmed and cut transversely into halves ; boil up again for ten minutes, then pour in tho blood, and finish by adding a little vinegar. Put the stew on a dish, and serve. dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. 3 l 2