868 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—co ntinu ed. Croustades of Lobster.—Pick out the flesh of a large hen Lobster, cut it into small squares, and season to taste with salt, pepper, spice, and the smallest quantity of cayenne pepper. Put loz. of butter in a mortar with some of the Lobster spawn, and pound until quite smooth, then rub it through a fine hair sieve; put another ounce of butter in a stewpan with £ table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, stir in about 1 teacupful of white stock, and add the pieces of Lobster. Continue stirring over the fire until very hot, then mix in the pounded spawn, the strained juice of a small lemon, and 4 table-spoonful of finely- minced parsley, and move the saucepan to the edge of the j fire, where the contents will keep hot without boiling. Cut some slices 2in. thick off a stale loaf, and with a round tin cutter 2in. in diameter cut them into rounds without any crust; with a paste-cutter a size smaller cut a circle half-way through the centre of each round. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, and, when it boils, put in the rounds of bread and fry them a golden brown; drain when done, and scoop out a hollow within the marked circle. Pill the croustades with the above mixture, put j them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded I napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. Curried Lobster.—(1) Put the meat out of two small | Lobsters into a saucepan with 1 teacupful each of veal gravy and cream and half a blade of mace; mix 2 tea- spoonfuls of curry powder with 1 teaspoonful of flour and loz. of butter, put it in with the Lobster, and simmer at the side of the fire for one hour; then add the strained juice of half a lemon and a little salt. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Select a large cooked Lobster, pick out all the meat, | place the body in a small saucepan with 1 pint of broth, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. Put a small onion, cut in slices, in a stewpan with a lump of butter, a quarter of a lemon, and a bunch of parsley and | thyme; stand it over the fire till the flavour is extracted from the herbs, then stir in 2 dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder mixed with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour. When cooked, strain the gravy from the body of the Lobster and mix it gradually in with the onion, &c. Boil for ten or fifteen minutes, then pass it all through a fine hair sieve, add the strained juice of a lemon, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and the picked Lobster; put all in the saucepan, stand it by the side of the fire, and let the 1 contents stew gently for half-an-hour; then boil up, turn j it into a hot dish, and serve at once. (3) Pick out all the meat from two good-sized fine freshly-boiled Lobsters, and cut it up in lin. lengths. Have a saucepan on the hot range with loz. of butter in it, add the Lobster, and cook for five minutes, season- ing with 1 pinch of salt and 4 pinch of pepper. Place in a bowl 1 table-spoonful of Indian curry and 4 wine- glassful of white wine, mix well together, then pour it in with the Lobster. Cook for two minutes longer, add 2 gills of hot German sauce, and stir briskly for one minute longer. Make a border of fresh-boiled lice all round a hot dish, dress the Lobster in the centre, and serve hot. (4) Cut the thick part of the large claws and the tails of two medium-sized raw Lobsters into pieces. Put a chopped onion in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry till nicely coloured, then put in the pieces of Lobster and fry them for a few minutes ; sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, season to taste, pour in broth to half their height, put the lid on the stewpan, and boil till the liquid is reduced to half its original quantity. Cut into fine shreds sufficient cocoa-nut to fill a teacup, put it in with the Lobster, also some of the cocoa-nut milk, stir the curry over the fire for two or three minutes, then take it off, thicken with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, beaten in a little thick cream, and strain the juice of two lemons in with it. Turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. The rice should be well washed before boiling. (5) Pick the meat out of the shells of the Lobster and cut it into nice-sized pieces ; peel and slice two onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry Lobster—continued. until lightly browned; then dredge in 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and flour, stir until well mixed, adding more butter if necessary, pour in 1 pint of good gravy, put in the coral of the Lobster, pounded, and let the whole simmer for half-an-hour, stirring often. Afterwards strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Lobster with the juice of one lemon and salt to taste, and simmer gently for half-an-hour longer. At the end of that time, stir in 4 teacupful of thick cream, turn the Lobster on to a hot dish, garnish with a border of plain boiled rice, and serve. (6) Finely chop an onion, put it into a small saucepan together with 1 heaped table-spoonful of chopped thyme and parsley mixed, 1 table-spoonful of hot water, and Hoz. of butter. Cover the saucepan, and when the contents begin to simmer add | pint of strong veal or chicken broth, let this boil for five minutes, and then strain ; mix with it 1 table-spoonful each of cornflour and curry powder, put it over the fire and boil for ten minutes, stirring frequently. After it has boiled, stir in 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, all the meat of a large Lobster minced rather fine, and lastly the strained juice of one lemon ; then cover the saucepan, and put it into a large pan of boiling water over the fire for ten minutes, stir occasionally, but do not let the curry boil after the Lobster is in. Serve it in a deep dish with some very thin slices of hot buttered toast and pieces of lemon in a separate dish. (7) Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, shake about till it begins to colour, then put into it the meat of a Lobster picked from the shell and chopped small, and fiy till evenly browned. Then take out, and fry in the same butter three good-sized onions chopped fine ; when they begin to get tender, pour in 1 pint of good gravy, and either 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, or a large sour baking apple, peeled, cored, and sliced. Add also the heart of a small cabbage, and the hearts of two or three lettuces cut in fine shreds, a couple of tomatoes with all the seeds picked out, and three or four small pickled gherkins. Stew all these to a thick pulp ; should it get too diy stir in a little more gravy. Mix in 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, and 3 teaspoonfuls of curry powder, put in the fish, and simmer for forty-five minutes or an hour. Serve on a hot dish with a border of boiled rice round it. Devilled Lobster.—(1) Open two Lobsters each weighing about 24lb., pick out the meat and cut it up rather fine. In opening be careful not to break the body or tail shells; wash these shells, wipe diy, and place them in the form of a boat so that they may hold the prepared meat. Put 1 pint of cream on to boil. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour, 1 table-spoonful of mustard, and a little pepper all together, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of the boiling cream. Stir all into the remaining cream, and cook for two minutes. Add the Lobster, a little salt and pepper, and boil for one minute. Fill the shells with the mixture, and place the in on a baking-sheet with ashes to keep them in position. Cover with 1 pint of breadcrumbs, and brown in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve on a long narrow dish, the body in the centre, the tails at either end. Garnish with parsley. (2) Take all the meat from a large Lobster, breaking the shell as small as possible. Pound the coral in a mortar, together with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, or mb to a smooth paste with the back of a wooden spoon. Mince the meat fine, stir into it nearly |lb. of butter well softened in front of the fire, a seasoning of cayenne pepper and salt, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard and the paste of coral-and-eggs. Put the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and stir till smoking hot. Have the shell ready washed in hot water, dried and warmed, and serve the devilled Lobster in it as hot as possible. (3) Cut into dice 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Lobster, season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, chopped parsley, onion- juice, mustard, and Worcestershire sauce, and mix in 1 tea- cupful of cream sauce. Fill the body-shells of two Lobsters with this mixture, put the two shells together on a dish with the tail ends out, to look like a canoe. Cover the meat with cracker crumbs moistened with melted butter,