923 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinarj Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. turn the je 'y out of the mould on to a dish, garnish with watercress, and serve. Cold Meat with Macaroni. -Any kind of cold Meat can he used; chop it, hut not too finely, mix with it some i chopped mushrooms, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil about Jib. of macaroni until quite tender, then drain it as dry as possible, and cut into pieces about Jin. in length. Make a paste, not very rich, line a buttered mould with it, ornamenting it round the edges according to fancy, till it with flour to keep it in shape whilst baking, and bake in a good oven. When the paste is cooked, turn out the flour, and fill it with alternate layers of mince and macaroni, dredging over each layer of maca- roni a small quantity of grated cheese. Pour in some hot thick well-seasoned gravy, and put the pie in the oven until thoroughly heated through. Take it out of the mould, stand it on a hot dish, and serve. Cold-Meat-ancl-Macaroni Pudding. -Put 2oz. of macaroni into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and boil it until tender. Chop well about lib. of cold cooked Meat, and mix with it J breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs and loz. of butter. When cooked, drain the macaroni, cut it into small pieces about lin. long, and mix them with the Meat-and-breadcrumbs, seasoning with salt and pepper. Mix in thoroughly one well-beaten egg, and sufficient broth to bind all the ingredients together ; thickly butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and pack down tightly. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour. At the end of that time drain the mould, turn its contents on to a hot dish, and serve. Cold Meat with. Mashed Potatoes.—Pare and boil six large potatoes, mash them very light and fine, and add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat it up light, and spread over a dish. Put over this a layer of Meat cut into very thin slices, and on each slice pour a little hot gravy, and pour a little more round the dish. Put it in the oven for live minutes to get warm, and serve with a garnish of parsley. Cold-Meat Mince.—Take any cold Meat, remove all the fat, sinew, and gristle, and chop up very small. Put it- into a saucepan with sufficient good gravy to cover, and add a finely-minced shallot and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Put the pan at the side of the fire, where the gravy will get hot without boiling, add a little sauce, such as Worcester, chutney, &c., and salt and pepper to taste. Turn it out on to a dish, and garnish with pieces of fried bread or toast, and a small sprig of parsley on each. Cold-Meat Mince with Breadcrumbs.—Chop the remains i of any kind of cold Meat as finely as possible; place a layer of breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper, in a pie-dish, put a few bits of butter over them, then add a layer of mince, then a layer of seasoned breadcrumbs, and so on until the dish is full, using plenty of butter. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream over all, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned on the top. Serve the mince while very hot in the same dish. Cold-Meat Mince with Potatoes.—Trim off the gristle and fat from some c >ld Meat, and mince the lean finely. Peel and partially boil some potatoes (there should be two- thirds potato to one third Meat), then drain, chop, and mix them with the Meat, season with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onion, and black pepper and salt to taste. Bind the mixture with a beaten egg, divide it into small portions, and with floured hands mould them into flat cakes. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, place it on the fire to melt, then put in the cakes, and fry until nicely browned on both sides. Drain the cakes, put them on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper spread over a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cold-Meat Olives.—Take 1 Jib. of floury cold boiled potatoes, rub through a sieve, and mix with them 6oz. of flour and ljoz. of butter. Mix and knead it to a paste, roll it out about Jin. thick, and cut or stamp it into rounds. On one I Meat—continued. half of each round piece of paste lay some small, thin slices of cold roasted Meat, shake a little salt and pepper over, and lay a piece of butter on the Meat; then double or fold the other half of the paste over it, slightly wet the edges, and press them together. Fry in boiling lard or dripping to a light brown, lay them on paper to drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve either with or without gravy. Cold-Meat Omelet. -Chop as finely as possible the remains of any kind of cold cooked Meat, together with a few onions and sweet herbs. Beat well six or eight eggs, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of water ; add this to the Meat, stir well to thoroughly incorporate, then turn the mass into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light golden • colour. Serve at once. Cold-Meat Pie.—(1) Finely mince any cold remains of cooked Meat, removing any fat, put it into a stewpan with loz. of butter, about 1 teacupful of stock, and J table-spoonful of flour; season to taste with salt and pepper, add the juice of half a lemon, and stir the whole over the fire until thoroughly hot through. Butter a soup-plate, line it with a good paste, put in the mixture, and cover with a Hat of the paste : trim off evenly round the edges, moisten and press them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, and cut some imitation leaves out of it, moisten them slightly underneath, and arrange tastefully on the top of the pie ; brush the pie with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake. This pie can lie served either hot or cold, but it is better eaten hot. (2) Chop some cold cooked Meat into thin slices or small squares, remove all the fat (except the crisp outside fat) and sinews, arrange the pieces in a baking-dish, and pour over sufficient gravy or brown piquante or tomato sauce to cover. Spread a layer of mashed potatoes over the whole, sprinkle with bread- or cracker-crumbs, or it may be brushed over with egg, put it in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. (3) Take some very thin slices of cold veal, lamb, bacon, dressed calf’s head and some of the brains and tongue, and hard-boiled eggs. Arrange them in layers in a pie-dish, season each layer with cayenne, white pepper, salt, and ground allspice, lill the dish with good gravy, cover it with paste made of Hour and water only, and bake in a slow oven. Let the pie stand till perfectly cold, then take off the crust, turn the pie out into a dish, and garnish with parsley and slices of hard-boiled eggs. (4) Tukicish.—Lay on a floured table several Hat, square pieces of paste; beat three eggs together with 3 table- spoonfuls of broth, then dip a paste-brush in it and brush over the pieces of paste ; fold each one in halves, and spread lengthwise over them any kind of minced cold Meat, fold the two side edges over and then the ends, thus making it into an oblong. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the pieces of paste and fry ; when cooked and nicely browned on both sides, drain, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. Cold Meat with. Polenta.—Free some cold remains of Meat from all skin, fat, and gristle, and finely chop it; mix in a small quantity of chopped parsley, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of mixed spice. Lay a chopped onion in butter until nicely browned, then put in the mince, moisten with a small quantity of gravy, and simmer at the edge of the fire. Have ready boiled a sufficient quantity of polenta, drain, put in with it a small lump of butter and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and mix it over the fire. Fry about half-a-dozen tomatoes in butter; form a wall with the polenta round a hot dish, turn the mince in tire centre, lay the tomatoes on the top, and serve. Cold-Meat Porcupine.—Chop up some cold cooked Meat such as lamb, fowl, veal, &c., and mix it with a quarter its quantity of bread- or cracker-crumbs, or mashed potatoes, and a little chopped bacon. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and cayenne, add a little lemon-juice, and sufficient egg