THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 907 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special h. ads. Mangoes—continued. trees during their fruiting, to preserve the fruit from depredation. The Mango is about the size and shape of a goose’s egg, and in its early stage is of a fine olive- green colour; some varieties continue green when ripe, but others assume a sort of orange tint. The smell is faint, yet pleasing, and the pulp melts in the mouth with a cool, refreshing sweetness that can hardly be estimated. In the heart of the pulp is a largish stone something resembling that of a peach, to which the pulp is firmly adherent. There are numerous varieties of Mangoes, the largest being the Mango-dodol, sometimes weighing 21b.; the choicest kind is the Muddah; some others are . quite unfit to eat. Unhappily the Mango is so perishable that it is very rarely imported into England; and the attempts made to rear the trees in this country have not as yet been sufficiently successful to give much hope of future crops. To us they are better known as a pickle. Dried Mangoes.—Remove the peel from two or three dozen (or as many as required) green Mangoes, cut them into quarters, dredge with salt, and put them in the sun to dry. As soon as they commence to curl up or dry, rub them well with a mixture of pounded dry ginger turmeric and chillies, dredge with more salt, place them in the sun again, and let them remain until completely dried up. Put them into bottles, cork down, and they are ready for .use. Mango Chutney.—(1) This can be prepared by using the refuse from tapp or Mango sauce, with the addition of a little thick syrup, a few dried dates, hot spices, and ground stoned raisins. Put the mixture into a saucepan and simmer gently for fifteen minutes, or until the syrup is absorbed and the chutney of the required consistence. Pet- it get cold, put it into bottles, cork down securely, and the chutney is then ready for use. (2) Put 81b. of sugar into a saucepan with 2qts. of vinegar, and boil to a syrup; now put in two hundred green Mangoes peeled and cut in slices, boil them until about half done, then add 41b. of salt, 31b. each of ground garlic and ginger, 11b. of finely-sliced chillies, half-a-dozen bay-leaves, and 41b. of stoned raisins. Stir well over the fire for a few minutes, and pour in another 2qts. of vinegar, as soon as the chutney begins to thicken, remove the pan from the fire and let it cool. Pour the chutney into bottles, cork down securely, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted for use. (3) Remove the peel from about one hundred green Man- goes, cut them up into thin slices, put them into a bowl, cover with about 21b. of salt, and let them remain for thirty or thirty-six hours. Drain off the salt liquor, put the Mangoes into a saucepan with 3qts. of vinegar, and boil. Let them get cool, put them into a preserving-pan, mix in 4lb. of stoned tamarinds, 21b. each of sliced ginger and stoned raisins, 1 dessert-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-pounded cinnamon. Simmer gently on a slow fire for balf-an-hour, pour in gradually a syrup made by boiling 61b. of sugar in 3qts. of vinegar, and stir well over the fire until all the syrup is absorbed and the chutney is as thick as required. Let it cool, put it into bottles, cork down securely, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. It will remain good for a long tune. (4) Peel and remove the. stones of 411). of green Mangoes, cut them lengthwise into quarters, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of vinegar, and boil very slightly. Pour all into a jar, and let it remain until quite cold. Put 21b. rf sugar into a saucepan with another pint of vinegar, boil it until of the consistence of thin syrup, and let it cool also. In the meantime, pound loz. of garlic, 2oz. of dried chillies, and lib. of green ginger cut in slices. Put the sugar mixture in a large bowl, add the Mangoes, ground spices, and 21b. of raisins picked and dried, loz. of salt and the same of yellow mustard-seed. When all are well mixed, put the chutney into bottles, place them in a cool oven (or expose to the sun), and let them remain for three days or so, when the chutney will be ready for use. Mangoes—continued. (5) Remove the peel from one hundred or so green Man- goes, cut them into slices, put them in a bowl, sprinkle well with salt, and steep for about twelve hours; then place them under a heavy weight for a couple of hours, so as to drain off as much of the liquor as possible. Put them into a saucepan, and mix in 21b. of stoned tamarinds, Jib. of bruised mustard-seed, and Jib. each of very fresh ground garlic, chillies, and ginger. Add a little more salt, stir well to thoroughly incorporate the ingredients, pour over sufficient warmed or cooked mustard oil to cover, and cook over a quick lire for twelve or fifteen minutes, or until quite done, or the preparation will lie spoilt. Let the mixture get cold, put it into bottles, taking care that the oil is several inches above the other ingredients, cork securely, and it is ready for use. Mango Fool.—(1) Peel half-a-dozen green Mangoes, cut into quarters, put them into cold water to steep, take out the stones, put the fruit into a saucepan with a little water, and boil until tender. Rub the vdiole through a fine sieve, add sugar to sweeten, and stir in gradually sufficient milk to bring the preparation to the consistence of custard. It is then ready for use, and should be served the day it is made in small custard-glasses, with a little nutmeg or cinnamon grated over. (2) This is prepared as No. 1, colouring it with beetroot boiled tender, bruised, rubbed through a piece of muslin, and mixed with the Mango pulp. It is an agreeable variety, but not much used. Mango Jelly.—Remove the peel from a hundred green Man- goes, cut them into quarters, remove the stones, and plunge them into a bowl containing weak lime-water, freed of all sediment. Put them into a saucepan, cover with water, and boil until quite tender. Strain off the liquor into a preserving-pan without pressing the fruit, boil, skimming frequently, add gradually sufficient sugar to sweeten, and continue to boil until no more scum rises and the jelly is quite clear. Try it by dropping a little on a cold plate; if it congeals, remove the pan from the fire, pour the jelly while slightly warm into bottles ; cork down when quite cold, and it is ready for use. Mango Marmalade. —This can be made from the Mango pulp after the liquor has been strained for making Mango jelly. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, without destroying the acidity of the fruit, and boil slowly over a slack fire until of such consistence that it will remain stiff in a spoon. Put it into bottles while warm, cork down when cold, and the marmalade is ready for use. It may be used for puddings or tarts, or for preparing Mango sauce. Mango Pickle.—Remove the peel from a hundred or so green Mangoes, cut them into quarters, put them into a bowl with salt sprinkled over, and let them steep for thirty- six hours. Take out the Mangoes, wipe dry on a cloth, put them into a preserving-pan with 21b. of sliced ginger and lib. of finely-sliced chillies, pour over a syrup made with lib. of sugar and 2qts. of vinegar, simmer for about fifteen minutes, let the pickle get cold, put it in bottles, cork down securely, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Mango Preserve.—Put a hundred middling-sized uninjured green Mangoes into a bowl of cold water to steep; grate off the outer coat or peel very finely, cut lengthwise to remove the stones, and throw them into weak lime-water. Put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover, parboil, skimming frequently, turn them out on to a sieve, and drain. Have ready a good quantity of syrup made with 81b. of sugar, put in the Mangoes, and let them simmer in this, removing all the scum, until the sugar commences to crystallise; then remove the pan from the fire, let the contents cool, put the Mangoes and syrup into wide-mouthed jars or bottles, and cork down when quite cold. Let them remain for two or three days, and, should the syrup be getting thin, reboil it, adding the Mangoes for a few minutes at the end of the boiling, and bottling again. This process, should be repeated until there is no further sign of fermentation, corking down when quite cold. This preserve will remain good for several years if kept in a