THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 725 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, sec under their special heads Grouse—continued. and trimmings, put them in a stewpan, pour in about 2 break- fast-cupfuls of game sauce, and boil for five minutes. Strain it through a fine hair sieve, put it in the stewpan again, season with a little salt and 1 dessert-spoonful of moist sugar; stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and continue stirring over the fire till the sauce is thick, but do not let it boil; Fig. 901. Stewed Grouse a l’Ailsa. then put in the pieces of Grouse, take the stewpan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Boil some potatoes, mash them, adding a little butter and salt, make a border of them round a dish, put the Grouse in the centre, pour over the sauce, cover with breadcrumbs, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When done, serve with a thick reduced game sauce. See Fig. 901. Supreme of Grouse a la Richelieu.—Singe, draw, and wipe three Grouse, removing the skin from the breasts. With a sharp knife make an incision on the top of each breast-bone from end to end. Carefully cut oft' the entire breasts on both sides, including the small wing-bone, taking care not to leave a particle of meat on the bones. Remove the small fillets found under the breasts, putting them on one side for after use. Make an incision in the breasts at the thinnest side, about 3in. long and lin. in depth, season the breasts inwardly with salt and pepper, stuff them with chicken forcemeat mixed with two truffles and four mushrooms, all finely sliced, and put them into a buttered saute-pan. Gently press the small fillets, using the fingers to give them a hollow shape. Make six slanting small incisions on top of each, and insert in them a small piece of smoked beef, iin. in diameter; moisten slightly the top of the breasts with water, place a fillet lengthwise on them, and sprinkle over a little clarified butter, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the meat, j wineglassful of Madeira wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup; lightly cover the pan, and place it in a hot oven for ten minutes. Arrange the supreme on a hot dish, and serve, with a little perigueux sauce boiled for three minutes with 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, in a sauceboat. GRUEL.—The name is of French origin, and is given to a sort of thin porridge, made of almost any kind of fine or coarse meal. The following receipts show that the term is in some way connected with our groats, through the German griitze. See also Oatmeal, Porridge, &c. English. Gruel.—Put a good table-spoonful each of rice, sago, and pearl barley in a saucepan, pour in 3 pints of water, and boil gently till the liquor is reduced to about lqt., stirring constantly to prevent it sticking. When cooked, have a fine hair sieve placed over a basin, through which pass the Gruel, rubbing it with a wooden spoon. Sweeten and flavour the Gruel to taste. To make the Gruel for serving cold, G table-spoonfuls of each of the ingredients should be used with the above quantity of water. When boiled and passed through the sieve, it should be turned into a mould, left till cold and set, then turned out like a jolly on to a dish, and served with preserves or sugar. German Gruel (Griitze).—The night before making the griitze, put lib. of sago to soak in plenty of cold water. On the following morning remove the stalks from 21,1b. of red currants and Jib. of raspberries, put the fruit into a saucepan with lqt. of cold water, and boil it until soft. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, pressing the fruit well to extract all the juice, return the liquor to the Gruel—continued. saucepan, and when boiling put in the soaked sago, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until quite cooked. The mixture must not be left for a moment, as it is likely to burn very quickly. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour in the mixture, and stand it on ice or in a cool place. When quite set and cold, dip the mould in hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Serve the griitze with cream or well- flavoured custard. Hamburg Gruel.— Put 26 fluid ounces of expressed red- currant juice into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Stir well over the fire until it boils, then add Soz. of soaked sago or lOoz. of ground rice, and boil for fifteen minutes longer, stirring all the while. Let it cool in moulds, or it may be poured on t© plates and eaten with sugar and milk. The juice from any acid fruit will answer the purpose, but that from currants is preferable. Norwegian Gruel.-- Put 2 pints of strained red-currant juice into a stewpan with lj pints of water, a few drops of essence of almonds, and loaf sugar to taste. When boiling, mix in gradually fib. of ground rice. Stir and boil the mixture for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, pour the Gruel into soup-plates, leave it until cool, then serve with cream and caster sugar. Scotch Gruel.—Rub 2oz. of oatmeal quite smooth in a little cold water, working with the back of a spoon against the side of the basin. Pour off the milky fluid into a saucepan as the coarse parts subside until you have about lj pints in all, and then boil slowly until the fluid is a thick mucilage. Water Gruel.— Mix quite smoothly 1 level table-spoonful of flour with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, taking care to have no lumps ; put it on the stove, add 1 level teaspoonful of salt, and boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. If desired, it may be sweetened and a little grated nutmeg added. GRUNTS.—The name of a species of American edible fish. It is so called because of the noise it makes when taken, but it is not very highly esteemed for kitchen purposes. GRUYERE CHEESE.—See Cheese. GUARANA.—In some of the states of South America a drink containing more theine than tea is made from the seeds of the Guarana (Paullinia sorbilis). The ripe seeds are pounded in a hot mortar, formed into a thick paste with water, and moulded into flat bricks or cakes, or formed into rolls like sausages. When dried, they are grated down, and then resemble powdered cocoa, being drunk as such with milk and sugar. GUARAPO .—A drink greatly in favour with the lower classes of Venezuela. It is made from the juice of the sugar cane, diluted with water, and allowed to undergo an alcoholic fermentation. GUAVAS. — The name given to this famous fruit by Europeans is probably a phonetic corruption of the native word Guayaba, pronounced very broadly. The tree (Psidimn Guava) upon which they grow is found wild in tropical America and the West Indies, and has been introduced and become naturalised in India and other Eastern countries. There are two kinds of Guava, commonly known as bearing delicious fruit; the one bears apple-shaped Guavas (see Fig. 902) and the other pear-shaped, the fruit resembling each other in other particulars. These are best known in Europe preserved as jellies, but they are sometimes produced in great profusion and good cpiality in British liot-houses. Guavas are described as having a thin, bright yellow rind, with a yellowish or reddish pulpy flesh, which has a pleasantly acid-sweet flavour, not unlike a combination of raspberries and strawberries. Unfortunately, all attempts to import the ripe fruit to this country have hitherto failed.