THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 769 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Honey—continued. Although Honey has been almost entirely supplanted by sugar in confectionery and for other culinary purposes, there are yet some receipts to be found in which it is directly prescribed as a prime ingredient. Clarified Honey.—Pour 3qts. of water into a preserving-pan, then put in 251b. of Honey, set over the fire, and melt it. Beat 51b. of Spanish whiting till quite fine, then put it in with the Honey, and add the thinly-pared rind of three lemons. Stir the mixture well to prevent the whiting sticking to the bottom, put in 2j!b- of charcoal to clarify it, and continue stirring. Beat six eggs well, then mix them with 6qts. of water ; when the Honey is on the point of boiling, sprinkle well with the egg-water till it presents the appearance of sponge, then continue to pass it through a bag till clear. Honey Biscuits.—Put into a basin gib. each of cornflour and Honey, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange flowers, and J table-spoonful of pounded coriander-seeds. Mix these in- gredients well till they form a stiff paste, divide it into several equal portions, roll them into balls, then with a rolling-pin roll out to thin oval shapes, and dock. Butter a baking-tin, dredge flour over it, shake off the superfluous, lay the biscuits on the tin a short distance from each other Fig. 959. Honey Biscuits. (see Fig'. 959), and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the biscuits off the tin, leave them till cold, and, if to be kept any length of time, put them into tin canisters. Honey Cakes.—(1) Put fib. of butter in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until melted; then stir in gradually 2flb. of sifted flour, and continue stirring over the fire until lightly browned. Turn the flour out of the saucepan on to a paste-board, and make a bay in the centre; dissolve 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda in a small quantity of water, then pour it into the flour and mix well; stir in sufficient water to make a soft flexible paste. Knead the paste well, then divide it into small equal-sized portions, shape them round, make a dent in the centre of each with the tip of the finger, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake till coloured. Put fib. of Honey in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and stir it over the fire until reduced to a syrup. When the cakes are cooked, pour the syrup over, and put them again into the oven until it has well soaked in. Arrange the cakes tastefully on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put fib. of Honey into a lined saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and place it over the fire until on the point of boiling and the butter has dissolved, then turn it into a basin ; when it has somewhat cooled, stir in by degrees fib. of flour, 2oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a teaspoon barely full of pounded cloves. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a small quantity of water, and stir in with the other in- gredients at the last. Lay a cloth over the top of the basin and stand it in a cool place. On the following morning lay the paste on a board over which flour has been sifted, roll it out fin. thick, cut it into cakes about lfin. square, put a split almond in each corner, and a small piece of thinly-shred candied citron-peel in the centre of each cake, lay them on buttered paper spread over baking-sheets, cover them with a sheet of white paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and cold, the cakes should be kept in dry biscuit-tins. (3) Put lflb. of sifted flour on a dish and place it in a slow oven until very dry. Finely shred 4oz. of citron-peel and a very small piece of orange-peel. Put fib. of Honey into a saucepan with fib. of caster sugar, and stir it over Honey—continued. the fire with a wooden spoon until the sugar has dissolved. Mix the chopped peel with the flour, also 1 teaspoonful each of ground ginger and powdered cinnamon, and then add the sugar and Honey. Work these until well mixed, then put the paste on to a floured table and roll it out thinly. With a small round tin cutter cut the paste into cakes, lay them on a floured tin, and bake in a brisk oven. (4) Put fib. of butter, loz. of ground cinnamon, and loz. of bicarbonate of soda into a basin, and work them until they are of a creamy consistence; then add fib. of Honey and 2 table-spoonfuls df orange-flower water. Mix well with a wooden spoon, and add three eggs, beat them all for ten minutes, and then add 20oz. of flour, and work for another ten minutes. Butter and sprinkle with flour some tin flat moulds, dust a little finely-powdered sugar over the mixture, fill the moulds with it, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, cover over the tops with orange icing. Honey Candy.—Mix and stir well together fib. each of sugar and Honey, f teacupful of rich sweet cream, and 1 dessert- spoonful of cold water, and let it stand for an hour. Put it over a moderate fire and cook, stirring gently till it is stiff enough to pull; then pour it into several buttered tins. When sufficiently cooled, pull each lot separately, forming them when done into squares. Honey Brink flavoured with Cloves.—Put lib. of Honey into a large jar, set it in a bain-marie or in a saucepan half full of boiling water, and let it remain until melted and quite thin; then add foz. of essence (or tincture) of cloves and 1 tumblerful of brandy or gin, and it is ready. Honey Bove Cakes (German).—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Honey into a saucepan with 12oz. of powdered loaf sugar, bring them gently to the boil, throw in 4oz. of almonds with their skins left on and cut into pieces, simmer for about five minutes longer, remove the pan from the fire, add 8oz. of candied peel cut up into small pieces, f teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, half of a grated nutmeg, 1 drachm of ground cloves, Joz. of ground cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, and lastly 1 wineglassful of rum. The peel, &c., should not be added until the mixture has slightly cooled. Turn the dough out on to a board, and while still warm roll it out as thin as possible; now cut it into oblong shapes, 4in. long by 2in. wide, put them on well-floured baking-tins, and let them stand for twelve hours or so in a cool place. Put them into a moderate oven, bake them, taking care they do not brown, mask with sugar icing, and when this is set the cakes are ready for use. (2) Put 101b. of strained Honey into a bright copper basin, place it on the fire, and when the contents begin to boil add sufficient flour to form a stiffish dough. Let it get cold, and to each 51b. of dough add l|oz. of bicarbonate of soda and any spices desired ; mix well, and with it fill more moulds, pressing down firmly. Put them close together on a baking- sheet, and bake in a moderately-hot oven. When done, turn them out, wash over with a solution of gum or glue-water to give them a brilliant glossy appearance, let them get cold, cut up into shapes, and they are ready. Half Honey and half molasses may be used, and they can be further enriched by adding chopped almonds, citron, or raisins. Honey Nougat. — Put ljlb. each of sugar and strained Honey in a saucepan over a very gentle fire, and stir till it Fig. 960. Honey Nougats. is quite brittle, which can be ascertained by putting a little into cold water. Add the well-beaten whites of three eggs, and stir them well in. If a little of the mixture be rolled between the fingers and should not be sticky, stir in a flavouring of orange essence, and then mix in 1 Alb. of sweet 3 M