856 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectivp Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. them. Rub well, both inside and out, with fib. of salt, using the hands for the purpose. Spread a coarse cloth over a baking-tin, lay the Lemons on it, and put them in a very slow oven until all the juice has dried up. Make a muslin bag, and put in it 6oz. of mustard-seed, Goz. of garlic, 1 Joz. each of nutmeg and mace broken into small pieces, twenty-four cloves, and twenty-four dry chillies. Tie the bag up loosely, place it in a lined pan, pour in Ingalls, of white vinegar, and boil until v/ell flavoured with the contents of the bag. Pack the Lemons when dried in a large earthenware jar, and pour the boiling vinegar over them; put the bag of spices in also, cover the jar, and keep it in a very warm temperature, shaking once every day for a fortnight. At the end of that time the jar may be moved to a cooler place. Then pack the pickle into small jars and keep them closely covered till wanted for use. (8) Cut a dozen small Lemons into quarters, and put them in a lined saucepan with 3qts. of vinegar, six cloves of garlic, Joz. each of nutmeg, cloves, and mace, foz. of cayenne pepper, fib. of mustard, and lib. of salt. Boil the pickle for twenty minutes, then turn the whole into a large earthenware jar. Keep the jar closely covered, but shake the contents well every day. In about six weeks’ time the pickle will be ready for use. (9) Select middling-sized Lemons, and pass a skewer lengthwise through the centre of each; then push in as much salt as will go, lay them on a deep dish, dust lightly over with salt, and keep them in a cool dry cellar for a week, turning occasionally. At the end of that time put the Lemons in a jar with 2oz. each of horseradish and ginger, loz. of turmeric, J table-spoonful of mustard-flour, four shallots, Joz. of cayenne pepper, Joz. of Indian pepper, and sufficient wliito-wine vinegar to cover. Place bladder over the jar, and tie down tightly so as to render it perfectly air-tight. Keep the pickle in a dry cupboard. It will not be ready for use in less than a twelvemonth. The above quantities of spices are given for about eight Lemons. (10) Grate the yellow rinds of two dozen Lemons into a small quantity of vinegar. Cut the Lemons into quarters with- out quite separating them at the bottom, rub over equally Jib. of powdered salt, put them into a stone jar, and stand in a warm place near the fire until the juice has dried up. Then put in with them a blade of mace, a few cloves beaten fine, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, a clove of garlic, peeled and sliced, and J pint of mustard-seed, bruised. Pom- over the whole 2qts. of boiling vinegar, including that in which the peel was grated. Cover the jar closely and keep it in a warm temperature for a week, shaking the contents vigorously every day. At the end of that time, tie a piece of bladder tightly oA^er the jar and put by for three months. When ready, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, let it stand a day or tAVO until quite clear, then pour the pickle into bottles, and cork tightly. This is very good for flavouring steAvs, ragohts, fish, sauces, &c. (11) Wipe the Lemons carefully over Avitli a toAvel, put them in a jar, and pour over sufficient boiling salted Avater to cover Avell, allowing 1 breakfast-cupful of salt to lqt. of water. Stand a plate on the top of the jar, and let the Lemons steep for five days. At the end of that time, strain off the Avater, cover the Lemons AArith fresh boiling salted Avater, replace the plate, and let them steep for ten days longer; then pour all the Avater oft’ the Lemons, and put in Avith them plenty of cayenne pepper and powdered ginger, and a small quantity of finely-chopped shallot. Pour over sufficient boiling vinegar to cover Avell, leave it until cold, and tie a piece of stout paper or parchment over. Preserved Lemons.—Select sound and moderately thick- skinned Lemons, cut out a piece about Jin. in diameter from the stalk-end, and with a blunt knife scoop out all the insides. Place the peels hi spring water, leave them for a couple of days, changing the Avater twice or three times a day, then put them into a saucepan Avith more spring water and boil till quite tender, keeping the pan covered and boiling sloAvly. Prepare a syrup, using 21b. of sugar and 1 pint of Avater to each pound of fruit; add the juice of one Lemon, clarify the syrup, skim AA-ell, and let it get cold. Put in the peels, and boil for half-an-hour, or until quite clear. They are then reaily for packing aAA'ay Avith their syrup in bottles. Lemons—continued. Preserved Lemon-Juice.—(1) Select the required quantity of large fresh Lemons, squeeze the juice out, strain, and pour it into bottles, putting just enough olive oil hi each to cover the surface. Cork the bottles tightly, and keep them hi a dry cupboard till Avanted for use. (2) Squeeze and strain the juice from some Lemons, measure it, and for every J pint use Jib. of caster sugar. Mix them thoroughly together, then stir, Avith a silver spoon, over the fire in a lined saucepan till the sugar has dis- solved; pour the juice hito bottles, cork them, tie some bladder tightly over the top of each, and keep in a dry cupboard till Avanted for use. (3) When all the juice has been squeezed out of the Lemons, filter it through flannel, pour it into a brass preserving-pan, and place it over a sIoav fire. When at boiling-point, remove the juice from the fire, and AAhen cooled sufficiently, bottle, and cork them tightly. Lime- juice can be preserved hi the same AA-ay, and Avill keep for years. Preserved Lemon-Peel.—Scrape off the Avliite pith from some Lemon-peel, and put the yelloAV part hito a large, Avide-moutlied bottle; cover Ai’ith brandy, cork the bottle tightly, and keep hi a diy store-cupboard. Any pieces of peel that have been left after the juice has been squeezed out of the Lemons may be put in Avith the aboA-e, but must be first scraped clean. Preserved Whole Lemons.—Select the required quantity of Lemons, and peel very thinly. Cut a hole at the top of each Lemon about Jin. in diameter, and take out all the pulp and skin. Rub them Avith salt, putting each one in cold Avater as it is done. Let them remain in it for liAre days, then take them out, put them into salted Avater, and boil for fifteen minutes. Make a thin syrup Avith lqt. of Avater and lib. of loaf sugar, put the Lemons in it, and boil five minutes every day for six days. Then put them into jars, pour the syrup over, and let them stand for trvo months. At the end of that period, take the Lemons out of the syrup, and make a fresh syrup with double-refined sugar and only sufficient AA-ater to moisten. Put the Lemons in, and boil them sloAvly till clear. Place them in small jars, put paper dipped in brandy over them, then stouter paper on the top, and tie doAvn closely. Keep in a dry place till Avanted for use. Tincture of Lemons.—(1) Cut the rinds thinly from three dozen Lemons, put them into a boAvl Avith Jgall. of pure spirits of Avine, let them macerate for about three days, pour off the liquor, let it settle, and Avhen quite bright it is ready for use. The Lemons used should have, bright, thick skins, and as green as possible, providing the fruit is sound and full groAvn. The thin peel from tAvelve Lemons should weigh about 9oz. The spirits used must be 16ileg. over proof, which can be obtained by taking 3qts. of ordinary spirit of 55deg. over proof and adding sufficient Avater to make the Avliole up to lgall. (2) It is a good plan to have a Avide-mouthed pint or half- pint bottle, Avith a good cork or stopper, half filled Avith brandy, and Avhenever a Lemon is required for the juice alone, to pare off’ the yelloAv rind as thinly as possible and drop it into the brandy. Whisky or any other proof spirit may be used for this purpose instead of brandy. In a fortnight the spirit Avill lie strongly flavoured Avith Lemon- peel. If aLvays Avell corked, it Avill keep for a length of time. LENT PIE.—See Pies. LENT SANDWICHES.—See Sandwiches. LENT SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. LENT SOUP.—See Soups. LENTILS (Fr. Lentilles; Ger. Linsen; Ital. Len- ticchie; Sp. Lentejas).—These are the fruit of a legu- minous plant, Lens esementa. They are smaller than ordinary peas, and are shaped like a double convex lens. Lentils are largely cultivated for food on the Conti- nent of Eirrope and in many parts of Asia, and are the