773 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Hotch-potch, or Hotch-pot—continued. carrot, half the sliced turnips and carrots, and lib. of dried green peas which have been steeping in water the whole of the previous night. Let these vegetables boil together for two hours ; take out the whole turnip and carrot, mash them, and put them back again into the saucepan, adding the mutton cutlets, the remainder of the sliced carrots and turnips, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Let it boil gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Half-an-bour before serving, add an onion and a head of celery, both cut up small. (10) Put into 3qts. of boiling water 21b. of leg of beef, lib. of old peas that have been stewed tender, twelve medium- sized carrots scraped, washed, and cut small, and four onions peeled and sliced ; let this boil for an-hour-and-a-half, then add another lib. of old peas boiled tender and 21b. of mutton chops ; beans and turnips may also be added, but if the Hotch-potch be kept till the day after it is cooked (and some people consider it best), the turnips are apt to turn sour. After the second |lb. of peas and the mutton chops are added, the Hotch-potch should boil for another hour-and-a-half. When done it should be as thick as porridge. Serve the mutton chops in it, but take out the beef. HOT-CLOSETS.—Every kitchen should he furnished with one or more of these. The style generally in use in private kitchens is one that answers the purpose also Fig. 963. Hot-closet. of a roasting-screen (see Fig. 963). In large hotel- kitchens, where it is frequently necessary to keep hot joints, poultry, vegetables, tarts, and other foods for a prolonged service, specially constructed Hot-closets are necessary; but for all ordinary purposes that shown in the illustration answers admirably. HOT CROSS BUNS.—See Buns. HOT PINT.—See Het Pint. HOT-WATER DISHES— See Dishes. HOUCHEN.—This is a fresh-water fish, resembling a salmon with this exception, that it is more elongated in the body and nearly round, and its skin is dotted with black spots. It is to be met with in the Danube, in Styria, and in Bavaria, and weighs from 101b. to 251b. In South Germany it is very much esteemed for the excellence, whiteness, and palatableness of its fiesh. It should be boiled in a little court bouillon with white wine, and served with oyster sauce. The wine may be omitted, and crayfish sauce used instead of the oyster sauce. HOWTOWDIE.—This dish is very much in favour in Scotland, and is prepared as follows: Draw a young chicken, truss it as for boiling, and stuff with veal forcemeat. Put it in a saucepan with lib. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, six onions, one clove, three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and pour over them 1 breakfast-cupful of stock. Place the lid closely on the pan, and put on the side of the fire to simmer for an hour or so until done. When Howtowdie—continued. about half-done, turn it, and add another breakfast-cupful of stock. Roll some boiled spinach into the shape of balls, flatten them on the top, and put a poached egg on each. Put the Fig. 964. Howtowdie. fowl on a dish, and place the eggs or spinach round it; work a little flour thickening into the gravy, then pour it over, and serve with a few mushrooms. See Pig. 964. HUCKLEBERRIES.—See Bilberries. HUMBLES, or UMBLES.-Tlie internal organs of the deer. These are excellent when made into a pie, and have no doubt suggested the expression “ eating humble pie,” the viscera usually falling to the lot of the hunts- men’s servants. HUNGARIAN WINES.—Of these the most famous are Tokay, Red Carlow it/,, and Paluggy. HUNG BEEF.—See Beef. HUNTERS’ BEEF.—See Beef. HUNTERS’ SOUP.—See Soups. HUNTING PUDDING.—See Puddings. HUSSARD GARNISH.—See Garnishes. HYDROCHLORIC ACID.—The Hydrochloric Acid of commerce is a solution of Hydrochloric Acid gas, and is commonly called spirits of salts. It is very useful for cleaning culinary utensils, &c. HYDROMEL.—A drink made by dissolving honey in boiling water and cooling with ice. Greatly appre- ciated by fever patients. HYGIENE.—This is described as the art of pre- serving health, in which good cookery takes an active part. Practical Hygiene may therefore be considered as one of the chief studies of this Encyclopaedia. HYSSOP.—This is a small lusty herb (Hyssopus offici- nalis), growing in Southern Europe. The flowers are sometimes used medicinally when made into a tea, as follows : Put |oz. of dried Hyssop-flowers in a basin and pour 1 pint of boiling water over them. Cover the basin, and let it remain for fifteen minutes; pass the liquor through a strainer, mix in 1 teaspoonful of honey or sugar, and it is ready for use. ICE (Fr. Glace; Ger. Eis; Ital. Gliiaccio; Sp. Hielo).—Next to heat in importance to the cook is cold ; and this, which can be applied to so many purposes, is chiefly obtained by the use of Ice. The great bulk of Ice purveyed in this cpuntry comes from Norway, where what are called Ice-harvests provide a very considerable item of commerce. Wenham Lake Ice is estimated very highly for its purity, and gives its name to a good deal that is not so pure, although probably it is quite pure enough for refrigerating purposes. To the investigations of chemistry we are indebted for a knowledge, exaggerated in most cases, of the impurities contained in water obtained from various sources, and that these impurities exist in Ice we have every reason to believe; therefore, it is not