TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 734 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Haddocks—con tinned. drain the fish, place it on a very hot dish, spread the prepared butter over, garnish with parsley, and serve with as little delay as possible. Broiled Smoked Haddock.—Brush a fish over with butter softened by warming, sprinkle pepper over, place it on a gridiron over the fire, and broil until done, or it may be cooked in front of the fire. Serve hot. Dried-Haddock Brittens.— Put the fish in soak the night before it is wanted, then on the following morning scrape and wash it in plenty of water. Put Jib- of flour in a basin, and mix it smoothly with sufficient water to make a thin batter, put in it, in moderate quantities, some finely-chopped onion, parsley, and a small quantity of finely-chopped red peppers. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when boiling, drop about 1 teacupful of the batter into it, and lay a piece ol the fish in it; fry it until brown, then cover the fish with more batter and turn it over. When nicely fried on both sides, drain the fritters, and proceed the same with the remainder of the fish and batter. Pile them on a hot dish Fig. 912. Dried-Haddock Fritters. with a dish-paper or folded napkin on it (see Fig. 912). and serve. These fritters should be fried very slowly, to ensure the fish being properly cooked. Dried-Haddock Toasts.—Finely chop |lb. of dried Haddock and two gherkins, put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, season with pepper and salt, and stir them over the fire till hot. Cut some slices of bread, fry them till golden brown in butter, then drain them. Put a heap of the fish mixture on each of the toasts, sprinkle some over with lobster coral that has been passed through a fine hair sieve, some with finely-chopped parsley, and the remainder with finely-chopped white of hard-boiled eggs, and the yolk passed through a fine hair sieve. Arrange the croutons tastefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Dried Haddock with Tomatoes.—Soak a dried Haddock in cold water for several hours, then drain it, pour boiling water over, and leave it for about two hours longer. After- wards skin and bone it, and break the flesh into flakes with two forks. Peel and slice a moderate-sized onion, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry it. When the onion is cooked, put in a sliced ripe tomato, fry it for three or four minutes, then put in the fish, dust over with pepper, and strew in a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Toss the contents of the saucepan about over the fire until the fish is thoroughly heated, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Pried Smoked Haddock.—Soak a Haddock in olive oil for several hours, then put it in a frying-pan with the oil, and fry until done. Pepper well, and serve. HAGGIS.—This famous Scotch national dish is commonly regarded, excepting by the Scotch, as one of those mysterious concoctions that are rather to be avoided than courted. It has the merit, at any rate, of an ancient history, and lias been immortalised by Robert Burns as the “ Great Chieftain of the Pudding Race.” It will be seen hereunder that there is nothing mysterious about the manufacture, so perhaps there is a chance that its popularity may spread in time, especially Haggis—continued. as it is possible to manufacture a Haggis in Scotland and forward it to any part of the world. We are informed by a Scotch publication that “ a Haggis boiled for two hours may be kept for a week or two, and when cold gets so firm that Haggises are often sent from Scotland to distant countries. They must in this case be made very dry, and covered with oatmeal; nor will a Haggis keep so well if there is onion put to it.” It is satisfactory to learn that the Haggis can be served turned out of the sheep's paunch, if the shape of the pudding is not desired. The term Haggis is derived from the word hack, with which is associated the French hacher, to chop up, the Haggis consisting, as will be seen by the following receipts, in the chopping up of sheep’s fry and other parts, and has no reference whatever to the paunch, or pluck, in which the meat is contained. (1) This is the famous Meg Dod’s receipt: Clean a sheep’s paunch or stomach, washing it well in several waters. Soak it in salted water and let it remain for several hours, turn it inside out, and scald in a basin of boiling water. Scrape it well—taking care not to cut it or make any thin places in it, as they would burst in cooking— and put it in cold water until wanted for use. Clean a sheep’s pluck, and let the blood out of the liver and heart by pricking them all over. Put the liver and lights into a saucepan of water, and boil for fifteen minutes ; change the water, boil for forty- five minutes longer, add the rest of the pluck, and boil for another thirty minutes, making an-honr-and-a-half in all. Remove any part of the skin that is discoloured, take out the liver, cut it in halves, grate one half of it, and mince the other half with the remainder of the pluck. Mince lib. of beef-suet and two onions, and mix them in with 1 breakfast- cupful of well-dried oatmeal, 1 table-spoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, a little grated nutmeg and cayenne, a little lemon-juice, and 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy. When they are well incorporated, put the mixture in the paunch, sew it up, leaving room for swelling in cooking, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, boil up, place it at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three hours, pricking it a little when first cooking to let out the air and prevent it bursting. Immediately it is taken out of the saucepan it Fig. 913. Haggis. must be placed on a dish (see Fig. 913) and served. Sufficient gravy will be found inside as soon as it is cut without the addition of any more served with it. A little beef may also be used in the mixture, but it is not an improvement. If a lamb’s paunch is used, as it sometimes is, great care must be taken to see that all the thin places are sewn up. A calf’s paunch may be used if desired, but the sheep’s is the best. (2) If possible procure the stomach of a sheep, wash the bags in several waters, rubbing well with salt to purify them, then scald them in boiling water. Scrape the bags very carefully with a knife so as not to cut any part of the membrane. Prepare a strong brine, and soak the bags in it for twelve hours. Wash the lights, liver, and heart thoroughly, and hang them up to dry for twelve hours. Put the lights, heart, and liver into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil gently. Take the small bag with the windpipe attached, wash it free of the brine, put it into a saucepan by itself, leaving the pipe hanging outside the pan, pour in