949 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fec., referred to, see under their special heads. Morels —continued. Stewed Morels.—(1) Trim the ends of the stems and split lib. of Morels crosswise, wash them thoroughly, then put them into boiling water that lias been slightly acidulated with vinegar or lemon-juice. Drain at once ; put them in a saucepan with a good-sized lump of butter and the juice of a lemon, place the lid on, and stand it over the lire until the butter has reduced. When cooked, turn the Morels on to a hot dish, and serve them either plain or with any sauce liked; or they may be served as a garnish. (2) Put lib. of Morels quite dry into a cloth, and shake for a-quarier-of-an hour to free them from sand; then put them into a small bowl with a seasoning of pepper and salt, 1 dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and 2oz. of butter. Cover the bowl and steam them for fifteen minutes. This may be done by taking the lid oft' a kettle of boiling water and fitting in the bowl of Morels in place of the lid. Serve thin slices of bread-and-butter with them. (3) Wash lib. of Morels, and cut the very large ones into quarters, leaving the small ones whole. Put them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of sherry, and sufficient gravy to cover, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of beaten mace, put them over the fire until the liquor boils, then move them to the side and stew gently for f.n hour. Knead loz. of butter with 1 table spoonful of flour, and when the Morels are cooked, put it in with them, add 1 table spoonful of lemon-juice, and stir over the fire until the gravy is thick and boiling. Turn the Morels on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve while very hot. Stuffed Morels.—After cleaning the Morels, cut them at the bottom far enough to admit a forcemeat of cold chopped meat and bread, highly seasoned, or of partly-cooked sausage-meat; close them with a wooden or small metal skewer, lay them on small slices of bread, and place in a moderate oven to bake for about ten minutes, or until tender. Serve on the toast, very hot. MORELLOS.—See Cherries. MOBET.-A wine formerly made of honey—it is not manufactured now. MORINGA.—A tree (Moringa pterygosperma) that grows wild in Jamaica and other warm climates. The root of it is extensively used for culinary purposes in the countries where it grows, and for that reason it is popularly known as the horseradish tree. MOROCANELLA.—One of the sweet wines of Cyprus. MOSCATA.—The name of an Italian wine produced j in Piedmont. MOSELLE.—The name of a well-known German wine, which is produced from the grapes that flourish on the banks and slopes of the Moselle. Sparkling Moselle is said to dei-ive its characteristic flavour from the intro- duction of elder-flowers during the fermentation. Moselle Cup.—(1) Boil a little loaf sugar in a very small quantity of water to a thin syrup. Empty a bottle of Moselle into a jug, and mix with it 1 teacupful of water, two slices of cucumber, and a small quantity of borage, and leave it for two hours. At the end of that time, strain the Moselle through a fine sieve, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry and half a liqueur-glassful of maraschino with it, and add the syrup. Pack the jug containing the Moselle in pounded ice and a very small quantity of salt, and leave till frozen. Serve in small glasses. (2) Cut three brandied peaches into halves, put them without their stones at the bottom of a howl, pour overl wine- glassful each of maraschino and curapoa, then add 1 bottle of iced Chablis, next f breakfast-cupful of crushed ice, stir well to mix, but taking care not to move the peaches at the bottom, pour in lastly 1 bottle of iced Moselle, give one stir, and serve at once. MOSS.—See Carrageen and Iceland Moss. MOULDING.—See Gum Paste. MOULDS (Fr. Moules).—These are made either of tin copper, or earthenware, and are as various (see Pig. 11901 Fig. 1190. Moulds. as the articles requiring their use. Those which are manu- factured for special purposes will be found described under special headings. MOUNTAIN ASH.—See Ashberries. MOUNTAIN CAKE.—See Cakes. MOUSSE.—Fr. for froth or foam, and applied to some forms of culinary preparations, such as Chestnut Mousse, Chocolate Mousse, Coffee Mousse, Strawberry Mousse. &c. MOUSSELINE CAKE.—See Cakes. MOXIE.—A nerve-food beverage manufactured in America. The preparation and ingredients are secret. MUFFINS.—It has been claimed for the British baker that he alone can make a Muffin; but it is almost to be feared, if this ever were so, that the prestige has passed over to America, where Muffins are made of various Hours, and so light and digestible that it is a question if they are not rather an American dish. The word “ Muffin ” is said to be derived from muff, because they are puffy and warm ; but this derivation is apparently too far-fetched to be worthy of much attention. Charles Dickens has immor- talised Muffins as well as their allies crumpets, in his writings although it scarcely needed such advocacy to make them the favourite British tea-cake. Prom the following receipts it will be seen that there is a variety of ways of making Muffins—all that is required in the way of apparatus being a bowl for the batter, a whisk, a ladle, set of muffin-rings, and a baking-sheet or hot plate to set them on. See Crumpets. (1) Put 1. breakfast-cupful of milk that has been boiled into a basin, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, the yolk and white of an egg beaten separately, and i teacupful of yeast, adding sufficient flour to make a light drop batter. Put the basin in front of the fire so that the batter may rise, leave it there for five or six hours, then add It table-spoonfuls of wrrmed butter, and mix well. Have ready some Muffin-rings, two- thirds fill them with the batter, let them rise again for a- quarter-of-an-hour, and then bake in a hot oven until done. They may also be baked in Muffin-rings on a griddle, in which case the melted butter must be added at the first, and the rings and griddle well greased. Take up a spoonful of the batter without letting any of the air bubbles escape, fill up the rings, and when the Muffins are cooked brown, and have well risen, turn the Muffin with the ring, and brown on the other side. They should be pulled asunder and not cut when wanted for use. (2) Put 1 pint of Hour into a basin, and mix in 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Break the yolks of two eggs in a basin and pour in 1 teacupful each of milk and warmed butter. Pour these two mixtures into one basin, mix well, and add the beaten whites of two eggs. Two-thirds fill some Muffin- rings, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Turn them out when done, and serve. Two table-spoonfuls of