722 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Grouse—continued. or fat ham at the bottom of a braising-pan, place the birds over them, sprinkle oyer chopped onion and parsley, season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar, cover with more pork or ham, and pour in pint of stock or water. Cover the pan, place it on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and let the Grouse cook gently until they are tender. Put the birds on a dish, garnish with watercress, strain the gravy, thicken it with browned flour, boil up once more, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. See Fig. 896. (2) Prepare and truss two Grouse. Put a layer of streaky bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, then put the Grouse in ; pack round them two or three pieces of celery, one onion stuck with six cloves, a bunch of parsley, some sprigs of sweet herbs, a few slices of carrot, and twelve peppercorns. Peel and slice a raw beetroot and one onion, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry; when brown, stir in £ pint of broth, and then pour this into the braising-pan with the Grouse. Drop in a tea- spoonful of brandy, cover the birds with buttered paper, put the lid on the braising-pan, with a few live embers on the top, and cook till tender. Take the Grouse out, place them on a hot dish, and stand it in the oven, leaving the door a little way open ; strain the liquor from the vegetables into another pan, skim off the fat, and reduce it to half glaze; pour in with it 1 teacupful of brown sauce and 1 table- spoonful of red wine, boil for seven minutes, then strain it over the birds ; cut the bacon into small pieces, garnish the dish with it, also chopped boiled carrots, and serve. Broiled Grouse.—(1) Singe, draw, and wipe three Grouse, split them in halves through the back without separating the parts, lay them in a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil. Koll them well in it, then put them over a brisk fire, and broil for seven minutes on each side. Put a finely-chopped shallot and 1 table- spoonful of butter in a small saucepan on the hot range, cook for one minute, add two chopped mushrooms, moisten with 1 table-spoonful of rich sauce, add 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, mix all together, season with salt and cayenne, and cook for one-minute-and-a-quarter longer. Pour the sauce on a hot dish, place the Grouse over it, decorate the dish with slices of broiled bacon, lemon and truffles, and serve very hot. (2) Singe, draw, and wipe two fat Grouse, split them in halves through the back without separating the parts, lay them on a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 table- spoonful of sweet-oil. Koll them well in it, and put them to broil on a brisk fire for seven minutes on each side. Place four pieces of hot, buttered toast on a hot dish, arrange the Grouse on them, mask with maitre-d’hotel butter, garnish with thin slices of broiled bacon, and serve. Fillets of Grouse Sautes.—(1) Cut each of the fillets of four Grouse into two slices, then trim and beat them lightly. Melt 2oz. of butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets with a small piece of glaze, season with salt, pepper, and a little lemon-juice, and cook over a moderate fire, keeping them rather underdone. When done, drain the butter from the fillets, pour in 1 pint of half-glaze, and add some small forcemeat quenelles. Boil the sauce, take out the fillets, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, or else on a mound of mashed potatoes; put the quenelles in the centre, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fig. 897. Fillets of Grouse Sautes. (2) Koast some young Grouse; when cooked, cut the fillets carefully from the birds, and mask each one with some game forcemeat. Butter a saute-pan, put in the fillets, Grouse—continued. cover them with white stock, and simmer gently for ten minutes; cut some slices of bread jin. in thickness, 3in. long and lin. wide, and fry them in butter till lightly browned. Arrange the fillets and croutons of bread alter- nately on a hot dish, making a circle of them, pour some game half-glaze over them, and serve. See Fig. 897. Fried Grouse with Breadcrumbs.—Draw and singe three or four young Grouse, cut them lengthwise in halves, split the drum-stick, and thrust it inside the hip (see Trussing) ; beat each half slightly, skin them, roll them in clarified butter, dip them in breadcrumbs, and fry over a clear slow fire for twelve minutes, turning so that both sides shall be cooked equally. When they are done, arrange them on a dish, and serve with game sauce. Fried Grouse Cutlets. — Prepare three young Grouse and cut them lengthwise in halves ; split the drum-stick and thrust it inside the hip (see Trussing); beat each half slightly, skin them, roll them in clarified butter and breadcrumbs, .season with salt and pepper, and fry for twelve minutes over a moderate fire, turning them so as to cook both sides. Make a sauce as follows: Put a small bunch of herbs in a saucepan with 2 dessert-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and the juice of two lemons; boil for two minutes with the cover on the pan, add 1 teacupful of raw mushrooms cut in small squares, simmer till the liquor is reduced, then put in 1 breakfast- cupful of melted meat glaze. When boiling, move the stewpan from the fire, and stir in 5oz. of butter; when the butter is melted, without boiling, and the sauce well thickened, add a little vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of gherkins cut in small squares, 1 teaspoonful of tarragon-leaves chopped small, and 1 table-spoonful of soy. Dish the cutlets, and serve with the sauce poured over. Galantines of Grouse.—Bone two small Grouse, spread them thickly with game forcemeat, cover with strips of rabbit or hare, lean cooked ham, and fat bacon, placed alternately, having the strips the same length as the bird ; season with salt and pepper, and cover with another thick layer of forcemeat. Sew up the birds with thread, then roll them round in cloths. Put them in a stewpan with some vege- tables, cover with stock, and stew till tender. Wlien cooked, take the birds out of the cloths, put them" in fresh Fig. 898. Galantines of Grouse. ones, with their sewn parts at the top, and tie the cloths at each end. Put them in a deep dish, baste with half their cooking-liquor, place another dish over them with a heavy weight on it, and press till cold. Prepare a thin puree of Grouse, and leave it till nearly cold. Take the birds out of the cloths, and dip them into the Grouse puree, giving them a thick coating, then sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs fried brown in butter, and some chopped pistachios ; put them on a dish, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, slices of lemon, and parsley, and serve. See Fig. 898. Grouse Cromeskies. — Cut the flesh of two cold cooked Grouse into small pieces, pound it in a mortar, and when smooth pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put about 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, place it over the fire, and when melted put in the meat; season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and stir until hot. Next move the saucepan to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and the juice of half a lemon; turn the mixture on to a dish and leave it until cool. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of oil mixed with 1 table-spoonful of water; next stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of tepid water to make a thin batter, then add the well-whisked white of one egg. Cut some thin