THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 781 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. J am—continued. the smell and smoke coming up through the boiling Jam, and the only remedy is to take off the pan, empty out the Jam, clean the pan thoroughly, return the Jam, and continue boiling, but with more care and attention. The Jam is done when a little of it put on a cold plate sets, or “ jellies ” as it is called, and does not run. It may then be put into clean dry jars. Mr. E. Skuse, who may be considered one of the most experienced Jam-makers in the world, mentions the follow- ing improvements upon the old-fashioned manner of covering the pots after filling. He writes, “Jam, jelly, or marmalade, if properly boiled with its due proportion of sugar, will keep good for years, in either glass, china, or earthenware vessels, without the aid of vinegar, brandy, or spirits of any kind. The old style of dipping the paper, for covering over the preserves, in spirits is simply useless, and therefore a needless expense; if the Jam is required for keeping any length of time, the surface, when set, may be slightly oiled with the best olive or salad-oil, which will prevent any incrustation forming on the top. It is not necessary when covering to make them air-tight, as they will keep just as well without any covering at all, and the only benefit in covering is to keep the dust from the contents.” He further observes, “It is an exploded fallacy to suppose that Jam made from wet fruit will not keep, although dry fruit is always preferable.” Upon the subject of “Cheap Jams” Mr. Skuse makes some very appropriate remarks. He informs us that beginners in Jam-making, especially for wholesale pur- poses, are under the impression that there is something used by the trade besides fruit and sugar to increase the bulk and cheapen the product. “ Many of them commence a series of experiments with turnips, vegetable marrows, cornflour, ground rice, Irish moss,” &c., but as far as he has been able to learn, the result of such conglomeration has been a complete failure. His experience goes to prove that a mixture of vegetables and fruit ferments readily, and where farinaceous matter has been used the Jam becomes dry and sour. “ Although opposed,” he con- tinues, “ to the introduction of any foreign matter into the Jam-pan, I do not advocate that what may be termed our fine Jams, such as raspberry, black-currant, straw- berry, &c., should be made from the fruit and sugar only, as I am of opinion that these Jams are not only cheapened, but improved by the addition of apples.” These are added in the form of apple-jelly, so that the apple is not conspicuous, and the proportion of apple- jelly to other fruit should not exceed one-half. Receipts for making and using special Jams will be found under their various headings. The following are suitable for any kind: Jam Dumpling. — Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from lib. of beef-suet, chop it as finely as possible, and mix with lib. of flour. Dissolve I teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 1 saltspoonful of salt in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stir it into the flour until quite smooth, then mix in thoroughly 1 breakfast-cupful of any kind of Jam. Dip a pudding-cloth in boiling water, wring it out, spread it over a bowl, dredge with flour, and pour the pudding mixture into it. Tie the cloth round with twine, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the dumpling out on to a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Jam Plotters.—Cut some sponge cakes into halves, spread them over with Jam, moisten the edges, and stick them firmly together. Make a batter, using white wine in place of milk, add the well-whipped whites of three eggs, dip the cakes into it, and fry them in boiling butter. When well browned, drain the fritters, dredge over with icing sugar, and glaze them under a salamander or in the oven. Arrange the fritters on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Jam Ice.—Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Empty a pound pot of Jam into a basin with 1 pint of cream, and beat well; pass the mixture through a J am—continued. fine hair sieve, sweeten with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and strain in the juice of one lemon. When the isinglass is nearly cold, mix it with the other ingredients, and whisk them till they begin to thicken. Turn the mixture into a mould, pack it in ice, and leave it for a few hours. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn out the contents on to a fancy dish. Jam Pudding1.—(1) Cut three slices of stale household bread about lin. in thickness, trim off all the crusts, and cut the slices into small rounds with a tin cutter; spread half of them over with blackberry Jam and the remainder with apricot Jam, or any other kind may be used; place them in alternate layers in a deep dish. Put 1 wineglassful each of sherry and brandy into a basin, and mix with them the strained juice of one lemon, and sugar to taste. Pour the liquor over the bread, and leave until it is all absorbed. Beat well the yolks of five eggs, pour them in a saucepan with lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste, and stir over a slow fire until thickened; then move it off. Blanch about 2 table- spoonfuls of sweet almonds, and split them lengthwise each into three or four pieces. Stick the almonds over the top of the soaked bread, pour over the custard, and let it get cold before serving. Fig. 975. Jam Pudding. (2) Prepare a rich suet crust, butter a pudding-basin, line it with some of the crust, and roll the remainder out very thin. Spread a layer of black-currant or plum Jam at the bottom of the basin, then put in a thin flat of the crust; over that spread another thick layer of Jam, add another flat of paste, and so on till the basin is full, making the last layer of crust. Tie a pudding-cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil quickly for two or three hours, keeping up the supply of water. When cooked, untie the cloth, place a hot dish over the pudding, then quickly reverse the positions and take off the basin, thus leaving the pudding on the dish. Serve the pudding while hot. (3) Chop finely a sufficient quantity of beef-suet to fill a breakfast-cup, put it into a basin, and mix with it 1 break- fast-cupful each of flour, finely-grated stale breadcrumb, any kind of Jam, and 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Dis- solve 1 saltspoonful of salt and 1 heaped teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in I pint of milk, stir it in with the other ingredients, and work until they are all thoroughly incorporated. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height. Steam the pudding for two hours, taking care that the water does not enter at the top. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce. (4) Put loz. of soaked gelatine in a saucepan with J tea- cupful of milk, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Beat well three eggs and mix them with lqt. of cream and Jib. of caster sugar. Pour this mixture into a jug, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and place it over the fire until it thickens. Remove the cream from the fire, leave it until quite cold, then stir in gradually the dissolved gelatine, I pint of rum, and 1 breakfast-cupful of raspberry-and-cur- rant or other kind of Jam. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and pack in pounded ice and salt, or stand it in a very cold place until firm. When ready, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (5) Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with thinly-cut slices of bread-and-butter; then fill it up with layers of bread-and- butter and Jam. Beat two eggs with II breakfast-cupfuls of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a