THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 929 Medlars—continued. water, and tie a piece of stout paper over the jar. Put it in a slow oven, and leave for twelve hours. At the end of that time, strain all the juice off the Medlars, hut with- out pressing, measure it, and for every breakfast-cupful of juice, allow 1 breakfast-cupful of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Put them together in a preserving-pan, and boil until reduced to a jelly, keeping it well skimmed and stirred. When ready, pour the jelly into glasses or jars, and leave until cold. Put a round of brandied paper in each jar, and cover with wet parchment, tying it down. (3) Put the Medlars into a preserving-pan with just sufficient cold water to cover, and boil until soft. After- wards mb them through a fine sieve, measure the pulp, and for every pint allow Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and h teaspoonful of allspice. Put all together into the preserving-pan, and boil gently for lialf-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed and stirred. When ready, turn the jelly into jars, let it get cool, then put in each jar a round of brandied paper; cover with, parchment, tie down, and pack away in a dry store cupboard. (4) Put some ripe Medlars into a jar, stand it in a saucepan, pour in boiling water almost to the height of the jar, but not enough to go over it, and simmer gently. When the Medlars are tender, take them out of the jar, and lay them on a silk sieve with a basin placed underneath to catch the drippings. When all the juice has run from the Medlars, measure it off, and for every breakfast-cupful allow an equal quantity of caster sugar. Put the juice of the Medlars in a lined preserving-pan, and when boiling stir the sugar in hy degrees. When the sugar has quite dissolved, take the pan off' the fire, turn the mixture into a jelly-mould, and leave till set. When ready for serving, dip the mould into lukewarm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, then wipe, turn it quickly over on to a dish, and serve. MEDOC.—A class of clarets produced in the district of that name in the province of Gironde. Amongst these [ are St. Julien, Margeaux, and Lafitte. MELILOT.—A plant of the clover tribe (Melilotus cserulea) of a somewhat aromatic character, used in Switzerland to flavour Sapsago (Schabzeiger) cheese. The stems, leaves, and flowers are crushed up and mixed with the curd, for which reason the plant is known in Switzerland, where it grows wild and profusely, as Zeiger-kraut, or curd-herb. MELISSE, EAU DE.-A liqueur made in Roumania, from Melissa officinalis. MELONS (Fr. Melons; Ger. Melonen; Ital. Poponi; Sp. Melons).—It is a remarkable fact that although the Melon (Cucvmis Melo) may be ranked amongst the Fig. 1150. Water Melon. choicest fruits of all warm countries where it is grown, and of colder countries into which it is imported, very little is known generally of the varieties and their distinguishing characteristics, although in flavour, appearance, and con- figuration they differ widely. Melons—continued. The Melon has been cultivated since the earliest times of which we have any record, especially in those parts of Asia famous for their early civilisation. It was intro- duced into Italy early in the first century, and is mentioned by Pliny (who died a.d. 79) with instruc- tions for the cultivation and modes of forcing. Of the varieties best known to us are Musk Melons and Water Melons (see Fig. 1150), there being many sorts of each and some kinds that it would be difficult to classify as either. In the colour of the flesh also they differ materially, some being white, others greenish, salmon, or red, the greenish being reckoned the best. Fig. 1151. Cantaloup Melon. The Cantaloup Melon (see Fig. 1151) is supposed to have been one of the first ever introduced into Europe; it has a very irregular surface, and both the skin and the Fig. 1152. Coulommier’s Melon. flesh are variable in colour. Coulommier’s Melon (see Fig. 1152) is only remarkable for its hardness and large Fig. 1153. Embroidered Market Melon. size; it is cultivated in the open fields in Normandy. The large Embroidered Market Melon (see Fig. 1153) For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 Y