955 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mullet—continued. lay them on a hot dish, pour Italian or other sauce over them, and serve. This dish is usually named after the sauce used—as h l’ltalienne, h l’Espagnole, &c. (2) Clean eight or nine Red Mullets, put them into a gratin-dish with salt and pepper to season, and pour over a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Mix a little chopped parsley with breadcrumbs, sprinkle it over the fish, add a small quantity of pounded fennel-seeds, baste the fish with oil, put the dish in the oven, and cook the fish, basting frequently with their own liquor. When quite done, put the gratin-dish on another one, and serve very hot. (3) Clean the required quantity of Red Mullet, removing only the gills and leaving the trails and livers intact ; put them into a dish in a moderate oven, and bake for half- an-hour. Take out the dish, dust the fish with salt and pepper, and cover with chopped chives or truffles, mushrooms, ami shallots, also a little parsley and a few sweet herbs. Pour over some rich brown gravy, add 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of red or white wine, set the dish in the oven again, and bake until done. When serving, squeeze over a little lemon-juice. (4) Thickly butter the interior of a baking-dish, and lay the fish in it side by side ; strew over finely-chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake for half-an-hour or more in a good oven. When cooked, remove the paper, and serve in the dish in which they were cooked. (5) Clean a Red Mullet, put it in a moderate oven, and bake until done ; a little time before taking it out of the oven, mix in with the liquor from it a piece of butter rolled in flour and 1 wineglassful of sherry. When done, put the fish on a dish, pour over the liquor, and serve quite hot. (6) Put 2oz. of butter in a dish which can be sent to table, place it in the oven, and when the butter is melted add one or two well-pounded anchovies, and sprinkle with pepper. Put in the fish with a few small pieces of butter .on it, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes or until done, when it will be ready for serving. (7) Clean three Red Mullets, put them in a baking- tin in a moderate oven, pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of anchovy sauce (see ANCHOVIES), and sprinkle with a .little salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallots into a deep saute-pan, and add 1 table-spoonful each of parsley and mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of claret, and a small piece of glaze about the size of a chestnut. Put the pan over the fire, and cook the contents well. When the fish is done, take it out, put it on a dish, pour over the sauce, and se.ve. Baked Red Mullets with. Olives.—Put a sufficient quan- tity of breadcrumbs into a basin to stuff the Mullets, pour over as much warm milk as they will absorb, and leave until well soaked. Beat the crumbs up together with loz. or 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, bind it with the beaten yolk of an egg, and stuff the fish with it. Dust the Mullets with salt and pepper, lay them in a baking-dish with plenty of olive oil, and bake them in the oven. Chop some shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned ; dust over with Hour, pour in as much clear stock as will make the requisite quantity of sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until boiling. Stone and partially boil plenty of Spanish olives, lay them in a stewpan, strain the sauce over them, and simmer at the edge of the fire for ten minutes. When the Mullets are cooked, lay them on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Baked Red Mullets en Papillote.—Fold each Mullet sepa- rately in well-oiled paper, tie the ends, passing the string once or twice round the fish (see Fig. 1199), and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes; lay them on a hot dish, mix the gravy from them with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of port or sherry, the strained juice of half a lemon, a lump of butter, and sufficient flour to thicken ; boil this sauce, and serve it in a small tureen. Cut the string from the fish, Mullet—continued. but serve them in the paper wrapper in which they were baked. Baked Red Mullets with Tomatoes.—Prepare the Mullets and nib them over with salt and pepper; thickly butter a baking-dish, lay the Mullets in it, side by side, strew over plenty of finely-chopped parsley, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Cover the fish with a sheet of paper saturated with olive oil, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove the paper, and serve the fish in the dish hi which they were cooked while very hot. Baked Stuffed Red Mullets with Olives.—Prepare the following stuffing: Soak in milk a sufficient quantity of breadcrumb, then squeeze them dry; mix with them 2oz. of butter, a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and work in well the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. Stuff the Mullets with this mixture, lay them in a baking-dish, dust with salt and pepper, pour over plenty of olive oil, and bake in a moderate oven. Slice a couple of shallots, put them in a saucepan with a little olive oil, and fry until nicely browned. Dredge the shallots with flour, pour in a sufficient quantity of clear stock quite free from fat to make the sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and stir over the fire until boiling. Stone and partially boil a quantity of olives; strain the sauce, return it to the saucepan with the olives, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Place the (Mullets on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Red Mullets a la Momie.—(1) Remove the gills from four or five Red Mullets, leaving their insides intact; dust over with salt and pepper, squeeze over lemon-juice, and let them stand for an hour or so. Cover to about lin. in thickness with fish forcemeat mixed with crayfish butter, smoothing it with a knife dipped in warm water; put the fish on a well-buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, add a mirepoix moistened with 1 pint of champagne and passed through a cloth, set the kettle on the fire, baste the fish frequently with the liquor, and simmer gently for about half-an-hour or until the Mullets are done. Take out, put them on a dish, reduce the liquor to half-glaze, pour it over, and serve with any kind of fish sauce. (2) Clean, marinade, and cover with forcemeat four or five Red Mullets as for No 1. Brush their surfaces with white of egg, and ornament them with slices of truffles cut 4in. in width and the shape of half-moons, so as to give the appearance of scales. Press them with a knife to make them firm, then cook, and serve as for No. 1. Boiled. Red Mullets with. Caper Sauce.—Scale and clean two middling-sized fish, cut oft' the fins, and wash them inside. Dry thoroughly, score them slightly, and put them in a saucepan with a little court bouillon and white wine, and boil over a moderate fire. When it boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let them remain for ten minutes or so. Drain free from the liquor, put them on a dish, cover with caper sauce mixed with a little of the liquor in which they were boiled, and serve. Braised Red Mullets.—Clean and draw eight Red Mullets, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour, and put them in a saucepan with butter spread thickly over, and sprinkled with a little chopped shallot. Put the pan on the fire, add a little white wine, and when it boils cover the pan, putting live coal on the lid, and complete the cooking. Put the fish on a dish, and prepare the following sauce: Add to the liquor in the saucepan 4 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, boil up, and pass it through a fine sieve into another