837 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. the bailing, may not be quite sufficient to cover them, if so cut the peels in halves or quarters and they will take up less space. (2) Cut the required quantity of Lemons in halves, scoop out all the insides, put the peels into strong salted water, and leave for six days; next j»ut them into a saucepan of spring water, boil till soft, then drain them. Prepare a thin syrup with 111), of sugar candy and lqt. of water (see Syrups), put in the peels, and boil for half-an-hour or longer until they look clear. Next put them into thick syrup, and boil in a saucepan over a slow lire until the sugar candies in the pan, take them out, dust over with powdered sugar, and place them to dry in a hot-closet or cool oven. (3) Cut the peels of six fresh thick-skinned Lemons in long thin strips, put them into strong salted water and let them remain all night. Next day take the strips of rind from the brine, wash in three waters, put them ever the lire in soft water and boil till quite tender, but do not let them get soft enough to break. When the peel is taken from the fire lay it in sufficient cold water (with about i saltspoonful of alum dissolved in it) to cover. Put f pint, of water over the fire, stir into it 21b. of loaf sugar and the strained juice of one and a hr If Lemons, and boil till the syrup is thick enough to pull as for candy. When the peels have been for two hours in the alum-and-water, put them into the syrup and boil very gently for half-an-hour, then take them nut and lay them on a sieve. Shake frequently and gently, now and then tossing up the peels, till they are nearly dry. Then sprinkle granulated sugar over, and spread them on a table covered with a clean cloth and placed so that a current of fresh air shall pass over them. When quite dry, pack them in a glass jar. Compote of Iiemons.—Pare the Lemons very thinly, turn- ing them spirally, make some transverse incisions on them, and cut out some fancy designs. Put the Lemons in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and bail gently for about twenty minutes. Drain the Lemons, put them into a sugar-boiler with some syrup, and simmer for twenty minutes longer. At the end of that time turn the Lemons into a basin with the syrup, and leave for several hours. When ready to serve arrange the Lemons in a compote- dish, and pour the syrup over them. Compote of Lemon Baskets.—Procure Lemons of an equal size, and with a sharp knife cut out two pieces from the upper part of the fruit, so as to leave a band measuring Jin. wide, thus forming a handle; pass the knife round the inside of the band, level it with the bottom pulp, and remove the pieces of Lemon; with a teaspoon remove the remaining pulp, without damaging the shape of the basket. As each basket is finished drop it into a basin of cold water, and when all are completed put them into a saucepan of boiling water and simmer over the fire for three or four minutes. Drain the peels, and with a tin perforating cutter, stamp them to represent Km. 1057. Compote of Lemon Baskets. open work, and scallop round the edges. When completed put the baskets into a sugar-boiler with some syrup boiled to 24deg. and simmer. Turn the peels into a basin with their syrup and leave till the following day. Strain the Lemons—continued. syrup off the baskets, boil up again, and pour it over the baskets. After the lapse of several hours, drain off the syrup and boil up again, then pour it back on the baskets, and leave them till cold. When ready to serve, drain the baskets, fill them with a macedoine of fruits mixed with a small quantity of lemon-jelly, arrange them in a glass dish (see Fig. 1057), pour some syrup flavoured with ccdrat over, and serve. Dried Lemon-Peel.—Select the required quantity of per- fectly sound large Lemons, cut them in halves, and remove all the pulp; boil them in plenty of water till soft enough for a straw to run through, drain, and finish as for Dried Lemon Slices. Dried Lemon Slices.—Cut some Lemons in slices about Jin. thick, put them in plenty of water, and b< il till the peel is rather soft; take the slices out, put them on a sieve to drain thoroughly, then let them simmer in some syrup at 28deg. for ten minutes, turn them into a white basin, and leave till the next day. Strain the syrup eff the slices of Lemon, boil it for ten minutes, then pour it over again; repeat this operation twice more, then dry the slices upon wire trays in a screen. Boil ljlb. of sugar to 35deg., add the strained juice of a Lemon, and with the bowl of a spoon work the sugar at the side of the pan until it becomes whitish ; then put in the slices of Lemon, tess them about gently, take out one by one with a silver fork, put them on the wire trays, a short distance from each other, and set the trays in the screen, moderately heated, and leave them for one hour. Quarters may be dried in the same manner. Essence of Lemon. (1) Mix 2 tumblerfuls of spirit essence of Lemon with loz. of citric-acid crystals, dissolved in 2 tumblerfuls of distilled wi ter, and an acid flavour is obtained. (2) Put Goz. of very thinly cut Lemon-peel (dried peel of commerce will do as well) without a particle of the white skin into a botlle, pour in 8oz. of spirits of wine, let it stand for several days, and it is then ready for use. (3) Take t drachm of the best oil of Lemon, and add very gradually loz. of the strongest rectified spirit. The spirit will kill and completely absorb the oil, having all the aroma and flavour of fresh Lemon-peel and will be found a perfect substitute for it. Lemon, Apple, or Pear Pudding.—Peel and core two large apples (or cooking pears), cut them in quarters, and boil to a pulp in just sufficient water to prevent them burning. Finely chop the rind of a Lemon, mix it with the apples, add the juice of half a Lemon, the beaten yolks of four eggs, £ wineglassful of brandy, 2oz. of fresh butter, and sugar to taste; stir the ingredients over the fire till well mixed, then move it off, taking care that it does not boil or the eggs will curdle. Butter a shallow dish, line it with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, the pudding can be served either hot or cold. Lemon Bavaroise.—Put the peel of two Lemons into H pints of boiling milk, and let them soak for one hour. Steep 1 toz. of gelatine in water for fifteen minutes, drain, and put it in a stewpan with lOoz. of caster sugar, the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and the Lemon-milk. Flace the pan on the fire, stir till the egg begins to thicken, but do not let it boil, strain through a fine hair sieve, into a stewpan, which stand on ice, and stir the custard till it coats the spoon, adding 1 h pints of double whipped cream. Coat a mould with some Lemon-jelly that has not quite set, let it set in the mould, and pour in the Lemon cream. Freeze the lot for two hours. Lemon. Beer.—Put in a large stone jar one sliced Lemon, lib. of loaf sugar, 1 teacupful of yeast, loz. of bruised ginger, and Igall. of boiling water. Let it stand from fourteen to twenty hours, then bottle it off, and cork up. It will be ready for use in a day or two. Lemon Biscuits.—(1) Rub lib. of butter into 31,1b. of flour, mix in H breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and when quite smooth add 1 teacupful of honey-water, 6 drops of essence of Lemon, and sufficient milk to make a stiff' dough. Divide the dough, after breaking it smooth, into