878 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. then thicken it with fresh butter and Lobster butter in equal proportions, and mix in the Lobster and mushrooms. Fill some table-shells with the preparation, sprinkle bread- crumbs on the top, pour a little warmed butter over, and bake in a quick oven till browned. Put the shells on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick out the flesh of a boiled Lobster, and cut it in dice, put them into a basin with one-third their quantity of cooked mushrooms, also cut in dice, and 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce ; boil till reduced, adding gradually a few table-spoonfuls of fish broth and oyster liquor. When done, take the sauce off the fire, mix with it the chopped mushrooms and Lobster, and a little cayenne pepper. Fill some table-shells with the mixture, sprinkle breadcrumbs on the top, pour over a little warmed butter, and brown under a hot salamander. Put the shells on a dish, with a fried oyster on each, and serve. (3) Put two finely-chopped shallots in a stewpan, add 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, loz. of butter, and Hlb. of pieces of boiled Lobster ; moisten with 1 pint of veloutfi sauce, and season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and a very little nutmeg. Boil for ten minutes, and with this preparation fill six table-shells; on the top of each lay three slices of truffle and 1 table-spoonful of good bechamel sauce. Put 1 drop of clarified butter on each, and place them in the oven for five minutes. Serve very hot on a folded napkin. (4) Pick the meat from one or two cold boiled Lobsters, cut it into dice, and put them in a basin with a few table- spoonfuls of gherkins or pickled mushrooms also cut in dice ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour in a little oil and vinegar. Previously, prepare a small stand of fat, decorate it at the base, form it like steps, and fix it on the centre of a dish. Drain the Lobster on a sieve, put it into a basin, and mix in a few table-spoonfuls of mayon- naise with eggs, and a pinch of chopped tarragon. Fill a dozen silver shells with the above preparation, coat each with a layer of mayonnaise, and surround with chopped aspic. Arrange the shells on the stand, and serve. Lobster Souffle.—(1) Pick the meat out of the shell of a moderate-sized hen Lobster, and put it with some of the spawn into a mortar; pound it, work in an equal quantity of butter, and season to taste with salt, pepper, spiices, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the shells and trimmings of the Lobster into the mortar, first removing the above mixture, and pound slightly, then put them in a saucepan with some veal stock, and boil gently for half-an-hour, or until the stock is well flavoured until the Lobster, then strain it. Put the pounded meat into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a sufficient quantity of the strained liquor to bring the whole to the consistency of Lobster sauce. Stir it over the fire until well mixed and on the point of boiling, then move it off'. When the mixture has got nearly cold, stir in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and then the whites, which should have been whipped to a thick foam, pour the mixture into a souffle-tin, and bake. Serve the souffle directly it is cooked. (2) Cut sufficient meat off a cod or halibut to weigh Jib., and put it in a mortar with the coral from two hen Lobsters ; pound, then pass them through a wire sieve. Put loz. of butter and 2oz. of flour in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till the butter is melted, then pour in 1 teacupful of fish stock, and boil it well. Pound the meat of the body of the Lobster in a mortar, then mix with it the other fish meat and the sauce, and four eggs, one at a time; pass all through a wire sieve, then stir into it \ pint of whipped cream and a little cayenne pepper. Butter a plain souffle-mould, put a layer of the above preparation at the bottom of the mould, place a few pieces of the meat from the Lobster claws over it, put another layer of the mixture on the top, then some more Lobster meat, and continue thus till the mould is full. Trim evenly over the top, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, tie it down, set the mould in a saucepan of hot water, taking care the water does not come over the sides of the mould, and let it steam gently for half-an-hour. When Lobster—continued. done, turn the souffle out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour over b pint of white sauce, and serve. Lobster Soup.—(1) Select four small cooked hen Lobsters, pick out all the meat, put the small claws and the fins in a mortar, and beat them; then turn them into a saucepan with 2qts. of water and boil till all the flavour has been extracted from them. Put the spawn in a mortar with a piece of butter that has been rolled in flour, pound and pass them through a sieve; strain the stock, put it back into the saucepan, mix the pounded spawn and butter with it, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, then put in 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies and the juice of half a lemon. Mince, and mix the Lobster flesh with the crumb of a French roll, sprinkle a little pounded mace, salt, and pepper over it, shape the prepara- tion into balls, moistening them with a little beaten egg, dip them in flour, then put them in the soup. When the balls are hot through, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. (2) Mix in a pan the meat of a small Lobster, chopped small, three crackers rolled fine, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt and pepper, and a speck of cayenne ; then add gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, stirring all the time. Boil up, and serve. (3) Break up the body of a small Lobster, and cut off' the scraggy parts of the meat. Pour over these and the body 3 pints of stock, and boil for twenty minutes. Cook 3 large table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour until smooth, but not brown, add it to the cooking-mixture, with a few grains of cayenne and a little salt and pepper, boil for two minutes, and strain into a saucepan. Take out the meat from the tail and claws, cut it up very fine, and add it to the soup. Boil up once, and serve. (4) Mix some fish broth (Court Bouillon), thickened with roux, with some soup stock, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Split the tail of a boiled Lobster in halves, cut the meat into small dice, put it in a basin, and keep it covered. Take out all the creamy part from the body shell, put the upper shell and small claws in a mortar, pound them, then mix with the soup. Let it simmer for a few minutes longer, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, flavour with a little Harvey’s sauce and cayenne pepper, put in the Lobster- meat, pour all into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. (5) Pick the meat from two small Lobsters, chop it finely, and put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of cream and 1 pint of milk ; let it simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour that has been previously mixed with a little cold milk, and season with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. When ready to serve, put in the soup 2oz. of butter cut in small pieces, stir until the butter is quite melted, then strain the soup into a tureen, and serve, while very hot, with sippets of toast on a plate. (6) Take three good hen Lobsters, split them, crack the claws, take out the coral and soft parts of the body, divide the coral into two portions, put one portion with the soft parts of the Lobsters, and lay the other portion aside. Take out the meat from the tails, and pound part of this with the soft parts of the Lobsters and a portion of the coral; season with grated nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, a little each of cayenne and anchovy sauces, and mix together with the beaten yolk of an egg. Make this paste into balls, and fry them. Bruise the small claws or legs of the Lobsters, and boil them together with the broken shells for twenty minutes in 3qts. of veal broth. Bruise the spawn in a mortar until very fine, adding a little butter and flour, and when the broth that the legs and shells have been boiled in is strained, thicken with this mixture. Pick the meat from the large claws of the Lobster, cut it, and all the Lobster-meat left from the balls, into rather small pieces, and add them, together with the re- maining coral, to the soup. Let it simmer very gently for ten minutes, but do not let it boil, or the colour of the soup will be spoiled ; pour it into a tureen, and add the strained juice of a lemon and a little essence of anchovy.