905 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fcr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. MAIGRE.—The French for thin, or poor, applied to a soup or sauce made without meat—au Maigre as opposed to au gras. \ MAINTENON, A LA.—A French term given to a particular mode of cooking cutlets and making sauces for them. It is not much used in these times, other names being substituted for that of the amiable lady who married Louis XIV. in his very old age, and super- intended the preparation of delicate foods suitable to his weakened digestive faculties. MAINTZ SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. MAITRE D’HOTEL, A LA.—A French term ap- plied to modes of serving that are noted for their simplicity, as should be for the steward of the household. MAITRE-D’HOTEL BUTTER.—See Butter. MAITRE-D’HOTEL SAUCE.—See Sauces. MAIZE.—See Indian Corn. MAIZENA.—A preparation of Indian corn in the form of a very fine flour. It is sold in packets, and has obtained a goodly reputation owing to the facility with which it can be converted into various tasty dishes. Maizena Bavarian Cream.—Dissolve a little salt in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, put it in a saucepan, and work in 3oz. of sugar slightly warmed; put the pan on the fire, and when the milk boils stir in 3oz. of Maizena and the yolks of three eggs whipped in 4 teacupful of milk, stir well for a few minutes, add a little lemon-peel or vanilla to flavour, and strain it into a mould. Put the mould on ice, and when the cream is set turn it out on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fruit syrup. Maizena Cake.—Mix 3oz. of Maizena with 4oz. of flour and 1 heaped table spoonful of baking-powder, and sift the whole through a fine sieve. Slightly warm 3oz. of butter, and beat it well together with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and f teacupful of milk. Stir the beaten mixture in with the flour, mixing the whole smoothly together, and flavour with 1 table spoonful of rose-water and 4 table- spoonful of essence of almonds; then whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the above mixture. Butter a cake-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin and cover it with the following: Mix the white of one egg with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 4 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and beat them well until light and frothy. Maizena Cream Tart.—Add 2oz. of caster sugar to a little less than 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and mix in 3oz. of butter and a little salt. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up in 1 wine- glassful of milk and ‘2oz. of Maizena. Put the pan back on the fire, and boil for five minutes longer, stirring con- tinually. Pour it into a bowl, whip until perfectly cold, pour it into a baked open-tart case, and serve. Maizena Fritters.—Put 8oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire, and when a little warm, add about loz. of sugar and \ wineglassful of water. When it begins to boil, add 2oz. of Maizena, mixed in a little water, and 24oz. of hour. Remove the pan from the fire, and let it remain for fifteen minutes for the paste to dry, and then mix in three eggs. If the paste is too stiff, add one more egg, so as to have it of the consistence of a stiff batter. Take it up in table-spoonfuls, put it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good colour. Take out, put them on a dish, and serve. Maizena Gruel.—Put some Maizena into a basin, pour over a little water, and let it soak for twelve hours or so; then put it into a pan with a little more water, and boil for thirty minutes, when it will be done. It is usual to eat this with milk and treacle. Maizena—continued. it over the fire until dissolved, then mix in 1 teacupful of Maizena that has been smoothly blended with a small quantity of cold water. Continue stirring over the fire for nine or ten minutes ; then pour the pudding into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it in a cool temperature. Sweeten J pint of cream with caster sugar and whip it to a stilt' froth. When the pudding is Fig. 1125. Maizena Jam Pudding. quite cold, turn it on to a dish, pour the cream over, and serve. (See Fig. 1125.) Maizena Omelet.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Maizena in 1 pint of milk or water, and stir in gradually the yolks of eight eggs, and a little salt and pepper. Work well, pour it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook over a very slow fire, with a salamander or hot shovel held over the top, so that the omelet will not require to be turned. When quite done, slide it gently on to a dish, and serve with a little warmed butter poured over. Maizena Pancakes.—Stir 3oz. of Maizena into 1 teacupful of milk, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, one egg, and 1 pinch of salt. When they are all thoroughly mixed, pour 1 table-spoonful at a time into a frying-pan containing boiling fat, and when done on one side, turn it over. Take them out carefully, sprinkle with a little sugar, roll them up in the shape of an omelet, and serve hot. Maizena Pudding flavoured with Lemon.—(1) Mix 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of Maizena smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in 14 pints of boiling water, pour it into a lined saucepan, and boil for seven or eight minutes, stirring all the time. Warm 3oz. of butter and beat it until creamy with 12oz. of caster sugar, then mix the Maizena with it and beat until nearly cold. Whip the yolks of live eggs and the whites of two, and stir them into the above mixture, also mix in the grated peel and strained -juice of three large lemons. Butter a shallow dish, line it with a rich crust, pour the Maizena mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Beat the whites of two eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar to a stiff froth. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven, spread over the beaten egg, and return it to the oven until lightly browned on the top. Serve cold. (2) Boil the thinly-pared rind of one lemon in 1 pint of milk until the milk is just flavoured with it ; mix § teacupful of Maizena smoothly with 1 teacupful of water, then strain in the boiling milk, return the whole to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for five or six minutes. Butter a plain mould, pour in the mixture, and set it in a cool place. When cold and set, turn the pudding out of the mould, and serve with jam sauce. MALAGA.—A Spanish wine of a dark brown colour, and generally very sweet and heavy. MALAKOPP.—The name of a Russian stomachic elixir. MALIC ACID.—An acid that occurs in many fruits, especially the green apple. MALLARD.—See Wild Duck. MALMA.—The name of a North American trout, known commonly as the Dolly Yarden trout. Maizena Jam Pudding.—Put 1 teacupful of red-currant jam into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, stir