TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 82fi For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lampreys—continued. the pieces, sprinkle salt over them, and rah off the skin with a cloth. Wash, place them in a stewpan, cover with white wine, and put in a few sprigs of fine herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, a stick of cinnamon, and a sprinkling of salt; boil the liquid for ten minutes, then take the stew- pan off the fire. Put 6 table-spcpnfuls each of butter and flour into another stewpan, stir over the fire till browned, then pour in the liquor in which the fish was cooked, and a little rich gravy ; mix it over the fire till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine sieve, put it again in the stewpan, add 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and boil quickly to reduce and thicken it ; then put in the pieces of fish, 2 table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and .a little lemon-peel, and stand the stewpan over a moderate fire. Mix the blood of the Lamprey with a little vinegar, and thicken the sauce with it. Put some crohtons of toasted bread at the bottom of a hot deep dish, place the fish on them, pour the sauce round, and serve. Boiled Lamprey with Mushrooms.—Clean and remove the skin of a large Lamprey, cut it up into pieces, and sprinkle with salt. Put 4oz. each of butter and flour into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till nicely browned ; pour in 1 pint of white wine, continue stirring until it begins to boil, then having wiped the pieces of fish, drop them in, and with them a bunch of fine herbs and parsley. Boil the fish till three-parts done, then put in a dozen raw mushrooms, and continue boiling the fish slowly for twenty minutes longer. Take the Lamprey out, curl it round on a hot dish on which some slices of toasted bread have been arranged, and garnish with the mushrooms Fig. 1041. Boiled Lamprey with Mushrooms. and small glazed onions (see Fig. 1041). Skim the fat off the sauce, strain, and reduce it. Mix in the juice of a lemon, a pat of butter, and a little pepper; pour it over the fish, and serve. Fillets of Lamprey a l’ltalienne.—Select a nice-sized Lamprey, fillet it, and put it into a stewpan with two chopped onions, four heads of garlic (if liked), a little mixed herbs, 1 wineglassful of olive oil, and £ pint of Madeira; boil till the fish is cooked, then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and reduce the sauce. Put the fish and sauce on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Lampreys.—Select the required quantity of small, live Lampreys, cut off the heads and thin ends of the tails, and let them remain for a few minutes with salt sprinkled over them; wash and wipe well, sprinkle with plenty of flour, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry over a clear, brisk fire; When done, drain and put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve. Continental cooks usually prefer the living fish; but in this country it is not so easy to obtain them fresh caught. Fried Lampreys with Onions.—Select two moderately large Lampreys, kill and scald them, scrape off the skin, cut off the heads and tips of the tails, and divide the body into pieces. Cut an onion in slices, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, fry till nicely browned, then put in the jiieces of fish; season with pepper and salt, and fry for seven or eight minutes, turning occasionally; dredge over a little flour, then pour in sufficient red wine to cover. Stir all over the fire till boiling, then put in a few sprigs of herbs, two or three sprigs of parsley, and a few mushroom ' Lampreys—continued. trimmings ; place the lid on the stewpan, and simmer by the side of the fire. Peel two dozen very small young onions, put them in a flat stewpan with a little butter and a pinch of sugar, and fry till nicely browned; season, pear over a little broth, and reduce till the onions are nicely glazed. Put the fish on a hot dish, arrange the onions round it, skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine sieve over the fish, and serve. Jugged Lampreys.—Clean a Lamprey, cut off the head and tip of the tail, divide the body into large pieces, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till browned. Then put in some truffles and morels and fry them also. M hen nicely coloured, pour in 4 pint of red wine, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. When cooked, put the pieces of fish on a hot dish, garnish with cr.nitons of fried bread, pour over the cooking-liquor, and serve. Lampreys a la Neapolitaine. —Clean the Lampreys and stew them in red wine. When sufficiently tender, skin and chop them finely. Wash some sorrel and line herbs, chop, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and cook over a slow fire. Blanch about two dozen oysters, and fry in butter an equal quantity of crofitons of brown bread. Wash in warm water two dozen oyster shells, put a crouton of bread in each shell and over that a blanched oyster. Mix the sorrel and fine herbs with the Lamprey, and put a little of the mixture in each shell. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, arrange the shells on it, garnishing here and there with nicely picked parsley, and serve. Fotted Lampreys.—(1) Prepare twelve Lampreys, wash thoroughly in several waters, and wipe them dry. Leave for a day, then season with pepper, salt, ground mace, and cloves ; put the fish into a stone or earthenware pot, curling them round, pour over 21b. of clarified butter and 41b. of beef-suet, put a piece of paper over the pot, and bake in a moderate oven. Skim off the oil frequently, and take out of the oven when done. Now pour off as much of the butter and suet as possible, cover with more butter, and put away in a dry place. (2) When the Lampreys are prepared, rub into them a mixture of 6 drachms of cloves, 2 drachms of mace, each finely powdered, 4oz. of pepper, loz. of salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Let the fish stew gently for an hour in its own gravy, then cut up small, press it into pots, let it get quite cold, and then pour over sufficient butter warmed to oil to cover. (3) Prepare six large Lampreys, let the skin remain on, clean and well dry them, and leave to drain all night. Season the fish with 1 blade of powdered mace, loz. of white pepper, six ground cloves, and a little salt, mixed together; roll the Lampreys round and pack them in a large stone jar. Work up 4lh. of finely-chopped beef-suet, together with 4lb. of clarified butter, pour it over the fish, cover the jar with thick paper, and tie it tightly round to keep in the steam; stand the jar in a moderate oven, and bake the fish for three hours, hook at them constantly after they are potted, and skim off all the oil that rises to the top. Lampreys potted in this way will keep some time provided the butter is melted and drained off occasionally, and fresh clarified butter used. BiOasted Lampreys.—Mix with 2oz. of breadcrumbs half its quantity of minced fat bacon, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley and sage, 1 pinch each of pounded mace, pepper, and salt, and moisten it with the yolk of one egg. Skin, clean, and wash a large Lamprey, cut it open, and spread a layer of the forcemeat evenly over the inside; roll it up, beginning at the tail-end, fasten it with silver skewers, and tie round with twine. Butter the skin, roll it round the fish, fix it on a roasting-jack or spit, and roast in front of a clear fire for about half-an-hour or a little longer; take the skin off the Lamprey, brash over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and let it remain in front of the fire till browned. Put in a sauce- pan 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped capers and boned chopped anchovies, a piece of butter weighing between 4oz.