THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 799 Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see tinder their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Kidneys—continued. the fire, and boil until the gelatine has dissolved. Cut three hard-boiled eggs into thick slices, and split half-a-dozen Kidneys lengthwise into halves. Rinse a mould with cold water, lay the Kidneys and eggs in it, arranging tastefully, and pour the boiling jelly over. Place the mould in a cold Fig. 1003. Kidneys and Eggs in Jelly. temperature until the jelly has thoroughly set, then turn it out on to a dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few groups of parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1003. Kidney-and-Egg Patties.—Boil three eggs until hard, and mash them with a fork in a basin, add 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs, table-spoonful each of flour and finely-chopped onions and parsley, a few drops of chilli vinegar, and a dust of pepper. Mix the above ingredients well, using a small quantity of milk to bind them. Butter some small patty- pans, cover the bottom of each with a thin layer of the egg mixture, then open a tin of Kidneys and put ono in each of the pans. Cover the Kidneys with a little of the paste, strew finely-grated breadcrumb over, and put a small piece of butter on the top of each. Put the patties in a brisk oven, and bake for ten minutes. When sufficiently baked, take the patties carefully out of the tins, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve hot or cold. Kidney-and-Oyster Pudding. — Put eight or ten tinned Kidneys into a stewpan together with 1 teacupful of their liquor, 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned oysters and 1 teacupful of their liquor, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions, and J saltspoonful of powdered mace ; season to taste with salt and pepper, stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let the contents stew gently. Lino a well-buttered pudding- basin with a suet crust, put a cloth over, and tie it round the rim of the basin with string; roll out a round of the crust to fit the top of the basin, and lay it on the cloth, the ends of which bring up and tie over it. Put the basin into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour. At the end of that time take the cloth off the basin, put in the stowed Kidneys and oysters, fix the top on the pudding, tie the cloth over again, and boil for five minutes, then turn it out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Kidney Patties.—Prepare a light lard crust. Dredge flour over a paste-board, put the dough on it and roll out very thin. Divide the paste into pieces 3in. square, place a tinned Kidney on each of the pieces of paste, season them with salt and pepper and a small quantity of pounded mace, then bring the corners of the paste up so as to entirely envelop the Kidney, moisten the edges slightly with water, and press them together with the fingers. Put a good-sized lump of fat in a stewpan, place it over the fire until beginning to boil, then put in the patties, and turn them about in the fat until of a golden brown. When fried, take the patties out of the fat with a slice, and put them on a piece of paper to drain thoroughly. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, and serve. Kidney Pie.—Scrape the jelly off ten tinned Kidneys, and put it into a small stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onions, teaspoonful each of powdered cloves and nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste; and place over the Kidneys—continued. fire until hot. Put the Kidneys into a pie-dish, cover with thin slices of bacon and three or four sliced hard-boiled eggs on the top. Pour the gravy into the dish, put a short paste cover on the top, place it in a quick oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Serve the pie either hot or cold. Kidney Pilau.-—Wash thoroughly 1 breakfast-cupful of rice and 1 teacupful of currants ; put them into a saucepan with a sliced onion, 1 saltspoonful of saffron, ^ saltspoon- ful each of ground mace, ginger, cloves, and nutmeg, loz. of butter, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Boil the rice gently until tender. Empty a tin of Kidneys into a stewpan, and put in with them loz. of butter, J table-spoonful each of sugar and chilli vinegar, and 1 saltspoonful of mace, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until very hot. When the rice is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, put the Kidneys on it, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Kidney and Tomato Jelly.—Empty a tin of tomatoes into a stewpan, and put in with them a small quantity of finely- chopped onions and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, ^ salt- spoonful of ground mace, a very small quantity each of salt, cayenne pepper, and nutmeg, and loz. of soaked gelatine. Stir the mixture over a slow fire until the gelatine has dissolved. Put ten tinned Kidneys and a few pieces of cooked ham into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and pour the tomatoes over the Kidneys. Stand the mould in a cold temperature until the jelly is firm. When ready to serve, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper. KIDNEY-BEAN.—See Beans. KILDERKIN.—The name for a beer-cask in common use, holding 18galls. KILOGRAM, KILOMETRE, &c. See Weights and Measures. KIMMEL.—See Kummel. KINGFISH. — This is an American fisli of the Menticirrus genus, commonly known as surf-whiting. It is highly esteemed for cooking, and when full-sized (about 15in. long) is convenient for a small dish. In outward appearance the head closely resembles the mullet, and the body the European whiting, varying somewhat in the colour of the skin, which is in some kinds handsomely marked with transverse clouds (see Fig. 1004). The Kingfish can be cooked in any manner suitable for whiting. Boiled Kingfish.—Clean the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient clear fish broth to cover, and boil gently. When the fisli is cooked, strain it carefully, slip it on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and servo witli a sauceboatful of either brown or white sauce a la Normando. KIPPER.—The literal meaning of this word is “ to hatch,” and is used in zoology to describe a salmon after spawning. When salmon were caught in this condition in Scotland, it was usual to prepare them by splitting them open, salting, and smoking them; hence the term has been extended to the modg of preparation, and embraces other fish besides the salmon, such as Herrings.