TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 798 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Kidneys—continued. fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with crisp fried parsley, and serve very hot. (2) Remove a little of the fat from some small Kidneys, mince them very fine, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, cayenne, and finely-grated lemon-peel. Put this mixture in a pan with a little butter, add one or two well-beaten eggs, and spread it on pieces of toast. Place them again in the oven to brown, and serve. (3) Finely mince the required quantity of Kidney, together with a little of the fat, pound it to a pulp, season with salt and pepper, and add a small boiled and finely-chcpped onion. Now add sufficient beaten white of egg to form the mixture into a mass, heap it on a slice of toast, cover with the beaten yolks of eggs, dust over thickly with breadcrumbs, and bake in a quick oven. Servo very hot. (4) Put the Kidneys in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry until three-parts cooked; then free the Kidneys from all the skin and hard parts, put them in a mortar, and pound until smooth. Season the Kidneys with salt, pepper, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and work into a smooth paste with beaten yolks of eggs. Cut some thin slices of j bread off a tin-loaf, toast a golden brown on either side, trim off the crusts, cut each slice into three fingers, and spread some of the mixture on each piece of toast. Put a lump of butter on a dish, place it in the oven, and when I the butter has melted lay the pieces of toast on it, and leave in the oven until very hot. Serve the toasts the j moment they are taken out of the oven. (5) Indian Style.—Fry the Kidneys in butter until half cooked, then trim off all the skin and hard parts, put them in a mortar with a moderate quantity of curry powder and salt to taste, and pound to a smooth paste, moistening with beaten yolk of egg. Cut some rather thin pieces of bread, about 1 Mn'. square, and fry them in butter until browned on both Fig. 1001. Kidney Toasts (Indian Style). sides; next drain them, place a portion of the above mixture on each slice, lay them on a dish, and put in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Prepare a sufficient quantity of sauce with a rich brown gravy, well flavouring it with chutney and tomato sauce, and boil it. When ready, pour the sauce round the toasts, and serve quickly while very hot. See Fig. 1001. Mock-Kidney Soup.—Put lib. of calf’s or other liver into a | saucepan with lgall. of water, and boil slowly for an hour. Take it out, and rub through a coarse grater. Cut another pound of liver into small pieces, and mix them in; put back into the saucepan, together with a carrot, turnip, and potato, all grated, and one onion very finely chopped. Cover the pan, and boil slowly or simmer for an-hour-and-a-half; add salt and pepper to taste, turn the whole into a tureen, and servo very hot. Stewed Kidneys.—(1) Pare, trim, and skin twelve Kidneys, cut them into slices, and cook for five minutes in a frying- pan with loz. of clarified butter, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Brown well, then add % pint of Spanish sauce and four cepes (mushrooms) cut into pieces. Warm without boiling, add the juice of half a lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. (2) Cut some Kidneys in slices, and put them in a basin with sufficient cold water to cover, and leave for half-an-hour. Wash thoroughly, and put them in a saucepan with lqt. of stock or water, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of onion-juice, one clove, and a little salt and pepper. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for two hours. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into another saucepan, and when hot add an equal quantity of flour, and stir until it is brown Kidneys—continued. and smooth ; add it to the Kidneys with a few sweet herbs, and simmer for an hour longer. When done, take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and serve. (3) Cut three Kidneys in slices. Put 3oz. of butter into a frying-pan over the fire, and let it boil. Peel an onion, chop it fine, stir it into the heated butter, lay in the slices of Kidney, and fry for two minutes. Have a small saucepan on the fire containing 3 table-spoonfuls of brown gravy, 1 wine- glassful of claret, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, heated; drain the fat from the slices of Kidney, and add them to the hot gravy in the saucepan, together with a seasoning of salt and pepper; put the lid on tight, let them simmer for five minutes, and serve. (4) Divide the Kidneys in halves without quite separating, put them in a lined stewpan with 1 pint of water and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stew gently at the edge of the fire for four hours. When ready, place the Kidneys on a hot dish, and keep them near the fire for a few minutes while Fig. 1032. Stewed Kidneys. preparing the following gravy: Put into the cooking-liquor of the Kidneys loz. of butter kneaded together with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until thickened, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a few drops of Harvey sauce. Pour the gravy over the Kidneys, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1002. Tinned Kidneys.—To be perfection, Kidneys should be freshly cut out of the fat which envelopes them, but, with the view to preserve them for a prolonged period, they have been successfully treated by enclosing in her- metically-closed tins. Although decidedly inferior to fresh Kidneys, they arc very palatable if prepared ac- cording to any of the following receipts. Being already cooked, they require very little additional cooking. Baked Kidneys.—Put 1 teacupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, mix with them ) table-spoonful each of finely- chopped onion and chopped pickled gherkins, and about i table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; mix in also 1 tea- spoonful each of dry mustard and sugar, f teaspoonful of ground mace, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cut about one dozen tinned Kidneys lengthwise into halves, roll them well in the above mixture, lay side by side in a baking-dish, strew a few well-washed and dried currants over, and place one or two lumps of butter on the top. Put them into a brisk oven, and bake for about ten minutes. When baked crisp and brown, lay the Kidneys on . a hot dish, pour a little rich gravy round, and serve. Fried Kidneys.—Season 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs with about 1 table-spoonful each of onion, parsley, and pickled gherkin, all finely chopped, adding about 1 teaspoonful each of dry mustard and sugar, j teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, ground mace, and nutmeg. Mix these ingredients well, and bind them together with beaten egg and a small quantity of milk. Split some tinned Kidneys lengthwise, and roll them well in the mixture. Put a lump of butter into a frying- pan, place it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then put in the Kidneys, and fry until nicely browned. Drain them, arrange on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Kidneys and Eggs in Jelly.—Take about .V pint of gravy out of a tin of Kidneys, pour it into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 teacupful of water, foz. of gelatine, | saltspoonful each of ground cloves, mace, and nutmeg, and i table-spoonful each of chopped onion and mushroom. Stir the mixture over