885 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. find most favour in this country are the ordinary pipe Macaroni, sold in twists (see Fig. 1102) or in long straight pipes (lidelini) (see Fig. 1103), and the ribbon Macaroni (see Fig. 1104), known as lasagna. Vermicelli is a smaller kind of Macaroni, taking the Italian name of spaghetti, or little threads, and will be found described under its own heading. See also Pastes (Italian Paste) and Nudels. There are so many delicious dishes to which Macaroni lends itself, that considerable prominence is given to the subject, and a number of excellent receipts con- tributed by various chefs are hereunder appended. Baked. Macaroni.—Put 2oz. of Dutch cheese in a mortar with a peeled clove of garlic, a few basil-leaves, and a small quantity of pepper and powdered spices. Pound the mixture until smooth, and moisten gradually with olive oil until it assumes the consistency of cream. Boil Jib. of lasagna in salted water until tender, then drain it on a sieve and stir some of its cooking-liquor into the cheese mixture, making a rather thin sauce. Put layers of the lasagna in a deep dish with grated Parmesan cheese over eacli layer, pour over the sauce, cover the dish, put it in a slow oven, and hake for an hour. Serve the lasagna while hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Curried Macaroni.—(1) Put some Macaroni in a saucepan of salted water, and boil for twenty minutes ; take it out, drain, put it into a saucepan with some curry sauce, and simmer gently for five or ten minutes. Keep each piece of Macaroni separate, and do not allow it to he cooked to a paste. It must be served hot. (2) Peel and slice three medium-sized onions, fry them in dripping, and when lightly browned mix in 3 dessert- spoonfuls each of curry powder, sugar, and vinegar, 1 level teaspoonful of salt, one large baking apple, peeled, cored, and chopped small, 3 pints of water, and fib. of Maca- roni, and simmer till the Macaroni is quite soft. Serve very hot. German Imitation Macaroni.—Put Jib. of nudels in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil them until soft. Drain, and put them into a stewpan with a large piece of butter ; heat three eggs together with J pint of cream, pour them over the nudels, mix in gradually 1 breakfast- cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir the mixture at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Turn it on to a hot dish, strew a small quantity of grated cheese over the top, brown it lightly under a salamander, and serve. Imitation Lasagna.—Prepare a rather stiff paste with flour, warm water, beaten eggs (using twice as many yolks as whites), 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of saffron, this latter ingredient having been steeped in the warm water one hour before being used. When quite Macaroni—continued. smooth, roll out the paste to about jin. or a little less in thickness, and cut it into long strips Jin. wide. Lay the strips on a fine sieve, and keep covered with a cloth until ready to use them. They should not be kept longer than thirty-six hours, and are better if used on the day of making. Boil like ordinary Macaroni, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese and tomato sauce. Lasagna a la Neapolitaine.—Finely chop Jib. of rather fat bacon, and mix with it two chopped onions, one clove of garlic, and parsley, thyme, and basil to taste ; then mince the whole. Cut lib. of beef into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with the mince, and stir the mixture over the fire until the meat is well browned ; moisten with a small quantity of water, add a small bottle of conserve of tomatoes, and let the whole simmer gently for one hour. If too thick, add more water, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Next strain the liquor and skim off all the fat. Break lib. of flat broad Macaroni, called lasagna, into pieces about 2in. long, throw them into a large sauce- pan full of boiling water, add a lump of salt, and stir con- tinually over the fire until tender, being very careful not to break the pieces. When cooked, pour over the Macaroni a jugful of cold water, then thoroughly strain it. Cover the bottom of a deep dish with 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces, put in a layer of the lasagna, over that strew grated Parmesan cheese, then put in another layer, and so on until all is used. Pour in the sauce, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and cover plentifully with grated Parmesan cheese. Put in a brisk oven for ten minutes, then, if not sufficiently browned, pass the salamander over it. Serve, while very hot, in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni a la Bolognese.—Break some lasagna or Macaroni into convenient lengths, and boil in salted water. Tho- roughly wash sufficient spinach, using plenty of water, as it is very gritty ; plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender. Well drain the spinach, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and put it into a stewpan ; moisten with a small quantity of rich veal gravy, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. When the Macaroni is cooked, drain it, arrange on a deep dish in alternate layers with the spinach, strewing plenty of grated Parmesan cheese between each layer, cover the dish, and place it in a moderately hot oven for about three-quarters- of-an-hour. When ready, serve the Macaroni very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni a la Creme.—Boil in plenty of salted water for three-quarters-of-an-hour |lb. of Macaroni, adding Joz. of butter and one onion stuck with two cloves. Drain well, and put it back into a saucepan with Jib. each of butter, grated Gruyere cheese, and grated Parmesan cheese, J of a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of pepper. Moisten with J pint of white broth and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream. Cook all together for five minutes, stirring well, and when the Macaroni is soft and ropy, dish it up, and serve. Macaroni a la Genevois.—Boil half-a-dozen fresh pork sausages in stock; when cooked, drain, and let them get cold. Boil the required quantity of Macaroni in salted water, and when very tender turn it on to a sieve to drain. Cut the sausages in slices, and arrange them with alternate layers of the Macaroni on a deep dish, strewing grated Parmesan cheese between each layer. Pour over the contents of the dish some nicely-flavoured rich veal gravy, cover the dish, and put it in a slow oven for about one hour. Serve the Macaroni very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Macaroni au Gratin.—(1) Put 9oz. of Macaroni (not broken up) into a saucepan with boiling salted water, and when done, drain, put it into a stewpan, add a little pepper ami grated nutmeg to taste, and thicken with a few table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Warm this up on the fire for a few minutes, take it off, toss the pan, and add ^lb. of butter, 2oz. each of grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheeses, and pour the whole on a gratin-dish. Sprinkle with a little more cheese, and gratinate for twenty or twenty-five minutes in the oven, then serve.