782 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utennils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Jam—continued. few drops of essence of vanilla or any oilier kind of flavouring preferred. Pour the custard over the bread, and let it soak for a short time. Tie a cloth over the basin, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (6) Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with thin slices of stale bread, putting a round slice at the bottom ; finely chop a little beef-suet, sprinkle a little at the bottom of the basin over the bread, then put in 1 table-spoonful of any kind of Jam. Continue in this way, putting first bread, then suet, and then Jam, till the basin is full, and place a round slice of bread as near the size of the basin as possible on the top. Beat an egg together with j pint of milk, sweeten to taste, and pour -it lightly over the pudding; tie a piece of thick paper over the basin, put it in a saucepan, pour boiling water round to more than half its height, taking care it does not come over the basin, and steam for kalf-an-hour. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a dish, and serve. Jam Puffs. — (1) Beat Jtlb. each of butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of five eggs, and beat well; then whisk the whites of the five eggs to a froth, and mix them in with the other ingredients, working in lastly jib. of self-raising flour. Lay this batter on a baking-tin in table-spoonfuls as nearly the same size as possible, and far enough apart to prevent them touching, put them into a hot oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Let them get cold, and then split Fig. 976. Jam Puffs. nearly but not quite all round with a sharp knife, leaving about lin. uncut at one side, pull them open a little way, slip in a spoonful of Jam, close them again, and sift powdered sugar over before serving. See Fig. 976. (2) Make some rich puff paste, roll it out about iin. thick, or rather thinner, and cut it into rounds with a small saucer or a tin paste-cutter; lay near one edge of each piece of paste some raspberry or strawberry Jam, stewed apples, or any kind of preserved fruit. Slightly wet the edge of the paste all round, fold the other side over the preserve, and press the edges. Or the paste may be cut into squares and folded diagonally over the preserves so that the puff is three- cornered. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Jam Puffs a la Ducliesse.— Put 2oz. of butter and 2 break- fast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan on the fire, bring them to the boil, remove the pan, and work in 6oz. of flour. Dry it over the fire for a few minutes, then add two eggs and the rind of a lemon very finely chopped. Boll out the paste, cut it up into pieces about 3in. in length, put them on a baking-sheet, keeping them apart, brush over with egg, put into a moderate oven, and bake slightly. It can be easily seen when they are done, as they will be firm to the touch. Take out, let them get cold, open at the sides, fill them with Jam, and serve. Jam Roll.—For four eggs, allow an equal weig'ht of caster j sugar, flour, and butter; slightly warm the butter and beat | it together with the sugar until creamy, then mix in the slightly-beaten yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and mix them with the other ingredients, then stir in the flour very smoothly. Squeeze in a few drops of lemon- juice, and work the whole until thoroughly mixed. Butter a shallow baking-dish, pour tho mixture into it, bake in a quick oven, and take out before it becomes crisp. Sift plenty of caster sugar over a sheet of paper, turn the paste on to it, spread over thickly with any kind of Jam, and roll ( it up carefully. Ornament the top with coloured sugar icing, j preserved fruits and comfits, and serve cold. Jam Roly-Poly Pudding’.—Make a common suet crust, roll it out thin, then spread Jam evenly all over, leaving about lin bare at the edges, excepting the edge which | will be the inner one. Boll the pudding up into a longish roll, I J am—continued. pinch the paste together at the ends, wrap it in a floured cloth, tie at each end, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half or two hours, keeping the water constantly boiling. Jam Sandwiches.—(1) Beat i-lb. of warmed butter to a cream, then mix with it the beaten yolks of twelve eggs and the grated peel of half a lemon; sweeten with ^lb. of caster sugar, and stir in gradually till well mixed 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour; whisk the whites of the twelve eggs to a light froth, then mix them with the other ingredients. Make four or five white paper plates with edges lin. deep, butter them, place them on baking-tins, put a thin layer of the mixture in each, and bake lightly in a moderate oven, taking care not to let them brown. When cold, pull the paper off, being very careful not to break the cakes, lay one on the top of the other with a layer of any kind of Jam between, using two or three kinds if liked, trim round the edges, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and it is then ready for serving. (2) Cut some puff paste into pieces about 3in. in length and ■jin. or jin. thick, lay each piece on its side upon the baking- sheet without paper, keeping them fully lin. apart, and having twenty-four pieces in all. When half baked, cover the pieces thickly with sifted sugar, then return them to the oven until slightly coloured. Take them out, hold a red-hot shovel at a distance over them until they are glazed by the melting of the sugar, then take them off and lay them upon paper on a dish; spread one piece with any sort of Jam, then place another on it, and so in pairs until all are used. Dish them on an ornamental paper. Jam Tartlets.—Make a good puff paste, line some buttered tartlet- or patty-pans with it, fill each pan with rice or flour, and bake till the paste is well risen and a light colour. When cooked, take the baked crusts out of the tins, shake out the flour or rice, fill them with any kind of Jam, and serve. This is better than baking tho Jam in the crusts, as it is apt to dry up and burn. JAMAICA PEPPER.—See Allspice. JAMUN.—A sub-acid fruit of an Indian tree (Syzy- gium Jambolanum). It is a sort of plum, and can be made to produce an excellent light red wine; or the fruit may be preserved. JARDINIERE, A 1A.—The literal meaning of this French term is “ after the style of a gardener’s wife,” and refers to a sort of medley of vegetables. JARGONEL PEARS.—See Pears. JAUNE-MANGE.—Literally a yellow food, as con- trasted with blanc-mange (white food), from which it differs but little except in colour, as shown in the following receipts : (1) Put foz. of gelatine and a small piece of lemon-peel into 1 pint of cold water, and let it soak all night. Next day put into a pint measure the strained juice of two lemons and 4 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and fill up the measure with raisin wine or sherry; pour this mixture over the gelatine, put all together in a saucepan, add the well-beaten yolks of seven eggs and sufficient lump sugar to sweeten,^set it over*'’ a gentlo fire, stir till it boils, take it from the fire, and strain. Let it stand till nearly cold, stirring now and then, pour it into a mould damped inside with cold water, and when quite stiff turn out. (2) Melt loz. of isinglass in % pint of boiling water. Beat tho yolks of six eggs together with i pint of raisin wine or sherry and the strained juice of a lemon, stir in the melted isinglass, and sweeten to taste with lump sugar rubbed on the rind of a lemon. Put all together into a saucepan and boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain, let it stand till nearly cold, and then put it into a mould damped inside with cold water. When quite firm, turn out. (3) Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water; add to it the strained juice of two lemons and 2|- wineglassfuls of sherry, then stir in gradually the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and sweeten with lump sugar rubbed on lemon-peel. Mix all together over tho fi.ro till it boils, strain, stir till it is nearly cold, and then pour it into a mould damped with cold water. When quite firm, turn it out.