954 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mullet—continued. six sweet and three bitter oranges, also of a dozen lemons, ayd 1 wineglassful of sherry. Put the kettle over the fire, and boil the fish gently until done. Take it out with a strainer and put it upside-down into a deep dish ; then add loz. of isinglass to the stock, simmer gently until dissolved, strain it through a fine sieve over the fish, and let it remain for a day or so, when the jelly should be quite firm. It is then ready to be served. Garnish round the dish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 1196). Boiled Gray Mullet with White Sauce.—Put the fish in a fish-kettle until a lump of salt and plenty of water, and leave it on the fire until boiling, then move the kettle to the side and keep the fish simmering until it is cooked. Put a pat of butter in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire ; when mixed, pour in slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk and stir until thickened. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of half a lemon and strain them; move the sauce off the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Drain the Mullet carefully, put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Gray Mullets.—Clean and marinade four or five Gray Mullets as for Broiled Gray Mullet a la Maitre d’Hotel, put them on a buttered strainer in a fish-kettle, add lqt. of mushrooms, a blanched shallot, and 2 table- spoonfuls of parsley all finely chopped; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour in 1 pint of white wine. Bring the liquor quickly to the boil, remove the kettle to a slow fire, baste the fish frequently, and cook for about thirty minutes. Put them carefully on a dish, pour part of the liquor and herbs over (see Fig. 1197), and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Broiled Gray Mullet.—Scale and clean the Mullet, put it into a deep dish with a sliced onion and two or three sprigs of parsley, dust over with salt and pepper, cover with olive oil, and let it macerate for an hour. Put the fish on a greased gridiron and broil it over a clear but slow fire. When cooked, put the fish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of green sauce. Broiled Gray Mullet a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Select a Gray Mullet weighing 21b., scale and clean it, and cut it on each side about a dozen times, nearly jin. deep. Put it on a dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour over 2 table- spoonfuls of oil. Leave it. in this marinade for two or three hours; then take it out and at once place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil for fifteen minutes, cooking on both sides. Put it on a dish, pour over 41b. of maitre d’hotel butter, and serve hot. Billets of Gray Mullets Sautes.—Clean the fish, then fillet them by passing a sharp knife between the bones and the flesh, and cut each fillet into halves. Butter a saute-pan, put in the fillets, sprinkle some salt, pepper, and chopped parsley over them, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add 1 wineglassful of sherry. Cook the fillets over a brisk fire, turning them carefully when cooked on one side. Drain and lay them on a bed of mashed potatoes that has been prepared on a hot dish. Put 4 pint of melted butter in the saute-pan with 1 teacupful of milk; season with salt and a small quantity of sugar, stir it over the fire, Mullet —continued. and boil for three minutes. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. Gray Mullet a la Matelote.—Clean a Gray Mullet, and chop it up in pieces ; put them in a saucepan, and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a little salt, a few peppercorns, and sufficient red wine to cover it. Put the saucepan on the lire, add a few pieces of well-kneaded * butter, and boil quickly for five minutes or so. Have ready fifteen small onions, separately glazed, put them into the pan with the Mullet, &c., and complete the cooking very gently. Put some crotitons of bread at the bottom of a dish, place the fish on it, and serve. Gray Mullet Soup a la Turque.—Clean about 31b. of Gray Mullet, and rub it over with salt. Put 6 table-spoonfuls of the best olive oil into a stewpan, with 3 or 4 finely-chopped onions and some salt; fry them over a brisk fire till lightly browned, then add 1 table-spoonful each of finely- chopped mint and parsley, and toss them about over the fire for a feu- minutes longer. Pour in with the onions 1 pint of vinegar and 3 pints of water, and boil them for three quarters-of-an-hour. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in the fish, and let it simmer gently till the fish is tender. Take the fish out of the soup, separate the flesh from the bones, cut the flesh into small pieces, and put them into a soup-tureen ; strain the soup through a broth-napkin, and return it to the sauce- pan. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and mix the juice of two lemons with them ; colour 4 teacupful of water with a small quantity of saffron, mix it with the eggs, and beat them well. Mix the eggs in gradually with the soup, and stir it by the side of the fire with a Avooden spoon for ten or tvrelve minutes, but without allowing it to boil. Pour the soup over the fish, dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper and poAvdered cinnamon into it, and serve. Stewed Gray Mullet.—Clean ami Avash some small Gray Mullets, rub them Avell Avith salt, and leave them for an hour. Put in a stewpan loz. of butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and Avhen hot put in tAvo sliced onions and steAv them at the edge of the fire AAdthout broAvning. Lay the fish on the top of the onions, moisten to half their height Avith Avater, and boil gently for half-an-liour. Just before moving the fish from the fire, put in 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, the strained juice of tAvo lemons, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Lay the Mullets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. The above is an excellent Avay of cooking these fish. Red Mullets.—These being sea-fisli are generally better keepers than fresh-water fish; but should be used as W Fig. 1198. Red Mullet. freshly caught as possible, or they soon deteriorate. The Red Mullet (see Fig. 1198) is called the seas woodcock, but that is from an idea that the trail should not be drawn, concerning which other cooks and epicures entertain varied opinions. Baked Red Mullet.—(1) Clean the Mullet and divide it into fillets; butter a dish, lay the fillets on it, squeeze some lemon-juice over them, and season Avith salt and pepper; cover the fish with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them in a moderate oven. When cooked, drain the fillets,