TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 919 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. This is very discoverable when the Meat is chopped up and drenched with warm water. “ 5th. It should not shrink or waste much in cooking. “ 6th. It should not run to water, or become very wet on standing for a day or so, but should, on the contrary, dry upon the surface. “ 7tli. When dried to ash at a temperature of 212deg. or thereabout it should not lose more than 70 to 74 per cent, of its weight, whereas bad Meat will often lose as much as 80 per cent. “ Other properties of a more refined character will also serve for the recognition of bad Meat—as that the juice of the flesh is alkaline or neutral to test-paper, instead of being distinctly acid; and the muscular fibre, when examined under the microscope, is found to be sodden and ill-defined.” Having selected good and fresh Meat, the next consider- ation is how to keep it so. For the purposes of keeping Fig. 1138. Meat-safe. small quantities a safe like that shown in the drawing (see Fig. 1138) is excellent, possessing all the qualities pre- scribed by science. It is of metal, therefore easily cleaned; the walls and roof are of perforated zinc or wire net, per- mitting the freest ventilation, whilst preserving the Meat from the attack of flies and other vermin. All that is necessary is to provide a cool place in which to hang it. Wire dish-covers (see Fig. 1139), of various sizes, are obtainable almost everywhere. There are several ways of preserving Meat, such as Refrigerating, Curing, &c., which are duly described under these headings; the following also may be worthy of attention: Fig. 1139. Wire Disii-cover. i (1) Put the Meat into a stone jar, cover with sour milk, changing it about every three days, and it will remain Meat—continued. good for a week or so. When wanted for use, wash off all the milk and put the Meat in a basin with soda-water for a few minutes, to make it quite tender. (2) The Meat should be cut up iuto pieces of not more than 31b. in weight, and covered with Indian meal. Roll them up, and they will keep for five days even in the middle of summer. In spite, however, of the greatest care, Meat will occasionally, especially in warm weather, become what is called tainted, that is in parts. As a rule the flesh next to the bone is affected first; under any circumstances much difficulty will be experienced in its restoration even if this is possible. The following method is recommended as giving the best results: (1) Put the Meat into a saucepan of boiling water, and drop in two or three pieces of charcoal as large as eggs, made red hot in the fire ; as soon as the water has cooled, skim it to remove every particle of the charcoal floating upon it, take out the Meat, drain it, and use as required. (2) Put a few pieces of charcoal the size of eggs in the pan in which the Meat is to be boiled, and let it remain until the Meat is done. In giving an account of the various modes of cooking Meat, it has been deemed advisable to adopt some sort of classification, therefore the following receipts are divided into Raw Meat, Cold Meat that has been Cooked, and the famous Tinned Meat; Salted and Cured Meats are described under their special headings. Haw Meat.—See that this is perfectly fresh, accord- ing to the instructions given, and in trimming be care- ful not to cut away more than is absolutely necessary for the purpose desired. The pieces or trimmings should Fig. 1140. Coon's Knife (Mathews and Son). be placed in the stockpot for making gravy, if no better use suggests itself. A cook’s knife (see Fig. 1140) is very useful, but as any ordinary knife will Fig. 1141. Meat-saw and Knife Combined. answer for cutting up Meat, it is only necessary to provide an instrument for dividing bone. This may be combined Fig. 1142. Meat-saw. with a knife (see Fig. 1141), or the saw maybe of a much stronger character, suitable for a butcher (see Fig. 1142) ; Fig. 1143. Small Cleaver. a small cleaver (see Fig. 1143) is also exceedingly useful for quick work.