918 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mead—continued. skimming frequently, and add 1 table-spoonful of powdered gum arabic, and it is ready for use. White of egg may be used instead of the gum if preferred, but it does not keep so well. This Mead is used in the proportion of 1 gill to 1 tumblerful of soda-water. ME AGUE (Fr. Maigre).—The name of a large fish common in the Mediterranean, where it grows to an im- mense size. The flesh is white, firm, and bloodless; it is esteemed by some, but is not much known on account of its scarcity. MEAL.—This may signify ground corn, grain, or pease, or a repast, in both cases the derivation being the same, although the applications are distinctly different. MEASURES.—See Weights and Measures. MEAT (Fr. Yiande; Ger. Fleisch ; Ital. Carne; Sjo. Yianda).—Although this word is frequently applied to food in general, it has become usual to confine its signifi- cation to what might properly be called flesh. It is found in the oldest English as mete, and probably with the present limited meaning of muscular tissue or flesh of the principal animals constituting the food of man. As this consists of the same proximate principles throughout all animals, Meat may be said to possess the same nutritive value in every case, provided that each and all kinds are equally digestible. Meat when digested provides the system with food for the muscles, and the fat with which the Meat is usually blended raises the heat of the body, at the same time as the muscles are nourished, in proportion to the fat present. Yery fat Meat therefore raises the temperature more than it nourishes, and all lean Meat nourishes with- out raising the temperature to any very great extent. As it is necessary for life that both nourishment and internal heat should be supplied, it stands to reason that all Meat should be fat and lean, preponderating according to the temperament of the individual. The following is given as the average composition of fresh beef: Water ... ... ... ... ... ... 73'4 Soluble albumen and hsematin ... . 2“25 Insoluble albuminous substances ... . 15'20 Gelatinous substances ... . . ... . 3'30 Fat ... 2-87 Extractive matter ... ■ ■■ 132 Creatin ... ... . . 0 06 Ash 16 What will occur to the observant reader is that water has a very strong position—nearly three-fourths. All the others, with the exception of a part of the insoluble albumen, may be considered digestible, and as supplying nourishment. The constitution of human flesh is so very nearly the same, that it stands to reason no other food is likely to suit as well as flesh for nourishing flesh—a very strong argument in favour of Meat-eating. But man is “ a cooking animal,” therefore it is necessary for the cook to consider the changes that Meat undergoes under the various processes. It may be hardened and therefore rendered comparatively indigestible, or it may be deprived of a part of the water, or some of the soluble ingredients may be washed out. All or any of these changes deprive Meat of a portion of its nourishing value. Blyth states that the ordinary loss in cooking Meat is from 20 to 30 per cent., but occasionally it is as much as 40 per cent. The loss in roasting is principally water, and that which escapes as gravy; in boiling the waste is soluble material, but this is found in the water or stock that the Meat is cooked in, and can therefore be utilised. The peculiarities of various kinds of Meat, and their selection, are described under their own headings ; it will suffice for us here to take a general survey of Meat, merely mentioning special kinds for the sake of comparison. Meat—continued. Thus, of the comparative values of animals so far as their nourishment-yielding qualities are concerned, we find that: Best-quality beef yields Percentage of Meat. 57 Percentage of Water, and 43 Second ,, ,, ., 54 „ 46 Third „ 51 „ 49 Milking Cows ,, 46 „ 54 Calves ,, 60 40 Sheep 50 50 This yield is either fat or lean, according to the animal and condition at the time of killing. A further reduction in it takes place with the cooking, and it is well to know that the flesh of young animals loses considerably more than that of adults, and that fresh Meat loses more than salted or cured Meat, because in the salting the outside sur- faces are hardened, this preventing the escape of the internal juices. Meat consists, or is made up, of a number of elongated Fig. 1136. Muscle Cell. cells or sacs, laced and bound together by a white fibrous tissue (see Fig. 1136), and these cells are made up of thin walls containing a soluble albumen. Every cook knows that at a temperature a little under that of boiling water (212deg. Fahr.) albumen coagulates A Fig. 1137. Muscle. and hardens, as seen in the albumen or white of an egg. When flesh is cut through (as from A to B, Fig. 1137) a number of these cells are divided, and consequently pour out their contents, which spread over the cut surface. An experienced cook takes advantage of this to form a hard film over the cut surface, by exposing it at once to a heat not less than that of boiling water, and in this way the internal juices of the Meat are shut in and secured during the remainder of the cooking. Other changes brought about by cooking are described under the heading of the various processes, such as Boiling, Broiling, Frying, Roasting, &c. To distinguish good Meat, the following instructions are given by Dr. Letheby in his work “ On Food.” “ 1st. It is neither of a pale pink colour nor of a deep purple tint, for the former is a sign of disease, and the latter indicates that the animal has not been slaughtered, but has died with the blood in it, or has suffered from acute fever. “ 2nd. It has a marked appearance from the rami- fications of the little veins of fat among the muscles. “ 3rd. It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and should scarcely moisten the fingers—bad Meat being wet and sodden and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet parchment. “ 4th. It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be disagreeable, for diseased Meat has a sickly cadaverous smell, and sometimes a smell of physic.