763 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—continued. Matelote of Fresh Herrings.—Take ten or twelve Fresh Herrings, half with soft and half with hard roes. Gut them through the gill opening. Cut off the heads and tails, and divide each Herring lengthwise into two fillets, removing the bones. Put a small quantity of butter into a frying-pan, dredge and stir in enough flour to nearly absorb it, and add a small quantity of chopped parsley and shallots; then lay the Herrings in the pan, sprinkle over them 3 wineglassfuls of red wine, and cook over a hot fire. Put them on a hot dish, lay over them one dozen very small fried onions and two dozen small fried mushrooms, garnish the dish with fried breadcrumbs, and serve hot. Potted Fresh. Herrings.—(1) Soak the required quantity of Herrings in boiling water, and then skin them, chop off their heads and tails, remove all the bones, and cut the flesh in small pieces. Pat these in a saucepan with a good supply of butter, season with mace and pepper or cayenne, set the pan on a slow fire, and cook very gently until the flesh is quite tender. Pound it in a mortar, put it into pots, cover over first with clarified butter and then with bladder, and pack away in a cool place. (2) Clean the Herrings and dry them, season to taste, and lay them in a baking-dish with two or three bay-leaves, some mixed spice, and a small quantity of butter. Let them bake in the oven, and when sufficiently cooked, take them out and let them cool. Bone, press the meat into pots, pour over enough melted butter or oil to cover, and use as desired. Rolled Fresh Herrings.—(1) Select whatever quantity is required of Fresh Herrings, clean them, and cut off their heads; split them, and take out the roes and bones, sprinkle pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley over the fish, lay the roes on top, roll them up tightly, leaving the fins and tails outwards, and bind round with pieces of tape. Put the Herrings in a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, season with pepper, salt, and a little vinegar, and simmer gently for ten or twelve minutes, according to the size of the fish. When cooked, take them out, drain, and put them on a hot dish; pour parsley - and-butter sauce over, and serve very hot. (2) Select the required quantity of Fresh Herrings (those with soft roes are the best), scrape them, cut off the heads, open and clean them, take out the bones carefully, sprinkle the fish with flour, pepper, and salt, lay the roes on them, and roll up tightly witli the skin outside. Put the Herrings in an earthenware pot with a lid, cover them with water, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. When the fish are cooked, drain off the liquor, cover them with vinegar, and sprinkle pepper and salt over. Herrings prepared in this way will keep good for some time. Rolled Fresh Herrings on Toasts.—Select a sufficient quantity of soft-roed Herrings, scrape and split them length- wise down the back, remove the roe, lift the backbone out carefully, season with salt and pepper, and strew some finely- chopped parsley over them; roll up tightly, and bind them round w:ih tape. Have some water boiling in a saucepan, put in a small quantity of vinegar, salt, and pepper, and the fish; let them simmer for ten minutes. Fry the roes in butter. Cut as many rounds of bread (about Jin. thick) as there are rolls of fish, and toast them a delicate brown on both sides. Butter and lay them on a hot dish. Drain the rolls of fish, put one on each piece of toast, garnish with the roes and some watercress, and serve. Soused Fresh. Herrings.—Solect the required quantity of Fresh Herrings with soft roes, chop off the heads, scrape and thoroughly clean the fish; put them in an earthen baking-dish, sprinkle over them pepper, salt, and a small pinch of allspice, pour in vinegar to three-parts their height, then fill up with water; a bay-leaf and shallot may be put in as well. Cover the dish, put it in the oven, and bake the Herrings slowly for two hours. When cold, wipe the fish, lay them on a dish, garnish round the edge of the dish and in between the fish with watercress, green celery-tops or parsley, and serve. Stewed Fresh. Herrings.—Select some large Fresh Herrings, cut off their heads and thoroughly clean them, put them in layers in an earthen pot, sprinkling pepper and salt over each layer. Mince some onions and carrots, and fry them in butter, with a few peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic; pour over the vegetables as much white wine as will Herrings—continued. cover the Herrings. When the liquid boils, move the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for lialf-an-hour. Strain the liquid through a fine hair sieve over the Herrings, put the cover on, and let the Herrings stew over a very slow fire for five hours; they should not be touched while cooking. They can be served either hot or cold, and make a very good supper or breakfast dish. Stuffed Fresh Herrings.—(1) Cut off the heads and tails of twelve or more Fresh Herrings, split them down the backs, and take out the bones and the soft roes ; fill the hollow of the Herring with fish forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs, add the soft roes, bring the Herrings to their original shape, wrap each in a strip of buttered paper, and lay them on a buttered baking-dish; put them in a moderate oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, take off the paper, put the Herrings on a hot dish, cover them with maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. (2) Take a dozen Fresh Herrings, clean them well, open them down the back, cut off the heads, and take out the bones. Lay a small piece of veal stuffing in each, and roll them up; lay little bits of butter over, put them into a baking-dish, set it in the oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Salted Herrings.—These are prepared hy immersing the fish just as they are caught in a mixture of common salt and saltpetre, the proportion differing according to custom. They are afterwards hung up to dry, and in Holland they are then packed in tubs and exported: hence the Salted Herring is generally called Dutch. They can be served in many ways; but in Germany they are usually eaten raw, the flesh being nearly transparent. Marinaded Salted Herrings.—Put the required number of Salted Herrings in a basin, cover with milk or water, and leave them for several hours to draw out the salt. When ready, open them lengthwise, and take the bones and roes out carefully; cut the Herrings'lengthwise into halves, then cut them slantingly into four pieces each. Put a layer of the fish at the bottom of a jar, then a layer of thinly- sliced onions and lemons with most of the peel removed, a bay-leaf cut in small pieces, a clove, and a small quantity of bruised peppercorns; over these ingredients place another layer of the fish, next a layer of onions, and the other ingredients as before, and continue in this way until the jar is full. Pour in cold vinegar to within fin. of the top of the jar, then fill it right up with salad-oil. The onions and seasonings should bo the last layer in the jar. In three days’ time the Herrings will be fit for serving, and will keep good for a long time. They are eaten raw. Salted Herrings served with. French Beans. -— Clean some recently-salted Herrings, cut off the heads, skin and cut them into slices, and arrange them on a small dish garnished with green leaves. Cut some French beans lengthwise into slices, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of broth, boil, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, Fig. 955. Salted Herrings served with French Beans. and simmer gently till tender. When the beans are cooked, the broth should be reduced. Work loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, then stir it in with the beans; season them with 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped winter savory and salt and pepper. Turn the beans on to a hot dish, and serve with the Herrings. See Fig. 955. Salted-Herring-Roe Sauce. — Boil two or three Salted Herrings, drain them, and carefully pick out the roes; put