849 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. (12) Make a rich paste and line an earthenware dish with it. Rub some lumps of sugar on the rinds of two Lemons to absorb the oil from them, and then squeeze the Lemons and strain the juice. Melt 6oz. or table-spoonfuls of butter by gentle heat, beat the yolks of eight eggs to a cream together with Jib. of white sugar, and lastly whisk the eight whites to a stiff froth ; mix them lightly with the other ingredients, put the mixture into the dish lined with paste, set the pudding in a moderate oven to bake until done, and serve hot. (13) Peel four Lemons very thinly and boil them till soft; then nib the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Put a stick of cinnamon in lqt. of milk or cream, boil it, then pour it through a fine hair sieve over fib. of Naples biscuits, adding 2oz. of fresh butter and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and leave until cold. Mix the pul]) of the Lemons and eight well-beaten eggs with the biscuits, and sweeten to taste. Prepare a sufficient quantity of good puff paste, roll it out thin, and cut off some strips about 2in. wide; butter the edge of a pie-dish, line it with the strips of paste, joining them neatly at the ends, and pour in the mixture; cut the remainder of the paste into thin strips, which twist and place across the pudding lattice- like. Bake in a moderate oven and serve either hot or cold. (14) Rub Jib. of dripping into Jib. of flour until quite free from lumps, then mix in gradually sufficient water to make a stiff paste. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the table, put the paste on it, and roll it out into one long strip, about Jin. in thickness. Mix together the grated rind and strained juice of one Lemon, J dessert-spoonful of flour, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Work the mixture into a stiff firm paste, then spread it over the strip of paste. Roll it up, moisten slightly at the edges and press them to make the paste adhere ; tie the pudding up in a floured cloth, and plunge it into a sauce- pan of boiling water. Boil the pudding for two hours, adding- more boiling water as the other becomes reduced. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the cloth on to a hot dish, and serve. (15) Slightly warm 6oz. of butter and beat it till creamy together with Jib. of sugar; then mix with it two finely- powdered crackers, 1 teacupful of cream, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and the grated rinds of three and the juice of two Lemons. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, then pour them in with the above ingredients, and stir the whole until well mixed. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good tart-crust, pour in the Lemon mixture, cover it with a thin flat of the same crust, trim off round the edges with a sharp knife, damp them with milk or water, press them together, and bake the pie in a quick oven. When cooked, dust caster sugar over the top, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve. (16) Make a puff paste with 4oz. of butter and 5oz. of sifted flour, using as little water as possible. Roll it out into a round piece, thin in the centre and thicker towards the edges, and just the size to line a soup-plate; put it into a soup-plate, press it to shape, and with a sharp knife trim from the edges any superfluous paste, pressing down smooth and crimping or notching them. Leave the paste in a cold place till the pudding is ready. Put 4oz. of powdered white sugar into a pan or basin, and cut up into it 4oz. of fresh butter. If the butter is very cold and hard, put the pan or basin near the fire for a few minutes to soften the butter, but do not let it melt or the pudding- will be spoiled'. Beat the butter and sugar together with the back of a wooden spoon till it is quite light and of the consistence of cream. Whisk three eggs till they are about as thick as a boiled custard, add them by degrees, and stir them into the beaten butter-and-sugar. Mix together 1 dessert-spoonful of brandy, 1 dessert-spoonful of white wine, and 1 teaspoonful of rose-water, and stir this in by degrees to the other ingredients, adding lastly the strained juice and grated rind of one Lemon. Stir hard for a little while after all are mixed together, then put the mixture in spoonfuls carefully into the soup-plate lined with puff paste. Put the pudding into a moderately hot oven and bake for half-an-hour. It should not be baked too deep a brown but should be rather pale. Lemons—continued. (17) Soak half-a-dozen butter crackers in water, then strain the water off and crush them to a pulp. Chop the pulp of three Lemons very fine, removing all the skin and pips. Stir the chopped Lemon pulp into the crushed crackers, together with a very little salt and loz. of butter warmed very soft, then beat in gradually the grated rind of a Lemon and a half and Jib. of molasses. Line some patty- pans with tart-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake. (18) Finely chop Jib. of beef-suet and mix it with Jib. of finely-grated breadcrumb, 6oz. of sugar, the grated rind and juice of one Lemon, and the beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Mix these ingredients well, adding a little milk if not sufficiently moist; turn them into a buttered pudding-basin, and tie a cloth over. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water and boil it for four hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a dish and serve with a good wine sauce, either in a sauceboat or poured over it. (19) Grate the rinds of four moderate-sized Lemons and squeeze and strain their juice; beat the yolks of ten eggs; warm and beat Coz. each of butter ami caster sugar ; mix the ingredients together, add Jib. of finely-grated bread- crumb, 2oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, and 1 wineglassful of rose-water. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good paste, pour the above mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. (20) Mix ljlb. of grated breadcrumb with Jib. of finely- shred beef-suet, and add the grated peels of two Lemons and the juice of one, also two well-beaten eggs, then stir in Jib. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar; turn the preparation into a greased basin, tie a cloth over, and boil for forty- five minutes. Turn it out when done and serve with sweet or wine sauce. (21) Put 6oz. of butter into a basin, melt it, mix in an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar and stir till cold. Grate in the rind of a Lemon, add the juice of two Lemons and eight well-beaten eggs. Line a pudding-basin with crust, fill up with the Lemon mixture, and bake. Serve with sweet sauce. (22) Prepare lqt. of Lemon jelly, pour some of it, making a layer about Jin. thick, in a mould holding 2qts., then stand it on ice and leave till set. Cut some candied cherries in two, arrange them on the top of the set jelly, pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cold liquid jelly to hold the cherries, then pour in enough to cover them. When the jelly is perfectly set, put a mould, holding lqt., in the centre of the large one, and fill the space between with jelly. Fill the small mould with ice, and set both in a basin of ice-and-water. When the jelly is again hard, take the ice out of the smaller mould, fill it with warm water, and lift it out carefully. Fill the cavity left by the small mould with a Lemon sponge and let it stand till hard. Turn the pudding on to a fancy dish, pour a Lemon- flavoured custard round it, and serve. (23) Mix in a basin with Coz. of finely-grated breadcrumb, Jib. of moist sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, the grated peel of three and the strained juice of two Lemons. Beat the ingredients well, pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. (24) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumb into a basin with the grated rinds of three large Lemons and 6oz. of butter, pour over them lqt. of boiling milk, put a plate over the top of the basin, and let the contents infuse until cold. Beat six eggs well and mix with them Jib. of sugar and 2 wineglassfuls of rum and stir this in with the breadcrumb mixture. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (25) Whisk Jib. of butter and Jib. of sugar till creamy, then beat in, two or three at a time, nine eggs; squeeze in the juice of three Lemons and add the peel very finely chopped. Butter a pie-dish, line the bottom with a thin layer of short-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve either hot or cold. (26) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of grated crumb of bread into a basin and pour over just as much hot milk as it 3 R