928 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—con t inned. (2) Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, but do not over-cook them ; when sufficiently done, cut them into slices. Boil a few onions, and when tender drain and chop them. Open a pot of tinned Meat and scrape off all the jelly, which put in a small saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, or more if it is for a large pie ; flavour to taste with salt, pepper, and tomato ketchup, and boil. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with a layer of potatoes, over them put a small quantity of the chopped onion and some of the Meat cut into nice-sliaped pieces, seasoning with salt and pepper. Put in another layer of potatoes, and proceed as before until the dish is full, making the last layer of potatoes. Pour the boiling gravy in at the side of the dish, put it into a brisk oven, and bake the pie until nicely browned on the top. Serve while hot. Tinned-Meat Pie with Macaroni.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the jelly and fat out of a tin of Meat into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of macaroni, one peeled and chopped onion, and J pint of milk; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the macaroni gently until tender. Put about fib. of the tinned Meat into a pie-dish, dust it over with salt and pepper, put three or four sliced hard-boiled eggs on the top, and a few pieces of the jelly and fat. Pour the macaroni over the Meat and eggs, and cover the whole with a thin sheet of pie- crust. Bake the pie in a quick oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and serve while hot. If preferred, the macaroni can be covered with grated breadcrumb, and a few pieces of butter placed on the top; in that case the pie-crust will not be required. Tinned-Meat-and-Potato-Cakes.—Finely chop fib. of tinned mutton or beef, put it in a basin, and mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of mashed potatoes, h teacupful of milk, J teacupful of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked and chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and curry powder, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg in small quantities. Work all the ingredients until well mixed, then divide it into small equal-sized quantities, roll them into balls with floured hands, and flatten. Put a lump of clarified fat or dripping- in a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when it begins to boil put in the cakes, and fry them until browned all over. As each lot of cakes are cooked, put them on paper in front of the fire to drain while the others are being done. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cakes on it in a pyramid, garnish with filed parsley, and serve. Tinned-Meat-and-Potato Cheese or Pain.—Peel and boil lib. of potatoes, and when done, drain, and mash them; mix with the potatoes 1 table-spoonful of cooked onions, J table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and Jib. of chopped tinned Meat. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, and work it up with oil, vinegar, and milk, using only sufficient of the liquids, in equal quantities, to make it into a stiff’ paste. Turn it into a fluted mould and press well. Put a small plate inside the mould, with a weight on the top, and leave it for a few hours. When ready to serve, turn the cheese out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. Tinned-Meat-and-Rice Pudding.—Wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it. into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onion, a small lump of butter, and 1 pint of milk; season with small quantities of pepper, salt, powdered mace, and nutmeg, and stew it over a moderate fire until tender. Butter a pie-dish, and line the bottom with two or three thick slices of tinned Meat. Break two eggs in a basin, mix J table-spoonful of flour with them, and beat until creamy. When the rice is cooked, move it to the side of the fire, and stir the beaten eggs in quickly. Turn the rice over the Meat, smooth it with a spoon, and put a few pieces of the fat of the Meat on the top. Place the pudding in a brisk oven, and bake until beginning to brown. Serve very hot. This will be found an extremely simple and a very tasty dish. Meat—continued. Tinned-Meat Shape.—(1) Soak Joz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water; put it into a saucepan with a peeled carrot and onion, a few sprigs of thyme and marjoram, and lqt. of stock, and boil until reduced to two-thirds. Open a 21b. tin and cut the Meat into collops, trimming them to an even shape ; put them in a stewpan, strain the above liquor over, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a few drops of mushroom or walnut ketchup, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes to allow the Meat to get warm. Turn the whole into a mould, and stand it in a cool temperature. When cold and set, turn the shape out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace- edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Soak Jib. of breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb ; mince lib. of tinned Meat and 2oz. of suet, mix them together with the breadcrumbs, add pepper and salt to taste, and grated lemon-peel, chopped thyme, and parsley in small quantities. Bind the ingredients together with two well-beaten eggs, mixing them thoroughly. Butter a basin, fill it with the mixture, and tie a pudding- cloth over the top. Put it into a saucepan of boiling- water and boil for an hour. At the end of that time take the basin out of the saucepan and leave the contents until cold. When ready to serve, turn the shape out of the basin on to a dish, and garnish it with the jelly in the and a few sprigs of parsley. MECKLENBURG PUNCH.—See Punch. MECKLENBURG SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. MEDLARS (Fr. Nefles; Ger. Mispeln; Ital. Nespole; Sp. Nispei-as).—The fruit of the Medlar-tree (Mespilus (jermanica) is appreciated for its agreeable acidity, which sets in after the pulp has begun to decay. The skin of the Medlar is brown, and the flesh firm and austere, not at all fit to eat when first gathered, nor until disinteg- ration, or “ bletting,” as it is called, has set in. In this state the fruit will keep for a long time. The Medlar grows wild in many parts of Europe, but the cultivated kinds yield the best fruit. The small- fruited Nottingham Medlar is a great favourite with horticulturists, the large Dutch taking preference on account of the size of its fruit. Japanese Medlars are described under Loquats. Medlar Cheese.—Put some Medlars into an earthenware jar, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and keep it boiling gently over a slow fire. When the Medlars are quite soft, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and weigh the pulp, and for every pound allow 1 \ breakfast- cupfuls of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and J teaspoonful of allspice. Put all the ingredients together in the preserving- pan, and stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickly reduced, skimming occasionally. Turn the cheese into moulds, and keep them in a cold place. When ready to serve, turn the cheeses out of the moulds on to a dish. Medlars for Dessert.—To serve these artistically, first of all the hollow in the dessert-dish must be filled up, which can easily be done with fancy paper, made into a roll or into a bun shape (called a tampion), or paste-board may be employed cut to the size of the dish, having a support in the centre to keep it well raised. Cover with leaves or moss, trim off all the rough parts of the Medlars, and arrange them on the dish in the form of a pyramid or any other design, putting leaves or moss between them. Medlar Jelly.—(1) Procure very ripe Medlars, peel, put them in a stewpan with just enough water to cover, and stew gently, stirring frequently. When quite tender, pass the Medlar pulp through a fine hair sieve, weigh the pulp and juice, and for every pint allow ljlb. of loaf sugar. Boil all together until sufficiently reduced, then pass it through a jelly-bag. Turn the jelly into small jars, and when quite cold cover first with brandied papers and then with parchment, and tie down. (2) Procure the requisite quantity of ripe Medlars, put them in a jar, first bruising them slightly, cover with cold