THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 822 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Finely chop an onion, two or three shallots and mush- rooms, and put them in with the meat ; dust in salt and pepper, and fry for five minutes longer. Make about 4lb. of good short-paste, roll it out and trim to a round shape. Lay the round of paste on a baking-sheet, and cover it with a layer of veal forcemeat, leaving a border of the paste all round, about ljin. wide; put the meat on the forcemeat, piling it in a dome, then spread another layer of forcemeat over. Roll out a piece of puff paste at five-and-a-half turns to Jin. in thickness, then cut a strip out of it about 1 Jin. wide. Gather up the remainder of the paste and roll it out to a thin round fiat, place it over the meats bringing the edges down to meet the border of the bottom fiat of paste; fix the strip of paste like an upright wall all round, fastening the two ends together, and using a paste-brush dipped in water to make it adhere. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut some imitation leaves out of it, moisten underneath with a little water, and arrange them tastefully on the top of the pie; make a small hole in the centre, and cover it with a paste flower. Dip the paste-brush in beaten egg, brush it over the pie, put in a slow oven and bake for an hour, covering with a sheet of paper after the first ten minutes. Boil about f pint of clear gravy till rather thickly reduced, then mix in some chopped cooked mush- rooms. When the pie is cooked, slip it on to a hot dish, remove the flower at the top, and pour the gravy in through the hole, then replace the flower, and serve. Ollapodrida of Lamb’s Pluck.—Take the liver, heart, kidneys, sweetbreads, and brains of a Lamb. Boil the sweetbreads in hot water for five minutes, then put them in l- pint of good broth and simmer for ten minutes; take them up and put in the brains and boil them, letting both brains and sweetbreads get cold when taken out of the gravy. Then slice the heart and stew it in the same gravy very gently for quite half-an-hour. Chop the liver, peel and chop a small onion (a young one), and when the slices of heart are stewed, put in the kidneys and let them stew for five minutes. Fry the chopped liver and onion in dripping, and fry the slices of heart afterwards in Fig. 1034. Ollapodrida of Lamb’s Pluck. the same dripping. Slice the sweetbreads and brains when cold, brush over with egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling butter ; fry the kidneys in the same butter for a bare two minutes. Arrange the slices of heart, the chopped liver, the kidneys, the sliced sweetbreads and brains on a hot dish ; dredge some browned flour into the fat in the frying-pan, stir it in, then pour in the gravy, season to taste with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, mix in a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, let it boil up, pour it over the sweetbreads, &c., anil serve immediately. See Fig. 1034. Stewed Lamb’s Pluck.—Clean the heart, liver, and lungs of a Lamb, and cut them into squares. Put a small chopped onion into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and fry over a brisk fire till lightly browned, then put in the pieces of meat, and fry them also. When the me it has nearly set, dredge in flour, salt, and pepper. Cover the meat with white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities, and boil till the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, sprinkle chopped parsley over, and serve. Stewed Lamb’s Pluck, Ears, and Peet.—Clean a Lamb’s Pluck, ears, and feet; cover with water in which 1 table- Lamb—continued. spoonful of flour has been mixed, put in a few peppercorns and cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, the pulp of a lemon, without peel or pips, and a little salt, and boil them gently till tender. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots, stir over the fire for two or three minutes but do not let them brown, sprinkle in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, continue stirring for two minutes, pour in gradually some cooking-stock, and an equal quantity of broth, stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, and let the contents simmer. In twenty minutes’ time skim the fat off and pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve or strainer; put it in the saucepan again, with twelve raw mushrooms that have been peeled and cleaned, and let it boil for ten minutes to reduce ; then thicken with the yolks of two eggs. Drain the pluck, feet, and ears on a towel, take the bones out of the feet, put the pluck in the middle of a hot dish, arrange the feet and ears round it, garnish round with the mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and serve. Lamb’s Stones.—It is not often that these are collected for cooking; but when they are, the following will be found the best receipts for preparing them: Fricasseed Lamb’s Stones.—Skin, wash, and partially boil some Lamb’s Stones, drain, cut them in halves, and mb well with flour. Put a large lump of lard in a fry- ing-pan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the stones and fry them until nicely browned. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and a small lump of butter in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then stir in slowly about 1J breakfast-cupfuls of clear veal broth; continue stirring until boiling, then move it to the side and put in a slice of lemon, 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle, a few drops of mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with J teacupful of cream and strained. Stir it at the side of the fire for a few minutes but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. Put the fricassee on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fricasseed Lamb’s Stones and Sweetbreads.—Blanch and partially boil some Lamb’s Stones and cut them into slices. Cut three sweetbreads into two slices each, and rub them over with flour. Beard about a dozen large oysters and put the sweetbreads and stones into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry, putting in the oysters when they are about half done. When all are nicely browned, drain off the butter, put in some asparagus-tops cut into lin. lengths, a few finely-chopped chives, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear gravy; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and let it boil gently at the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs well with J teacupful of cold gravy, pour it in with the sweetbreads, and stir at the edge of the fire until thickened, but not boiling, or the eggs will curdle. Turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—These are of two kinds in all animals, the one lying under the heart, and called consequently the heart-sweetbread, and the other being the large gland that embraces the windpipe, and is therefore called the throat-sweetbread. They are both valued in cookery, the throat-sweetbread being the least familiar, although certainly the more delicate of the two. Invalids are especially partial to sweetbreads. They are best cooked as follow: Baked Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Clean the sweetbreads, washing them in plenty of water, then steep them in water for an hour or more. Drain the sweetbreads and blanch them in boiling water till firm, then boil slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. At the end of that tune, drain and wipe the sweetbreads on a cloth. Roll them in beaten yolk of eggs, then in plenty of grated breadcrumb, and put them in a quick oven till nicely browned. Boil \ pint of gravy with 1 wineglassful of sherry, arrange the