THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 850 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, drc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemons—continued. will absorb; mix with tlie breadcrumbs the grated rind and strained juice of one large Lemon or two small ones, sweeten to taste, and beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon until all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated. Beat two eggs together with 1 teacupful of milk, strain, and add to the mixture. Butter a pie-disli, pour the mixture into it, put some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake until nicely browned in a brisk oven. When cooked, sift some caster sugar over the top of the pudding, and serve. (27) Put 1 teacupful of Lemon-juice in a basin with Jib. of loaf sugar and leave it until all the moisture has absorbed. Grate the rinds of the two Lemons, mix it with the sugar, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs; stir the mixture well until the sugar has dissolved. Butter a shallow dish, and line it with a good tart-paste. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the Lemon mixture, and spread it over the paste. Bake the pudding in a slow oven. Serve either hot or cold. (28) S ak ill), of sifted breadcrumbs in J pint of milk, then mix with them Jib. of finely-chopped suet; whisk four eggs together with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, then beat them well into the soaked breadcrumbs and chopped suet, and mix in the grated rind of half a Lemon and the strained juice of a whole Lemon, beating in, lastly, and as quickly as possible, 4 table-spoonfuls of self-raising flour. Turn the pudding directly into a buttered pudding-tin, cover it, and plunge it immediately into boiling water. Boil for three hours, and serve hot with wine sauce. (29) Peel the rind rather thickly oft’ one large Lemon or two small ones, put it in a saucepan with some cold water and boil until soft. Drain the rind, put it in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and pound it to a smooth paste. Remove the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet and mince it; mix it with the Lemon-peel, together with 8oz. of breadcrumbs, 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of flour, the strained juice of a Lemon, and five well-beaten eggs. Beat the whole until thoroughly -we11 mixed, then turn it into a buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. (30) Mix with 6oz. of grated breadcrumb the grated rind of two Lemons, fib. of caster sugar, f pint of milk, and five well-beaten eggs. When these ingredients are well mixed, stir in gradually the juice of the two Lemons. Pour the pudding into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a cloth over, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When ready, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a wine sauce, either poured round or in a sauceboat. (31) Finely chop Goz. of suet, put it into a basin, and mix with it the crumb of three-parts of a quartern loaf, Goz. of loaf sugar, the juice of one large Lemon, and loz. of thinly-shred candied citron-peel. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add them to the above ingredients, together with the chopped peel of one Lemon, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped sweet almonds, 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry, and lastly the well-whipped whites of the three eggs. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height and steam the pudding for an-hour-and-a-half, taking care that the water does not enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (32) Boston.—Beat 3oz. of butter to a cream together with 6oz. of sugar; add and work into it the beaten yolks of five eggs, the grated peel of one and the strained juice of two Lemons; then, a handful at a time, Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, alternately with spoonfuls of the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir in lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of self-raising flour. Put the batter as quickly as possible into a buttered pud ding-tin, cover it, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and plunge it at once into boil- ing water. Let it boil continually for two hours. For the sauce, beat 3oz. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar to a cream; mix with it the strained juice of one Lemon, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all this very well together, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, pom- part of it over the pudding, and serve the rest in a small tureen. (33) Put into a saucepan 6oz. each of butter and powdered sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and the grated peel of a medium-sized Lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Set the pan on the hot stove, and with a wire whisk stir sharply for at least five minutes. Remove from the fire and lay it on the table. Beat in a copper basin six whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the other preparation, beating with the whisk thoroughly, but not briskly, for ten minutes. Butter and sugar well six pudding-moulds, fill with the preparation, steam them in a tin pan containing warm water, and serve with cream sauce poured over. Lemon Puffs.—(1) Whisk the yolks of three eggs together with Jib. of powdered white sugar, then beat in 3 table- spoonfuls of milk, arul sprinkle in a very little salt and the grated peel of a Lemon; whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and beat them in next, and stir in lastly Jib. of self-raising Hour. Pour the batter into mutfin- rings and bake in a quick oven. They should be baked immediately after the batter is mixed. (2) Grate the rinds of two large Lemons and mix w-ell with the grated rinds 1 Jib. of finely-powdered white sugar quite free from lumps. Beat the whites of three fresh eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the sugar and grated peel, and whisk all together for an hour, and then make it up into any fancy shapes. Lay it on buttered or oiled paper on tins and bake in a moderate oven. Do not take the Lemon puffs off the paper till they are quite cold. Serve on a fancy dish. Lemon Rice.—Thickly peel a large Lemon; cut the peel into shreds, and boil them in a little water till soft. Boil Jib. of well-washed rice in lqt. of new- milk with a little caster sugar added; when very soft, turn the rice into a mould and set it in a cold place. Strain the boiled Lemon-peel, pour over 1 teacupful of fresh water, put in a stewpan with the strained juice of one Lemon and caster sugar to taste, and let it stew gently for two hours. Turn the rice into a dish, pour the syrup and shreds of Lemon- peel over, and serve. Lemon Rings.—Cut some Lemons in slices, then with a knife carefully cut out all the pulp close to the white pith. Boil the rings in salted water and, when soft, finish as directed for Dried Lemon Slices. Lemon Rocks.—Rub Jib. of loaf sugar on the rind of two Lemons, then pound in a mortar, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix in the sugar and beat the whole for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Spread a sheet of buttered paper over a baking-tin, drop the mixture on it in small quan- tities with a table-spoon, leaving them just as they fall, and place them in a moderate oven until dry. Take the rocks off the paper while warm. Lemon Roll Cakes.—Slightly warm, without oiling, 2oz. of butter, and beat it together with 2oz. of caster sugar; dissolve 1 table-spoonful of dry yeast in about J teacupful of warm milk, then mix it and the butter in Jib. of Hour, adding as much more warm milk as will be required to form a light dough. Beat the dough thoroughly and mix with it the grated peel of one Lemon, a few pieces of finely- shred Lemon-peel, and two well-beaten eggs. Divide the dough into two equal-sized portions, put them on a floured paste-board, and mould them into long thin rolls. Place on a baking-sheet, put them in a warm place until well risen, then bake in a moderate oven. When cooked the rolls should be of a pale yellow colour. Dust lightly over with caster sugar, and serve. Lemon Sauce.—(1) Put 2oz. of sugar into a saucepan with the finely-chopped rind of a Lemon; pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, boil for five minutes, and serve as required. (2) Prepare 1 pint of butter sauce, and mix with it the juice and pulp of one large Lemon freed from seeds. Boil and finely pound a chicken’s liver and mix it with the sauce. This sauce is generally served with boiled fowl.