THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 948 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L’c., referred to, see under their special heads. Molasses—continued. others. Butter a tart-dish, ancl line it with a rich short- paste; pour the mixture into it, and ornament across with twisted strips of the same paste (see Fig. 1188). Bake in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. Molasses Toffy.—Put into a saucepan 21b. of brown sugar, 2qts. of Molasses, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil them to the ball degree (see SUGAR-BOILING). Add lOoz. of butter, stir well until dissolved and thoroughly, in- corporated, add a few drops of oil of lemon, and continue to boil to the crack degree. Turn the whole on to a buttered marble slab, let it cool, turn in the edges, cut it into tablets, let them get quite cold, and use as required. Molasses Vinegar.—To 3galls. of boiling water add 2qts. of Molasses, put it into a tub, and leave till cool. W hen milk-warm, stir in \ pint of yeast, put it into a cask, and stand it by the fire for twenty-four hours; after that let it remain in a warm place with a bottle in the bung-hole. In three months it will be lit to bottle. MOLE.—This is a very delicious Mexican ragout, which deserves a place at any table. Cut the flesh off a small turkey or half a large one, and chop it into small pieces; put the meat in a saucepan with broth to cover, and stew until tender. C hop four tomatoes, and put them in a stewpan with two pounded pickled cap- sicums ; take the pieces of turkey out of the liquor, put them in with the tomatoes, and strain the liquor through a line hair sieve over them. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a clove of garlic. S few the Mole gently for twenty minutes, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. A small quantity of pounded coriander-seeds, added when cooked, will be an improvement. MONACO SOUP.—-See Soups. Moor Fowl—continued. dignified with the name of moor game. They do not often find their way to the table. Moor-Fowl Pie.—Singe and draw about half-a-dozen Moor Fowl, then wash and dry them; mix together some pounded cloves, salt, Jamaica pepper, and black pepper, anti season the birds with it. Roll some butter in the remainder of the seasoning, and put a small piece in each bird. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with puff paste, and put in the birds side by side. Moisten them with 1 breakfast- cupful of rich brown stock and 1 wineglassful of port wine, cover with puff paste, trimming and pinching the edges together, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Roasted Moor Fowl.—Clean and prepare the birds, and stuff them with a mixture of breadcrumbs and butter, but without filling their crops ; place them on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast, basting frequently with butter to prevent them becoming dry. Serve on a hot dish with bread sauce or breadcrumbs fried in butter. After the birds are stuffed, they must be trussed with their heads tucked under their wings. Stewed Moor Fowl.—Truss the birds, drawing the legs within the body, and keep on the heads. Rub some flour and a little pepper and salt into a piece of butter, and put a little of this mixture inside each bird. Brown some flour arid butter, add to it two pounded cloves, a little salt, pepper, mace, and some good gravy, and put this over the fire. In the meantime, fry the birds in butter till they are nicely browned, and as soon as the thickened gravy in the sauce- pan boils, put them in, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the birds stew slowly till they are tender. If the birds are young, an hour’s stewing will be sufficient; if they are old they may require two hours. Half-an-hour before they are done add nearly 1 gill of port wine, and five minutes before dishing them add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. MONGOL WINE.—An Asiatic wine made by fermenting skimmed milk. The flavour and odour are equally insipid. MONK FISH.—See Angel Fish. MONKEY NUTS.—-See Pea-Nuts. MONMOUTH PUDDING.—-See Puddings. MONTALCINO.—A Tuscany wine not much known in this country. MONTBLANC CAKE.—See Cakes. MONTEFIA.SCONE.—The name of an Italian wine produced from the vineyards of Umbria and the Marshes. MONTEFULCIANO.—A famous wine of Tuscany. MONTEKOBBIO.—A wine produced in Lombardy. MONTGLAS. —Fr. for a preparation of meat, mush- rooms, and truffles cut up into rather large pieces. Urbain Dubois calls Montglas a kind of big “julienne. ” Several receipts for it will be found under various headings. MONTMORENCY CAKE.—See Cakes. MONTPELLIER BUTTER.—-See Butter. MONTREAL PUDDING.—See Puddings. MONTROSE CAKE.—See Cakes. MONTSERRAT LIME-JUICE.—See Limes. MOOLOO.—See Fish Mooloo (Indian). MOOR FOWL.—The red-legged ptarmigan (Lagopus scoticus) is known by this name. They are more often spoken of as moor cock, or moor hen, and are sometimes MORBADELLA.—An Italian sausage made of a good many things, and eaten cold. MORELS (Fr. Morilles; Ger. Morellen; Ital. Morelle; Sp. Crespillas).—When mushrooms and other edible fungi are scarce, the cook can always fall back upon the Morel (Morchella esculenta) for flavouring soups and sauces. In Germany large quantities are collected and dried, and they are retailed here by our oil and colourmen. In Cashmir also they are exceedingly pro- lific, as well as in some parts of this country. They grow in many different shapes, some conical, others strawberry shape, and others quite round (see Fig. 1189), the bulbous part being deeply reticulated. When cut open they are hollow, with thick fleshy walls. Morels a lTtalienne.—Blanch twelve Morels; put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of chop led paisley; melt it, then put in the Morels, and toss them for a few minutes over the fire. Moisten with white wine, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew them gently for half- an-hour. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 heaped table spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until browned; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, and continue stirring until thickened and boiling. When the Morels are cooked, pour the thickened stock over them, add the juice of half a lemon, and a small piece of chicken glaze about the size of a walnut, and boil until the glaze has dissolved. Put the Morels on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve. Fig. 1189. Morel.