736 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Halibut—continued. amongst cooks as the “ workhouse turbot,” on account of its enormous size (some weighing as much as 3001b.) and the coarse quality of its flesh. By the Jews it is highly prized, having the reputation of being a very clean-feeding fish. Fig. 916. Halibut. The Halibut (see Fig. 916) is of the flounder tribe (Pleuronectidce), and is sometimes confounded with the American fluke, of which it is, perhaps, the European representative. It may be cooked in a variety of ways, the following modes being considered the more desirable, because of their strong seasoning : Baked Halibut.—(1) Take 31b. or 41b. of the fish, and remove the dark skin by dipping the part covered with it into boiling water, and scraping. Rub the flesh over with salt and pepper, put it in a baking-pan, and pour over milk to about the depth of lin. in the pan. Place the pan in the oven, and bake for about an hour, basting frequently with the milk. Take out the fish, remove the bone and skin, put it on a dish in its original shape, and serve with egg sauce, cream sauce, or plain drawn butter. Garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs; or it may be served with breadcrumbs sprinkled over, and tomato sauce in a tureen. (2) Lay the fish in layers in a deep pie-dish, strewing over each layer a small quantity of mixed spice, salt and pepper, and packing them down closely. For every pound of Halibut mix together 1 table-spoonful of light dinner- ale, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Pour the mixture over the fish, place some small pieces of butter on the top, put the fish in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Take the fish out of the oven, and let it get cold before serving. Boiled Halibut.— Put a piece of Halibut weighing 21b. in a saucepan, and cover it with fresh water; add one sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a bouquet garni; season with 1 handful of salt, and pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put on the lid, and cook gently for five minutes after coming to the boiling-point; then lift out the fish, drain well, dress it on a hot dish, and serve with anchovy butter spread all over. Broiled Halibut. —Cut some slices from a Halibut, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put them in a dish, cover with warmed butter, and leave for thirty minutes. Roll them in flour, and broil over a very clear Are for twelve minutes. Place them on a dish with a garnish of parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. The slices of Halibut should be about lin. thick, and 3 table-spoonfuls of butter be used for every pound weight of fish. Broiled Halibut with Maitre-d’Hotel Butter.—Prepare and broil some slices of Halibut as for Broiled Halibut. When done, put them on a dish, mask with maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve with parsley for garnish. Broiled Halibut Steak with Maitre-d’Hotel Sauce.— Wipe a piece of fresh Halibut weighing 21b., lay it on a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil. Roll well, lay it on a double broiler over a brisk fire, and broil for about eight minutes on each side. Place the fish on a hot dish, pour over 1 teacupful of maitre-d’hotel sauce, garnish with parsley, and serve. Fried Halibut Steaks.— (1) Cut some steaks from a Halibut, dip them in flour, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done. Put them on a dish, and serve with Robert sauce poured round, but not over, the fish. Halibut—continued. (2) Cut some steaks from a Halibut, dip them well in cornflour, put them in a frying-pan with bacon, and fry, turn- ing them over so as to cook both sides. Place the steaks on a dish, put a piece of fried bacon on the top, and serve with a thin slice of fried bread. Halibut Toasts.—Put lib. of Halibut into a saucepan with a little water, and boil. When done, take it out, drain, chop very fine, mix it up with eight well-beaten eggs, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and work in 1 breakfast-cupful Fig. 917. Halibut Toasts. of warmed butter; put it in a stewpan, and cook until quite done. Spread some pieces of toast with anchovy butter, arrange them on a dish, and serve with the Halibut mixture laid on them (see Fig. 917). Stewed Halibut Collops.—Cut a large piece of Halibut into collops, put the bones and any fish trimmings into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion cut in quarters, a few pieces of celery, and salt and pepper to taste; pour over sufficient rich broth to moisten, and cover for about ten minutes. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve into another saucepan, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and cook for a few minutes longer. Put the collops of fish into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry for a few minutes, put them into the saucepan with the liquor, and stew gently for about half-an-hour. Place the pieces of Ash on a dish, add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a little mace to the liquor, pour it over, and serve. HAMS [Ft. Jambons; Ger. Scliinken; Ital. Pres- ciutfci; Sp. Jamons).—What we know as Hams are the bind legs of certain animals, notably those of the pig, which are preserved by curing, or pickling in brine, drying, and oftentimes smoking. It has been stated by cooks that the leg of any animal so treated would make a good Ham, and experience has proved this in the cases of legs of beef, mutton, and bear. See Beef and Mutton. Pork Hams are those of most general nse, being fre- quently cured together with the side of bacon; hence it Fig. 918. York Ham. follows that localities famous for bacon are also famous for Hams, the quality depending largely on the superiority of the meat, and in a measure also upon the principle and method adopted in the curing. In Wiltshire, Hamp- shire, and some parts of Yorkshire, lies ides other localities, the farmers are celebrated for their Hams; York Hams being especial favourites, being large, round, and plump, with pink meat, and delicate white fat with a slight pinky tinge. Westphalian Hams resemble York Hams (see Fig. 918) very closely, and are reckoned equally good.