902 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. arrange the n on a hot dish, decorate tastefully with parsley (see Fig. 1122), and serve. Fig. 1122. Mackerel Roes in Cases. Mackerel Salad.—(1) Clean and wash three Mackerel, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender. Drain the fish, leave them till cold, then cut off the heads and separate the flesh from the bones, arranging the fillets of fish tastefully on a dish. Blanch and skin Mb. of almonds, put them in a mortar with three peeled cloves of garlic, and pound. Remove the crust from half a penny French roll, and soak the crumb in water; then squeeze it well, put it in with the almonds and garlic, and pound the whole together until quite smooth ; mix in 1 wine- glassful of vinegar and sufficient water to bring it to the consistency of thick cream. Pour the sauce over the fish, dust it over with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and serve. (2) Clean a fresh Mackerel, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil slowly for twenty-five minutes. When cooked, drain the Mackerel, leave it till cold, skin and remove all the bones, and flake the flesh of the fish with two forks. Wash the hearts of two lettuces, break them asunder, and put them in a Salad-bowl; put in the fish, and pour over it a remoulade sauce. Cut some hard-boiled eggs into quarters, bone and fillet some anchovies, arrange them as a garnish round the salad, and serve. Mackerel Soft-Roes.—These can be boiled in vinegar and ! salted water, and afterwards replaced in the fish when boiled. Or they may be cut up small, warmed in white sauce, and used for filling patties. Or again, they may be fried and used for garnish. Mackerel Soft-Roes in Cases.—Select six soft-roed Mackerel, and boil them till well done; then take out the roes, put them into small paper cases, sprinkle finely- chopped parsley and grated breadcrumb over, season with pepper and salt, and put a small piece of butter on each. Bake them in the oven until browned, and serve with white sharp sauce containing the juice of one lemon to the half-pint. Mackerel Soft-Roe Patties.—Select four Mackerel with soft roes; take out the roes, but do not wash them, put them in a baking-dish, cover with liquefied butter without salt, and bake. When they are cooked, take them out of the dish, being careful not to break them, and put on white paper to drain; sprinkle a little salt over, cut them into small dice, put them into patty-pans lined until paste, and bake lightly. Keep them hot whilst you mix with J tea- cupful of bechamel sauce a small lump of butter and a little pepper and salt. Refine this sauce with thick cream, and pour it when quite hot into the patties. The sauce should not be liquid enough to soak into the roes, but cover them like a cream. Serve very hot. Mackerel Soup.—Select three or four small fresh Mackerel, clean them, cut their heads off', and divide the fish hi pieces. Put them in a stewpan with a little butter, salt, and pepper, fry them till nicely browned, then put in some finely-chopped carrots, turnips, and onions, and a bunch of parsley ; pour in lqt. of boiling water, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When done, skim the fat off the liquor, pass all through a sieve, adi to it lqt. of fish broth (see Court Bouillon), stir the soup over the fire till boiling, then stir hi 1 breakfast- cupful of boiled rice, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and a small lump of butter. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Mackerel—continued. Pickled Mackerel.—(1) Boil the fish. Take some of the liquor it was boiled in, add one-third its quantity of vinegar, put in some whole peppers and one or two bay-leaves, boil it up, and pour over the fish. (2) Clean the fish well, split them right down, and take the bones out, cutting each side into two or three, according to the size of the Mackerel. Mix together for three large Mackerel a bare Joz. of pepper, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, two cloves, a little very finely-powdered mace, and one grated nutmeg. Make holes in eacli piece of fish, push some of the mixed spice in, nib it all over the pieces of fish, and fry them in oil. When quite cold, put the fried fish in a stone jar, and pour over vinegar enough to cover. If it is desirable to keep them long, cover the top of the vinegar with oil. Potted Mackerel.—Clean the Mackerel well, dry it, season to taste, lay it in a baking-dish with mixed spice, a couple of bay-leaves, and a small quantity of butter; bake it in the oven, and when done enough, take it out and let it cool. Then bone and lay the meat in pots, and pour over enough butter melted to oil to cover. Roasted Mackerel.—Cut the heads off some fresh Mackerel, and divide each into halves, or, if very large, into three equal-sized pieces. Wash them well in plenty of water, and dry on a cloth, ltub the Mackerel with finely- chopped parsley and fennel, season with salt and pepper, and leave for an hour or two. Fix the pieces of fish on skewers, putting a bay-leaf between each piece, place them in front of a clear but moderate fire, and turn them continually till equally browned. When cooked, put the pieces of fish on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and cut lemons, and serve. Rolled Mackerel.—Cut off the heads and thoroughly clean and wipe some soft-roed Mackerel; cut them open and remove the backbone, split the fish in halves, and put a roe on each half; sprinkle pepper, salt, and flour over, and roll them up tightly, the tails sticking outwards. Pack them closely in a deep baking-dish, pour some vinegar mixed with a little water over them, season with pepper and salt, cover with a plate, and bake in a moderate oven for an-honr-and-a-half. When cooked, arrange the fish on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor over them, with 1 table-spoonful of anchovy essence added, and serve either hot or cold. Salted Mackerel.—Select some freshly-caught Mackerel, and slit them down the back to remove the guts, livers, roes, and gills, taking great care not to burst the gall, and wipe them well both inside and out. In the meantime, put Jgall. of cold water into a deep pan, and add lib. of salt, Joz. of saltpetre, and Jib. of coarse sugar. Put the fish in this, and let them remain for abnut six hours or so, accord- ing to their size. Take out and stretch them between two laths put across the back of each one, wash them in the pickle, and hang up to diy. Let them remain for a couple of hours, then put them into hot smoke for an hour (see CURING), then into cooler smoke, and let them remain until they are of a dark chestnut colour, which will take about twenty hours or so. When they are quite cold, pack them, and put them into a diy room until wanted. The fish should be as fresh as possible, for if kept any time they lose their flavour and have a dark appearance. Scalloped Mackerel.—Clean the Mackerel and boil them ; when tender, drain, carefully remove all the skin and bones, and divide them into flakes with two forks. For each Mackerel allow 1 teacupful of shrimps, remove their skins, and mix them with the flaked fish. Put the trimmings of the Mackerel and shrimps in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and boil slowly for half-an-hour. Put 1 teacupful of milk in a stewpan with sufficient cornflour to make it thick, and stir over the fire until boiling. Strain the liquor from the fish-bones, and mix it with the thickened milk ; if at all lumpy, the whole should be strained through a fine sieve and returned to the stewpan; pour in a small quantity each of essence of soy and anchovies, and mush- room and walnut ketchups ; season to taste with salt and pepper, a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and lemon- peel, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put