TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 739 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. Devilled Ham.—Cut some thin slices of Ham, spread them with mustard mixed with oil and vinegar, put them in a baking-dish, and cook in the oven. Boil some potatoes, mash them, put a mound of them on a dish, arrange the pieces of cooked Ham against the mound, and serve. Tartar sauce is sometimes served with this dish. Fig. 920. Cold Boiled Ham with Aspic Jelly. Essence of Ham.—(1) Cut Gib. of lean Ham into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with eight peeled shallots and three bay-leaves, and moisten with a small quantity of water. Fix the lid firmly on the saucepan, and stand it at the side of the fire. When the Ham is a little more than half cooked, pour in 0 pints of boiling water, place over the fire until tender, then move it to the side, and simmer for one hour. Skim the Ham liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve, clarify it with whites of eggs, then strain it through a cloth. Pour the liquor into a clean saucepan, and boil it until reduced to 1J pints. Leave it until cold, skim, pour it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. This essence is a capital flavouring for sauces, and will keep for any length of time. (2) Cut lib. of raw Ham into small pieces, trimming off the fat; put them into a saucepan with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and 5 pint of white wine. Boil the liquor till the wine is reduced, then pour in lqt. of veal broth, and boil slowly at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Strain, skim, and bottle as for No. 1. (3) Cut 31b. or 41b. of lean Ham into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with slices of carrots, parsnips, and onions, and sweat them over a slow fire till they stick to the pan, but do not burn. Pour in gradually some veal gravy, add a few fresh mushrooms, some morels, leeks, and cloves, a bunch of parsley and basil, and a crust of bread. Put the lid on the saucepan, place it over the fire till the contents boil, then move it to the side, and simmer to reduce the liquor till thick. Strain the essence through a silk sieve, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Get the remains of a knuckle of Ham with the bone, cut off all the meat, chop it, break the bone into small pieces, and put all in a saucepan. Moisten to height with cold water, and simmer slowly at the side of the fire until the water is thick and well flavoured with the Ham. After- wards strain the liquor through a very fine sieve into a clean saucepan, mix with it an equal quantity of strong, well-seasoned veal gravy, and boil slowly until reduced one- third. When cold, pour the essence into small bottles, and cork them. Forcemeat of Ham.—Finely chop 21b. of cooked lean Ham, put it in a mortar, and pound well. Turn lib. of bread- crumbs and 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and boil the contents until the crumbs are smooth and soft; add a little cayenne, J pint of brown sauce, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Put it on one side to cool, and then make it into a mass with the yolks of four eggs. It is now ready for use, either as a border (put into a buttered border mould and steamed for three hours) or used in game pies or for quenelles. Fried Ham.—(1) Cut off a thick slice of Ham, put it in a saucepan over the fire with enough cold water to cover, and let the water come to the boil. Pour it off, put the Ham over the fire, and fry slowly until it is brown on both Hams—continued. sides. Then season with pepper and serve. Eggs are usually served with fried Ham (see Fig. 921). They can be fried in the same pan, or separately, in enough fat to prevent burning, seasoned with salt and pepper, and set round the dish and over the Ham. Fig. 921. Fried Ham with Eggs. (2) Cut the Ham into thin slices, trim off the outsides, make two or three incisions round the edges of the fat, and fry it in a frying-pan over a clear fire till the fat is crisp. Put it on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried in the Ham fat, and serve. Frizzled Ham.—Cut lib. of fat Ham into as thin slices as possible. Put a frying-pan over the fire, and let it get smoking hot ; then put in the slices of Ham, and fry for two or three minutes. Next dust them with dry flour, and cook until the flour is brown. While the flour is browning, mix 1 table-spoonful each of dry mustard and vinegar together. When the flour is brown, add the mustard and vinegar, and enough boiling water to cover the Ham. Boil gently for a moment, and serve. Eggs may be cooked with the Ham in place of the flour and water. Ham Cakes.—(1) Chop some cold Ham, using any dry pieces with the fat, put it in a mortar, and pound until smooth ; then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Also chop, pound, and pass through the sieve an equal quantity of cooked beef. Put the Ham and beef together in the mortar, seasoning to taste with pepper and powdered mixed spices. Pour in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of clarified butter and pound the whole again. Line a plain mould with white paper, fill it with the mixture, pressing down well. Cover with another sheet of paper, and put it into the oven. In about half-an-hour’s time take the cake out of the oven and leave it until cold. Before serving, stand the mould in hot water for a minute or two, then wipe it. Turn the cake out on to a dish covered with a fancy-edged dish-paper, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. It is better to make the cake the day before it is wanted for serving. (2) Put lib. of cooked Ham, one part fat to two parts lean, in a mortar, and pound it to a smooth paste. Boil a thick slice of bread in pint of milk, and beat it well with the Ham, adding one beaten egg. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into a mould, and bake. When set, proceed as for No. 1. Ham-and-Chicken Pie.—Trim off the skin of some cold remains of chicken, and chop the meat finely; mix with it an equal quantity of finely-chopped lean Ham and a small quantity of chopped shallot ; season the mixture with moderate quantities of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of white stock. Butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff paste, and put in the mixture; place a flat of puff paste on the top, trim it round the edges, moisten and press them together, make a small hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour a small quantity of hot cream through the hole at the top of the pie, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve hot or cold. Ham-and-Chicken Polonies.—Finely mince lib. of Ham and lib. of cooked chicken-flesh, mix them together with 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped button-mushrooms and 2oz. of butter, and mince the whole together for a few minutes, seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a small quantity of ground cloves. Dye some skins a bright red and fill them with the mixture, tying them at the ends. Steam the polonies for one hour, then take them out, and hang up until cold. 3 k 2