846 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. lemons—continued. pan with the sugar and boil it to a syrup, then put in the shred rind and continue boiling until reduced to the proper consistency. Turn the marmalade into jars, and when quite cold put in each jar a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down with line twine. Keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. (4) Cut the Lemons in quarters, then thinly peel them, remove the white pith and seeds from the pulp, and slice it; cut the peel into thin shreds, weigh the pulp and peel, and for each pound pour over Iqt. of filtered water. .Let it steep for twenty-four hours, then put it into a preserving-pan with the pips and white pith tied up in a muslin bag. Boil the whole slowly for two hours, or until quite tender, then remove the muslin bag, weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow 1 Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar , return the whole to the preserving-pan, and boil gently lor about two hours. When perfectly clear, turn the marmalade into jars, let it get cold, then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, and tic down tightly. Keep lor use in a dry store-cupboard. (5) Cut the Lemons into thin slices and remove the seeds; weigh the Lemons and for each pound a1 low 3 pints of water; put them with the water into a vessel and let them staid for twenty-four hours. Afterwards turn the fruit and water into a lined pan and boil gently until a straw will easily penetrate the peel, turn them into the vessel, leave until the following day, then weigh the fruit, and for eaffli pound allow 14lb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar: boil the whole until the syrup has thickly reduced. Fill some jars with the marmalade, let it get cold, then put in each jar a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, tie down, and put them away in a cool dry store-cupboard. When the marmalade is cooked, the chips should be rather transparent. Lemon Marzipan.—Pound 1 Ooz. of blanched and peeled Jordan almonds, put with them lOoz. of caster sugar, the grated peel of one Lemon, and mix them to a stiff paste with the beaten white of an egg; sprinkle caster sugar on to some sheets of paper, and force the above preparation through a syringe with a Jin. star at the end on to the paper. Cut the paste into 3in. lengths, and shape each strip into a ring. Sprinkle caster sugar over some sheets of paper, put them on a baking-slieet, place the rings on, and bake in a very quick oven ; they should be coloured in four minutes. When cooked, take the marzipan off the paper, and put them on a sieve till cold. Lemon Meringue.—Soak 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs in Iqt. of new milk, then mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and the grated rind of one Lemon. Beat these ingredients till light, then pour into a buttered baking-dish, and bake like a custard, spreading some fruit jelly over the meringue. Beat the whites of the four eggs together with 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and the juice of one Lemon to a stiff froth, spread it over the top, and bake till brown. Serve either hot or cold. Lemon Mincemeat.—(1) Boil four ripe and thin-skinned Lemons in Iqt of water till the water is reduced to 1 pint, then squeeze and strain the juice of the Lemons into 21b. of caster sugar; mince the rind and pulp of the Lemons, taking care to pick out all the seeds, stone and chop lib. of raisins, and mince finely 21b. of suet; mix them with the Lemons, adding also 2lb. of currants well-washed and dried, loz. of mixed ground spices, J pint of brandy and port wine mixed in equal quantities, and the water that the Lemons were boiled in. The mincemeat should be kept in a jar, tightly covered, till wanted for use. (2) Mince Jib. of beef-suet very finely together with three large ajoples, then mix in Jib. of well-washed and dried currants and 1 teacupful of caster sugar. Squeeze all the juice out of a large Lemon, and boil the Lemon till tender, then strain, beat to a pulp, and mix it with the mincemeat; strain the juice that was squeezed from the Lemon over it, add loz. of finely-chopped mixed candied peel, put the mincemeat into a jar, tie stout paper over, and keep it in a cool dry place till wanted for use. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Lem ons-—continued. (3) Select eight large Lemons, and peel them as thickly as possible; boil the peel till soft, then strain, and pound it in a mortar. Stone ljlb. of raisins, and finely chop lib. of beef-suet; mix them with the pounded peel, also lib. of caster sugar, the strained juice of three Lemons, and J pint of brandy. When thoroughly mixed, put the mincemeat into a jar, tie some stout paper over the top, and keep it in a dry store-closet till wanted. (4) Squeeze and strain the juice of three Lemons. Boil the rinds and pulp in three or four waters till the bitter- ness is soaked out and they are quite tender, then put them into a mortar and beat well. When the pounded Lemon-peel and pulp is quite cold, mix with it lib. of powdered white sugar, lib. of suet skinned and chopped very fine, 111), of currants well washed and dried, and Jib. of raisins stoned and chopped; mix all well together and then stir in the strained Lemon-juice and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Lemon Mince Pies.—(1) Line some buttered patty-pans with thinly-rolled puff paste, half till them with Lemon mince- meat, put a round of paste on the top of each, press the paste together round the edges, dip a paste-brush in egg beaten together with a little wafer, brush the tops of the patties over, sift caster sugar on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take them out of the pans, put them on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Squeeze the juice out of a large Lemon, and boil the outside until it becomes soft enough to mash. Drain anil mash the Lemon-peel, and mix with it three large apples, peeled and finely-chopped, 4oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, the same quantity of sugar, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, a small quantity of finely-chopped candied fruit, and the strained juice of the Lemon. Butter some patty- pans, line with a good short-crust, fill them with the mixture, and cover with rounds of the same crust. Moisten Fig. 1067. Lemon Wince Pies. and press the edges of the paste together. Bake the pies in a quick oven, and serve either hot or cold. See Fig. 1067. Lemon Mirlitons. -Rub lib, of loaf sugar over the peel of a Lemon ; pound, and add to it Jib. of pounded macaroons, the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, stir well, then mix with it 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter, a small pinch of salt, and lastly the remainder of the whites stiffly whipped. Butter some tartlet-pans and line them with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, dust thickly over with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, lift the tartlets out of the moulds, put them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Lemon Mixture for Puddings.—Pare off as thinly as possible the yellow ri ids of four large Lemons, and mince them finely ; squeeze the juice out of six Lemons and strain it. Put Jib, of butter into a lined saucepan, melt it, then put in the peel and juice with 1 Jib. of loaf sugar, the beaten yolks of twelve and the whites of eight eggs, and stir the mixture over a very slow fire until thick ; then pour it into a jar, mix in 1 wineglassful of whisky or brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Lemon Omelets. -Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour with 1 teaspoonful of flour and J teacupful of milk or cream ; when quite smooth, stir in the yolks of four well-beaten eggs and 4- pint of boiling milk. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the above preparation. Butter four pudding plates, pour the mixture on them, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads.