753 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hares—continued. herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and bind the whole together with beaten egg. Stuff the Hare with the mixture, sew it up, and fix it in front of a clear fire, putting it some distance off at first, and afterwards moving it closer. Baste continually with 3 pints of milk until half cooked, and then finish with butter. Prepare the following sauce for it: Pour the milk that the Hare was first basted with into a saucepan, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, let it stew at the side of the fire until within twenty minutes of the Hare being cooked, and then strain it. Put loz. of butter in the saucepan with 1 heaped table- spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, pour the milk in gradually, and stir until boiling; move it to the side of the fire, put in the chopped liver, and let it warm. When cooked, put the Hare on a hot dish, and pour a small quantity of gravy round it. Fill a sauceboat with the cream sauce, and serve with red-currant jelly. (2) Skin and draw a Hare, chop off the shoulders and the fore-part of the animal from the loins, remove the skin from the fillets and thighs, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. The bone should be taken out of the thighs so as to bring them close together, tying with string to keep them in their place, and then running a wooden skewer through. Put the Hare in a baking-dish, dust over with salt, put 5oz. or 6oz. of warmed butter over, and place it in a quick oven. Let it remain for twenty minutes, basting frequently, add 1 pint of sour cream, and finish the cooking. When done, put it on a dish, add 1 teacupful of gravy to the liquor in the pan, boil it up, stirring frequently until reduced to a light sauce, and pour it over the Hare. Double cream may be used instead of sour cream, and then the sauce will require 1 table-spoonful of kneaded butter, a few table-spoonfuls of meat glaze, and 1 wineglassful of vinegar added to it. In Germany, where this is a common mode of preparing Hare, a compote of bilberries is served with it. Salmis of Hare.—(1) Skin and clean a Hare, split it down the back, and cut off all the cutlets or fillets with their bones attached. Put the remainder of the Hare into a saucepan with a rich sauce, and stew until the meat will easily leave the bones; stew also the liver together with a little calf’s liver, and pound them in a mortar with butter and seasoning; pound also the stewed flesh of the Hare with more butter and seasoning, keeping them separate from the liver. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over 1 pint of boiling cream, put in a raw onion and a bay-leaf, cover over, and let it get cold. Remove the onion and bay-leaf, and work in a large lump of butter, a seasoning of mace, white pepper, and salt. Mix half of this with the liver and the other with the pounded Hare-meat. Put these two mixtures in alternate layers in a mould, and steam them for an hour. Put the cutlets on a dish with £lb. of hot melted butter poured over, let them soak, spread them out to cool, fry in butter, turn the contents of the mould out on to a dish, and arrange the cutlets round, leaning them against it. Pour round a rich sauce made from chopped truffles, red wine, and any bones of the Hare not otherwise used, seasoned to taste, and thickened with a roux. (2) Skin, draw, and truss a Hare, tie slices of fat bacon all round, and put it in front of the fire to roast, basting frequently. When it is nearly done, cut the meat up into small and regular pieces. Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with lib. of gravy-beef cut up small and fried, add a turnip, a carrot, four fried onions, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, a slice of ham, a little sugar, and tgall. of water. Place the pan over a good fire, and boil the contents for three hours. Strain, and when the liquor is quite cool, skim off the fat. Put the gravy back in the pan, place it on the fire again, and boil until it is reduced to a pint; then stir in 2 wineglassfuls of port and the juice of a lemon. Put the pieces of Hare in it, let it remain for an hour without boiling, and t^is then ready for serving. Stewed Fillets of Hare.—(1) Cut off the fillets of some good-sized Hares, cut each fillet into halves, trim them, beat lightly, and lard with fillets of bacon. Lay some thin slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, put in the fillets, with three or four small onions, half a blade of mace, Hares—continued. a few sprigs of parsley, and one or two cloves ; pour in a small quantity of broth, but not covering the fillets with it, put the lid on the stewpan, and set it in a moderate oven. Peel and boil some potatoes, and when done mash them, adding a little milk and salt, put them into a border mould, and place it in a bain-marie. Cut as many pieces of bread as there are fillets, having them the same size, and fry in butter till brown, or toast them. When cooked, drain the fillets on a cloth. Turn the border of potatoes out of the mould on to a hot dish, arrange the fillets on it, alternating them with the pieces of bread, and serve hot. (2) Take the fillets from a Hare, and cut each into four pieces; put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, sprinkle with salt, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for twenty minutes or so ; take out, put them on a dish, and work 1 table-spoonful of flour into the butter to a smooth stiff paste; put in 1 wineglassful of claret or Burgundy, season with a little cayenne, and add a small quantity of glaze about the size of a chestnut; when this is dissolved, pour it over the Hare, and servo. Stewed Hare.—(1) Skin a Hare, draw it, wash off all the blood, and cut it in halves through the middle. Lard the Hare as thickly as possible, and put it in a saucepan covered at the bottom with slices of bacon. Put a large bunch of parsley in a muslin bag, with a few bay-leaves, a little thyme, spices, sweet basil, and a clove, and add, with four onions, two or three carrots, two calf’s feet, and a few pieces of bacon cut off the breast; sprinkle over a little pepper and salt, and add 1 pint of white wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of Fio. 937. Steweo Hare. broth. Put a round of well-buttered paper over the Hare to prevent it burning or getting dry, place the lid on the saucepan, close it hermetically by luting the rim and edge with flour - and-water paste, and cook very gently at the side of the fire for three hours. Take the lid off, remove the Hare, drain it, and put it on a dish. Skim the liquor, and pass it through a sieve. Put a little flour and butter in a saucepan, and when it is a light colour add the liquor from the Hare, boil it up, and serve with the Hare, but not poured over it. See Fig. 937. (2) Skin and clean a Hare and chop it up into pieces, such as the head, legs, shoulders, neck, and back, keeping the heart, liver, lungs, and kidneys on one side. Lard the pieces of Hare with strips of raw ham, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put them in a pan, add a bunch of sweet herbs and a little dry orange-peel, pour £ pint of white wine over, and let them macerate for a day. Cover the bottom and sides of an earthen pot with slices of bacon, and put a few small onions at the bottom, with two or three cloves of garlic; then put in the head, brisket, and shoulder and neck pieces, add a boned and blanched calf’s foot and a little piece of ham, and place the back and legs on the top. Pour over the liquor in which they were macerated, and cover with a large piece of fresh pork skin. Place the pot on the fire, and when the contents begin to boil, remove it to the side, cover with a piece of paper first, then a plate with a little water in it, putting a weight on the top to prevent the steam evapo- rating, let it remain for four or five hours, ascertain- ing if the meat is done before removing the pot, and about half-an-hour before it is quite cooked, put in the heart, liver, lungs, and kidneys. Take out the meat with a fork, and put the pieces in a deep dish. Skim the stock, pour it through a conical strainer over the meat, and serve 3 L