TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 848 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. Lemon Pralines.—Cut {lb. of candied Lemon-peel into pieces lin. long and :] in. thick. Boil ]{lb. of pn serving- sugar to the half crack, throw in the peel, and stir it with a wooden spoon over a clear fire, turning the peel over and over to thoroughly coat it with the sugar; when a crackling noise is heard, the pan should he moved to the side of the fire; continue stirring till the sugar becomes grained almost like sand, then turn the peel out on a baking-sheet to cool. Pick out the peel, put the sugar again in the sugar-boiler with { pint of 32deg. syrup (see Syrups), add a few drops of carmine or cochineal, and boil to the small crack (see SUGAR-BOILING), then throw in the peel, stirring gently to give them another coating. Give the peel one or two more coatings in the same man- ner. When done, turn the pralines on a sieve to dry; then break asunder, put them in well-stoppered glass jars, and keep in a dry place. Lemon Preserve.—(1) Prepare the Lemon-peels as for Lemon Marmalade. When boiled soft, drain the peels, put them in a preserving-pan with a rich syrup, and boil for some time. Put them in a bowl till next day, then strain oft' the syrup, put it into the pri serving-pan again, and boil till very thick ; pour it over the Lemon-peels, and when cold it will he like jelly. (2) Put 2oz. of butter in a lined saucepan with {,1b. of caster sugar, three beaten eggs, and the grated rind and strained juice of one large Lemon ; stir all over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then pour it into a large jar, and keep it in a cool place. Pill some buttered patty- pans with a rich crust, hake them, take the crust out of the pans, and when cold fill them with the above preserve. Lemon Pudding. (1) Butter a pint pudding-basin, and line it with the crumb of a French roll cut in thin slices and thickly spread with Lemon paste. Make a custard with { pint, of new milk, two eggs, flavour with a little grated Lemon-peel, and sweeten to taste. Phil the basin with this custard, put on this some slices of the French roll also spread with the Lemon paste, tie a thick piece of paper over the top of the basin, stand it in a stevpan with boiling water to reach to half its height, put the lid on the stewpan, and let it steam for one hour. Great care should lie taken to keep the water just below boiling-point. When done, turn the pudding out, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with a sweet sauce poured round it. (2) Mix with Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs jib. of fincly- minced suet, add the grated rind and strained juice of one Lemon, jib. of caster sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and a very small pinch of salt. Butter a mould or basin, pour in the above preparation, tie a piece of thick paper over the top, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to nearly its height, and steam for three hours. A-quarter-of-an-hour before the pudding is done, make a sauce in the following manner: Mix 1 teaspoonful each of flour and cornflour with a very little cold water. Dissolve five lumps of sugar Fig. 1068. Lemon Pudding. in j pint of boiling water, stir the flour into it, squeeze in the juice of one Lemon, taking care to keep back the pips, stir it over the fire till boiling, and then mix in a small lump of butter. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, pour the sauce round, and serve. Lemons—continued. (3) Peel three Lemons, boil the rinds in water till tender, then strain and pound them in a mortar. Boil jib. of Naples biscuits in lqt. of milk ; beat eight eggs together with {lb. of caster sugar, then mix them with the milk and pounded Lemon rinds, adding lib. of butter and 1 wineglassful of rose-water. Stir all over the fire till quite thick, then squeeze in the juice of one large Lemon, taking care to keep back the pips. Line a dish with puff paste, pour the mixture in, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready to serve, strew some candied fruits over the top (see Fig. 1068). (4) Beat {lb. of butter together with 1 wineglassful of rose-water to a froth. Whisk {lb. of caster sugar and five eggs, then mix them with the butter and rose-water; add the grated rind of one Lemon and 1 wineglassful of orange- flower water. Line a buttered dish with puff paste, pour in the preparation, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Beat jib. of butter till creamy, then mix with it {lb. of caster sugar; when quite smooth stir in the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the grated rinds of two Lemons. June a dish with a rich pastry crust, pour in the above preparation, and partially bake it. Beat the whites of the eight eggs and 8 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar to a stiff froth, squeeze in the juice of two Lemons taking care to keep the pips back, pour this meringue over the pudding, and brown it quickly. Serve either hot or cold. (6) Rub 1 table-spoonful of butter into 1 table-spoonful of Hour; then mix with it 7 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, six eggs, 1 pint of butter-milk, and a few drops of Lemon extract, and beat well. Line a shallow dish with crust, pour in the preparation, and bake in a moderate oven. (7) Feel and core sufficient apples to fill a moderately large pie-dish, put them in a stewpan with a little caster sugar and water, and the finely-minced rind of a small Lemon ; if the apples are mealy and flavourless, squeeze in the juice of a Lemon, keeping back the pips. Put the lid on, and cook the apples over a slow fire till soft, then crush them with a fork and leave till cool. Butter the pie-dish, line it with thin puff paste, and bake it in a moderate oven till nearly done. Mix with the apple pulp three well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water, pour it into the d sh with the pie-crust, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take it out, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve either hot or cold. (8) Mix with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale, sifted bread- crumbs 2 large table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a lump of butter the size of an egg. Pour 1 { pints of boiling milk over the bread, stir it well, then leave till cold. Beat seven eggs thoroughly, then mix them with the bread and the grated peel of one Lemon. Put the pudding into a buttered mould and bake in a quick oven for one hour. Turn it out on to a dish and serve either hot or cold. (9) Finely mince 6oz. of beef-suet, then mix with it jib. of breadcrumbs, 1 teacupful of brown sugar, and the grated peel and strained juice of two small Lemons. When thoroughly mixed, stir in three well-beaten eggs and sufficient milk to make a stiff batter; pour it into a buttered basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for three- hours-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve with Lemon sauce in a sauceboat. (10) Put {lb. each of loaf sugar and butter and 1 pint of fresh milk into a saucepan over the fire, and stir till both butter and sugar are dissolved, taking care that the milk does not boil ; take it from the fire, and when cooled mix in six well-beaten eggs, the grated rinds of two Lemons, and a small quantity of the juice. Pour the pudding into a dish lined with paste, and bake. (11) Whisk the yolks of four eggs together with 4oz. of caster sugar. Put the thinly-pared yellow rind and the juice of one Lemon in a mortar, and beat to a paste; then mix it with the beaten eggs and sugar, and work in 5oz. of warmed butter. Grease a tart-dish, and line it with a light paste, marking it fancifully round the edges ; pour in the Lemon mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold.