791 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. JOWL.—The cheek ancl jaw, as of a fish. JUBILEE BUNS.—See Buns. JUBILEE CAKES.—See Cakes. JUDITHA.—This name is given in Kosher cookery to the following very delicious dish : Cook about 1 pint or so of gooseberries in a saucepan with a little water, rub them through a fine sieve, and work in two or three well-beaten eggs and sufficient sugar to sweeten. In the meantime have ready any kind of cream ice, moulded and turned out on to a dish; cut off a crust or cover and scoop out a portion of the ice, fill the cavity with the gooseberry pulp, place over the lid, and serve. If desired, the gooseberry pulp may be mixed with the ice that was taken out, and then placed in the cavity. JUGS.—Vessels described as having large bodies and narrow mouths. Hare and other things cooked in a jar or jug were called jugged, the term having now a wider signification. JUGLANDINE.—The name given to a bitter liqueur made from the shells of walnuts combined with quinine. JUJUBES.—Correctly speaking these are the small plum-like fruit of an African tree (Zizyphus jujuba) from which “Jujubes” were made; but modern science has shown that the same medical results can be obtained from flavoured gum and water, hence the Jujube fruit is no longer in demand for this purpose. See Currants, Liquorice, and Raspberries. (1) Soak lib. of gum Arabic in 1 pint of hot water, then strain it in a sugar-boiler, put in 14oz. of caster sugar, and stir over a slow fire while boiling; reduce it to the small pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling), then put in Joz. of essence of roses, and a few drops of prepared cochineal. Skim, pour it on to a smooth tinned baking-sheet, and put it to dry in the screen at a moderate heat; when dried so that when pressing it is elastic to the touch, take it out of the screen and let it get cold. Take the preparation out of the tin, and cut it with a pair of scissors in the form of diamonds. (2) Put Jib. of gum Arabic in a pan with 4oz. of caster sugar and lOoz. of rose-water; stir these at the side of the fire until dissolved, then strain through a fine hair sieve. Return the mixture to the pan, and boil gently for ten minutes, keeping it well skimmed. Brush over the interior of a shallow tin with oil, pour the mixture into it, and dry in a warm temperature for three days. Turn it out, and cut into lozenges. They should be kept dry in a bottle or tin. (3) To be able to make these, two pans, fitting one into the other, with a space in between, will be required. Place them together, with water in the cavity, put 3|lb. of sugar into the inner one, with 81b. of Turkey gum, and 3 pints of water. Boil until a thick mucilage is formed (it will take seven hours or so), then add a few drops of attar of roses, pour the mass into square tins, set them in the dry closet until quite stiff, cut them into shapes with a pair of scissors, and they are ready for use. Great care must be taken to have the gum stirred frequently, also all the scum removed, or it will spoil the clearness of the Jujubes. The water between the pans must be replenished as it evaporates. Too much flavouring must not be added, or it will spoil them. Several days will be required in drying. JUKES PUDDING.—See Puddings. JULEPS.—This is the common name in America for drinks composed of sugar and spirit in an aromatic water flavoured with fresh mint, and chilled with broken ice. The term is of Eastern origin, and was formerly applied to medicines. See American Drinks. JULIENNE.—The name given to a soup in which the vegetables are cut into small shreds. The origin of the term is very doubtful. See Soups. JUMBLES.—Under the heading of Brandy Snaps will be found a description of the not very important distinction between these and Jumbles. The latter should, when freshly baked, be curled round the finger or a piece of stick until they are cold, but modern usage has ordained some variation of this practice. (1) Beat three eggs till very light. Work Jib. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar to a cream. Put Jib. of sifted flour into a pan, and add to it, all at once, one grated nutmeg, 7 or 8 drops of essence of lemon, or else 1 table- spoonful of rose-water, the eggs, and the beaten sugar and butter, and stir all together with a knife. Sprinkle a paste- board with flour, then with the knife take up some of the dough, put it on the board, and roll it lightly into long thin rolls with floured hands; cut them into equal lengths, form into rings, and lay them carefully on a buttered baking-sheet, not very close to one another as they spread in baking. Put them into a quick oven, and bake for five minutes. The top of the oven may be almost red hot, as the Jumbles require very quick baking. When they are done, and before they are cold, curl them round the finger, and dredge white sugar over them. To prevent Jumbles running while they are in the oven, dip a linen rag in water, squeeze it, spread it over them, press gently, and then take it off. Fig. 994. Jumbles. (2) Cream 12oz. of warmed butter and lib. of brown sugar by beating it with the hand, then mix in eight eggs, one at a time; sift in gradually 21b. of flour, and flavour with either lemon or cinnamon extract. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, and knead the dough well on it; then let it rest a few minutes before rolling it out. When ready, roll the dough out to the thickness of a penny, sprinkle caster sugar over, cut out the cakes with a round tin cutter, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take them off the baking-sheet, curl, and put them in a biscuit-tin till wanted for use. They will keep for a considerable time. (3) Sift lib. of flour, and rub into it, until quite smooth, Jib. of butter; then mix in lib. of moist sugar, loz. of ground ginger, and the grated rind and strained juice of a large lemon or two small ones. Stir in sufficient treacle to mix the whole into a thin paste. Spread this paste out on baking-tins, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, cut it at once into thin strips, and roll them round the fingers. When cold, keep the Jumbles dry in biscuit-tins. (4) Stir 2oz. of mixed spice into Gib. of flour, then rub in ljlb. of butter ; when quite smooth add 71b. of sugar and Gib. of golden syrup. Roll the dough out into sheets about Jin. thick, and cut it into rounds with a plain tin cutter 3in. in diameter. Arrange the cakes a short distance from each other on buttered bakfng-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven. When baked, remove them from the tin, curl, and lay them on sieves in the baking-screen till they are hard. (5) Put 12oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work into it Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and ljlb. of flour. Add a little extract or essence of lemon, half a grated nutmeg, and three well-beaten eggs. Ground cinnamon may be substituted for the lemon. Turn the paste out on to a board, roll it out to about Jin. thick, sprinkle over caster sugar, and cut the paste into rounds. Put them on a baking-sheet, make small holes in the centre of them, place in a sharp oven, and bake for about ten minutes. When done, take them out, curl them, and let them get cold before using. (6) Cream 1 Jib. of butter, mix in lib. of sugar well beaten up with three eggs, then add 1 Jib. of sifted flour, and 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. When thoroughly mixed, take up small quantities with a fork, drop them on a greased