812 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred, to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. taste with salt and pepper, and toss them about over the fire. Trim the cutlets neatly, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in butter to a pale golden brown. When cooked, drain the cutlets on a sheet of paper in front of the fire for a second, then arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pile the asparagus in the centre, putting the heads on the top, and serve. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic Jelly.—Line the bottom of a stew- pan with rashers of bacon, sliced carrots, and onions; trim some cutlets neatly, put them in the stewpan with a few cloves and peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Moisten with 1 wineglassful of sherry and as much clear stock as will cover them, and simmer at the side of the fire with the lid on. When tender, leave the cutlets in their cooking-liquor until half cold, then drain, put them between two plates, and put a weight on the top. When quite cold, trim the cutlets neatly, pour a layer of liquid aspic jelly in a saute-pan, and when set lay the cutlets on it, cover with another layer of the jelly, and stand the pan on ice. When the jelly is quite cold and firm, procure a tin cutter the shape of a cutlet, and stamp the cutlets out with it, dipping it constantly in hot water. Boil some young green peas in water until cooked, then drain off all the water, put a little jelly in with them, and toss over the fire for a minute or two till well covered with it. Put a circle of chopped jelly on a dish, arrange the cutlets on it, and turn the peas in the centre. Garnish round the cutlets with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumber. — Peel a large cucumber, cut it into slices tin. thick, remove the seeds, cut each slice into quarters, dredge well with salt, cover with cold water, and leave for an hour or two. Drain the pieces of cucumber, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and let them simmer until nearly tender. Cut some Lamb cutlets to a nice even shape, dust over with salt and pepper, roll them in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb. In about half-an-hour’s time egg-and-breadcrumb the cutlets again, and fry until nicely browned in boiling lard. Drain the pieces of cucumber, put them into a saute-pan with a good-sized lump of butter and a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the cucumber up in the centre, arrange the cutlets round it, garnish with a border of fried parsley, and serve while hot. Lamb Cutlets with Mint Sauce.—Mix together 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped fresh mint, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar ; put two or three lean Lamb cutlets on this dressing or pickle, dust with pepper, let them stand for half-an-hour, and then turn. At the end of an hour put them, without wiping, between the bars of a buttered double-wire gridiron, and broil quickly over a hot fire. Meanwhile, turn the chopped mint from the dish into a saucepan with 2 more table-spoonfuls of sugar and 4 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, let these ingredients boil once, and then serve the sauce with the cutlets. The cutlets should be served hot, as soon as they are done, on a hot dish, with a little salt, pepper, and butter over them. Lamb Cutlets with Mushrooms. — Cut five cutlets, slant- wise, from three necks of Lamb, trim them, cut off the piece of bone at the back, and beat slightly with a cutlet-bat. Put them in a frying-pan in which there is some hot clarified butter, sprinkle a little salt over, and fry both sides over a brisk fire for twelve minutes; add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, reduce, dip a brush into the mixture, and glaze the cutlets with it. Place a ruffle round the end of each bone, put a puree of mushrooms in the centre of the dish, place the cutlets lengthwise on a border of potatoes round them, and finish with an outside border of small mushroom- heads. Lamb Cutlets with New Carrots.—Procure very small new carrots, and scrape and boil them until tender in salted water ; trim the cutlets nicely, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in finely-grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the cutlets, and fry them until delicately browned; take them out of the fat as they are cooked, and put them Lamb—continued. to drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Drain the carrots when cooked, and put in the saucepan with them a lump of fresh butter and a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley; squeeze over them half the juice of a small lemon, season to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity of caster sugar. Moisten the carrots with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of common stock, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pile the carrots in the centre, garnish with a border of fried parsley, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Peas Sautes. — Trim a dozen cutlets of Lamb, and season with pepper and salt; dip them in beaten eggs, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in clarified butter. Cook 1 pint of green peas in salted wa?er, drain them, put them in a stewpan with 3oz. to 5oz. of butter, and toss them over a fire. When the butter is melted, pour them into the centre of the cutlets, having previously arranged them on a dish in a circle, and serve very hot. Lamb Cutlets Sautes.—Cut two necks of Lamb into cutlets, trim them, sprinkle salt and pepper over, dip them in clarified butter, and fry in a saute-pan ; when nicely browned, drain them. Put a croustade full of French beans on a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round them, and serve with bechamel sauce separately in a small tureen. Lamb Cutlets with Spinach.—Cut a neck of Lamb into cutlets, trim them to a nice shape, brush over with warmed butter, and season with salt and pepper; put them in a double gridiron, and broil in front of a clear fire. Pick the spinach over, and wash it in several waters, as it is very gritty ; boil it, and when cooked, drain on a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a sauce- pan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; pass the spinach through the sieve into the butter, moisten with a small quantity of milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Pile the spinach in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Stewed Peas.—Cut the best part of a neck of Lamb into cutlets, and trim them; put 3 or 4 breakfast-cupfuls of young freshly-shelled green peas in a stewpan with a large lump of butter, dust over with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Tie a few lettuce-leaves up with a few sprigs of parsley, put them in with the peas, adding two or three small onions, and stew the whole until the peas are tender. Season the cutlets on both sides with salt and pepper, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, lay them on a double gridiron, and broil in front of a clear brisk fire. When the peas are cooked, remove the onions and lettuce, toss them up with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley, and pile them in the centre of a hot dish. Arrange the cutlets round the peas, garnish the edge of the dish with fried parsley, and serve. Lamb Pie.—(1) A very elaborate method of making this is given as follows : Select two necks of fat Lamb, bone them, cut away all the sinewy part, divide the meat into squares about lin. thick, put it into a basin with a little blanched bacon and cooked ham also cut in squares, pour a little Madeira over, and let the meats soak for one hour. Cut the meat off two shoulders of Lamb, pare and chop it finely, and mix with it an equal quantity of fresh bacon, also finely chopped; sprinkle plenty of pepper, salt, and spices over, pound for a few minutes in a mortar, then turn all into a basin again. Take three parts of the prepared force- meat, and roll it out to an oblong, square-cornered flat. Put three parts of a prepared short-paste made with ljlb. of flour on a baking-sheet, spread a thick layer of the forcemeat in the centre, then put lengthwise the fillets of Lamb, bacon, and ham well mixed up ; cover the meats with a thin layer of the forcemeat, and continue thus, building the pie in a dome-like shape till all the meat is used, the last layer being forcemeat. Fold over it the four edges of the paste, and cover the top with a flat of puff paste, moistening the edges slightly so that one will adhere to the other; brush the pie over with beaten egg, score it with the point of a knife, make a slight opening in the top, and put the pie in the oven, covering it with paper after it has been in ten minutes. Bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When baked,