TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 940 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to. see under their special heads. Milk—continued. Milk-and-Onion Soup.—Peel the required amount of small onions, cut them into thin slices, put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry for a few minutes over a moderate fire, but without letting them brown. Pour Milk over the onions, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a lump of sugar, and boil gently until the onions are tender. Beat the yolks of three or four eggs in a soup-tureen, and when the soup is ready pour it over gently. Serve the soup while very hot. Milk Panada.—Put 1 pint of Milk in a saucepan, boil up, and let it get cold. Add some crumb of bread and boil for forty-five minutes or so, stirring frequently, and adding a very little salt. Remove from the fire, and it is ready for use. Milk Pie.—Put 6oz. of flour and 1 teaspoonful of salt in a basin, then stir in gradually 3 pints of Milk; break in five or six eggs, and beat the whole well together. Butter a baking-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake till nicely browned. When cooked, cut the pie into squares, and serve. Milk-and-Plum Porridge.—Stone about two dozen raisins, cut them into halves, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for twenty minutes; at the end of that time, drain off all the water, pour in 1 pint of Milk, and place the saucepan over the fire again. Mix 1 table- spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a very little cold Milk, and when the Milk boils stir it in and boil the whole for ten minutes longer, stirring all the time. Season the porridge with a little salt, then pass it through a strainer, and serve. Milk Porridge.—(1) Take 1 level table-spoonful of flour, mix it quite smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, taking care that there are no lumps left. Put this into a good thick saucepan, add to it 1 breakfast-cupful of Milk, 1 level teaspoonful of salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it on the stove, and keep stirring till it boils; let it boil for ten minutes, and it is then ready to serve. (2) Put 1 handful of oatmeal into a bowl of water, let it stand till clear, then pour off the water ; add fresh, stir well, leave it for a day, strain the liquor into a saucepan, pour in sufficient Milk to make the porridge, boil well, and serve. A very small quantity of water only should be used. Milk Pudding.—(1) Boil 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water in Iqt. of Milk, add a little salt and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir till it thickens, and simmer for ten minutes; if not sufficiently thick add more flour, and simmer for another ten minutes; then stir into it two well-beaten eggs, taking care that it does not boil after the eggs are added. Just before taking it from the saucepan stir in ^oz. of butter. Serve with red-currant jelly over it. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Milk and half the quantity of water into a saucepan, boil them, and mix in 2 break- fast-cupfuls of flour. Let the mixture cool slightly, add 3oz. of butter, and when quite cold mix in nine well-beaten eggs, lib. of sugar, a little each of ground cinnamon and mace, and 1 wineglassful of wine. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve. Milk Punch.—(1) Put the thinly-pared rind and the juice of twelve lemons into a large jar with 21b. of loaf sugar, 24 pints of water, and three bottles of rum. Stir well until the sugar has dissolved, pour in lqt. of boiling Milk, and then cover the jar. Leave for twenty-four hours, strain the punch through a jelly-bag, pour it into pint bottles, cork well, and stow them away. (2) For 3 pints of whisky allow J pint each of brandy and rum, 1 pint of lime-juice, 1J, pints each of new Milk and thin syrup, loz. of tincture of St. Michael’s oranges, and Joz. each of tinctures of nutmeg and coriander. Mix the tinctures with the whisky, rum, and brandy, then add the lime-juice. Put the Milk over the fire in a lined saucepan, and directly it begins to boil mix it in with the other ingredients. Stir until thoroughly mixed, then strain the punch through a jelly-bag and afterwards through filtering-paper. When very bright and clear, mix the syrup with it, pour it into dark green glass bottles, cork tightly, and keep them in a cool cellar. Milk—continued. (3) Put 1 pint of Milk into a basin, mix in 2oz. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 wineglassful each of brandy and rum, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and stir well. Pour it into glasses, sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg or cinnamon, and serve. Should it be required hot the Milk must be nearly boiling before adding the other ingredients. The fresher and richer the Milk the better the punch will be. (4) Fill a bottle as full as possible with lemon-peel, and then add as much brandy as it will admit; cork down, stand it in the sun for two or three days, then pour out the brandy and mix with it 21b. of sugar, 4qts. more brandy, 2qts. each of water and boiling Milk (boiled with spice), and about 1 pint of lemon-juice. When this is cold strain till quite clear, and bottle it instantly. (5) Pare the rinds as thinly as possible off three oranges and three lemons, put them into J bottle of mm, cork it tight, and let the peels steep for twenty-four hours. Grate the peeled lemons and oranges with some lumps of sugar in order to obtain any flavour of rind that may be left on the skin. Take lib. of loaf sugar, including that used to grate the lemons and oranges, and add to it the strained juice of the oranges and lemons; pour over |gall. of boiling water, then stir the | bottle of ram into it, peels and all, and add 1 pint of boiling Milk. Stir the punch and let it ran through a jelly-bag till quite clear. Bottle at once and cork tightly. (6) Beat up the yolks of two eggs till very light together with 2oz. of powdered sugar. Put 1 pint of Milk, warm from the cow, over the fire, and let it boil; mix with the beaten yolks of eggs a glass of the best sherry, stir well, and then pour in the boiling Milk by degrees, stirring well all the time. Add cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, then pour the punch rapidly five or six times from one vessel to another. This punch if taken very hot is said to be a good remedy for a cold. (7) Thinly pare the yellow rinds off two lemons, put it in a jug with 1 pint of cognac, and infuse for four or five hours. Afterwards strain the brandy into another jug, mix with it 1 pint each of white rum and Milk, and let it stand. Soak Joz. of gelatine in a small quantity of Milk for two hours, then stir it over the fire until dissolved. Mix the gelatine with the contents of the jug, and whisk the whole well with an egg-whisk for ten or fifteen minutes, and add the juice of one lemon. Strain the punch through a jelly-bag, pour it into bottles, cork tightly, and keep in a dry cool cellar or store-cupboard for use. (8) Infuse sufficient green tea in boiling water to make 4 pint; strain it into a large jar and mix in \ pint of lime-juice and 1 scant teaspoonful each of essence of cloves, coriander, nutmeg, lemon, and pine-apple. Pour in 3 pints of thin syrup and 1 pint each of rum and brandy ; stir well, and add 1 4 pints of boiling Milk. Rinse a jelly-bag in hot water, strain the punch through it, pour it into bottles, cork them, and pack in a cool cellar for use. (9) Peel the rinds as thinly as possible oil' six lemons, one bitter orange, and one Tangerine ; put the rinds into a wide- mouthed bottle with the juice of the lemons, lib. of caster sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon ; pour in 4 pint of ram, cover the bottle, and let the contents stand for two days. At the end of that time add to the above mixture 1 pint of water, 4 pint of brandy, and 4 pint more rum. Shake the bottle well, pour in 1 pint of boiling Milk, and leave it for two or three hours. Strain the punch through a jelly-bag, pour it into smaller bottles, and cork tightly. (10) Put the peels of twelve lemons and two oranges in 2qts. of ram and infuse for twelve hours or so, add (.gall, of water, 1 pint of lemon-juice, 1 pint of strong green tea, lib. of sugar, 1 gill of maraschino, 1 pint of Madeira, and one nutmeg finely grated. When well mixed, add 1 pint of boiling Milk, let it remain for six hours or so, strain through a jelly-bag, put it hi bottles, and it is then ready for use. . . (11) Dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in a basin with \ pint of boiling water, and add the rind of half a lemon, the zest of an orange, and the juice of three lemons, also a little cinnamon, a few cloves, and a few grains of coriander.