THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 944 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mincemeat—continued. in 31b. of ivell-wasliecl and minced currants, an equal quantity of peeled and minced apples, Jib. of chopped candied lemon- and orange-peels, and the minced pulp of six lemons and three oranges. Add also 31b. of raw sugar, A table-spoonful each of ground ginger and mixed spice, A pint each of brandy, sherry, and Marsala, 1 table-spoon- ful of curacoa, and the grated peels of three lemons and two oranges. Stir these ingredients until thoroughly well mixed, then pack the Mincemeat closely into jars, cover with rounds of paper dipped in brandy, and tie down securely with stout paper. Keep the Mincemeat in a coni dry store-cupboard. The pulp of the oranges and lemons should have all the white skin and pips removed before it is chopped. (14) Take lib. each of currants, chopped apples, moist sugar, and well-chopped suet, Jib. of raisins, stoned and chopped small, the juice of four oranges and two lemons, and the rind of one lemon shredded fine, nutmeg and mace to taste, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Mix all together, put it in a pan or jar, and keep closely covered until wanted. (15) Use equal parts of boiled beef and tongue. If the tongue is hard and dry, soak it overnight in plenty of cold water; in the morning put it over the fire in a large saucepan nearly full of cold water, and let the water gradually reach the boiling-point. When the water begins to boil, pour it off, and replace it with fresh cold water; again heat the water with the tongue in it to the boiling- point, and boil steadily and slowly for one hour. At the end of an hour put in with the tongue 31b. of lean beef cut from the neck or round, add 1 table-spoonful of salt to the liquor, and continue the boiling by a very gentle heat for three hours longer; then uncover the pot, set it off the fire, take out the tongue, skin it and then return it to the pan, and let both tongue and beef cool in the liquor. When cold free the beef from all skin and gristle, and chop it fine. Cut off from the tongue the fleshy parts about the roots, rejecting the gristle, and add to them enough of the trimmings from the tongue to make 21b.; chop this fine, and put it with the beef. Remove the membrane from 31b. of fresh beef-suet, chop it fine, and add it to the chopped beef and tongue. Next add to the meat and suet the following ingredients: 41b. of chopped apples, weighed after they are pared and cored; 4lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, but not too fine; 21b. of currants, picked over, well washed, and then nibbed dry in a clean towel, and sifted to free them from stalks; lib. of citron cut into small thin slices; Jib. each of candied lemon- and orange-peels, sliced thin; lib. of sweet and 2oz. of bitter almonds, weighed after the shells are removed— blanch the almonds by pouring over boiling water after they are shelled, then rubbing the skin off with a clean towel, and chop them, not too fine—and the grated yellow rinds and juice of four lemons and four oranges. Sweeten the Mincemeat with 41b. of moist sugar, season with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of pepper, ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and mace, and two medium-sized grated nutmegs. Next add to the Mincemeat lqt. of Madeira wine, J pint of brandy, and sufficient sweet cider to moisten it. Mix the Mincemeat thoroughly, taste it, and add, if required, more sugar, salt, and spice, remember- ing that in Mincemeat no one flavour should predominate, and that it should have a rich, even taste. Mix thoroughly, and let it stand for at least one day before using it. Mincemeat carefully made in this way will keep all the winter, if covered and placed where it is cool. (16) Use 21b. of lean beef from the neck or shoulder ; boil it gently until tender in enough boiling water to cover it, and when quite tender cool and chop it. Prepare the following ingredients, and add them to the meat: lib. each of suet, raisins, and currants, Jib. of citron, 4lb. of apples, 21b. of raw sugar, two grated nutmegs, 2 table-spoon- fuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of pepper, ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and mace, 1 table-spoonful of essence of lemon, \ pint each of wine and molasses, lqt. of sweet cider, and 1 gill of brandy. Moisten the Mincemeat with some of the liquor in which the beef was boiled, adding to it the fat which forms on the top of the liquor when cold. Mincemeat—continued. Make the seasoning of the Mincemeat palatable, and keep it for a day or two before using. Mincemeat for Banbury Cakes.—Thoroughly wash and dry Jib. of currants, and mix with them 2oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, Jib. of finely-shred mixed candied peel, 3oz. of crushed ratafias, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When well mixed pack the Mincemeat into small jars, and cover tightly for use. Mincemeat for small Patties.—Pound 2oz. of lean ham in a mortar together with double the quantity of veal or white chicken-meat, and one hard-boiled egg; season with three powdered cloves, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper. It is then ready, and when about to be used mix in 4 table-spoonfuls each of rich gravy and cream, and loz. of butter. Mincemeat Pudding.—Cut two stale penny rolls into slices about Jin. thick; butter a pudding-basin and line the bottom with a thin layer of Mincemeat, dip a few of the slices of roll in milk, then lay them on the Mincemeat; put in another layer of Mincemeat, then slices of roll dipped in milk, and so on until the basin is full. Beat four eggs in J pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and pour it Fig. 1183. Mincemeat Pudding. over the contents of the pudding-basin. Let the pudding soak for lialf-an-hour, then cover the basin with a sheet of paper; put a plate over it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the pudding for an-hour-and-a-half. More boiling water should be poured into the saucepan as the quantity diminishes, but care should be taken that it does not enter the basin. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put the yolks of six eggs in a small lined saucepan with 6 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat them well, then mix in J pint of white wine. Place the saucepan over a moderate fire and stir the sauce until it thickens, then move it to the side and beat well. Do not let the sauce boil or the eggs will curdle. When the pudding is cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a hot dish, stick a circle of half-cherries round the upper part (see Fig. 1183), pour the sauce round it, and serve without delay. MINCE PIES.—Some very interesting details are given of the origin of these mider Christmas Fare. They are usually made in small patty-pans, dusted over with caster sugar, piled on a dish covered by a folded napkin, and garnished with bits of holly (see Fig. 1184). The following receipts are contributed by one of the most famous pastrycooks in this country. Any of the Mince- meats given under that heading may be used in these.