748 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For deta'ls respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—con tinned. them in a deep dish ; pour over them some vinegar, and add a seasoning of herbs and three or four slices of onions. Put the bones and trimmings of the Hare into a saucepan with plenty of water and a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil them ) until all the goodness is extracted. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then .put in the larded pieces of Hare, put the lid on, and steam them until tender. When cooked, take out the pieces of Hare, strain the gravy back into the stewpan, and add sufficient of the marinade to season it. Finely mince the liver of the Hare with lib. of fresh pork and fib. of bacon, and mix them with fib. of grated bread, also a small quantity of fine herbs; season the mix- ture to taste, and bind it with three eggs. Put the forcemeat into a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and stir it over j a slow fire until cooked. Line a buttered pie-mould with a J good pie-crust, spread in half of the forcemeat, then put in j the pieces of Hare, and cover with the remaining forcemeat. J Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trim it round the edges, moisten and press them together, and make a slight incision | at the top. Boll the trimmings of the paste out thin, and | cut imitation leaves out of it; damp them underneath with water to make them adhere, and arrange them tastefully on the top. Bake the pie for about two hours in a moderate j oven, covering it with a sheet of paper when it begins to j take colour, as it must not be too dark. Boil the gravy | until reduced to about half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and when the pie is cooked, pour it in with a funnel fixed in the top. Serve either hot or cold, as desired. (4) Cut off the meat from a Hare in large pieces, without any bone. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, a bay-leaf, and a couple of shallots in a saucepan over a slow fire: when hot, put in the pieces of Hare, and fry gently for ten minutes ; then let them cool, and strain the butter. Make a forcemeat with the | liver of the Hare, £lb. of suet, |lb. of lean beef, and a couple | of shallots, all chopped very fine, and mixed with about 2oz. j of breadcrumbs, a seasoning- of salt and pepper, and three 1 beaten eggs. Line the bottom of the pie-dish with this, put in the cold Hare, season with salt and pepper, lay it on the forcemeat in the dish, packing- it in as closely as possible, | pour over it the butter it was fried in, and cover with fat bacon cut in thin slices. When baked, take off the cover, and serve red-currant jelly with it. Hare Shape.—Take any remains of cold jugged Hare, cut off all the meat, and pound it in a mortar. Warm a little of the gravy, and add 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, | ■joz. of gelatine, and 2 wineglassfuls of port, so as to make 5 gills in all. Decorate a suitable quart mould with small forcemeat-balls, kept in position by being dipped in aspic jelly, pour the gravy over the meat, and when it is nearly cold pour the whole into the mould. When it is quite cold j and set, turn it out on a dish, decorate it with rings of lemon and small pieces of parsley, putting here and there a few small pieces or croutons of aspic jelly, and decorate the top with chopped aspic. Hare Soup.- -(1) Chop 81b. each of beef and veal into small pieces, and add lib. of bacon, also cut up. Put them in a stewpan with two turnips, three onions, a bunch of parsley, a handful of thyme, a little basil, four bay-leaves, and three heads of celery. Pour in 1 pint of broth, set the pan on a moderate fire, add a Hare cut in pieces, and stir well until the meat is covered with a brown glaze. Then sprinkle in 12oz. of flour, and mix in 2gal. of clear broth or stock, and 1 pint of brown gravy. When the Hare meat is quite tender, take it out, cut off twelve fillets from the best parts, remove the rest from the bones, and pound it in a mortar. Put it back in the liquor, pass it all through a sieve into another saucepan, place it on the fire again, and boil. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin with four times the quantity of port wine, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and a pinch of cayenne, and stir it well, adding a breakfast-cupful of broth. Put it into the soup when about to boil, add the fillets, stir well, and serve very hot. A couple of heads of celery cut up small, dipped in butter, and boiled until tender, may also be added if approved of, and are considered a great improvement. (2) Skin and draw a Hare, and cut it up into joints; put the pieces, with the blood, into an earthenware vessel that Hares—continued. holds about 3qts., and add 21b. of lean beef, cut up small, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions cut into quarters, a little whole pepper and mace, and a few cloves. Pour in suffi- cient boiling water to nearly fill the vessel, tie it over with bladder, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for three or four hours. Strain off the soup, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of Worcester- shire or Harvey’s sauce; then boil it up again, and serve with Hare forcemeat-balls and a few of the best pieces of the meat from the Hare. (3) Skin a Hare, half roast it, cut away all the meat from the back in slices, and put it on one side for cooking other- wise than in soup. Put a carrot, turnip, a little celery, thyme, and parsley, a small blade of mace, six peppercorns, a slice of ham, a few bacon bones, and four onions cut in slices and fried, into a saucepan with the remainder of the Hare cut up in small pieces, and pour over igall. of stock. Place the pan on the fire, skim the stock well, cover the pan, and boil the contents gently for three hours; then strain, remove all the fat, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour to thicken it, and boil up again. Dissolve two lumps of sugar in a wineglassful of port wine, and pour it into the soup. Serve hot. (4) Skin and draw a Hare, and put the blood in a basin for after use. Cut the Hare into joints, and put them in a saucepan with a bunch of parsley, thyme, and basil, an onion stuck with two cloves, a little mace, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in Igal. of stock and f pint of red wine. Place the pan on the fire, boil up once, remove to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is done and quite tender. Strain off the soup, put a little bread- crumb in it to soak, squeeze it dry, and pound in a mortar with the meat cut off the bones of the Hare. When quite smooth, add it to the soup, a little at a time, strain it, and warm up again, without letting it boil. Just before serving, pour in the blood, and turn the whole into a tureen over a few pieces of fried bread. After the blood has been added, it must not boil, or it would be likely to curdle ; the heat of the soup being quite sufficient to cook the blood as much as is necessary. (5) Cut up a Hare into moderate-sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with one onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, J pint of port wine, and a small quantity of cayenne. Stew the Hare very gently at the side of the fire for an hour, then pour in a sufficient quantity of boiling broth to make the soup, and simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Drain the pieces of Hare, cut the meat off the bones, put it in a mortar, and pound. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, with the crumb of two French rolls and the pounded meat. Scald the liver, rub it through a fine hair sieve into the soup, and keep it close to the side of the fire, where it will boil gently. In cutting up the Hare the blood should be saved, so that at the last it may be added to the soup ; it will improve the colour, but care must be taken that it does not curdle. Put some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve as quickly as possible. (6) Skin and clean a Hare, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with some trimmings of scrag or a knuckle of veal, a cow-heel, a few sliced onions and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of mace, and 5qts. of water. When boiling, move the soup to the side of the fire, skim it constantly, and simmer for two hours. Take out the back and legs of the Hare, strip them of their meat, and return the bones to the soup, which keep simmer- ing for an hour or two longer. Next strain the soup through a fine sieve, pour it into a clean saucepan, and mix in 4 wine- glassfuls of either red or white wine, and the pieces of meat from the legs and back cut into small square pieces. Boil for ten or fifteen minutes longer, then turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve at once, with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (7) Cut four or five large onions into quarters, put them into a saucepan containing salted water, and boil until nearly done ; then take thorn out, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a little water to finish cooking, adding a little sugar, salt, and pepper. Dust the onions over with flour, pour in ^ pint of broth to the liquor, reduce it over a moderate fire, and strain. Cut off the shoulders of a Hare, and put them in a