THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 732 referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., Haddocks —continued. do not let it boil. Have the other three Haddocks boiled and just ready to dish, take them up, lay in a deep dish, pour the hot sauce over, and serve immediately. Boiled Haddock masked with Jelly.—Clean a Haddock, wash it carefully, and tie its tail in its mouth. Put 1 pint of water and ^ pint of vinegar in a saucepan, and boil with five or six slices of onion, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spice, and bay-leaf, pepper, and salt to taste When it has been boiling for a short time, put it on one side, and let it get quite cold. Put in the fish, boil it up, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Take out the fish, let it cool a little, and then brush it over with clear aspic jelly, repeating the operation as soon as one coating has set. Place it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. Boiled Haddock served with Lobster Sauce. Wash } the fish, then put it into a fish-kettle with boiling water to cover it, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil gently for about thirty minutes. Pick out the flesh of a small lobster, and cut it into small pieces; put the coral in a mortar, with loz. of butter, and pound it. Put 3oz. of butter in a small saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; then put in the pounded coral, and season with 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and a small quantity of cayenne. Pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes. Strain the sauce, return it to the saucepan, put in the pieces of Lobster, and boil up once. When cooked, drain the fish, being careful not to break it, put it on a hot dish, baste with a small quantity of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Boiled Haddock with Mushroom Sauce. —Clean a Had- dock, tie it in a circle, with its tail in its mouth, put it in a fish-kettle with a little water, and add two or three peppercorns, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and a little salt. Place the kettle on the fire, and boil until the fish is done. Put it on a dish, garnish with stewed mushrooms (see Fig. 909), and serve with mushroom sauce in a sauceboat. Fig. 909. Coiled Haddock with Mushroom Sauce. The sauce should be made as follows: Put half-a-dozen mushrooms in a saucepan with a pat of butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook until tender; cut them up small, put them, with their liquor, into a saucepan, with a little butter sauce, and simmer gently for two or three minutes. Let the mushrooms be large, or if small use double or treble the quantity. Broiled Haddock.— (1) Clean and wash a fresh Haddock, dry it on a cloth, rub it over with vinegar, and dust witli flour; put it on a well-greased gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for about fifteen minutes, turning frequently. When done, place it on a dish, and serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce. (2) Clean and wash a fresh Haddock, put it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let it remain until the skin begins to rise; then brush it over with egg, cover with, breadcrumbs, and lastly with flour. Place the fish on a hot, slightly-greased gridiron, put a small lump of butter on the top, and broil slowly for about half-an-hour. When done, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with any fish sauce. (3) Clean a fish, and cut it open to remove the bone, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, and hang it up Haddocks—continued. in a draughty place for about twelve hours. Brush it over thickly with butter slightly warmed, put it on a grid- iron, with the skin downwards, over a clear fire, and cook for twenty-five minutes, or until it is done. Brush over with a little more softened butter, and serve. (4) Clean a Haddock and cut it open, wipe it quite dry, and rub well with salad-oil. Dredge over with flour, place it on a gridiron over a brisk fire, and broil until done (it will take about twenty or twenty-five minutes, according to size). Work the juice of half a lemon into loz. of softened butter, and season it with \ table-spoonful of parsley, blanched, dried, and very finely minced. Put this on a dish, place the fish on it, and serve very hot. Fillets of Haddock Sautes.—(1) Season some fillets of Haddock with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry over a slow fire. Put 3oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 scant table-spoonfuls of flour ; stir it by the side of the fire till mixed, then pour in 1 pint of water, and continue stirring over the fire till it commences to boil; add 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a little salt and pepper. Mix with the sauce 4oz. of butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and the juice of half a lemon ; stir it by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Separate the fillets from the bones of the Haddocks, rub the fillets well with flour, then dip them in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Pour some oil in a saute-pan, make it hot, put in the fillets, and fry. When browned, drain them, arrange on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy butter, melted, but not boiled. Fried Fillets of Haddocks.—(1) Skin and clean a Haddock, cut the flesh into fillets, trimming them into pieces about 6in. long, dip them into well-beaten egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs. Take care that they are well covered, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a rich colour, turning them over so as to cook both sides. Take them out, drain, put them on a cloth spread over a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of Dutch sauce. (2) Cut six fillets from a fresh Haddock, and dip them first into flour, then egg, and lastly breadcrumbs. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or oil, and fry until done. Place them on a napkin on a dish, garnish round with watercress, and serve with a little anchovy butter melted in a boat. The skin should not be removed when the fillets are cut off. Fried Haddock.—Cut open a good-sized Haddock, brush it over with egg, cover it with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, chives, lemon thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the fish into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done and of a good brown colour. Put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish. Grilled Haddock.—Clean and wash a Haddock, wipe it dry with a cloth, brush over with oil, and flour it. Put it on a warmed gridiron over a clear fire, and broil, turning over so as to cook both sides. Place it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of any fish sauce or melted butter. Fig. 910. Haddock a la Mai the d’Hotel. Haddock a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Clean a Haddock, and cut it open at the back on each side of the bone, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip it in flour, place on a gridiron over a