767 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hominy—continued. required, to keep it from burning1. Use soft water, and do not add salt while cooking, as it hardens the Hominy. (2) The Hominy should be thoroughly washed to free it from all flour; put it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, stir over the fire till it boils again, then move to the side, put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer for two hours without touching it. Use 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water to each breakfast-cupful of Hominy. When cooked, mix some salt and milk with it. It can be served as a vegetable, and eats well with broiled liver or salted pork. (3) Well wash the Hominy in cold water, put it into a basin or earthenware pan, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, and let it soak all night. Then drain and put it over the fire with lqt. of water to every pint of Hominy (the water may be either hot or cold), and boil for five or six hours, stirring frequently ; then drain it quite dry in a colander or sieve, and serve hot in a deep dish. It is very nice eaten with pork, bacon, or beef, or almost any kind of meat. Any cold Hominy that is left may next day be made into cakes, with the addition of a little wheat- flour, and fried in boiling lard; or it may be boiled for an hour, and served as at first. (4) Wash 1 pint of Hominy in several waters, put it into a basin with boiling water to cover, and steep for ten or twelve hours. Next put the Hominy into a saucepan with lqt. of water; when boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours. When very tender, drain off all the water, toss it over the fire for a minute to somewhat dry it, then put in 2oz. of butter, broken into small bits, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the butter has dissolved, turn the Hominy on to a hot dish, and serve. Fried Hominy.—Take some cold boiled Hominy, and make it into a soft paste by stirring in one beaten egg, 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, and a small quantity of milk ; stir the mixture over the fire until well mixed and hot, then turn it on to a dish and leave until cold. Divide it into small round cakes and dredge them lightly with flour; put a good- sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the cakes and fry until equally browned. Drain them, pile on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and serve with cream and sugar. Home-made Hominy.—Cover some white corn with weak lye water, and soak it for two days. If the lye is not available, mix 1 teacupful of baking-soda with twice as much water as will cover the corn, and soak it in that. Wash the Hominy in plenty of water before cooking. Hominy Blanc-mange.—Put a scant teacupful of Hominy into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk and a small quantity of salt; boil gently, and as it thickens stir in more milk to bring it to the desired consistency. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar and flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence. Binse out a mould with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and set it on ice or in a cool place. When quite cold and firm, turn the blanc-mange on to a fancy dish, pour any kind of stewed fruit round it, and serve. See Pig. 957. Hominy Cakes. (1) Boil lqt. of Hominy very soft, and add to it lib. of cornflour, loz. of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix into it three well-beaten eggs and sufficient milk to make a thin batter. Boat the batter well for some time, then bake it on a griddle, dropping it on in large spoonfuls, and making them very thin; or they may be baked in waffle-irons. Serve For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hominy—continued. syrup with them. Yeast may be used instead of eggs, putting 1 table-spoonful in the batter and letting it stand for several hours in a warm place to rise. (2) Wash 1 teacupful of Hominy to free it from flour, then put it in a saucepan with water, and boil. When soft and dry, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot milk,l table-spoonful of warmed butter, | teaspoonful of salt, and the beaten yolks of two eggs; beat the whites of the eggs, and mix them in ; sift in while stirring sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. Make a griddle hot, and rub it well with fat; divide the Hominy mixture into small cakes, put them on the griddle, and cook, turning them over when done on one side. (3) Put in a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of fine uncooked Hominy, loz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and I tea- cupful of boiling water, and set it at the back of the stove until the Hominy has absorbed all the water. Put 1 scant breakfast-cupful of cornflour in a basin, with 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and stir gradually in with it £ pint of boiling milk. When quite smooth, mix the Hominy with the cornflour, and leave it till cold. Beat the yolks of two eggs, add them to the Hominy mixture, then put in the well- whisked whites of the two eggs, and 1 heaped teaspoonful of baking-powder. Butter some gem-pans, make them hot, pour the mixture into them, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the cakes out of the tins. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold, cooked, coarse Hominy in a mortar, and pound it; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, one egg, a lump of butter, and a little salt, and beat to a smooth paste. Divide the mixture into small portions, flatten them like biscuits with floured hands, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till lightly browned. Drain the cakes, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. (5) Hominy should be soaked all night in water. Boil a pint of Hominy, and when cooked mix with it 2oz. of butter, two beaten eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. Beat it till quite smooth, then divide into small portions, and proceed as for No. 1. (6) Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Hominy in a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 2oz. of warmed butter. Mix those well, then stir in two well-beaten eggs and a sufficient quantity of new milk, in which | table- spoonful of yeast powder has been dissolved, to make a rather thin batter. Divide the batter into cakes, and fry them in boiling lard or butter. When lightly browned, drain them as free from fat as possible, and serve hot. (7) Put H breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Hominy in a basin, and mix with it 1J breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, 2oz. of warmed butter, 2oz. of moist sugar, 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, a small quantity of salt, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little warm water, and a sufficient quantity of beaten eggs to bind the whole. When perfectly smooth, divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions and bake them in a quick oven. Hominy Cheese Cakes.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Hominy into a basin, and stir in gradually with it 1 pint of new milk, mixing it perfectly smooth and free from lumps; add four well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of warmed butter, ilb. of well-washed currants, Jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a few drops of essence of vanilla or any other flavouring. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until all the ingre- dients are well mixed. Butter some patty-pans, lino them with a short-paste, put some of the mixture in each, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. Hominy Croquettes.—(1) Put 1 pint of cooked Hominy in a saucepan with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of hot milk, and stir it over the fire till hot. Take it off the fire, mix the beaten yolk of an egg with it, season to taste with salt, and leave till cool. Shapo the mixture into croquettes, then roll them in breadcrumbs, dip in beaten egg, and roll them in bread- crumbs again. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the croquettes, and fry them. When browned, drain them, put on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 958. (2) Soak jib. of Hominy in boiling water for an hour, then 1 put it into a lined stewpan with about lqt. of milk, and stew