the encyclopedia of practical cookery. 779 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tbe., referred to, see under their special heads. INFERNO.—A wine of Lombardy, manufactured in the Yaltellina, chiefly exported to Switzerland and the Tyrol. INFUSION.—The act of extracting the virtues of various substances by putting them in a heated vessel and pouring boiling water over, as in making tea or coffee. Infusions are sometimes useful in cookery. IRISH MOSS.—See Carrageen. IRISH ROLES.—See Bread. IRISH STEW.—The best description of this would be, neck of mutton, onions, and potatoes, stewed, the potatoes being the only thing Irish in the stew; for Irish Stew is not a national Irish dish, in spite of its Irish name. Circumstances and taste have occasioned some modification of the original ingredients, as may be seen by the following receipts: (1) Cut 2|lb. of loin of mutton into thick chops, and cut off the square ends of the bones. Peel a large quantity of potatoes and cut them into slices, also peel about lib. of small onions. Put the chops and vegetables in layers in a large iron saucepan, moisten to height with cold water, set the saucepan on the fire until the liquor begins to boil, Fig. 972. Irish Stew. then move it to th3 side, and keep it simmering gently for two hours. When the meat is tender, take it out and pile the potatoes, which should be thick, in the centre, arrange the chops rounl the centre pile, garnish the dish with whole boiled potatoes and a few button-mushrooms, and serve very hot. See Fig. 972. (2) Cut 21b. or 31b. of nei?k of mutton into chops; pare 31b. of potatoes, cut them into thick slices, and put them into a stewpan with lqt. of water and two or three carrots, turnips, or onions; salt and pepper the mutton, and add it to the vegetables. Boil or simmer gently for two hours, and serve very hot. (3) Cut in small square pieces 31b. of lean mutton, wash well, drain, and put the pieces in a saucepan, covering them with cold water. Let them come to the boil, then put into another pan. Clean the pieces again, return them to the saucepan, and cover with boiling water. Place the pan on the fire, and season the stew with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and £ teaspoonful of nutmeg. Add two carrots, two turnips, all cut up, six small onions, and a bouquet of sweet herbs. Let this cook for twenty-five minutes, then add i pint of potatoes cut in quarters. Work smooth 1 teacupful of flour in £ pint of water, strain it into the stew, stirring thoroughly, and cook again for twenty-five minutes. Remove the bouquet, and skim the stew before serving. (4) Cut off some slices of corned beef, put them into a saucepan with two or three large onions cut in slices, and pour over some stock or water. Add a few pared and washed potatoes and a little pepper, and cook gently until the potatoes are quite soft and have absorbed nearly all the gravy. Turn the mixture out on a dish, keeping the potatoes as whole as possible, and serve. (5) Boil the requisite quantity of potatoes, and when suffi- ciently cooked (they should not be too much done) cut them into slices; fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of tinned mutton and potatoes, putting here and there a few sliced onions, and seasoning with salt, pepper, and small quantities of finely-minced parsley; moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Cover the whole with a thick layer of mashed Irish. Stew—continued. potatoes, then pour over them some more gravy. Bake the stew in a moderate oven. When cooked, brown the stew under a salamander, and serve very hot in the same dish. (6) Peel and slice 31b. of large potatoes and lib. of onions, put them in a stewpan with stock to cover, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Cut 21b. of Australian tinned mutton in slices, put them in with the potatoes, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew the whole until the vegetables are quite tender. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (7) Put 61b. of peeled potatoes into a saucepan with lib. of peeled and shred onions, pour in 2qts. of water, and boil for half-an-hour, then put in lib. of tinned mutton cut into small pieces. Season the stew to taste with salt and pepper, and thicken it with boiled rice or pea-flour. Serve the stew while very hot. ISINGLASS—This is a very refined form of gelatine, being essentially the dried bladders of certain fish, espe- cially of the sturgeon. The name is probably derived from the German hausenhlase—sturgeon-bladder, and cor- rupted by use. The bladders are dried just as they are removed from the fish, and to the shapes assumed by them in drying do they owe their names of classification: as, purse, pipe, lump, leaf, honeycomb, staple, and book Isinglass. All that is necessary for the cook to know is that from the best quality the best results are obtained. See Gelatine. ISINGLASSINE.—A preparation of Gelatine manu- factured by Messrs. Gridley and Co., for which consider- able merit is claimed on account of its purity and solubility. ITA.—This is the name given to a drink made from the Ita-palm, which abounds in the interior of Guinea. It is prepared by scalding and then scraping the fruit into the water, and sweetening to taste. ITALIAN BREAD.—See Bread. ITALIAN CAKES.—See Cakes. ITALIAN CREAM.—See Cream. ITALIAN FRY.—This is an odd medley in great favour amongst the Italian peasantry, and is composed of the following ingredients, which must all be dipped into batter, fried in lard, and served in the same dish: Ram’s kidneys which have been soaked in salted water, pieces of bread, tendons of veal, calf’s brains, sweetbreads, rice croquettes, pieces of cauliflower, egg-plant fruit, anchovies, and artichokes. ITALIAN PASTE.—See Pastes. ITALIAN FIE—See Pies. ITALIAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. ITALIAN RUSKS.—See Rusks. ITALIAN SALAD (A l’ltalienne).—See Salads. ITALIAN SAUCE (A l’ltalienne).—See Sauces. ITALIAN SOUP (A l’ltalienne).—See Soups. ITALIAN WINES.—Prom its climate, soil, and geographical position, Italy should rank second to none in its wine-growing, and indeed it may be truthfully said that it stands before any so far as exported wines are concerned, for it is a well-known fact that many of the French wines imported here are little else than Italian Wines doctored and reduced for the British market. Many attempts have been made by the Italian Govern- ment to introduce their native wines direct to us, but for ! some reason or other independent speculation has not succeeded in overcoming prejudice or breaking through the restrictions of commerce. Of the many good wines of Italy are the mild wines termed Abbocati, such as Muscatel, Aleatico, Yino Sante, i and Yernaccia. Then there are the wines of Piedmont,