926 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. few drops of Worcester sauce. Put the mixture into small pots, press it down closely, and leave a little clear space at the top. Fill the jars up with clarified butter, cover, and tie down. Scalloped Cold Meat.—Chop some cold cooked Meat into rather large pieces, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and for every pint of Meat use 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs and 1 teacupful of gravy. Put a layer of the Meat in a dish, pour over some of the gravy, then a layer of breadcrumbs, and continue in this way until the Meat, &c., is used up and the dish full, having the breadcrumbs on the top. Put the dish in a hot oven for from fifteen to twenty minutes, and when the Meat is hot, serve. Stewed Cold Meat.—Any kind of cold cooked Meat can be used ; cut it into small thin pieces, put them in a sauce- pan with half a blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne; add a lump of butter, with a sufficient quantity of rich gravy to cover the Meat, and stew gently for fifteen minutes. Cut a lemon into slices, remove all the seeds, and put it in the stew. Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs in a basin together with ^ table-spoonful of unmixed mustard. Strain the gravy off the Meat and stir it in gradually with the yolks of eggs. When quite smooth, pour the whole over the Meat, and stir over the fire for a minute or two. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of bread fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Tinned Meats.—Under the heading of Austra- lian Meats will be found some important information concerning this particular industry. The following re- ceipts will be found to give excellent results, it being borne in mind that these Meats are already, if anything, over-cooked. Baked Tinned Meat.—Put two eggs into a basin with \ tea- cupful of milk, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, one small peeled and finely-chopped onion, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped parsley and chopped onions; season to taste with salt, pepper, powdered nutmeg, and cloves, and a few drops of anchovy sauce. Beat the ingredients until thoroughly well mixed. Cut lib. of tinned Meat into two or three thick slices, lay them on a dish, and spread the above mixture over them; put three or four lumps of fat out of the tin of Meat on the top, and place it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned over the top, serve the Meat. As it has to be served in the dish in which it was baked, one that will stand the heat of the oven must be used. Broiled Tinned Meat.—Take the Meat out of the tin, scrape off the fat and gravy, cut it into slices, and season with salt and cayenne pepper; grill it slightly over a clear quick fire. In the meantime, warm 1 breakfast-cupful of pickled mushrooms, and mince part of them. When the Meat is dished, strew them over it, arrange the whole ones round, and serve as soon as possible after taking the Meat olf the grill. Fried Minced Tinned Meat.—Chop 4oz. of bacon, put it in a frying-pan with a peeled and chopped onion and a small lump of butter, and fry them for a few minutes over a brisk fire. Chop lib. of tinned Meat, and mix with it a chopped pickled gherkin, | teacupful of the Meat jelly, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, grated lemon-peel, and chopped sweet herbs, a small quantity of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Put the Meat mixture into the pan with the bacon and onions, and stir over the fire until lightly browned, adding more butter when necessary. Put lib. of tinned tomatoes in a stewpan with \ table-spoonful of finely chopped onion, \ table-spoon- ful ea 'li of sugar and vinegar, loz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of mashed potatoes, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the tomato mixture over the fire until thick and boil- ing, then turn it on to a hot dish, put the fried mince on it, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Fried Tinned Meat in Paper Cases.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin with \ table-spoonful each of finely- chopped onion and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, Meat—con tinued. 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, 1 teaspoonful of chopped or powdered sweet herbs, and a small quantity each of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg. Stir the above ingredients until quite smooth together with \ teacupful of vinegar and water, mixed in equal quantities. Cut about 12oz. or 13oz. of tinned Meat into slices, and spread some of the above mixture over each slice, then wrap them up separately in well-greased sheets of white paper. Put a lump of lard or dripping in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the cases of Meat, and fry them. Drain the cases, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Tinned-Meat Fatties.—Chop Mb. of tinned Meat, and mix with it half the quantity of grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped onion and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Warm a little of the Meat jelly, then bind the above mixture with it. Roll out very thin a good short crust, divide it into pieces 3in. square, put a portion of the Meat mixture on each, and wrap the paste round. Fry the patties in boiling fat, browning them nicely all over ; drain, pile them on a hot dish over which has been laid a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Tinned Meat and Rice.—Wash \ breakfast-cupful of rice, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender. Peel and mince a moderate-sized onion, and chop about Mb. of tinned Meat. Put the onion in a frying-pan, with some of the fat of the Meat, and fry. Drain the rice, put it in with the onion, also the Meat; season with pepper, salt, a small quantity of pounded mace, and 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, dry mustard, and vinegar. Stir the mixture over the fire, and fry for about fifteen minutes, adding more fat occasionally. Turn the fry on to a hot dish, garnish with crofttons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Fried Tinned-Meat-and-Rice Balls.—Wash fib. of rice, put it into a saucepan with, 1 table-spoonful of chopped onion, pour in 1 pint of milk, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew the rice until tender. Chop about fib. of tinned Meat, the fat and jelly of which may be put in with the rice while cooking. Beat two eggs to a stiff' cream. When the rice is cooked, mix the eggs and Meat with it, then turn the whole on to a plate, spread it out, and let it cool. Roll the mixture into small balls, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Make a lump of lard or clarified fat hot in a frying-pan, put in the balls, and fry them until crisp and brown. As the balls are fried, put them on paper near the fire to drain off' the fat. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the balls on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear gravy. Minced Tinned Meat.—Finely chop lib. of tinned Meat, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of rich gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, add \ teacupful of tomato ketchup, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire. Boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, and when cooked drain and mash them well together with a small lump of butter; pack them into a border mould, and put this in the bain-marie for about ten minutes. Poacli in water the requisite quantity of fresh eggs, and cut them evenly round the edges with a round tin cutter. Turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, put the mince in the centre, arrange the poached eggs on the top, and serve without delay. Stewed Tinned Meat.—Peel 21b. of potatoes and lib. of onions, put them in a saucepan with some of the jelly from a tin of Australian Meat, and sufficient common stock to cover, and boil until tender. Cut the tinned Meat into small pieces, put them in with the vegetables, season to taste with salt and pepper, and simmer for about fifteen minutes longer. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve.