784 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sc., referred to, see under their special heads. Jellies—continued. when the remainder of the Jelly is quite cold and nearly ready to set, pour it over the fruit to fill the mould. When quite set, turn the border out upon an ornamental dish, and fill the centre with finely-chopped red Jelly. Fig. 983. Jelly-mould Packed in Ice. Danish Sweet Jelly. -Put in a large copper pan I pint each of sherry, brandy, and cherry-juice, f pint of claret, the juice and peel of one lemon, 6oz. of loaf sugar, and l®oz. of gelatine. The gelatine should have been previously soaked for twelve hours in cold water. Simmer gently until the Jelly is done, take it off the fire, let it cool, and turn into a mould packed in ice. When set, dip the mould in tepid water, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish ; garnish with a rich custard flavoured with vanilla. Fig. 984. Squeezing Juice out of Fruit. Dantzig- Sweet Jelly.—Clarify sixteen or eighteen leaves of French gelatine; when it is cold, mix with it nearly ^ pint of Dantzig brandy (paillette d’or), and add the syrup required to sweeten. When the Jelly is half set, put it on ice, and stir for a time, without letting it thicken ; then drop in 2 table- spoonfuls of pistachios cut in slices. Pack a cylinder mould in ice, pour the Jelly into it, and let it stand for one hour ; then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well all round, and turn the Jelly out on to a glass dish. French Sweet Jelly. —Prepare lqt. of clear calfs-foot or gelatine Jelly, sweetened and flavoured with sherry. Select a fancy Jelly-mould, pour a small quantity of the Jelly in, and leave it to set for two hours. Choose some fine ripe fruit of any kind or kinds in season, wipe them, and pick off the stalks ; arrange the fruit tastefully round the edge of the mould, fixing them in their places with a little Jelly (if currants, they may be arranged in bunches), pour in more of the Jelly, and let it set, continuing in this way till the mould is full. When the Jelly is quite set, turn it on a fancy glass dish, garnish with crystallised fruits, and serve. See Fig. 985. Gloucester Jelly.—(1) Put loz. each of sago, rice, pearl barley, eringo-root, and hartshorn shavings into a saucepan with J ellies—continued. 3 pints of water, set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently until reduced to 1 pint. Let it get cold, and it will set. To use it, dissolve in hot broth, milk, or wine, and it will make a very nourishing drink. (2) Put in a saucepan -|oz. each of rice, barley, isinglass, and hartshorn shavings, pour in 1 pint of water, and boil until the liquid has reduced to almost half its original quantity. Strain the Jelly into a jar. When the Jelly is to be served, it should be dissolved in milk, sweetened to taste with caster sugar, and flavoured with a few drops of essence of lemon. This Jelly is very agreeable for invalids. Italian Jelly. — (1) Half fill a mould with clear calf’s-foot Jelly ; cut some slices of Gruyere cheese into small rounds with a tin cutter, lay them in circles round the Jelly, over- lapping one another in the mould, cover with more Jelly, and leave them till set. Fill up the mould with the rounds of cheese aud Jelly, proceeding as before, and allowing each layer of the Jelly to set before another is added. Pack the mould in pounded ice, and leave it for two hours. Then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Jelly out on to a fancy dish. (2) Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water, putting with it the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon. When the gelatine is soft, pour over it 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of loaf sugar, the juice of one lemon, and 1 pint of strained orange-juice. Strain through a Jelly-bag into a jug. Select a fancy-shaped Jelly-mould, damp inside with cold water, and pack it in ice. Put a layer of the Jelly ^in. deep at the bottom of the mould, and when it is set, arrange in a layer of candied fruits, or quarters of oranges, fastening each piece of fruit in place with a little Jelly. Then cover the fruit with a little more liquid Jelly (taking care the Jelly is not more than lukewarm), leave it to set, and continue in this way till the mould is full. When the Jelly is quite set and ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it round, and turn it out on to a glass dish. Jamaica Jelly.—Boil lib. of sugar together with 2oz. of clari- fied isinglass and 1 wineglassful of Jamaica rum until reduced to a clear Jolly. Binse a mould out with cold water, pour the Jelly into it, and stand it in a cool place. When firm and cold, turn the Jelly on to a glass dish, arrange some small bunches of grapes round it, pour over clotted cream, and serve. Jelly a la Constantine.—Cut half-a-dozen apricots in halves, remove the stones, put the apricots in a saucepan with a little syrup, and boil until done. Let them get cold, and cut each half into three pieces. Pack an ornamented fluted mould in ice, pour a little warmed sweet Jelly at the bottom, sprinkle in a little desiccated cocoa-nut mixed with shred pistachio-kernels, and pour over a little more Jelly when the other is set; then put a layer of the strips of apricots, then more Jelly, then cocoa-nut and kernels, and so on until the mould is full, allowing each layer to set before another is added. Turn it out on to a dish when set, fill the cavity with whipped cream mixed with more desiccated cocoa-nut and shred pistachio-kernels, and serve. Jelly Broth a la Palestine. Make lqt. of Jelly broth, strain, and keep it hot by the side of the fire. With a vegetable-scoop cut some balls from Jerusalem artichokes, blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of broth, and boil till tender and the broth reduced to a glaze. Boil 1 teacupful of well-washed rice in broth till tender. Put the artichokes and rice into a soup-tureen, mix J teaspoonful of sugar with the broth, pour it over the vegetables, and serve with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Jelly Broth with Macaroni.—Boil 6oz. of macaroni in salted water; when tender, drain, and cut it across into pieces about 1 jin. long. Have ready some boiling Jelly broth, and put in the macaroni. In about ten minutes’ time turn the broth into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plateful of grated Parmesan cheese. Jelly-Broth with Vegetables. Make about 2qts. of Jelly- broth with either veal or poultry ; strain it into a saucepan, and keep it by the side of the fire. Slice some young carrots, blanch them in salted water, then drain them ; cut into pieces the same size as the carrots some young turnips,