THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 935 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Meringues —continued. the butter has dissolved, put in, one at a time, the yolks of four eggs, and beat them well. Butter a round pie-dish, put in 1 pint of tinned peaches, and pour the cornflour over them. Place the pudding in a brisk oven, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth together with 2 heaped table-spoon- fuls of caster sugar. When the pudding is cooked, spread over the egg mixture, raising to a point in the centre (see Fig. 1161), and put it back into the oven for three or four minutes to set the Meringue. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven and set it away until quite cold. Then decorate it with candied fruits and angelic i, serve on a flat plate, and surround it with a coloured paper frill. Meringues in Pyramid.—Put 8oz. of caster sugar into a basin, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and loz. of gum arabic, stirring well until dissolved. Put the basin over a slow fire and continue to stir until the mixture has the appearance of glue. Rub over the outside of a tin mould with butter to prevent the candy sticking, put it upside-down firmly on a dish or board, and commencing from tbe bottom put a row of Meringues round it, sticking them well together with the hot prepared sugar; and when this row is cold and quite firm, continue in the same way until the pyramid is formed. When done, take out the mould, fill the centre with whipped cream or fruit, and serve. Meringues with Rice.—Put 1 teacupful of rice into a saucepan, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the rice is quite soft. Add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Pour the mixture into a mould or tin, piling it up in the form of a pyramid, and mask it with apricot or other jam. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a still' froth, adding 1 teaspoonful of well-dried caster sugar, pour it over the jam, spreading it with a knife, dust over with a little more sugar, and decorate it with small drops of the white-of-egg mixture. Put it into a moderate oven with the door open, let it bake for twenty minutes, and serve it in the mould or tin in which it was cooked. Meringue Shells.—Prepare a Meringue mixture. Slide a tube down a pastry-bag, lay a piece of paper over a baking- sheet, and after putting the Meringue into the bag, press it out into the paper, giving an egg shape 2Ain. long by lin. high. There should be enough to make eighteen cqu d-sized shells. Be careful to keep them about lin. apart. Sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, and place in a very slow oven to bake for thirty minutes. Remove, set to cool for twenty-five minutes, turn the paper con- taining the shells upside-down on the table, and with a wet cloth or brush well moisten the paper ; turn it over again, and leave for two minutes, when the shells can be easily detached. With the finger press them gently, one by one at the bottom, into a perfect shell shape. Return to the baking-sheet, laying them upside-down, put into the oven to dry thoroughly for ten minutes, and leave to cool for thirty minutes longer. Keep them in a thy place either in a tin or paper box, and use when required. Meringue shells prepared in this way will keep well for at least twenty-five days. Meringue with. Strawberry Cream.—Mix a strawberry puree with |lb. of caster sugar, a few drops of prepared cochineal (see Colourings), and some whipped double cream. Fill some Meringue shells with the cream, and serve. Meringue Tarts.—Have ready some tarts made of any pre- served fruit or jam. In the meantime, whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth, adding slowly 4oz. of sugar and a little lemon or vani'la flavouring; pour it over the tart to about lin. in thickness, smoothing it with a knife, put the tart in the oven for a few minutes to slightly colour the Meringue, and serve. It may be served either hot or cold, as desired. Swiss Meringue.—Have ready a Meringue preparation; slide a tube into a silk bag ; butter and flour a baking- sheet, make on it one design 8in. in diameter, another Meringues—continued. exactly the same shape, only Gin., and another of the same only 4in. Put the Meringue mixture into the bag, and press it out gently over and around the first design, making the paste fin. thick ; repeat the same for the second and third forms. Press some Meringue into the pan, making a little cone 4in. high, 2in. in diameter at the base, and tapering gradually to a point at the top. Sprinkle the whole lightly with powdered sugar, and place it in a very moderate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. Take out and let it thoroughly cool for lialf-an-hour. Meanwhile whip lqt. of vanilla cream, add to it A gill each of kirsch- enwasser and maraschino, and with a whisk beat the whole together for three minutes. Have ready a round dish with a fancy paper over, detach carefully the largest form from the pan, lay it on the dish, detach the second, lay it over the first, and fill the hollow with half of the cream ; now detach the third and the smallest piece and lay it over the others, filling it entirely with part of the cream, and finally detach the cone, and arrange it on top. Pour the remaining cream into the silk bag with the fancy tube, cement over the places where the rings join (see Fig. 1162), and send to the table. MERINGUE CAKES.—See Cakes. MERISSAH.—A fermented drink made in Berber, from dates. METHEGLIN.—A very ancient drink of this and other countries, brewed from honey and water, which, after undergoing fermentation, became somewhat more intoxicating than our modern ales. Although we cannot hope to rival our progenitors in the art of brewing Metlieglin, there are two or three receipts given here- under which will produce very pleasing beverages. Dissolve about 51b. of fresh honey in Igall. of water and stir frequently for a few days; then add a little yeast anil foz. of hops boiled in water. Allow the mixture to ferment, and when this has ceased, draw it off, add water if required, and bottle it. Red Metlieglin.—This is prepared in the same way as for White Metheglin, using 3 pints of red-currant juice and 2 pints of black or igall. of white-currant juice, with 4oz. of beetroot cut into thin slices. This is sometimes called red mead. White Metheglin.—Put igall. of white-currant juice into a tub, pour over 4galls. of boiling water, and add 7Alb. of honey and foz. of cream of tartar. Mix well, stirring for about a-quarfcer-of-an-hour, and let it stand to ferment. As soon as this has ceased and the liquor become clear, add lqt. of brandy, and bottle. Let it remain for a few months, by which time it will be fit for use, and will be quite effervescing and sparkling. Sometimes this is called white mead. MICHAEL PUDDING.—See Puddings. MIDZU-AME.—-A Japanese extract of barley-malt and rice, which is reduced to a thick treacly consis- tence. A table-spoonful stirred into a tumbler of new milk is a very nutritious food for invalids.