911 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTTCAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, fauces, i-c,, referred to, see under their special heads. Margarine—continued. during the investment of Paris by the Germans, sought to provide a substitute for butter. This he succeeded in doing from the fat of beef, and styled the production “ Olio.” New York was the next to take up the idea, and Oleo Margarine resulted. By 1884 so great was the trade in this compound that it was estimated to supply one half of the “butter” sold in that city, and the fat used was what is known as the kidney- or caul- fat of almost any animal, mixed with oils imported from Italy and colouring matter. Large quantities are made in the Netherlands, but the Dutch Government prohibited the use of colouring, hence Dutch Margarine is white. By an Act of Parliament in this country, it is forbidden to sell Margarine as butter, hence it is compulsory for all retailers of it to see that this stock is plainly marked with the true name. Margarine when made of pure fats is harmless, and has the appearance and something of the taste of butter. Being sufficiently wholesome, it has obtained a large sale for kitchen and other domestic purposes. MARIEN CAKES.—See C AKES. MARIGOLDS.—The flowers of the common Mari- gold (Calendula officinalis) are sometimes used in preparing foods, special value being attached to them for colouring and scenting cheese. See Fig. 1129. Conserve of Marigolds. -Add to lib. of Marigold-flowers 2oz. of powder of pearl, and \oz. each of hyacinth and alkermes. Mix and bruise all these together with powdered white sugar, and add as much syrup of citron as will make them into a conserve. Marigold Cheese.—Mix the new milk of seven cows with the cream from the milk of seven more cows. Heat 1 gall, of water till scalding hot, add 3 or 4 handfuls of Mari- golds bruised a little, strain it into the tub containing the milk and cream, and put in some rennet, but not sufficient to make it very hard. Place the curd on a cloth over a sieve to drain ; do not break it, but, as the whey runs out, tie up the cloth, and let it drain for an hour. Then cut the curd in pieces, put it in a pan, pour over sufficient cold water to cover, and let it stand for Fig. 1129. Marigold. half-an-hour. Put part of it into a hoop nearly Gin. deep, and strew on it a very little salt; then put in the other part, lay a heavy weight on top, and let it stand for half-an-hour. Turn, and then place it under the press. Put fresh*wet, clean cloths round it every hour of the day. Next morning, salt it, and leave in the salt for a night and a day. Keep it swathed tight, till it begins to dry and coat, and let it be covered with a eh an cloth for a iong time. The month of August is the best time for making this cheese, and it should be kept a year before it is cut. It is said to be much nicer than Stilton cheese. Marigold Wine.—Put 1241b. of sugar into a saucepan with 21b. of honey, 5galls. of soft water, the whites of four well- Marigolds—continued. beaten eggs, and bo’l for one hour. Skim frequently, and pour it while still hot over 14 peeks of Marigold-flowers and 21b. of stoned raisins. Cover the vessel in which they are put, let them remain for a day, then stir for about fifteen minutes; put the cover on again, and let them remain for another day. Put the rinds of three oranges (Seville) into a cask with lib. of sugar candy, and pour in all but 2galls. of the liquor. Boil the 2galls. up again, pour it in, add 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast, cover the bunghole, and let the mixture work; when it has finished fermenting, add 1 h pints of French brandy and |oz. of isinglass dissolved in warm water. Bung up the cask securely, let it remain for about nine months, and the wine will be fit to bottle. MARINADE.—This is a French culinary term which signifies a souse, brine, or pickle, in which fish, flesh, or fowl may be soaked (marine) for a period preparatory to their being cooked. By this means a considerable addition is made to the natural flavour of the article marinaded. Marinades may be either cooked or raw, the former being used either hot or cold according to circumstances. The following receipts explain themselves, and may be used for general purposes unless otherwise specified: (1) Stew together a finely-sliced onion and four parsley- roots, adding 1 pint of vinegar and 4qts. of fresh water, also a quarter of a bunch of thyme, six bay-leaves, twenty- four whole peppers, and twelve cloves. Cook well for thirty minutes on a brisk fire, then put them in a stone jar and keep in a cool place for use. (2) Finely slice one medium-sized sound peeled onion, place it in an earthenware crock, with three slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, four cloves, three whole mace, and three sprigs of parsley-root, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, and 1 pinch of salt. Place the meat or fish in this, and leave it to soak for about six hours. (3) Mix together a bunch of sweet herbs, 11 teacupfuls of vinegar, 4 teacupful of oil, 1 table-spoonful each of lemon- and onion-juice, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a very small quantity each of pepper, ground clove, and cayenne pepper. This Marinade is to be sprinkled over the meat or fish, in which it should stand for ten or twelve hours. Any of the above-mentioned articles may be omitted if not cared for. Marinade for Basting Roasting Meats. —Chop up some pieces of fat bacon, mix in a clove or two of garlic and two or three chopped sprigs of parsley, season with salt and pepper, and mix hi vinegar and oil hi the proportion of one of the former to four of the latter. Marinade for Beef.—Put into a stewpan equal quantities of water and vinegar, the quantity depending on the size of the sirloin to be marinaded, add a few sliced onions and carrots, salt, peppercorns, and a clove of garlic. Set the pan on the fire, boil until all the goodness is extracted from the vegetables, then strain and let it get cold. The meat should be left for fully twenty-four hours to soak. Marinade for Beef or Mutton.—Cut into slices four large carrots and onions, put them into a saucepan with a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme and basil, two bay-leaves, 1 pinch each of ground mace and mignonette pepper, two cloves of garlic, and 8oz. of butter. Stir these well with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire, and as soon as they begin to colour pour in 1 break fast-cupful of vinegar and lqt. of beef stock or water slightly salted ; simmer gently for an hour, strain through a cloth, and it is ready for use. It must bo quite cold before the beef or mutton is put into it to marinade; it may also be used as stock for boiling fish. Marinade for Beef, Venison, and Game. —Cut six large onions and carrots into slices, put them into a basin with a few sprigs of parsley, a little each of thyme and basil, four bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, 1 table-spoonful each of ground pepper and mace, and 1 good pinch of salt; pour over 4 pints of vinegar and double the quantity of cold water, and it is ready for use. Leave the meat in it