800 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. KIRSCHENWASSER, KIRSCHWASSER, or KIRSCH.—This valuable liqueur is made from cherries, crushed with their stones and kernels, and fermented. It is manufactured largely in Germany, Switzerland, the Yosges, Baden, and the East of France; but the best comes from the Black Forest, and is nearly colourless. In Algeria, a kind of Kirsch is prepared from the Japanese medlar; but in the northern part of Haute-Saone the cherry is extensively cultivated for the sole purpose of making Kirschenwasser. Fougerolles is especially famous for it, whilst Luxeuil and Yaldajot owe their reputation to the industry. Kirschenwasser is made from almost any kind of cherries, wild or cultivated, but the girotte, morello, or black cherry are chiefly employed in making the best qualities. It is used extensively by Continental cooks, and, being comparatively inexpensive, should find culinary favour in this country for its delicate flavour. It can be made as follows : Put the required quantity of ripe cherries into a large mortar and pound them, with their kernels, to a pulp; to every quart of the pulp add 1 pint of water, and about 3 gills of brandy. Mix well, and let it ferment for a fort- night. Squeeze it through a wine-press into a still, draw off the pure spirit, and distil again to rectify it. The cherry kernels always contain prussic acid, and are sometimes quite injurious, but if they were not used the peculiar flavour of the liqueur would be absent. Part of the kernels only may be used, and gooseberry brandy may be substituted for the brandy if preferred. Imitation Kirschenwasser.—Pour lgall. of plain spirit (over proof) into a jar or bottle, and mix in loz. of essence of cherries, foz. of essence of almonds, loz. of solferino, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cochineal colouring. When these are thoroughly mixed, stir in lgall. of syrup, let it remain for three days, filter, and bottle. Should the colouring not be deep enough, add more. Kirschenwasser Charlotte.—Cover the bottom of a charlotte- mould with finger-biscuits cut to a point and placed so as to form a rosette, cut across the centre with a paste-cutter and place the biscuit, cut straight, to the sides of the mould. Put any preserved fruits, such as apricots, cherries, green- gages, &c., in a basin with some Kirschenwasser, and let them soak for an hour or so. Spread a layer of ice plombiere with cream or fruits at the bottom of the mould, then a layer of preserved fruits, and so on until the mould is full. Place the mould on the ice to freeze, turn the charlotte out on a dish, surround it with a circle of preserved greengages, and serve. Kirschenwasser Cordial.—This is made by mixing foz. of oil of bitter almonds, dissolved in Ingalls, of pure spirits, with fgall. °f white syrup. Kirschenwasser Cream Ice.—Mix 2 wineglassfuls of Kirs- chenwasser with f wineglassful of cream, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, put it in the freezer (see Ices), and when it is sufficiently stiff put it in a mould packed in ice, freeze again, and it is then ready for use. Turn it out on to an orna- mental dish. Kirschenwasser Grlaces.—Whip the whites of six eggs to a froth, and add them to the yolks, beaten up together with fib. of caster sugar. Stir in 4oz. of flour, and when sufficiently mixed put it in a biscuit-bag and squeeze out on sheets of paper in rounds about lfin. in diameter. Sprinkle them over with a little sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Glaze them with some Kirschenwasser icing, made by boiling syrup to 40deg. and reducing it to 38deg. (see Syrups) by adding Kirschenwasser. Put them on a drainer for a few minutes in a quick oven to dry, turn them, and when quite cold they are ready for using. Kirschenwasser Jelly.—(1) Make f pint of clear sweetened jelly, then turn it into a basin and stir till somewhat cooled; flavour the jelly with 2 wineglassfuls of Kirschenwasser, pour it into a jelly-mould, pack it in ice and salt, and leave it till set. When the jelly is quite firm it may be served, but the mould should be dipped in tepid water and wiped before turning the jelly out. Kirschenwasser, Kirschwasser, or Kirsch—cont. (2) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with fib. of sugar; add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, add them to the other ingredients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, adding six cloves, and one bay-leaf, and mixing well with the whisk for one minute. Stir the preparation, and when coming to the boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing ; stir while boiling for six minutes. Have ready a seamless jelly-bag, tie it on a jelly-stand, or if more handy, two kitchen chairs, one inverted on the other, will answer the purpose. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the stove, and pour the contents into the bag, immediately adding 1 gill of Kirschenwasser. Let the whole drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and pack it in the ice to harden for two hours. Dip the mould (not too near its edge) in warm water, take it up immediately, turn it on to a cold dish, and send to the table. Kirschenwasser Jelly with Cherries.—Put in some syrup boiled at 30deg. (see Syrups) lib. of morello cherries, and boil them for five minutes. Put in a stewpan 2oz. of gela- tine, the beaten whites of three eggs, fib. of caster sugar, 2f pints of water, and the juice of a lemon ; whisk it over the fire till it boils, turn it out, and add If teacupfuls of Kirschenwasser when it is cold. Crack about fifty cherry- Fig. 1005. Kirschenwasser Jelly with Cherries. stones, blanch and peel the kernels, drain the cherries, and put a layer, first of jelly then of cherries, and a sprinkling of the kernels, in a plain cylinder-mould, and so on till the mould is full. Cover the mould with a tin sheet, pack it in ice, put ice on the tin, and let the jelly freeze for two hours. Turn it out of the mould on to an ornamental dish (see Fig. 1005). The jelly may be garnished with crystallised fruits. Kirschenwasser Omelets.—(1) Make a sweet omelet with twelve eggs (see Omelets) ; when it is done and glazed, throw round a wineglassful of Kirschenwasser, and set the omelet on fire. Serve it while burning. (2) Beat ten eggs in a basin, and add 1 table-spoonful of Kirschenwasser, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a little salt. Put fib. of butter in a frying-pan, and when melted add the egg mixture, stirring well until it thickens. When sufficiently set, take it out, fold it in the shape of a purse, and put it on a dish. Dust over with sugar, glaze, and decorate its surface with a red-hot skewer. Put f wine- glassful of Kirschenwasser in a pan, heat it, mix in 3 table- spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, and pour it round. This omelet is considered excellent. Kirschenwasser Punch.—Put in a vessel fib. of powdered sugar with 1 pint of cold water, grate in the rind of a small lemon, squeezing in the juice of one-and-a-half good-sized ones, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes ; add 1 gill of Kirschenwasser, mix a little more, and strain through a sieve into a freezer. Put on the lid, and lay it in an ice-tub, filling the freezer all round with broken ice, mixed slightly with rock-salt, and turn the handle as