THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 741 ices, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. mix with the mince. Chop finely a small quantity of lean, cooked Ham, and cut into small squares an equal quantity of fat bacon; add them to the mixture, and season highly. Butter a cold pie-mould, line it with short-paste, put a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom and round the sides of the paste, then fill it up with the fried Ham and forcemeat in alternate layers, building it in a dome; put some layers of fat bacon on the top. Before putting the paste in the mould, it should be placed on a baking-sheet with a sheet of paper spread over it. Boll out the remainder of the paste to a thin round flat, cover the pie with it, trim round the edges, moisten with a little water, and pinch them together; roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut some fancy leaves out of it, and arrange them on the top of the pie, first damping them a little underneath to make them adhere. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, put it into a moderate oven, leave it for ten minutes, cover it with paper, and bake for two hours. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and leave it for an hour, then pour in through the hole at the top 1 teacupful of tepid aspic jelly; an hour later, take the pie out of the mould, and leave it till quite cold. Serve on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Ham Puree.—Put l|lb. of Ham cut up small into a mortar, pound it well, and add a little stock to moisten, and 1 table- spoonful each of Spanish and soubise sauce ; rub the whole through a fine sieve info a saucepan, add about 3 pints of stock, warm it, and add 1 pint of Madeira wine. Stir gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, add a lump of butter, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. The saucepan should be put in the bain-marie and not on the fire while warming the liquor. Ham Quenelles.—Out three or four slices of Ham into small squares, put them in a stewpan with a minced onion and a piece of butter, and fry, but without burning them. Pour 1 pint of milk over the bacon, place it over the fire until boiling, then stir in gradually mashed potatoes and coarse oatmeal in equal quantities to make a stiff dough. Divide the mixture into equal quantities with a table-spoon, leaving the impression of the spoon on each, and dipping it in warmed butter every time it is used. Lay the quenelles on a buttered baking-dish, put them in a brisk oven, and bake until lightly browned. When cooked, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Ham Relish.—(1) Put some pieces of Ham-fat into a frying- pan with a few thin slices of mutton or veal, and fry them. When browned, drain the pieces of meat from the fat and put them on one side. Finely chop some cold cooked pota- toes and cabbage, put them in the frying-pan with the fat, and fry them. Put the vegetables at the bottom of a hot dish, lay the slices of meat on the top, grate lemon-peel over, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut off some slices of cooked Ham, sprinkle over a little cayenne, and broil them brown. Arrange them on a dish, spread a little mixed mustard over them, squeeze over a taste of lemon-juice, and serve at once. Ham Sandwiches.—(1) Cut off as many slices of bread from a tin-loaf as are required, having them about |in. thick. Take a sufficient quantity of butter to butter half the slices of bread, and work into it made mustard in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful of mustard to 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. Cut some slices of Ham and trim them, then butter half the slices of bread with the mixture of butter and mustard, and butter the rest of the bread with plain butter ; take a slice of bread-and-butter, cover it with a slice of Ham, place For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hams—continued. a slice of bread spread with the mixture of mustard and butter on top of this, and press them together. When all the sandwiches are made, pile up evenly one on top of the other as many as can easily be cut through, trim the edges even, removing the crust, and cut the sandwiches into oblong pieces about 4Jin. long and l£in. broad. Cut some others into squares, rounds, and triangles (see Fig. 923), lay a napkin on a dish, and arrange the sandwiches neatly on it. (2) Cut some very thin slices of bread from a tin loaf, butter them, trim off the crust, and put some thin slices of Ham on half of the slices, spread a little mustard over, lay the remaining slices over, buttered side next the Ham, cut them through into pieces 2^in. by ljin., arrange them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. (3) Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a mortar with 6@z. of lean cooked Ham, pound them well, add a dust of cayenne, 6oz. of butter, and a few drops of carmine to colour. Prepare some small rolls with brioche-paste, open them, fill them with the Ham mixture, pressing it through a forcing or biscuit-bag, and they are ready for use. (4) Finely grate the required quantity of cooked Ham, and season it with a small quantity each of cayenne and grated nutmeg; prepare some good puff paste, divide it into halves, roll them out very thinly and of an equal size, lay the pieces of paste on a baking-tin, and bake them in a brisk oven until lightly browned. When cooked, take the paste out of the oven, leave it until nearly cold, then spread it lightly over with fresh butter. Spread the grated Ham over one of the pieces of paste, and fold the other piece over it. Next, with a sharp knife, cut it into fingers. Spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper over a dish, arrange the sandwiches tastefully on it, garnish with sprigs of fresh green parsley, and serve. Ham Sauce.—When a Ham is nearly all used, pick the small quantity of meat still remaining clean from the bone, scrape away any uneatable parts, and trim any rusty bits from the meat; chop the bone very small, and beat the meat almost to a paste. But the broken bones and the meat together into a saucepan over a gentle fire, pour over them 5 pint of broth, and stir for about a-quarter-of-an-hour; add to it a few sprigs of sweet herbs, a seasoning of pepper, and £ pint of good beef stock. Cover the saucepan and stew very gently till well flavoured with the herbs, then strain it. A small quantity of this added to any gravy is an improvement. Ham Sausages.—Mince finely about 51b. of unsmoked Ham ; procure, if in the cold weather, lib. of inner pork fat or hog’s leaf, and cut it into small squares. Season the mince with 3oz. of salt, ^oz. of coarsely-ground black pepper, a few whole peppercorns, and J teaspoonful of saltpetre. Mix the seasoning well with the mince, and moisten it gradually with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of rum or port wine, then mix in the fat. Cover the mixture, and leave it for a few hours. Thoroughly cleanse and prepare some skins, tie them round the bottom, then pass the mixture into them through a funnel. When the skins are tightly filled, tie them into lengths about |yd. long. In about twelve hours’ time tie the sausages closer if possible, and bind them round from one end to the other with broad tape; fasten the tape securely at the ends. Hang the sausages for nearly a fortnight in cool smoke, then take them out of the smoke and hang them in a cool, dry place until wanted. Care should be taken when the sausages are filled that no air spaces are left; should there be any, they should be pricked through with a long, thin, iron skewer. Ham Steaks.—Cut some moderately thick slices of raw Ham, and put them in a frying-pan with a little water; let it boil, turn the steaks, and continue boiling till dry. Dredge them with flour, pour over a teacupful of milk, put in a small piece of butter, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, and a little cayenne. When it boils, put the Ham on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Ham Toasts.—(1) Finely mince some Ham, with a moderate quantity of its fat, mix with it loz. of butter, a few drops of Harvey’s sauce, and a little cream; season to taste with salt and pepper, and work it up into a paste with the broad, flat blade of a knife. Toast some squares of bread, trim off the crusts, butter them, and spread some of the mixture over each. Strew finely-minced parsley and grated bread-