747 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Saxices, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. Place the pan on the fire and toss it; when the meat is firm, add a few mushrooms finely chopped, a little parsley, shallot, and 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir them well, add a little white wine and stock to moisten, and when it boils, pour it out on a dish, and serve hot. Hare’s Backs with Poivrade Sauce.—Remove the backs of a couple of Hares, lard them with strips of firm bacon-fat, wrap them round with buttered or oiled paper, place them on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast them until done. About five minutes before taking- them from the fire, remove the paper so as to glaze them with thin liquor, put them on a dish, and serve poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. Hare Cheese (Pain de Lievre).—(1) To all intents and purposes this dish may be regarded as the king of a cold collation, whether luncheon or supper. It is clearly described by Dubois. Remove the meat from the shoulders and legs of a cooked Hare, pare off the skin, cut it up into pieces, put it into a frying-pan with some bacon, and fry till browned. Take it out, let it get cool, put it into a mortar, pound well, and add an equal bulk of raw fat bacon, finely chopped, and a little trimmings of truffles. Season it very highly, pass it through a sieve, and add a quarter of its bulk each of cooked bacon and raw truffles cut up into large dice. Butter a tim- bale mould, press into it the forcemeat, put a layer of bacon on the top, and place the mould in a saute-pan with water to about one-third its height. Put the pan in a moderate oven, bake for forty-five minutes, and then let it cool. Spread some of the cheese, when cold, on a baking- sheet to about 4in. in thickness, cut it into two equal shapes like cutlets, glaze them, place truffles on the thick part, and cover them all over with a layer (very thin) of aspic jelly. Place a low stand with a flat top in the centre of a dish, and on it pile a group of small round truffles, dipped in half-set jelly to fasten them together. Put a small bone in the narrow end of each cutlet, with a ruffle round it, and dish them up in a circle round the truffles. (2) Trim and cut into small pieces the fillets of a cooked Hare, also half the quantity of cooked chicken’s livers, pound them, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put the meat into a saucepan with a little over 4oz. of butter and 1 breakfast-cupful of brown chaudfroid sauce, and stir it quickly over the fire till the butter is quite dissolved and mingled with the rest. Turn the mixture into a dome-shaped cylinder mould, press it down tightly, then pack it into pounded ice and salt for an hour. Dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, then turn the contents out on to a pain-vert fixed on a dish. Fill the hollow with chopped aspic, and stand on the top a small shape of the same jelly. Garnish the base of the Hare pain with chopped and round the pain- vert with croutons of jelly (see Fig. 930). (3) Cut off the fillets from two Hares, divide each one in halves, trim them to the shape of a pear, lard them with strips of fat bacon, put them in a saute-pan, and add a little butter. Make a little forcemeat as follows: Cut off all the flesh from the parts of the Hare that are left, and pound it in a mortar with the small. or minion fillets and the large ones of six fowls. Rub this through a sieve, put it back in a mortar and add its equal bulk of calf’s udder, boiled, pounded, and passed through a sieve, and half the quantity of a panada made with breadcrumbs and essence of Hare, and put on a plate to cool. Sprinkle this over with a little salt and pepper and grated nutmeg, mix them well together, adding three For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hares—continued. eggs, one at a time, and making it of the required consistence with a little Spanish sauce reduced stiffly with a little essence of Hare. Take a border mould lOin. long by 2iin. wide, butter it well, fill it with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie without letting it boil. As soon as it has set, turn it out on to a dish, glaze it, arrange the fillets of Hare, also cooked and glazed, in a circle on the top, and serve with a little venison sauce in a sauceboat. A mixture of truffles and fat bacon may also be added to the forcemeat if desired. Hare-Liver Sauce.—Put the Hare’s liver into a saucepan with some good beef gravy, stew it till tender, take it out, finely chop it with a piece of shallot and a few pot-herbs, put all into another saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and £ teacupful of red-currant jelly, warm up, and serve. Or the liver, &c., after pounding, can be returned to the gravy to thicken, and the vinegar and wine added afterwards, and red-currant jelly served separately. Hare Pie (Pate de Lievre).—(1) This is a French dish, and cannot be made without an oval pate-dish or terrine. Skin a Hare, and cut it up into joints, putting the blood in a basin, or it may be cut into half joints, as it is more con- venient for serving in this way. Chop small lib. of veal, and mix with it an equal quantity of sausage-meat; chop fine two or three shallots, mix them with some finely-minced parsley and thyme, and dust them over with salt and pepper ; chop also some veal bones into very small pieces. Put a layer of the Hare-meat at the bottom of the pate-dish, then a layer of the sausage and veal mince, sprinkle them over with the parsley and shallots, and cover the whole with a few thin slices of bacon. When the dish is nearly full, add the blood and ^ pint of Madeira or any white wine; put three or four bay-leaves on the top, cover over with the lid, seal it hermetically with some paste made with flour and water, and bake it in a slow oven for ten or twelve hours. It is usually put in a baker’s oven after the bread has been taken out, and left there for the night. The veal bones should be added to the meat, and put about indiscriminately. (2) This is a very elaborate mode of preparing this dish ; but it has exceptional merit. Cut two fillets of uncooked Hare into long squares, add to them an equal quantity of slices of bacon, also cut in the same shapes. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and season very highly. Chop up the meat from the legs, mix it up with an equal bulk of calf’s liver, put them in a saucepan with a little melted bacon-fat, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, place the pan over a good fire, and fry until the meat sets. Take it out, and when it is quite cold, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a sieve, and mix it up with its equal bulk of fresh raw pork, minced and pounded in a mortar, and well seasoned with pepper and salt. Prepare about lib. of puff paste, roll it out Fig. 931. Hare Pie. to a long round-cornered wide strip, put a layer of force- meat in the centre, with the bacon and fillets in this, and cover over with another layer of forcemeat. Fold the edges of the paste over the meat, damp it a little, and cover it with a thin strip of the paste ; cover this over again with another strip of puff paste, in this make three small openings at a little distance from one another, brush it over with egg, and mark it with a knife. Put a strip of well-buttered paper round the base of the pie to keep it in shape, and bake it in a slack oven; as soon as it begins to colour, cover it over with buttered paper, and let it remain for two hours. When it is done, take it out, let it stand for twenty minutes, pour in through the holes at the top a few table-spoonfuls of melted aspic-jelly, and serve when it is quite cold. See Fig. 931. (3) Cut the thick flesh from the back and legs of a Hare into large pieces, lard them with fillets of bacon, and put