895 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. to> details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,be., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Macaroons—continued. to taste; beat the mixture thoroughly for ten or fifteen minutes. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with a rich puff paste, and fill with the above mixture. Bake in a quick oven until lightly browned. When cooked, take the cheese cakes out of the tins, arrange them on a dish garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and serve. (2) Blanch and dry 2oz. of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar. Work in 3oz. of sugar and the whites of two eggs, beating vigorously for ten minutes; add 1 table-spoonful of rice-flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Have ready some puff paste, roll it out to about Jin. thick, and line eight patty-pans with it; put a little of the mixture in each, brush the top over with water, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for ten minutes, when they will be ready for use. Macaroons flavoured with Chocolate.—(1) Take Jib. of ground sweet almonds, add Jib. of slightly warmed chocolate and Jib. of caster sugar, and mix them to a stiff paste with the whites of eggs. Shape the paste into round balls fin. in diameter, put them on sheets of paper, leaving a little space between each, sift over some caster sugar, and bake in a slow oven until they are of a golden colour. When done, take them out of the oven, turn the paper over and damp it a little, so that it can be easily taken off, then put the Macaroons on a sieve till wanted. (2) Grate 4oz. of French chocolate, and mix with it 12oz. of ground almonds, ljlb. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, and the whites of three eggs. When the mixture is worked into a stiff paste, shape it into short fingers, and lay them on a sheet of wafer-paper; bake in a moderate oven. Macaroons made with. Cocoa-nut.—Put 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and the whites of two eggs into a basin, beat them well for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then add another white and beat it in, next 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and, lastly, another white of egg. When these are well worked in, add Jib. of cocoa-nut, grated and beaten to a pulp in a mortar, drop the mixture on to a slightly-greased baking-sheet, place it in the oven, and bake until the Macaroons are done. A very slow oven should be used to bake them in, otherwise they will melt and spoil. Macaroons flavoured with Coffee.—Mix lib. of ground almonds and 1 Jib. of caster sugar in a basin with a little extract of coffee, and add the whites of three eggs to form it into a paste. Put it out on wafer-paper in the shape of fingers, and bake in a moderate oven until they are a light pale brown. Take them out when done, remove the paper by damping, and put them away in boxes or tins until wanted. Macaroon Cream Ice.—Take Goz. of Macaroons, put them into a tin pan, and place in a moderate oven to dry for ten minutes. Remove, lay them on a table to cool for twenty minutes, put them in a mortar, pound thoroughly, and sift them over a sheet of paper. Have ready a vanilla cream ice, add to it the sifted Macaroons, mixing thoroughly with the spatula for five minutes, and with this fill a three- pint mould, covering it tightly. Have ready a pail with broken ice and rock salt at the bottom, lay the mould in, and fill up the pail with more ice and salt. Let it freeze for two hours, and when ready to serve dip the mould into warm water, turn out the cream on to a dish with a fancy paper over, and send to the table immediately. Macaroon Custard.—Crush plenty of Macaroons with half their quantity of ratafias; beat the yolks of six e<ws together with 1J pints of cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with any essence liked; pour the custard into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling, when it should be instantly removed, or the eggs wid curdle. Mix the biscuits with the custard, and pile them on a Mass dish ; whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, spread them over the top of the custard, grate over a small quantity of nutmeg, and serve. Macaroons with Filberts.—(1) Crack Jib. of filberts and put them immediately into a pan over the fire, stirring Macaroons—continued. about with a wooden or silver spoon till they brown and their skins begin to peel off-; then turn out of the pan, and rub off the skins. When the nuts are quite cold, put them into a mortar and pound them with a little white of egg. Crack another Jib. .of nuts, and proceed as above. When the two Jib. are separately pounded, put them both together into the mortar with the white of an egg and Jib. of powdered white sugar, and beat them for ten minutes; then beat up lib. of powdered white sugar with the whites of three eggs, add this to the mixture in the mortar, and stir well together for fully five minutes ; the mixture ought to be firm enough not to spread, when laid on paper; it may, however, be too firm, and if so, add a little more white of egg. Wet the palms of the hands with cold water, and with them roll 1 teaspoonful of the mixture to the shape and size of a large damson. When all are done, wet the hands again with cold water, and rub them gently over the Macaroons to make them smooth and shiny. Lay them on paper lin. apart, and put them into a cool oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. (2) Put 8oz. of filberts into a pan, and place them over the fire with a little water to remove their skins; take them out, rub the skins off' in a cloth, and when they are cold put them in a mortar and pound well, adding by degrees the white of an egg to prevent them oiling ; work in the paste thus formed 4oz. of caster sugar, and continue pounding this until it is soft and smooth, using a little more white of egg, if necessary, to make it of such a consistency that if put on a board it will not run or spread. Take a little up in a teaspoon and form it into balls about Jin. in diameter, place these on a sheet of buttered paper about 2in. apart, dust over a little more sugar, and place them in the oven to bake gently. When they are a light golden colour, take them out, turn the paper upside-down so that the Macaroons rest upon the table, damp the paper with a brush dipped in water, and peel it off. Put The Macaroons on a sieve to dry, and then they will be quite ready for use. A few drops of essence of almonds may lie added with advantage, if desired. Macai’oons flavoured with. Lemon.—Beat up the yolks of four eggs very light together with lib. of powdered white sugar, and whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Beat into the beaten yolks and sugar the grated peel of one lemon, the strained juice of three lemons, and J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix in lastly, in small quantities and alternately, the frothed whites and Goz. of self-raising flour. Roll the mixture into small balls, rub over with butter, lay them on buttered paper, leaving a space of 2in. between each, and bake in a hot oven. Macaroon Mirletons.—Break into a powder Macaroons to make 3oz. in weight, put it into a basin with the yolks of four eggs and whites of two, stir in 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, Joz. of pounded candied orange-flowers, and a small sprinkling of salt. Mix for a few minutes, then add 2oz. of warmed butter and the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth. Have ready slightly buttered about two-dozen- and-a-half tartlet-moulds, 2in. in width and Jin. in depth, lino them with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, dust over with caster sugar, let it melt in the oven, then dust over coarser sugar, and bake to a light brown in a slack oven. When done, take them out, and serve either ’not or cold, as required. Macaroon Paste with Jelly.—Mix fib. of grated cocoa- nut in a basin with Jib. of caster sugar beaten up with the whites of two eggs and a little lemon extract to flavour. Have ready a square Macaroon cake Jin. thick, put it on