730 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gurnets or Gurnards—continued. with a liaison of flour and butter, pour it into a dish, carefully place the baked Gurnet in the centre, and serve. (3) Fry 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls each of finely-minced mush- rooms and shallots in butter. Mix them with plenty of bread- crumbs, and add finely-chopped sweet herbs and parsley to taste. Season with salt and pepper, and work the mixture into a paste with loz. of butter, the beaten yolks of one or two eggs, and a small quantity of milk. Stuff the Gurnet with this, and fasten it with packthread. Thickly butter a baking-dish, cover the bottom with a few slices of carrot and onion, and lay in the fish. Add a few sprigs of parsley, a few cloves and peppercorns, and salt to taste. Pour round it £ pint of stock and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake the fish from half- to three-quarters-of-an-hour, according to the size, basting it occasionally with the liquor in the dish. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small saucepan, mix them smoothly ovei; the fire, strain in the cooking- liquor of the fish, and stir until smooth and boiling ; colour the sauce with a little burnt sugar, place the fish on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Garnet.—(1) Clean and truss a Gurnet, put it into a fish-kettle with salted water, place the kettle on the fire, and when the water begins to boil remove the pan to the side and let it simmer gently until the fish is quite done. Take it out, drain well, put it on a dish, and serve with a sauce-tureenful of caper sauce, some of which may be poured over the fish. (2) Clean and scale a Gurnet, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water over a moderate fire, and simmer for from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size. Place it on a napkin on a dish, surround it with parsley, and serve with a little anchovy sauce in a boat. (3) Scale and clean a Gurnet, opening it at the belly, stuff with veal stuffing, sew it up, and tie the tail and head together by passing a jiiece of string through the eye-holes and fastening it round the tail. If there is any roe, it may be either mixed up with the stuffing or boiled separately and served to garnish the dish. Place the Gurnet in a fish- kettle, add sufficient water to cover it, and boil for about thirty minutes. Take it out, put it on a dish (having removed the string), and serve with anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. Bed Gurnets are generally preferred, as they are showy, firm, white fleshed, of good flavour, and more digestible than grey Gurnets. Fillets of Gurnet a l’ltalienne.—Skin a couple of Gurnets, cut off the fillets, and put them into a saute-pan with a little butter; sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour over the juice of half a lemon. Place the pan on the fire, and cook the fillets until quite white. Take them out, and put 1 teaspoonful of chopped shallots in the pan with 2 table- spoonfuls of white wine; stir it over the fire for a minute, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of white sauce, C table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of veal broth, 1 tea- spoonful of" chopped mushrooms, | teaspoonful of parsley also chopped, a little lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Mix well, put the fish on a dish, and pour over the sauce. Fillets of Gurnet a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Take off the skin, and cut off the fillets of four small Gurnets; put them in a saute-pan with a little butter, and add a little salt, pepper, minced parsley, and lemon-juice to season. Place the pan over a slow fire for about five minutes; turn the fillets, and cook them on the other side for another five minutes; then put them in a circle on a dish. Add 12 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of white sauce to the liquor in the pan, sprinkle in a little more chopped parsley and lemon-juice, and boil over a quick fire for ten minutes ; then add a pat of butter, sugar, and salt, and mix in 4 table- spoonfuls of milk. Stir well, pour it over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Gurnet en Matelotes.—Remove the skin from four small fish and cut off the fillets, cut each one again in halves, dip them first in egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling oil, and fry until done and of a light brown colour. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, arrange the fillets in the centre, pour matelote sauce over them, and serve. Gurnets or Gurnards—continued. Fillets of Gurnet en Turban.—From a household loaf cut out a piece of the crumb in the shape of a cone, set it in a metal dish with the narrow end downwards (see Fig. 907), cover the cone with slices of fat bacon thickly spread with well-seasoned forcemeat, and stick round sufficient fillets of Gurnet to form a turban. Garnish with a few small Fig. 907. Fillets of Gurnet en Turban. rounds of truffles, moisten with warmed butter and lemon- juice, and cover over all the fish with more slices of fat bacon, then with pieces of buttered paper; put the turban into the oven, and bake until the whole is done. Carefully remove the paper and outside slices of bacon, pour a thick tomato sauce round the dish, and serve. Fillets of Gurnet Sautes served with Tomato Sauce.— Clean one or two Gurnets, wash them well and cut into fillets, and then into pieces about ^in. in thickness, keeping them of uniform size. Put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and toss over the fire for a few minutes until they are done. Take them out, drain, put them in a circle on a dish, fill the cavity with tomato sauce, and serve. Fried Fillets of Gurnet.—Skin a Gurnet, chop off the head, tail, and fins, cut the fish into fillets, and fry in plenty of boiling fat. Drain, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with crab sauce. HACHE.—Fr. for chopped up into small pieces, from which we derive our “ hash.” HADDOCKS {Fr. Aigrefins; Ger. Schellfisch).— Along the northern coasts of Europe and America these fish are very plentiful, but the best quality are those which are caught along the coast of Devonshire and Cornwall; those also caught in Dublin Bay being especially famous. They are allied to the cod, being marked with a similar lateral line, but differing in that they show a dark spot on each side of the body, just behind the gills, which are said to be the marks of the finger and thumb of St. Peter, indicating where he held the fish when he compelled one of its kind to disgorge the tribute money. A similar story is told of the John Dory. Scotland is especially famous not only for the mode of cooking Haddocks, but also for their preparation by drying and smoking. The rizzared (dried) Haddock is a Scotch national dish, but the “ Finnan haddie ” has spread culinary joy over Europe. Finnan, or Findon, is a hamlet about six miles from Aberdeen, and to the fishermen residing in that locality we are indebted for the best preserved fish in the market; although it is much to be feared that the name has extended to districts where considerably less care is exercised in the process of drying and curing, not a few Finnan Haddies, or Dickies, being cured in the slums of London, and that when the fish are not quite as fresh as they should be. Fresh Haddocks cannot be cooked too soon after catching, as from the extraordinary gummy character of their flesh and skin, decomposition quickly sets in. Before cooking, the Haddock should be thoroughly cleansed, its fins and tails cut close (see Fig. 908) with a pair of sharp scissors, and the interior dusted over