789 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, X'c., referred to, see under their special heads. JHAL FREZEE —This is the name given by the natives of India to a sort of simple hash, in which the inevitable hot ingredients predominate: Put 2oz. of ghee or fat into a frying-pan, boil it, add about lib. of any cold cooked meat cut up into small pieces, twenty onions cut up in slices, £ teaspoonful of ground chillies, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and cook over a slow fire until the whole of the ingredients, especially the onions, are quite cooked and tender. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve. JIGGERS.—A more correct name for these useful little pastrycook’s tools would be Jaggers, which was evi- dently the original intention; but the freedom of habit and carelessness has asserted itself once again in this instance, and left us the familiar Jigger. They are used in ornamenting pastry by cutting or notching it round the edges, and are made either of strong boxwood or of brass (see Fig. 991), the latter possessing not only a fluted wheel, but a pair of pincers stamped on the inside to pinch and mark round the edges of pies. JOHN DORY—As a British table-fish the John Dory (Zeus faber) is considered to be superior to any. It is caught along the southern coast from Beachy Head to Land’s-End, and occasionally farther east; but the best of all are those caught off the coast of Brighton and Plymouth. The name is an evident corruption of Jaune Doree, yellow and gold, owing to the extraordinary golden appearance of its skin. There are few fish so exceed- ingly ugly ; for it is apparently ill-shaped, flat, and Fig. 992. John Dory. broad (see Fig. 992), with a large head and staring eyes. On either side is a repulsive-looking black spot, to which two ^legends are attached—one, that they are the marks of St. Peter’s finger and thumb, where he held a Dory up to take the tribute money out of its mouth; and the other credits St. Christopher with the marks, being the spots where his finger and thumb pressed when he lifted a Dory up to amuse the infant Saviour. The Dory is in its. prime from September to January, and may be cooked in any of the ways described in the following receipts, after having been thoroughly washed and cleaned. Baked John Dory stuffed with Fish Forcemeat.—Select and clean a large-sized John Dory. Free from skin and bone the flesh of a whiting, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and pound them together. Season the mixture with a small, finely- minced, partially-boiled onion or shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and beat all together with the yolk of one or two eggs; lift the flesh off the backbone of the John Dory, stuff it with it, and tie round with a piece of string. Lay the fish in a buttered baking- tin with a couple of bay-leaves, strew a small quantity of John Dory—continued. finely-minced shallots over, moisten to height with white wine and white stock mixed in equal quantities, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake for about three-quarters-of- an-hour, more or less, according to the size of the fish; when cooked, remove the string, and place the fish on a hot dish ; strain the cooking-liquor that is left in the dish into a sauce- pan, put in it a small piece of butter kneaded with a small quantity of flour, see if it requires more seasoning, and stir over the fire until thickened. Garnish the fish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled John Dory.—(1) Clean a John Dory, put it, with a marinade of sweet-oil, salt, pepper, &c., such as used for fish, in a saucepan, and boil over a slow fire for about an hour. When done, serve on a dish garnished with parsley, and with caper, anchovy, or lobster sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Remove the fins of a good-sized fish, put it into a large fish-kettle with salted water (using 3oz. of salt to every g'allon of water), put the kettle on the fire, cover it over, and let the water boil up gradually. When it boils, remove the kettle to one side of the fire, and let it simmer until the fish is done (about twenty minutes, or longer if a large fish). In removing the fish from the kettle, care must be taken not to break the skin. Place it on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve with lobster, shrimp, or anchovy sauce or with melted butter. (3) Clean the fish, rub it over with salt and lemon-juice, put it in a fish-kettle with plenty of hot water and a lump of salt, and boil gently. Put 6oz. of butter into a sauce- pan with the yolks of three eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of salt and pepper, and stir quickly over a moderate fire till the butter is half dissolved; then move it to the side, and continue stirring till the butter is quite dissolved. Put the sauce over the fire again, and when it thickens mix with it lqt. of butter sauce (melted butter), and continue stirring till on the point of boiling. It must not quite boil, or the eggs will curdle and the sauce be spoilt. When the fish is cooked, put it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over through a fine hair sieve, and serve while very hot. (4) Clean the fish, wash it, put it into a fish-kettle with plenty of boiling' water and a small lump of salt, and let it boil gently. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, so that it will not fall to pieces, then slip it off the drainer on to a hot dish embellished with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, placing sprigs over any part of the fish that may happen to be broken, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (5) Wash the fish, place it in a fish-kettle with plenty of boiling- water and a lump of salt, and boil gently. Put 5oz. or 6oz. of butter in a stewpan, and melt it; then mix in the yolks of three eggs, ^ teacupful of tarragon vinegar, and a dust of salt and pepper, and stir the sauce over the fire till it thickens. Make in another saucepan 1 pint of butter sauce (melted butter), then mix the two together, and take them off the fire. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it 5- table-spoonful each of chopped chervil and tarragon, and stir again over the fire. When the fish is cooked, drain carefully, slip it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled John Dory a la Soyer.—Clean and cook the fish in plenty of salted water. Peel about three dozen small onions, put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 4 table-spoonful of moist sugar, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes without colouring them ; then put in a bunch of parsley, a little more than 1 pint of bechamel sauce, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and boil gently till the onions are cooked. Next remove the bunch of parsley, and mix with the onions about two dozen mushrooms and half that quantity of blanched and bearded oysters. Add a few drops of essence of anchovies and about 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Drain the fish, slip it carefully on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, brown it lightly under a sala- mander, and serve. Boiled John Dory with Caper Sauce.—Draw and wash the fish, truss, and sew it up with packthread. Put it in a fish-kettle with a lump of salt and sufficient cold water to cover, and stand it over the fire till the water begins to bubble; then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently