811 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. double the quantity of boiled mushrooms, the same amount of ox-tongu3 and Lamb’s liver, all having been cut in slices and stamped in rounds. Thicken them with 4 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce with a little glaze added, and finished with a little cayenne pepper. Warm this without boiling, and when ready to serve, dish the cutlets in a circle, and pour the preparation in the centre. Lamb Cutlets en Crepinette.—Trim a dozen Lamb cutlets, keeping the rib-bone short, boat them lightly with a cutlet- bat, sprinkle with pepper and salt, put them in a flat stew- pan with a little clarified butter, and fry over a brisk fire, turning when nearly done. Sprinkle 1 teacupful of fine herbs over them, 1 teacupful of raw truffles cut in dice, and a few spoonfuls of Madeira; boil till the liquor is reduced to glaze, then take the cutlets out, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and put in with the herbs half their quantity of cooked forcemeat. Steep a pig’s caul, spread it on a cloth, divide it into squares, put a layer of the force- meat preparation over each, and wrap these round the cutlets so as to entirely cover them; dip them in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, pour some perigueux sauce over, and serve. Lamb Cutlets a la Duchesse. — Neatly trim the cutlets that have been cut off a neck of Lamb, scraping the top of the bone till clean, put them in a frying-pan together with a lump of butter, and fry them. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and leave them till cold. Put in a saucepan two or three mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, a finely-chopped onion, and a lump of butter; stir them over the fire till hot, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce, the juics of a lemon, a liaison of three well-beaten yolks of eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Stir the mixture by the side of the fire till of the consistency of thick cream, then dip the cutlets into it, coating them well with the sauce, and set them to cool. Brush the cutlets over with beaten yolk of egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in butter till lightly browned. Put a puree of green peas in the centre of a hot dish, arranging the cutlets round it in an upright position and slightly overlapping each other, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Lamb Cutlets a la Jardiniere.—Select a dozen or so Lamb cutlets, trim them to a similar shape and size, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay them at the bottom of a flat stewpan ; put a small lump of butter in with them, and fry over a clear fire. When done one side, turn them and cook the other. When the meat is done, strain the butter off the cutlets, put in a little melted glaze, and turn them about over the fire for two or three minutes. Mash some boiled potatoes, and form them in a border on a hot dish; arrange the cutlets in a circle on the border, fill the centre with a garnish of new vegetables, and serve with a sauce- boatful of gravy that has been thickened. Lamb Cutlets a la Monico.—Take a dozen outlets from a leg of Lamb, cutting them about gin. in thickness, trim them nicely, lay them side by side in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and a small piece each of mace and nutmeg, pour in sufficient milk to cover, and place the stewpan at >ne edge of the fire. Do not let the milk boil, bat only just simmer. In about an hour’s time, if the cutlets are tender, drain them, dredge lightly over both sides with cornflour, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten eggs, and roll in breadcrumbs, giving them a good Lamb—continued. coating. Melt a lump of butter, lard, or clarified fat in a flat saucepan, put in the cutlets, and fry them a nice brown on all sides. When taken out of the fat, drain the cutlets for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen paper. Strain the milk in which they were cooked, and return it to the saucepan; mix 1 teaspoonful of cornflour smoothly with a little cold water, stir it into the milk together with a lump of batter about the size of a walnut, stir over the fire until thickened and boiling, and season to taste with salt. Decorate the cutlets with a frill, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. A garnish of young green peas gives a pretty effect to the dish (see Pig. 1020), or if these are not in season, lentils may be used. A few chopped capers may also be added to the sauce. Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes.—(1) Eemove the fat and skin from some cutlets, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, and place it on the fire ; when it lias melted sufficiently, put in the cutlets, and fry them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; add 1 tea- spoonful each of finely-minced parsley and lemon-juice, and 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, sprinkle in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and cook for another five minutes. Remove the cutlets and add 4 table-spoonfuls of each of glaze and water to the liquor in the pan, stir well until the glaze is melted, and then cool. Fold as many sheets of paper as there are cutlets to the size of note paper, and cut them so that when they open they will be heart-shaped. Put them in warmed butter and let them stand for a little time. When the sauce is cold, spread it over the cutlets, and place them one by one on the side of the papers, with the bone3 turned toward the point of the heart. When they are all thus pre- pared, put them on a baking-sheet, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Arrange them on a dish in a circle, and fill up the cavity with fried potatoes. (2) Trim fifteen Lamb cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, and fry in boiling fat, turning when one side is done, and finishing the other ; sprinkle some fine herb3 over them as they are turned. When cooked, pour a little melted glaze over, and let them cool in the frying-pan. Cut fifteen pieces of paper the shape of large broad hearts, and lightly brush them over with oil ; sprinkle the cutlets both sides with a thin layer of sweet herbs, set them one by one on the oiled papers, with the bone to the pointed end of the heart, fold the paper over, and plait it all round so that the cutlet will be well wrapped up, then bake them in a slack oven, taking care that the paper does not colour. When ready to serve, arrange them on a hot dish in a circle. Limb Cutlets a la Parmesan.—Cut off the required number of cutlets from a neck of Lamb, flatten them with a cutlet- bat, trim neatly, season with salt and pepper, dip them singly first into oiled butter, then into beaten egg, and lastly into sifted breadcrumbs mixed up with grated Parmesan cheese, in the proportion of one part of cheese to three parts bread- crumbs, and fry in butter. Put them when done on a dish with a puree of mushrooms in the centre, pour round some Parmesan sauce, and serve as hot as possible. Lamb Cutlets a la Turque.—Cut the cutlets from a neck of Lamb or mutton, trim off the bone at the thick end, and flatten them by beating with a rolling-pin. Rub over a little finely-chopped sweet marjoram, salt, and pepper, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a moderate charcoal fire, turning them often. When cooked, put the cutlets on a hot dish, and serve. Lamb Cutlets a la Villeroy.—Trim the required quantity of Lamb cutlets, put them in a saute-pan with a lump of butter, and fry; when cooked, press them between two plates to cool. Trim the cutlets again, dip them in a little villeroy sauce, sprinkle some fine herbs over, put them on a cold baking-sheet, and let the sauce set. Breadcrumb over the sauce. Put some ''fitter or lard in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling put the cutlets in, and fry till nicely browned, doing both sides equally. Put a-folded napkin on a hot dish, drain the cutlets, put them on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Asparagus.—Cut the heads of a bundle of asparagus into Jin. lengths, also cut into pieces of the same length as much of the stalks as is eatable, and boil them separately in salt and water ; when cooked, drain, put them into separate frying-pans with a little butter, season to