THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 746 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. steeped in warm water for a few minutes. After boiling for five minutes longer, remove the sauce from the fire. Fry the fillets over a moderate fire; when cooked, drain, cut them in a slanting direction into thick slices, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 927. Fillets of Hare Sautes with Truffles.—Cut off the fillets from six Hares, contise them with truffles cut in slices, and roll the thin end round ; then place them in a saute-pan with a little butter, put thin slices of fat bacon over them, and cook in a moderate oven. Have ready a croustade filled with Hare-forcemeat quenelles, place it on a dish, put the fillets in a circle round it, and pour over Spanish sauce, reduced with a little claret; or they may be glazed after they are cooked, and served with a French sauce. Forcemeat of Hare’s Livers.—(1) Put the livers from two or three Hares into a mortar, and pound to a pulp with half their bulk of beef-kidney suet and bacon-fat in equal proportions ; season with a little powdered cloves, salt, and pepper. If sufficient Hare’s livers are not obtainable, a little of the flesh can be used. Add a little cream, and mix in the yolks of two eggs to make the forcemeat of the required consistence. Put it into a stewpan, and set it over the fire for ten or twelve minutes, stirring continually until it becomes quite stiff, when it will be ready to serve with game. (2) Parboil a Hare’s liver, cut it up small, and put it into a mortar with 4oz. of beef-suet finely minced and about 3oz. of lean bacon also chopped fine, and pound it well. H the ingredients are very finely chopped, they will not require to be pounded. Mix well, and add 6oz. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little marjoram, thyme, and grated nutmeg, with salt and pepper to taste ; add the yolks of two or three well-beaten eggs to bind the mass, and either stuff the Hare with it or make it into balls, and fry in a little butter until of a light brown colour. Serve this with roasted Hare. Fried Fillets of Hare a la Dubois.—Beat the fillets lightly, season them with salt and pepper, put them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry them, pressing the fillets against each other to keep them straight in frying. When cooked, drain them, and press them between two plates under a light weight till cool. Trim them to an equal size, giving them a slightly rounded shape, score them on the upper part, then mask them alternately with brown and white chaudfroid sauce, and leave them till the sauce has cooled. Cook some truffles, slice them thin, cut them into rounds with a tin cutter, and divide the rounds to make wedges. Mask the fillets slantwise with the remainder of the Fig. 928. Fried Fillets of IIare a la Dubois. sauce, then contise with the wedges of truffles. Fix a pain- vert on a dish, place in the centre a dome-shaped support cut out of bread and fried, then mask the whole with aspic jelly. Mask the fillets with aspic jelly, and place them on the dome. Garnish the top of the dome with a small subject cast in fat, and the base with cooked truffles in small cases, fixing them with aspic jelly. Garnish round the base of the pain-vert with croutons of aspic jelly; decorate four attelettes with large round truffles, and fix them on the dome. This dish may be set upon an elaborate stand, and the free use of chopped aspic and parsley sprigs would enhance the beauty of the garnish. See Fig. 928. Hares—continued. Fried Fillets of Hare a la Sicilienne.—Trim some fillets of Hare to the shapes of chicken fillets, season them with salt and pepper, put them in a basin with vinegar, and let them soak for several hours ; then drain and dry the fillets on a cloth, put them in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them over a quick fire. Cut some croutons of bread, and fry them in butter till lightly browned. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire till lightly browned; then pour in 1 tea- cupful of vinegar, and boil till the sugar is dissolved and the vinegar reduced to half its original quantity. Mix with the vinegar 1 teacupful of brown sauce, and boil it; then add 1 small teacupful of well-washed currants or dried Smyrna raisins and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped and dried almonds. When the fillets are cooked, drain the butter from them, and baste them with a small quantity of melted meat glaze. Arrange the fillets in a circle alternately with the croutons of fried bread on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fried Fillets of Hare with Quenelles.—Take two fillets of a Hare, trim them, cut them slantwise across into five pieces each, moisten and beat them a little, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Pour a little melted butter into a flat stewpan, and put in the fillets, arranging them side by side. Prepare a little game gravy with the bones and remaining parts of the Hare, adding a small quantity of thickened brown sauce. Prepare a forcemeat with the trimmings of the fillets, shape them into quenelles with a small spoon, and poach them in salted water. Put the pan with the fillets on the fire, and fry briskly, turning them over to cook both sides; take them out, drain them, pour 4 table-spoonfuls of the sauce over them, put them on a dish, and pour the remainder of the sauce over. Put the quen- elles round the dish, and serve. Fried Hare.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut it into good-sized pieces, dredge them well with flour, and season them with salt and pepper. Melt a large lump of butter in a flat stew- pan, put in the pieces of Hare, with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a small quantity of chopped chives, and fry them until evenly browned ; take them out of the pan, and put them on a hot dish. Mix a teacupful of stock and the strained juice of a lemon with the seasonings in the pan, and stir it over the fire until boiling; then pour the sauce over the Hare, and serve. Gibelotte of Hare.—Proceed the same as for Civet of Hare a la Franijaise, replacing the red wine by 1 pint of white broth, and adding twelve whole mushrooms five minutes before serving. Hare ail Cliaudron.—Skin and clean a Hare, and cut it into pieces on a dish, so as to catch the blood. Put ^lb. of sliced bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, put in the pieces of Hare, with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, one small onion stuck with three cloves, 1 teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper, and 1J pints of red wine, and place the stewpan over Fig. 929. Hare au Chaudron. a clear wood fire, allowing the flames to spread round the pan until the wine catches fire. Leave it until the wine burns out; then put in tjlb. of butter kneaded with a little flour, stir it well, put the lid on the pan, and stew at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, dress the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve very hot. See Fig. 929. Hare a, la Minute.—Skin and draw a Ha.re, cut it up into joints, and put them in a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkling them over with salt and pepper and mixed spice.