1)09 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mangold-Wurzel—continued. gently without pressing, and measure. To every twenty gallons add 61b. of coarse brown sugar, 8oz. of mustard- seed, and 31l>. of hops. Boil for two hours longer, strain, and when cool work it with yeast, as for ordinary beer: let it remain for a day, skim off the dark froth, and pour the beer into barrels. MANGOSTAN.—This is sometimes spelt Mangos- teen ; it is the fruit of an Asiatic tree (Garcinia Man- gostana), aboirt the size of an orange, and resembling that fruit in the divisions of its pulp. The rind, which is brownish when ripe, is exceedingly thick, enclosing a juicy flesh with a flavour not unlike a mixture of grapes and strawberries, a pleasing mixture of acidity and sweetness. When eaten, the rind is pared off all round, and the pulp consumed whole. MANNA.—The name given to a dried exudation from a tree of the genus Fraxinus. The finest variety is known as flake-manna. It is sometimes added to food for children, being mildly laxative in its effect. MANNACROTJP.—A granular preparation of wheat deprived of bran, used as an article of food for children and invalids. MANNHEIM ROLLS.—See Bread. MANX CAKES.—See Cakes. MANZANILLA.—A kind of light pale sherry with a slightly bitter taste. MAPLE SUGAR.—See Sugar. MARASCHINO (Fr. Marasquin; Ger. Maraskino). —This famous liqueur is prepared chiefly in Italy and Dalmatia, from the kernel of the Marasca cherry. The principal place of its manufacture is Zara, but large quantities are made in France and Germany, from either cherries or plums, the nutty flavour being ob- tained from the kernels of the stones, to which are added a large proportion of peach-kernels. The best Maraschino is made by crushing together the fruit and seed of the Marasca cherry. One per cent, of honey is added to the juice, and the whole fermented together, distilled, and rectified. Sugar and water are added subsequently, and the liqueur is then stored to ripen and rid itself of empyreumatic flavours. An inferior quality is distilled from a mixture of cherries and the juice of liquorice-root. A very good Maraschino can be distilled as follows: Stone and pick off the stalks from 81b. of Morelia cherries, pour over them 5 pints of brandy, cover close, and let it stand for three days ; strain, and distil the liquor. Distil also tlb. of cherry-leaves in 3qts. of filtered water, which ought to yield about Jgall., dissolve in this 2Jlb. of loaf sugar, and add to the liqueur, together with 1 j pints of kirschenwasser, 10 drachms each of spirits of rose and orange-flowers, and 1 k drachms of spirits of jessamine. Stir all together, run it through a jelly-bag, bottle, cork, and seal it. Maraschino is famous for the beautiful flavours it contains, and these are very highly valued by artistic cooks, who use them for many excellent dishes. The first receipt gives a very useful flavouring, which can be used in any of those following: Essence of Maraschino.—Put lqt. of spirits of wine into a large bottle with 1 pint of Maraschino, h teacupful of essence of peach-stones, 3 drops each of essential oil of jessamine and roses, and double that quantity of orange- flowers. Shake the bottle well, let it stand for four days, pour off into small well-stoppered bottles, and it is ready for use. Maraschino Bavaroise.■—Put into a saucepan D,oz. of isinglass, the strained juice of two lemons, 4 table-spoonfuls Maraschino—continued. of loaf sugar, and \ pint of water, and boil till the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, then skim it care- hilly and pass it through a line silk sieve into a basin. When cold, stir in and thoroughly incorporate 4 wine- glassfuls of Maraschino and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and leave till on the point of setting; then mix 1 pint of well-whipped thick cream with it, and pour the whole into a mould. Pack the mould in ice, and leave it till the cream has set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the bavaroise on to a fancy or glass dish. Maraschino Cheese.—Melt a small quantity of isinglass in hot water; whip U- pints of thick cream to a stiff froth, and mix with it the dissolved isinglass, the strained juice of one lemon, and 3 wineglassfuls of Maraschino. Stir the above mixture over ice till well mixed and on the point of freezing, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice till quite firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cheese on to a fancy or glass dish. See Fig. 1127. Maraschino Conserve.—Mix some spirit of Maraschino with powdered white sugar till it is of about the thickness of pastille-paste, put it over the fire, warm gradually without letting it boil, and keep constantly stirred till it is very liquid. Pour it into funnel-shaped tin moulds, set the moulds on iron plates, and dry the conserve in a stove. Maraschino Cream.—(1) Put lqt. of thick cream, i pint of Maraschino, and 4oz. of sugar into a basin or bowl, and beat well with a whisk until of a stiff froth. Have ready some ice-glasses, pile up the preparation in them, put them on the ice, freeze, and serve. (2) Pick the stems from 1 pint of fresh strawberries, and dip the fruit singly into loz. of isinglass dissolved in a little boiling water, and then again into 4 table-spoonfuls of Maraschino. Put the strawberries in a mould, packing them as clo;ely together as possible, lill up the cavities with strawberry cream, and put the mould on the ice; when frozen, turn out on to a dish, and serve. Maraschino Cream-Ice. —Put 2qts. of cream into a pan over the fire. Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, then add the yolks of eight eggs beaten up with lib. of powdered white sugar; stir them lightly together, and when the cream boils add it by degrees, whisking j. 11 the time. Put the mixture over the fire, and let it boil two or three times, without ceasing to whisk: then run it through a sieve, stirring a little to help it through. When quite cold, mix with it 3 liqueur-glassfuls of Maraschino, put it into a freezer, cover immediately, and freeze it. Maraschino Glaces, or Biscuits with Maraschino Icing-. Beat the yolks of six eggs together with tlb. of icing sugar for five minutes, then mix hi gradually 4oz. of flour and the whites of the six eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the mixture into a biscuit-forcer, and press it out in rounds,