S72 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. . For details respect inj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. finely-chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and a very little cayenne pepper. Put ljoz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until well blended, then put in the Lobster, moistening it with a small quantity of fish stock, but do not make it too liquid, and stir over the fire until hot. Beat and strain the yolks of two eggs, move the Lobster mixture to the side of the fire, and stir them in. Spread the preparation on to a plate, let it get cold, divide it into small equal-sized portions, which roll to the form of pears with a fancy top, dip them in beaten egg-and-bread- crumbs, lay on a dish, and set in a cool place for an hour. Afterwards egg-and-breadcrumb the croquettes again ; put a large piece of lard in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling, put in the croquettes, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As each oue is done, take it out of the fat and drain on paper in front of a fire. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish- paper over a hot dish, pile the croquettes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1090. Lobster Cutlets.—(1) Select one large hen Lobster and two smaller ones, pick out the meat, put it in a mortar with part of its coral, and pound, mixing with it a little powdered mace, grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and cayenne; beat the yolks of two eggs and the white of one together with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; then mix them with the above ingredients. Roll the paste out 2in. thick, sprinkle a little flour over, and form it into cutlets ; dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the cutlets with it, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling butter. Put 1 pint of melted butter in a small saucepan with the coral and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and make it hot. When the cutlets are nicely browned, drain, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. (2) Choose a Lobster weighing from 21,1b. to 31b. ; take out the meat, cut it into small dice, and season with salt and pepper. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter into a sauce- pan near the fire, and when it. has melted, mix in 1 table- spoonful of Hour, and work it to a smooth paste; add 1 teacupful of good stock, a well-beaten egg,' and season with salt and pepper. Put it over the fire, and when it boils, add the Lobster, remove from the fire at once, and pour' it on to a buttered dish or platter to about lin. thick. Smooth it with a knife, and when cool cut it into shapes like cutlets, dip each one first into well-beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, taking care to cover all over, put them into the frying-basket, place in a frying- pan with boiling fat, and fry for two minutes, or until they are of a rich brown. Take them out, drain, and put a part of a small claw into the small end of each one to represent a cutlet-bone. Arrange them in an upright circle on a pain-vert on a hot dish, overlapping each other, put a _ bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and garnish with eight round timbales of Lobster in aspic jelly. See Fig. 1091. J (3) Finely chop the flesh of a fresh Lobster, put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, stir Lobster—continued. them over the fire until well mixed, pour in about § breakfast-cupful of water, and when it is quite smooth add | teacupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Stir the sauce over the fire until thick and boiling, then put in the Lobster and mix thoroughly. Spread the mixture out on a plate, leave it until quite cold, then divide it into moderate-sized pieces, which trim to the shape of cutlets, dredging them well with flour. Dip in beaten egg, cover them with finely-sifted breadcrumbs, put them into a flat stewpan of boiling fat, and fry to a bright golden brown. Take each cutlet out of the fat as it is done, and place it on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain for a minute or two. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cutlets on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Boil a Lobster; remove the meat, and cut it into small dice-shaped pieces, saving the coral and green fat. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a thick saucepan over the fire, and stir until they bubble; gradu- ally mix in b pint of milk or cream, add the Lobster, together with the coral and fat, and a rather high season- ing of salt and cayenne. Stir the mixture constantly until it is very hot, then take it from the fire and stir in the yolks of two raw eggs and 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine or sherry. Put the mixture into a dish to cool. When cold, make it up into the form of small chops or cutlets, shaping them with the hands damped with cold water, and, as the chops are made, lay them in a platter containing plenty of cracker-dust. Put a frying-kettle half full of fat to heat; beat two eggs till smooth, dip the choirs into the egg, and lay them again in the cracker- dust. When the fat begins to smoke, put the chops into it and fry. When they are a golden brown colour, take them out with a skimmer, lay on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, put a small Lobster claw in each one, and serve garnished with fried parsley. (5) Take about 4lb. of Lobster-meat and cut it small. Rub the coral through a hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Put the til), of Lobster-meat into a mortar, adding to it,, when partially pounded, loz. of fresh butter, nearly 1 dessert-spoonful of the coral after it has been rubbed through the sieve, nearly 1 saltspoonful of salt, and b saltspoonful of mixed cayenne and mace, and continue to pound and mix till all are beaten together into a very fine smooth paste; then taste it, and if not sufficiently seasoned add more cayenne and mace, but be careful not to overdo it. Form the paste into small cutlets about Jin. thick ; stick into the end of each one a short piece of the smallest claws; strew some coral (that has been rubbed like the other through a sieve) over them, arrange nicely on a dish, put them into a rather cool oven for eight or ten minutes just to make them hot through, taking care not to let the bright colour of the coral get spoiled, and serve. (6) Take a large hen Lobster, pick all the meat out of the shell, and pound it fine in a mortar, together with a small quantity of salt, cayenne pepper, and chopped parsley, and half the coral. Beat into it 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg beaten up with 1 table spoonful of anchovy