THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 839 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. (3) Beat {lb. of butter together with fib. of caster sugar, ami when of a creamy consistency mix with it five eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, the juice anil grated rind of one Lemon, and 1 teacupful of milk. Mix 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 5 teacupfuls of flour, then mix it with the eggs, Oic. Turn all into buttered shallow baking-tins, anil bake in a model ate oven. (4) Beat {jib. of butter till creamy, then mix with it {lb. of caster sugar and ten eggs; when all are beaten to a stiff froth, stir in the grated rinds of two Lemons, Mb. of Hour, and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. Mix till quite smooth, pour all into small buttered moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out of the moulds when done. (5) Rub {lb. of butter in lib. of Hour, and add lib. of caster sugar, the grated rinds of two Lemons and four eggs. Mix well together, roll the paste out rather thin, cut into rounds with a cutter about the size of a penny, butter a baking-slieet, put the rounds on, and bake in a moderate oven. (6) Mix with the yolks cf six well-beaten eggs 1,1b. of caster sugar, the grated rind of one Lemon, amt 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-11 ower water. Beat well for some minutes, and then sift in gradually lib. of Hour, the whites | of the eggs well whisked, and the juice of one Lemon. Have ready some small buttered cake-tins and when well mixed pour the mixture in. Bake for about one hour. (7) Cream together lib. of butter and lib. of caster sugar; then add live eggs beaten separately, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, J pint of milk, the juice and grated rind of one Lemon, and 5 teacupfuls of Hour. Bake in small greased tins in a moderate oven. (8) Mix to a smooth paste with a little cream llh of Hour and 3oz. of caster sugar ; flavour with a little essence of Lemon, roll the paste out very thin, prick it over with a biscuit-docker, and cut the cakes out with a moderate- sized tin biscuit-cutter. Lust a baking-sheet over lightly with flour, put the cakes on it, and bake them for a fewr minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked take them off the baking-tin and leave till cold; pack them in tin canisters, and keep till wanted. (9) Put ‘11b. of butter to warm, cream it with 2Mb. of crushed loaf sugar, add a flavouring of essence of Lemon, stir in 4Mb. of dried flour, 2Mb. of finely-minced candied Lemon-peel, eighteen eggs, and sufficient lukew; rm milk to make a dough. Form it into cakes, put them in greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Lemon Cakes, or King Henry's Shoe Strings. -Mix {lb. of flour smooth with b breakfast-cupful of milk, Hoz,. of butter, and the strained juice of a Lemon; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, pour it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Move the saucepan ( ff the fire, and mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and 2 table- spoonfuls of blanched and chopped sweet almonds. Let the mixture get cold, then stir in the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Spread it out on a buttered baking-tin, about Mm in thickness, sift it over with caster sugar, and bake for ten minutes in a slow oven. When cooked, cut the paste into strips lin. wide, arrange them tastefully on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 1000), and serve hot or cold. Lemon Candy.—(1) Boil some clarified sugar to the ball, flavour with essence of Lemon, and colour it yellow with Lemons—continued. a little saffron. Work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a spatula until it turns white. Oil some tins, pour the candy in, and leave it till cold. (2) Mix wrell together 31b. of loaf sugar, broken small, 1 h teaspconfuls of cream of tartar, I h saltspoonfuls of tart; ric acid, and H teacupfuls of cold water. Stir well and let it stand for an hour; then put it over a moderate fire, and when it becomes brittle stir in 1£ teaspconfuls of essence of Lemon and pour it out on a buttered slab. Pull a small quantity of the candy till it is white. Make the rest into sticks, twisting a little of the white candy round each stick. Lemon Caramels.—Cut some very dry preserved Lemon-peel into small square pieces, put these pieces each one on the point of a small stick, and dip them iiito sugar boiled to caramel (see Sugar-boiling), twisting them round re- peatedly that the s; gar may cover the peel equally all over. Have a slab ready with a small piece of butter rubbed well and evenly all over, lay the caramels on it, and when they are quite cold, take out the little sticks and wrap each in paper. Lemon Caramel Hock.—Dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in A- pint of water and 1 teacupful of filtered Lemon-juice; then add 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid and 1 liqueur-glassful of kirschenw&sser. Boil the above to the crack degree, then mix with it 4oz. of finely-chopped candied Lemon-peel. Oil a deep saute-pan, pour the caramel in, and leave till nearly set, then with the back of a knife mark over the surface in the shape of diamonds. When the suga)r is quite set and cold, snap where it is marked. Lemon Cheese Cakes.—(1) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, gently melt it, and work in 4oz. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar. Ti en add the yolks of two and white of one egg, the finely-chopped peel of three and the juice of one and a half Lemons, one crushed large Savoy biscuit, a few pounded blanched almonds, and 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Line some patty pans with putt' paste, put a little of the Lemon mixture in each, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Warm M'J- °f butter till soft and mix with it Mb. of powdered white sugar; then add two Savoy biscuits pounded fine, about a dozen sweet almonds blanched and pounded, the rinds of half-a-dozen Lemons grated or chopped very fine, the beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, the strained juice of three Lemons, and 1{ wine- glassfuls of brandy. When all these are very well mixed, line some patty pans with putt' paste, put into each a good spoonful of the mixture, and bake. (3) Cream {lb. of butter, add {lb. of caster sugar, mix well with the butter, and then beat in the yolks of two eggs, a little milk, {lb. of washed and dried currants, and the juice and grated rind of one Lemon ; butter some patty- pans, line with puff paste, half fill them with the mixture, sift a little caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a hot oven. (4) Put lib. of caster sugar into a stewpan with the yolks of two and the whites of four eggs, three finger- biscuits grated, the juice and rinds of three Lemons (the rinds well rubbed with sugar), and lastly Mb- of good fresh butter. Put the pan over a rather slow' fire, and stir the mixture until it looks like transparent honey. Vanilla or cinnamon may be used to flavour. To use it some buttered tartlet-pans must be lined with light paste, then take 1 table-spconful of the mixture and stir it into 1 gill of newr milk, put a little of it into each tartlet, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. (5) Beat four eggs in a basin together with 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, mix in 1 teacupful of cream, 2oz. of wrrmed butter, the grated peel and the strained juice of one Lemon, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, anil beat the mixture well. Butter some patty-pans, line them with a good putt’ paste, three-parts fill them with the above mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the cn.kes out of the tins, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (6) Grate four stale Savoy biscuits into a basin and mix with them the grated rind and strained juice of two large