THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 882 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobster—continued. Tinned Lobsters.—These are imported from the Fisheries in Newfoundland, and although much inferior to the fresh fish, they can be made very nice, if it he borne in mind that the cheapest are not the best. Tinned-Lobster Cakes.—Put lib. of Tinned Lobster into a mortar with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled potatoes, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, \ saltspoonful each of ground mace and nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Pound the mixture well, divide it into small quantities, and with floured hands mould them into flat cakes. Season 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Brush the cakes over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then roll them in the seasoned breadcrumbs, giving a good coating; put a lump of butter into a frying- pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the cakes, and fry on both sides until nicely browned. As each lot of cakes are cooked, place them on paper near the fire to drain. Put the liquor of the Lobster into a stew- pan, mix with it 1 teacupful of milk, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Season the sauce with pepper, and stir it over the fire until thick and boiling. Arrange the cakes on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, pom- round the sauce, and serve. Turned salmon can be served in the same way. Tinned Lobster Scalloped.—(1) Tut 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, and stir in gradually the strained liquor from a tin of Lobster and 1 teacupful of boiling water. Turn it into a saucepan, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and stir over the fire till thick. Flavour the sauce with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, put in the Lobster, first looking it over to pick out any pieces of shell or cartilage. Butter a tin baking- dish, put hi a thick layer of breadcrumbs, pour in the Lobster preparation, sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs, place several little bits of butter about, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time, take it out, and if not sufficiently coloured brown it with a salamander. Stand the tin dish on another, and serve the Lobster while hot. (2) Strain the liquor from a tin of Lobster into a basin, and mix with it 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, \ teacupful of milk, 1 table-spoonful each of oil and vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Stir the above ingredients until thoroughly mixed. Butter a pie-dish, strew it thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, then put in the flesh of the Lobster, spread the crumb mixture over it, cover with a thin sprinkling of dry crumbs, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and bake in a brisk oven. When the scallop is nicely browned on the top, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve. Tinned-Lobster Soup.—Empty a tin of Lobster into a mortar, pound, and pass it through a sieve. Put 2oz. of butter hi a saucepan with 1 teacupful of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then pour in, gradually at first, 2qts. of hot stock. Put in the Lobster, with a little cayenne and the strained juice of a lemon, and boil it up; then turn the soup into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast on a plate. Tinned Lobster on Toast.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and mix it until smooth with 1 teacupful of milk ; then pour in the liquor from a tin of Lobster, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until thickened. Turn the Lobster out of the tin into the sauce, and add 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, l table-spoonful of butter, and a few drops of chilli vinegar, and continue stirring the mixture over the fire for ten minutes longer. Cut a few slices of bread, toast them, spread thickly with butter, lay them on a hot dish, and pour over the Lobster mixture. Serve without delay, as it should be very hot when eaten. If preferred, the Lobster mixture can be turned on to a hot dish without the toast, and garnished with crohtons of fried bread. LOCUSTS. The name given to the sweet pod, or bean, of the Carob-tree, from which a brandy called Locusts—continued. Locust brandy is distilled. Although the brandy is not very well flavoured, it is sometimes disguised with the flavour of juniper-berries and converted into palatable gin. LOGWOOD—At one time a colour prepared from this was largely used in confectionery ; but it has long since been discarded on account of its astringent character. Cheap wines and liqueurs are occasionally tinged with Logwood. LOIN.—That part of an animal which extends along the backbone between the ribs and tail. For special Loins, refer to their headings, such as Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Beef, Yeal, &c. LONDON BUNS.—See Buns. LOQUAT.—The fruit (see Fig. 1099) of the Japanese Medlar (Photinia japonica). It is about the size of a small plum, grows in clusters, and each fruit contains four or five large seeds. LOUIS PHILIPPE PUDDING.—See Puddings. LOUVAIN BEER.—A white beer of Antwerp, popular amongst the working-classes there. It is said by Englishmen to taste of water, beer, pitch, pine-wood, soapsuds, vinegar, treacle, and a few other things. LOVAGE.—The name given to a plant (Levisticum officinale), the roots of which are used in the manufacture of a cordial known by that name, made as follows : Macerate loz. of fresh Lovage-roots, and loz. each ol roots of celery and fennel, also fresh, in a gallon of spirits of wine. Distil before using. A small quantity each of oil of savin and valerian-root may also be added if desired. LOVE APPLES.—See Tomatoes. LOVE CAKES.—See Cakes. LOVE-IN-DISGUISE.—An old name for a calf's heart stuffed with veal stuffing, then wrapped round thickly with forcemeat, rolled in vermicelli, and baked. LOVING-CUPS.—The Corporation and Companies of the City of London ai-e famous for their “Loving-Cups”; many of them are of a very costly character, being manufactured in richly emblazoned gold or silver (see Fig. 1100). The cups are usually filled with spiced wine, called sack, and the ceremony of drinking from it is thus performed: Immediately after the dinner and grace, the masters and wardens of the company drink to their visitors a hearty welcome; the cup is then passed round the table, and each guest, after he has drunk, applies his napkin to the mouth of the cup before he passes it to his neighbour. The more formal practice is for “ the person who pledges with the Loving-cup to stand up and bow to his neighbour, who, also standing, removes the cover with his right hand, and holds it while the other drinks; a custom said to have originated in the precaution to keep the right, or ‘dagger hand’ employed, that the person who drinks may I be assured of no treachery, like that practised by Elfrida