THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 818 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see u'nder their special heads. Lamb—con tinned. Casserole of Lamb’s Feet with Rice.—Blanch about twelve Lamb’s Feet, then remove the long bone. Put |lb. of chopped beef-suet into a stewpan, melt it, then put in two finely-chopped onions, one carrot, one turnip, a sprig of thyme, three bay-leaves, and a few cloves. Stir the above ingredients over the fire for ten minutes, then sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and when well blended mix in gradually 2qts. of white stock, add the feet, and season with a small quantity of salt. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer till tender. Put lqt. of white sauce and h pint of white stock into a stewpan, boiling till reduced to a thick creamy consistency. Drain the feet, put them in the sauce, with eighteen or twenty button-mushrooms and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, seasoning with salt and pepper. Mix with the above ingredients a liaison of two yolks of eggs beaten together with a teacupful of cream; stir them over the fire till on the point of boiling, then take the stewpan off and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Pour the mixture into a silver casserole, and serve. Curried Lamb’s Feet.—(1) Clean and scald some Lamb’s Feet, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, the inside of a lemon that has been freed of pips, seven or eight peppercorns, three cloves, and a lump of salt; dredge a small quantity of flour over, pour in sufficient water to cover, and keep boiling gently at the side of the fire. When the feet are tender, drain, trim, and remove the leg-bone ; put them in a Hat stewpan, dust salt, pepper, and curry over, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, and keep hot at the side of the fire. Make the requisite quantity of veloute sauce, skim and strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, and stir over a sharp fire till reduced, adding by degrees 1 teacupful of cream. Beat the yolks of two eggs together udtli 1 table-spoonful of curry powder and 1 table-spoonful of cream, then mix them in the sauce, and continue stir- ring at the side of the fire till thickened, but without boiling again. Put the feet on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Singe the feet, tie them together in pairs, and boil in white stock. When tender drain the feet, take out the leg-bones, and lay the feet in a saute-pan. Cook an equal quantity of mushroom-heads and small quenelles, put them in with the feet, and pour over some good curry sauce. Wash and boil till tender about fib. of rice; butter the interior of ten or twelve dariole-moulds, drain the rice quite dry, and turn it into the moulds ; stand them in a bain-marie and leave for ten minutes. Turn the rice out of the dariole-moulds (it must be very firm to keep it in shape), and arrange them in a circle upon a hot dish ; put the feet in the middle, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fried marinaded Lamb's Feet.—(1) Singe the feet and put them in a saucepan with plenty of boiling water and boil for five minutes; drain, leave till cool, then bone them, and cut an inch off" the end of each foot, including the hoof. Finely chop 4oz. of beef-suet, put it in a sauce- pan, and place it over the fire till melted, then sift in 4oz. of flour, add a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three sliced onions, a clove of garlic, h teacupful of vinegar, and three or four cloves. Pour in 2qts. of water, season with salt and pepper, put in the feet, and boil till tender (they should take from three hours to three-hours-and-a- half). When cooked, drain the feet, cut in halves, lay them on a dish, dust with salt and pepper, squeeze some lemon-juice over, and leave for a short time. Drain the feet, dip in frying-batter, put them in a frying-pan with plenty of hot fat, and fry over a brisk fire till crisp and brown. Drain the feet, arrange in a pile upon a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. (2) Prepare the feet and boil them in white stock until tender; drain, and split each in halves lengthwise. Put them on a dish with a few sprigs eacli of thyme and parsley and two bay-leaves, and cover with a few slices of onions ; dust well with salt and pepper, and moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls each of vinegar and salad-oil. Cover Lamb—continued. the dish with another one and leave the feet for three or four hours. Put lib. of flour in a basin and mix it smooth with cold water, then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter and the well-whisked whites of two eggs. Drain the feet well when sufficiently marinaded ; put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a stewpan and place it over the fire until boiling ; dip the halves of feet in the batter, giving a good coating, and put them in the boiling fat. Fry until nicely browned on both sides, then take them out of the fat and drain for a second or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the feet on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Fried Lamb’s Feet Stuffed.—Clean the feet and boil till tender in white broth; make sufficient veal forcemeat to stuff" the feet, and mix with it some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallots. Drain the feet, split them length- wise without quite separating them, and bone. The feet must not be overcooked, or they will break when being boned, and will then be useless for stuffing. Dust salt and pepper over the interior of the feet, stuff them with the forcemeat, put the halves together again, and bind them round with twine. Rub well with flour, then egg and breadcrumb them. Put a large piece of lard in a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put the feet in and fry till nicely coloured. Drain the feet, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Lamb’s Feet a la Tartare.—Wash a dozen Lamb’s Feet and boil them in some white stock, being careful not to overdo them or they will break. When tender, drain the feet, take out the leg-bone, but without altering their shape, dust over with salt and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, and let them cool. Beat two or three eggs, mix a small quantity of chopped parsley and shallots with them, roll the feet in the eggs, and then in grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating; baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, lay them side by side on a gridiron and broil over a clear but rather slow fire, turning when done on one side. Make sufficient mayonnaise sauce to serve with the feet, mixin'g with it 1 teaspoonful of the best mustard and a small quantity each of raw tarragon, chives, chervil, and parsley, ail finely chopped. When the feet are well browned, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with sprays of parsley (see Fig. 1028), and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Lamb’s Feet.—(1) Blanch half-a-dozen Lamb’s Feet, cut out the shank-bone, being careful not to break the shin, and soak them for several hours in cold water. Afterwards drain the feet, put them into a stewpan with fresh cold water, h teacupful of lemon-juice, and boil for ten minutes. Then refresh the feet in cold water, cut off the bones of the cleft part of the foot, also removing the piece of hair that lies in the cleft, return them to the stewpan adding clear broth to cover, and boil slowly at the edge of the fire until tender (this should take about three hours). Prepare a cucumber sauce; when ready, put the feet on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) Prepare and stew eight or ten Lamb’s Feet until tender. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce in a stew- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock and four or six button-onions. Boil quickly until reduced to half its original