855 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, sec under their special heads. hemons—continued. pour over these ingredients lqt. of boiling water, cover the jug, and let it stand until cold. This makes an excellent summer beverage, very cheap, but not equal, perhaps, to that made of Lemon-juice. (2) Grate the yellow peel of half a Lemon into a bowl; add fib. of loaf sugar, pour over it the strained juice of a Lemon and a half, and let it stand for two hours, then add 1 wineglassful of sherry and immediately lqt. of boiling milk. Strain through a flannel bag, let it cool, and keep it on ice till served. (3) Put l|lb. of loaf sugar in a stewpan with f pint of water, and let it boil till the sugar is well dissolved ; skim, and leave to cool. When half cold, mix in luz. of citric acid and 20 drops of essence of Lemons, stir well together, and bottle till wanted for use. (4) Steep the thin yellow rinds of seven Lemons in lqt. of water for two hours, then add the juice of the Lemons, fib. of sugar, and 1 pint of white wine. Put 1 pint of fresh milk in a saucepan over the fire, and add it, boiling, to the lemonade. Let it stand for one hour, then strain it through a jelly-bag till clear. It is then ready for use. (5) Put the thin peel of two oranges and six lemons into a basin, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and let them steep for four or five hours. Prepare a syrup by boiling ljlb. of sugar in 3 pints of milk, skim well, mix up with the other liquor, add the juice of six oranges and twelve Lemons, stir well for a few minutes, strain the liquor through a flannel bag, ice it, and serve in glasses. (6) Put 41b. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water and stir it until dissolved, then mix with it 4oz. of tartaric acid, 2 drachms of acetic acid, and boil. Let the mixture get cold, then flavour with essence of Lemons. Procure some pint bottles, pour into each a little more than J pint of the lemonade, fill the bottles with water, put 30 grains of bicarbonate of soda in each, and at once cork them down tightly. Keep in a cool place till wanted for use. (7) Rub Jib. of loaf sugar on the rind of a large Lemon, and pound it in a mortar; put the sugar into a jar that will just contain it, and strain the juice of the Lemon over it. This preparation will keep for some considerable time. When wanted for drinking, dissolve 1 table-spoonful of it in a tumbler of cold water. A small quantity of citric acid added when taken will be found an improvement. (8) Cut off the thin rinds of six Lemons, put them in a bowl, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and leave for fully four hours; add the juice of the Lemons, together with fib. of loaf sugar, turn all into a saucepan, and simmer for an hour, skimming frequently. Add another quart of boiling water, mix in 1 teacupful of calf’s-foot jelly, strain through a jelly-bag, and use as desired. (9) Grate the rinds of two Lemons, and mix with them the strained juice of six Lemons, f pint of 32deg. syrup, and lqt. of clear cold water. Ice the Lemon, and in an hour’s time it will lie ready to use. (10) Grate the peels of six Lemons, pour lqt. of boiling water over, and let it stand from two hours to two-hours- and-a-half ; then add the strained juice of the Lemons, sweeten to taste with clarified sugar, strain through a jelly- bag, and it will be ready for use. Lemonade with Eggs.—Grate the rinds of ten Lemons and two oranges ; mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and rub the zest and sugar together with the back of a spoon ; squeeze the juice out of twenty-four Lemons and two oranges, strain it, and mix it with the grated peel, also 6 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the whites of eight eggs, and lqt. of water ; stir till the sugar has dissolved, then pour in 7qts. of water, and strain the lemonade into a large vessel containing ice. When serving, three-parts fill the glasses, put an empty one on the top of each, the rims close together, and give the lemonade a good shaking to make it foam. A capital drink for a party. Lemonade with Flax-Seed.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of whole flax-seed in a jug, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and let it steep for three hours. Squeeze in the juice of two Lemons, sweeten to taste, strain, add a little more cold water if too thick, and serve. Lemons—continued. Lemonade Liqueur. — Prepared as for Liqueur des Eveques (see Cordials and Liqueurs), with one lib. of finely-chopped Lemon-peel, 2oz. of ground cinnamon, Joz. of ground nutmeg, and 94qts. of spirits of wine. Then add 7qts. of water, and after straining mix in 4qts. of capillaire, a little pale yellow colouring, and 15 drops of oil of Lemons mixed with a little of the plain spirits, and all filtered together. Lemonade Powder.—Put 14lb. of loaf sugar into a mortar, drop Joz. of essence of Lemons in it, pound it to powder, and work in loz. of citric acid in crystals. Bottle and keep in a cool place. A teaspoonful in a tumblerful of water is sufficient. Lemonade Pudding.—Take 1 pint of lemonade made of Lemon-juice, sugar, and water, and a flavouring of the peel, add to it the strained juice of a Seville orange, stir it in well, and then put into the lemonade one or two French rolls, and let them steep in it till thoroughly soaked. Lay them on a dish, taking care not to break them, stick blanched almonds all over them, pour over some thin red-currant jelly, and serve. Pickled Lemons.—(1) Wipe two dozen Lemons, rub them well with salt, put them in a bowl, cover with salt, and let them remain for four or five days, giving them an occasional turn. Take them out, dry on a sieve in the sun, and pack in jars, sprinkling over evenly with 2oz. each of bruised white ginger and white peppers, Joz. of chillies, and 4oz. each of coriander and mustard-seeds. Pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, let them remain for three weeks, then add more vinegar to make up for the quantity absorbed, tie down, and the pickle will be ready for use in six weeks, but if left for six months will lie far better. (2) Pick out some large sound Lemons, rasp them a little, and nick at one end ; lay them on a dish with very dry salt to cover, and keep in a warm place for seven or eight days, then put them in fresh salt and leave for the same number of days. At the end of that time, wash them well, sprinkle with grated nutmeg, pour boiling vinegar over them, and add a full taste of mace and peppercorns. The Lemons' will not be tender for nearly a year. (3) Select fifty large Lemons, grate off the yellow rinds, cut off the ends, and pack in salt for eight days. Put them on dishes, set in a hot oven, turning them constantly till the salt candies on them. Put the Lemons in a large earthenware jar together with 2galls. of boiling vinegar, 21b. of white mustard-seed, 2 table-spoonfuls of mace, lib. of ginger, lib. of black pepper, 2lb. of sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of celery-seeds, and 1 handful of scraped horseradish. All the spices, with the exception of the mustard-seed, should be ground. (4) Put eight Lemons, Jib. of fine salt, 2qts. of vinegar, Joz. each of ground cloves, nutmeg, mace, and cayenne, a little garlic, and 2oz. of mustard-seed into a tight-covered jar set in a kettle of boiling water ; let it remain until the Lemons are tender. The pickle will then be ready. (5) Cut twelve Lemons into slices, rub them with salt, lay them in a stone jar, with 2oz. each of allspice and white pepper, Joz. each of mace, cloves, and cayenne, and 2oz. each of horseradish and mustard-seed. Pour over them 2qts. of hot distilled vinegar, and let them stand for a few days. Some garlic or shallots may be added if liked. (6) Remove the peels from six large Lemons, cut them into quarters, put them on a dish, dust over with about 4lb. of salt, and leave them for seven days, stirring daily. Put them into a stone jar with six cloves of garlic, 2oz. each of very thinly-shred horseradish and bruised mustard-seed (tied up in a bag), Joz. each of cayenne, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, and igall. of vinegar. Cover the jar, set it in a saucepan of boiling water, boil for ten or twelve minutes, then let it simmer for about two hours. Take out the jar, stir the contents daily for a few weeks, replacing the cover quickly, then let it remain for a few weeks longer, making six in all; pour off the clear liquor, strain it, and bottle. The Lemons may be used for mixing with other pickles if desired. (7) Grate the rinds of three dozen Lemons, and cut through each in four separate places, but without separating