TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 820 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. Lamb—continued. and a bit of butter rolled in flour, and let them stew gently, stirring occasionally. When the head is boiled enough, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle with sifted breadcrumbs and finely-chopped herbs, baste with butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven before the fire. Put the head when nicely browned on a hot dish, lay the mince round it, and garnish with the tongue Fig. 1030. Lamb’s Head and Fry. cut in two lengthwise and the brains (see Fig. 1030). A little lemon-juice may be squeezed over the brains just before serving. Stewed Lamb’s Head.—Boil the lights for an hour, the head for three-quarters-of-an-hour, and the liver a-quarter- of-an-hour. When the head is boiled, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, dredge it well with sifted breadcrumbs mixed with chopped parsley, grated lemon- peel, a very small quantity of thyme, and pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste. Make a mince of the liver, lights, and heart, flavour it with a little chopped parsley, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Grill the head, lay it on a hot dish, put the mince round and a few forcemeat balls or brain cakes made as for Calf’s Head, pour some well-thickened brown gravy over, and serve hot. Lamb’s Kidneys.—When quite fresh, which may be told by the smell and colour of the fat, which should be white and not turning at all, these are de- servedly ascribed the first place amongst kidneys. Pre- pared and served as follows they are excellent, and sufficiently digestible to be given to invalids and dyspeptics: Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Bacon.—Proceed as for Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce, but do not roll them in breadcrumbs, and serve with six slices of broiled bacon and a gill of maitre-d’hotel butter. Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce.—Split open eight kidneys, skin them, place on a dish, and anoint them well with sweet-oil. Dust over them 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and J teaspoonful of nutmeg. Take eight silver skewers, run each skewer through the centre of a kidney (which should be split partly open), roll them in breadcrumbs, and put them to broil before a moderate fire for about four or five minutes on each side. Place them on a very hot dish, on which has been pre- viously poured J pint of hot colbert sauce, garnish with Fig. 1031. Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce. fried bread crofttons (see Fig. 1031), and send to table at once. Devilled Lamb’s Kidneys.—Skin and pare twelve kidneys, split them into halves, without separating the parts, and lain the skewers through as for Broiled Lamb’s Kidneys with Colbert Sauce. Broil them slightly for one minute on each side, then mix together in a dish 1 teaspoonful of mustard with 2 table-spoonfuls of Parisian sauce, J tea- spoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little mignonette pepper. Roll the kidneys well in this, then in breadcrumbs, and finish by broiling them once more for three minutes on each side. Serve with a gill of maitre- d’hotel butter poured over. Fried Lamb’s Kidneys served with Crofttons of Bread. —Skin and trim the fat off the kidneys, cut each one into halves, lengthwise, put them in a frying-pan with one or two finely-chopped shallots and 2oz. of butter, dust over salt and pepper, and fry them. When the kidneys are cooked and the shallots nicely browned, take them off the fire, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. Fry in hot fat a dozen or so crofttons of bread, and when browned and crisp, drain, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Put the kidneys on a hot dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, garnisli with the crofttons of bread, and serve. Glazed Lamb’s Kidneys.—Remove all the skin and fat from a dozen Lamb’s Kidneys and cut them down the centre, but not to sever them. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter and fry until they are brown, sprinkle over with salt and pepper to taste and add a few table- spoonfuls of melted glaze; roll them well in this and place on a dish. Cover with finely-minced parsley, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and serve with a garnish of crofttons of fried bread. Lamb’s Livers.—The greatest care is required when cleaning and preparing these for cooking that the gall-bladder and its appurtenances shall be cleanly cut away without leaving the slightest stain. Any part coming in contact witli the gall is certain to be bitter, even in the liver of so young an animal as a Lamb of only two months. The blood must be squeezed out of the liver under water, and the whole thoroughly washed; the fresher it is used the better. Broiled Lamb’s Liver.—(1) Cut the liver into thin slices, and let them macerate in oil and chopped parsley for half- an-hour. Drain the slices, dust them over with salt and Fig. 1032. Broiled Lamb's Liver. pepper, roll them in grated breadcrumb, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put 6oz. of butter in a saucepan, melt it, and mix with it the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season with salt and pepper. When the slices of liver are cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the butter over and serve. See Fig. 1032. (2) Wash the livers, cut them into slices, put them on a dish, dust over salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of oil. In twenty minutes’ time, drain the slices, roll them in plenty of breadcrumbs, and lay them side by side on a gridiron; broil over a clear fire, basting occasionally. with a small quantity of warmed butter. When cooked (they will take about eight minutes) put the livers on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Lamb’s Liver.—Thoroughly wash some Lamb’s Liver, cut it into thin slices, and nib them well on both sides with salt, pepper, and flour. Put a large lump of fat into a frying-pan, and make it hot. Dip the fillets into beaten eggs, plunge them into the fat, and fry. Drain