727 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. GUINEA FOWLS.—These are African birds intro- duced into Europe, where they thrive fairly well under care. That known to us (Numida meleagris) is of a dark gray colour, variegated with small white spots, and having a coloured, fleshy horn on each side of the head. As it is in season from February to June, when game is scarce, it makes a good substitute. The eggs are delicious, and subject to the same treatment as Plover’s Eggs, to which reference should be made for receipts. Braised larded Guinea Fowl served with Financiere Garnish.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Guinea Fowl, take out the breast-bone, and stuff the body with quenelle forcemeat mixed with two uncooked truffles cut into small pieces. Truss it, bringing the feet back to the tail, and lard with fine strips of bacon on the legs and fillets. Place the fowl on some pieces of bacon and vegetables at the bottom of a saucepan, add J pint of white wine, put the pan over a bright fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the liquor is Fig. 904. Braised larded Guinea Fowl served with Financiere Garnish. reduced to half-glaze; then add 1 pint of broth, and let it braise gently over a very slow fire; lastly, glaze it with its own cooking-stock when reduced. Prepare a financiere garnish of button-mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and quenelles, mixed together or put in groups, and masked with a little brown sauce reduced with some truffle trimmings and a -little white wine. Put the fowl on a dish in the centre of the garnish, put three attelettes, decorated with truffles and cocks’ combs, through the breast of the bird, and serve. See Fig. 904. Broiled Guinea Fowls.—Pluck, singe, and draw two or three Guinea Fowls, wash them well, and split down the backs; wipe dry, and flatten them slightly. Sprinkle salt and pepper over both sides, dip them in flour, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Brush over frequently with a little butter, and when they have been cooking for a- quarter-of-an-hour, put them on a dish, pour a rich gravy over, and garnish the dish with mashed potatoes. Guinea-Fowl Salad.—The remains of a cold roasted Guinea Fowl can be made into an excellent salad, as follows: Trim the flesh of all the skin, and cut it into equal-sized pieces. Thoroughly wash a lettuce, drain, and cut it into shreds ; put it in a salad-bowl with the pieces of meat, pour a mayonnaise sauce over, and serve. Guinea-Fowl Soup.—(1) Pick off all the meat from the whole or part of a cold roasted Guinea Fowl, put the bones, skin, trimmings, and stuffing (if any), into a saucepan with 2qts. of rich stock, and add a slice of raw ham, one onion, and drachm of bruised celery-seed tied up in a muslin bag. Put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for about two hours. Put the meat into a mortar, pound it well, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Strain the soup into another saucepan, add the pounded meat and 1 table-spoonful of ground rice mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and boil for about twenty minutes longer; then turn into a tureen, and serve with sippets of fried bread or toast. (2) Any remains of cold roast Guinea Fowl may be utilised as follows: Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with a shank-bone or a slice of lean ham, or the root of a Guinea Fowls—continued. dressed ox-tongue, one or two small onions, and two well- washed heads of celery, pour in 2qts. of stock, and place it over the fire. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side, and keep the contents simmering for two hours or a little longer. Afterwards, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan. Finely chop the flesh of the bird and pound it in a mortar, add it to the soup, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of ground rice mixed smooth with a little water. Boil the soup very slowly at the side of the fire for half- an-hour longer. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or oroutons of fried bread. If desired, some small game forcemeat quenelles can be poached and served in the soup. Boasted Guinea Fowl.—(1) Pluck, draw, and singe a Guinea Fowl, and truss it like a turkey. Tie some thin slices of bacon round, put it on a spit in front of a good clear fire, Fig. 905. Roasted Guinea Fowl. and roast until done. Place it on a dish, garnish with water- cress (see Fig. 905), and serve with rich gravy in a tureen. (2) Pluck and singe a Guinea Fowl, draw it without breaking the entrails, and wipe it with a wet towel ; if stuffing is desired, use any forcemeat highly seasoned with herbs, but not with sage. Roast the bird before an open fire, or bake it in a hot oven, seasoning, after it is brown, with salt and pepper. Cook till well done, and then serve hot, with plenty of red-currant jelly. Boasted larded Guinea Fowl. —Pluck, singe, and draw a Guinea Fowl, lard the breast with strips of fat bacon, and truss it like a pheasant. Put it on a spit in front of a clear fire and roast for about an hour, basting frequently with butter. Sprinkle it well with flour, cook for ten or fifteen minutes longer, put it on a dish, pour round a little rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of bread sauce. GUINEA PIGS (Fr. Cochons d’lnde; Ger. Meer- sckweinchen; Ital. Porcelli d’lndia; Sp. Cocliinos de Guinea).—These prolific little animals. (Cavia aparcea are better known in this country as pets than subjects for the kitchen. Nevertheless, it is asserted in an authori- tative volume (“ The Guinea Pig, or Domestic Cavy ”) that they form excellent dishes. The author informs ns that in the time of the Peruvian Incas, and before the semi-barbarous Spaniards began to exterminate the semi-civilised Peruvians, the Cavy (as it is called) must have constituted a very important food supply. Guinea Pigs can be cooked in various ways, and make excellent stock for soups. They are killed by breaking the neck, and must be opened, cleaned, skinned, and plunged into scalding water for a short time, then into cold, and dried for cooking. The following receipts, from the same authority, may be useful: Cavy en Gibelotte.—The Cavy, having been killed in a proper manner and scalded, should be cut up into joints, something as a rabbit is carved. It requires a sharp knife to do this, as the skin is thick and tough. The body will cut into three pieces. Procure a middling-sized eel, and having prepared it in the usual way, out it into lengths of 2in. Make a roux with flour and butter, saute the Cavy and eel in this, with the addition of mushrooms and little onions; moisten with white wine and double the quantity of stock; season with salt, pepper, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and little green onions. Then take out the pieces of eel and the little onions;