TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 959 For details respecting Culina/ry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. sprinkle slightly with salt, and put them on a colander to drain. Put a few table-spoonfuls of chopped shallot and onion into a stewpan with a little oil or butter, fry gently, and add gradually the trimmings of the Mushrooms and a few small Mushrooms cut in pieces. When the moisture has evaporated, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and finely- chopped parsley, and cook for two minutes; add some sweet herbs, the same quantity of rasped breadcrumb, and 2 table- spoonfuls of brown or tomato sauce; remove the pan from the fire, and thicken the mixture with a few well-beaten yolks of eggs. Stuff the Mushrooms with this, smooth- ing the top, dust over a few breadcrumbs, put them on a baking-sheet, baste with oil or liquefied butter, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Baked Mushrooms in Cups.—Peel and cut off the stalks of a dozen or more large flat Mushrooms, and chop them finely. Put the trimmings in a stewpan with some water or clear gravy, and boil well. When nicely flavoured, strain the liquor, return it to the stewpan with the Mushrooms and a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently at the side of the fire for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour. Beat four eggs well in b teacupful of thick cream, and strain. When the Mushrooms are ready, move the stewpan away from the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Butter some small cups or moulds, fill each with the above mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. Prepare some white sauce. When baked, turn the Mushrooms out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Boiled Mushrooms in Cream.—Peel and trim the required quantity of Mushrooms. Put some cream in a pan over the fire with pepper and salt; as soon as it comes to the boil, rub the Mushrooms with salt and pepper, put them in the cream, and boil for four minutes. Serve very hot. Broiled Mushrooms.—(1) Wash the Mushrooms in plenty of cold salted water, trim off all defective or bruised por- tions, cut off the roots, and if there are plenty of Mush- rooms, separate the stems and caps. Lay the caps on a dripping-pan or baking-sheet set on top of the stove with the gills uppermost, put a small piece of butter and a little Fig. 1204. Broiled Mushrooms. pepper and salt in each cap, and leave them over the fire until the butter melts; then serve (see Fig. 1204). (2) Trim the required quantity of very large Mushrooms, put them, stalks upwards, on a hot gridiron well nibbed with beef-suet to prevent them sticking to it, dust over with salt and pepper, and broil until they are done and begin to steam. Brash over with butter, place them on a dish, sprinkle with more pepper and salt, and serve. (3) Select large Mushrooms, peel them, remove the stalks, lay them carefully on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Beat up a lump of butter together with some finely-minced parsley, strained lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Mushrooms on it, the hollow side up, put a lump of the prepared butter in each, and serve at once. (4) Pare the required quantity of large open Mushrooms, leaving the stalks on, cut these to points, wash well, and leave them on the back of a sieve to drain. Put into a stewpan 2oz. of butter, a little chopped parsley and onions, and fry until the butter is melted. Put the Mushrooms, stalks upwards, in a pan, pour over the butter, &c., salt, pepper well with black pepper, and put them over the fire to broil. When done, add a little stock, give them a warm Mushrooms—continued. up, take out the Mushrooms, and set them on a dish. Add a little more stock to the gravy in the pan, warm that also, and stir in 1 wineglassful of 1^:1 wine; pour this liquor over the Mushrooms, and serve very hot. Broiled Mushrooms with Kidneys.—Split open four kidneys, season with salt and pepper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, basting with a little butter. Select eight large flat Mushrooms, remove their stalks, trim neatly, and broil them also. When cooked, put a small piece of butter inside each Mushroom, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and place half a kidney on each. Cut some slices of bread rin. thick, then with a tin cutter a little larger in diameter than the Mushrooms cut eight rounds out of the slices; fry them in butter until nicely browned, then drain and place a Mushroom on each. Spread a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the rounds on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Broiled Mushrooms on Toast.—Trim off the stalks of some large Mushrooms, peel, score them once across the top, lay them on a gridiron, and grill over a slow fire, turning when done on one side. Cut some slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them nicely on both sides. Cut out of the slices of toast some rounds the same size as the Mushrooms, butter them, and place a Mushroom on each. Put a small lump of flutter in each Mushroom, and dust over with salt and pepper. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts nicely on it, garnish with ^ried parsley, and serve. Croustades of Mushrooms.—Peel an onion, chop it very fine, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown colour. Stir frequently, add 4oz. of finely-cut Mushrooms, and simmer gently until they are about three-parts done. Put two soaked anchovies in a mortar and pound them, adding gradually I teaspoonful of mustard and 3 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce; put this in with the Mushrooms, and boil for two or three minutes longer, or until they are done. Have ready some croustade cases, fill them up with the mixture, and serve. Devilled Mushrooms.—Cut off the stalks even with the head, and peel and trim the Mushrooms neatly. Brush them over inside with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, and season with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, put the Mushrooms on a hot dish, and serve. Dried Mushrooms.—After carefully cleansing the Mush- rooms, by washing them in plenty of cold salted water, and trimming off the defective portions, spread them on sheets of stout paper laid in dripping-pans, set the pans in the sun, or in a cool oven, and gradually dry the Mushrooms until all the moisture has evaporated. After the Mushrooms are dried, pack them in a tin can with a tight cover, and keep in a cool dry place until wanted. Essence of Mushrooms.—Wash 2lb. of Mushrooms, put them into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon- juice and 4 table-spoonful of salt, put the lid on, and set it over the fire for a few minutes. Pour lqt. of chicken broth in with the Mushrooms, boil it for ten minutes, then strain through a broth-napkin. Leave the essence till cooled, then bottle it for use. Forcemeat of Mushrooms. -Take Jib. of button Mushrooms, peel off the upper skin, cut off the stems, and put them, after pounding in a mortar, into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter ; put in the Mushrooms, and stew slowly for seven or eight minutes, adding a little cayenne and ground all- spice. Put them on a plate, leaning against one another so that the fat will drain, and let them get cold ; then chop them up fine, add Jib. of breadcrumbs, season with a little grated nutmeg, cayenne, mace, and salt, add a little butter, and mix the whole with the yolks of two eggs to make the mass firm, and pour in sufficient of the gravy from the Mushrooms to make it of the desired thickness. Form it into balls, and either poach them six minutes for soup, or fry them for seven minutes in butter, and use them to garnish roast poultry.