917 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. . May Drink—continued. or strain, pour it into bottles, and keep closely corked until ready for use. MAYONNAISE.—There is no term in the language of cookery that seems to have such a very obscure deriva- tion as this. Kettner argues that it is misspelled, and that it should be Mahonnaise, from an old Provencal word, signifying a lady who fatigues, or thoroughly mixes a salad. At one time it was usual for the youngest and prettiest of the ladies to mix the salad and fatigue it with her dainty fingers. Hence it caipe to pass that the salad or its dressing was called by the word denoting the operator. This is a very unsatisfactory explanation ; but none better presents itself. See Sauces. MAZARIN CAKE.—See Cakes. MAZERS.—The name of certain pledge-cups, derived from the Scandinavian name for the maple-tree, of which hard wood they were frequently manufactured. “ Our ancestors seem to have been greatly attached to their Mazers,” writes Simmonds, “ and to have incurred much cost in enriching them. Quaint legends in English or Latin, monitory of peace and good fellowship, were often embossed on their metal rim and on the cover, or the popular but mystic Saint Christopher, engraved on the bottom of the interior, rose in all his giant proportions before the eyes of the wassailer, giving comfortable assur- ance that, on that festive day at least, no mortal harm could befall him.” See Loving-Cups. MEAD (Ft. Hydromel; Ger. Meth).—This is a liquor brewed from honeycombs after the honey has been drawn away. It was at one time very popular throughout the whole of Europe, but has now almost entirely fallen out of favour. The ancient sack-mead, called so most probably from the French sec—dry, was a beverage of this kind strengthened with brandy and flavoured with spices. The following are good receipts for the preparation of Mead: (1) Put loz. of cream of tartar in a pan with 2tgalls. of boiling water, and when dissolved let it settle, pour off the clear liquor, and turn it into a saucepan with 101b. of homey ; place the pan over the fire, skim the liquor frequently, and boil. When nearly boiled enough, add Aoz. of hops, leave for ten minutes, and pour off into a tub or large basin to cool. When the temperature is reduced to between 70 and 80deg. Falir., add a piece of toast covered with yeast. Put the tub or basin in a warm place, stir- ring frequently, and as soon as a head begins to form, put the liquor into a cask. Bung up the cask; leaving the vent-peg out, and when it has stood for a few days put in the peg and leave for a year, when it may be bottled and used. (2) Put lgall. of water into a saucepan with 31b. of strained honey, and boil for thirty minutes, adding 1 oz. of hops. Skim well, put the scum into a colander, and return to the pan all the, liquor that runs through. Remove the pan from the fire, and when the liquor is cool (about the warmth of new milk), mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of yeast, put it into a cask, letting it work over, and replenish- ing it from the pan as the' fermentation lessens. Cover the bung-hole with a piece of stiff paper, and in a few weeks’ time it will be quite ready for use. It may be flavoured with any spices while boiling if desired, and is a very refreshing drink for the summer-time. (3) Put 5galls. of water into a saucepan, and add one lemon, cut in slices, a little dried ginger-root, and lgall. of honey. Mix them thoroughly and boil for thirty minutes, taking care to remove all the scum as it rises, and during the time it is boiling loz. of hops must be added. Take the pan from the fire, and when the contents are lukewarm add a little yeast ; pour it into a cask, and in a little less than a month it will be ready for use. (4) For every gallon of water add 41b. of honey, boil for an hour, then put it into a tub with yeast spread on toast, and cover over. If it ferments well after three or four days, draw it off clear, and put it into a cask with one Mead—continued. sliced lemon to every gallon ; add 1 bottle of brandy for every lOgalls. The rind of Seville oranges, cut very thin and suspended in the barrel, will greatly improve the flavour. It is best to rinse round the cask with part of the brandy before the liquor is put in. Those who like Mead to have an aromatic flavour may mix in elder, rosemary, and cardamoms, in various proportions, according to taste ; others put in a mixture of thyme, eglantine, rosemary, and marjoram, with various spices. (5) On 51b. of honey pour 5qts. of boiling water, and boil, skimming frequently until the scum ceases to rise ; then add loz. of the best hops, boil for ten minutes, put the liquor into a tub, and let it cool ; when almost cold, put in a small quantity of yeast spread on a slice of toasted bread, and let it stand in a warm room. When fei mentation sets in, pour the liquor into a cask, filling up as the froth runs out at the bung-hole. When the fermentation has quite ceased, bung down, but leave a peg-hole, which after a short time may be closed. The Mead may be bottled in less than a year. (6) Put water and honey, in the proportion of lgall. of the former to 4lb. of the latter, into a saucepan, and boil well for forty-five minutes, removing all the scum as it rises. Now put in loz. of hops for each gallon of liquor, boil for thirty minutes longer, remove from the fire, and leave for a day. Turn, it into a cask, add 1 pint of brandy to every 64galls. of liquor, and place a cloth or paper over the bung until fermentation has ceased, then bung up tightly, and keep it for a year before using. (7) Put into a saucepan 101b. of honey, 101b. of the best raisins, and lOgalls. of water, and boil for about ten minutes, keeping the liquor well skimmed ; then put it into a vessel to work, and add 4 pint of yeast, letting it work until the froth begins to subside ; rack off clear, stir it in with- the raisins, and throw into the cask lqt. of elder-flowers. Let it remain in the cask for twelve months, fine it with wine- finings, and bottle. (8) Nearly fill a thoroughly cleansed 36gall. barrel, with the head removed, with expressed apple-juice, add a good quantity of drained honeycomb to it, and stir fre- quently for about fourteen hours. Then add some honey, and continue the stirring until the liquor is of such a consistence that it will support an egg on its surface. Then pour the mixture into another barrel and allow it to ferment for three or four days, filling up night and morning, so that the froth will work out at the bung-hole; now bung up loosely and let it stand for five or six weeks. Draw off the clear liquor into a clean tub, and add the yolks of ten eggs, well beaten up with 1 pint of silver sand and lgall. of spirit to the liquor ; allow it to settle, then pour it carefully back again into the barrel in which it was originally, having cleaned it to remove the sediment only, and bung up tight. In twelve months’ time the Mead will be of good strength and excellent flavour. Mead Syrup.—Put five or six pieces of ginger-root into a saucepan together with five or six cloves, two blades of mace, ^oz. of stick cinnamon, and lqt. of water. Set them over the fire, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Let the water and spice stand till nearly cold, then strain, return it to the saucepan, and add lqt. of strained honey, set over the fire, and boil to a thin syrup. When cold, bottle it, and cork well. Sack-Mead.—Boil lgall. of the best honey in 5galls. of water for an hour ; keep it well skinmied, take it off the fire, and leave in a cool place. Bruise slightly three sticks of ginger, two nutmegs, and one stick of cinnamon, tie them in a muslin bag, and put them into the liquor while still hot. When nearly cold, put in with the above a sufficient quantity of ale yeast to make it work well, and remove it to a warm temperature. When worked, pour the Mead into a cask that will just hold it, and fix the bung in ,. tightly. In three months’ time, draw off the Mead into bottles, cork down securely, and keep in a cool dry cellar. Soda Cream Mead.—Put 2oz. each of cloves, cinnamon, ginger, cardamoms, and coriander-seeds into a saucepan with lqt. of Water, and boil for thirty minutes; then strain off into another saucepan, add 4lb. of honey, boil it up,