757 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hasty Pudding—continued. (3) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, shake in 2oz. of flour, and stir till thick; turn it into a basin, mix in |oz. or loz. of butter, grate over a little nutmeg, and sweeten to taste. Leave it till cold, then work in three well-beaten eggs. Line a dish with a thin layer of light paste, mask the bottom with marmalade, pour in the Hasty Pudding, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk on to boil, and mix in sufficient flour to thicken, stirring continually. Turn the pudding into a dish, and serve with cold stewed fruit or jam. HATELETS.—See Attelettes. HAUNCH .—A word taken from the French handle, which probably originated from the German handle, signi- fying in each case the loin and leg taken together as one piece. See Mutton, Venison, &c. HAVI.—See Avi. HAVRE CAKE.—See Cakes. HAWTHORN. — The remarkably sweet-smelling dowers (see Fig. 943) of the Hawthorn {Crataegus Oxy- acantha) have something of the taste and smell of almonds. Fig. 943. Hawthorn Flowers. They are very little known or used in cookery or con- fectionery, and then generally in the form of an imita- tion. The following receipts give good results: Hawthorn Flavouring-.—(1) Put 6 breakfast-cupfuls of the flowers of Hawthorn into a jar with 2qts. of spirits of wine and igall. of syrup ; cork up, and let the jar stand for fourteen days. Bottle off after filtering. (2) Put lib. of Hawthorn-buds in a large bottle with lqt. of over-proof grain spirit, cork the bottle up tightly, and stand it in the cellar for a fortnight. Afterwards, filter the liquor through blotting-paper, and pour it into small bottles, which must be kept tightly corked. HAZEL-NUTS.—These are the fruit of a small tree of the genus Corylus. They are very plentiful in some parts, and possess a mild farinaceous taste, which is made useful for tiavouring biscuits or confectionery. Hazel-nut Cakes.—Put 4oz. of shelled and blanched Hazel- nuts and loz. of sweet almonds in a mortar, and coarsely pound them ; whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the almonds, also 6oz. of sugar and sufficient flour to form the whole into a paste. Roll the paste out as thinly as possible, and with a round tin cutter cut it into small cakes. Butter some baking-tins-, put the cakes on them a short distance from each other, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, leave the cakes until cold, then pack them in tin canisters. Hazel-nut Cream-Ice.—(1) Blanch and finely chop ilb. of Hazel-nuts (weighed without their shells), put them in a basin Hazel-nuts—continued. with 6oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of flour, and six well-beaten eggs. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan, place it over a moderate fire until on the point of boiling, then mix in gradually the other ingredients, and stir it at the side of the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but do not let it boil again or the eggs will curdle. Take the mixture off the fire, flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence, and turn into a fancy- shaped mould. When the cream has cooled slightly, pack the mould in pounded ice and salt, and leave it for an hour or two. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents at the side, and turn the cream on to a dish. (2) Take 2 table-spoonfuls of shelled Hazel-nuts, blanch them, and brown slightly in the oven. Put them in a mortar and pound quite smooth together with 1 dessert-spoonful of fresh cream. Mix with them 4oz. of powdered white sugar, one well-beaten egg, and 1 pint of cream. Stir the mixture in a saucepan over the fire till quite hot, but do not let it boil; add a flavouring of vanilla, then pour into a mould and let it cool. Put it in the freezer, and when frozen quite stiff turn it out. (3) Put loz. of gelatine into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of sugar and J pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved, then strain through a fine sieve and let it get cool. Crack the shells and take out the kernels of gib. of Hazel-nuts, butter a baking-dish, put the nuts in it, and place them in a moderate oven. Leave them until the skins can be easily removed, then rub one at a time with a cloth. Cut the nuts into fine shreds. Whip 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth, then mix with it the dissolved gelatine, sugar, and water, also 1 wineglassful of brandy and the nuts. Turn the mixture into a mould, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In two hours’ time the cream may be turned out of the mould on to a fancy dish and served, but the mould must first be dipped in warm water to loosen the contents. HEADS (Fr. Tetes; Ger. Kopfe).—These are described under various headings, such as Boar, Calf’s-head, Cod, Lamb’s-head, Ox-head, Sheep’s-head, &c., and will be found to contain some of the daintiest meats, including the tongues and brains. HEARTS (Fr. Coeurs; Ger. Herzen).—All birds, beasts, fishes, and reptiles endowed with a system of circulating blood, are possessed of Hearts, which act as pumps for receiving and ejecting the stream. These Hearts are recognised in cookery according to their size and quality, and are duly described under their different names, such as Calf’s-heart, Ox-heart, &c. They are not much valued by cooks for culinary purposes, although a baked calf’s Heart, stuffed with veal stuffing, has been found on the table of epicures. HEAT.—-A chemist of great repute informs us that Heat, or caloric, as it is termed in scientific language, is a state or condition of bodies, the precise nature of which is not known except by its effects. The practical cook understands the effects of Heat upon certain materials and under ascertained conditions, and the cook knows how to produce, increase, or diminish Heat, but beyond that lie knows no more than the chemist. Perhaps it may be reserved for the practical man to ascertain what scientists have sought for in vain. This has happened in other instances, and may happen again, and a cook after all might be the first person to define what heat really is. Several conjectures have been made, but all seem to fail in one point or another which is destructive to the theory. It is spoken of as a “subtle fluid whose particles repel one another, and are attracted by all other substances,” but it has no weight, which is rather against the theory of its materialism, and argues in favour of its being a physical force, something similar to electricity. Be this as it may, of one thing we are certain, we know how to produce it and utilise its presence in the kitchen. There are two kinds of Heat with which the cook has to deal—the one, radiant Heat, which is felt in spite of the draught of air that rushes to the stove ; and the other, conveyed Heat, or Heat that is carried away by the uprising stream of air. These may be one and the