875 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, d-e., referred to, see under their special heads. Lobs ter—co ntinued. each cut into quarters and the uneatable parts removed, and add the flesh from the claws. Pound the spawn in a mortar, put it with the shells into a small saucepan containing water, vinegar, salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and boil until all the goodness is extracted. Thicken with a liaison of flour and butter, boil up for a minute or two, then strain into a pie-dish; sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, put a flat of paste over all, and bake slowly, taking out the pie when the paste is cooked. Lobster Pie with Oysters.—Pick out the meat from two large boiled Lobsters, and cut it into moderate-sized pieces. Line the edge of a buttered pie-dish with putt' paste, then put in, first a layer of Lobster, and then a layer of oysters, sprinkling breadcrumbs in at the same time; continue in this way till the dish is full, putting here and there small jiieces of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Put the spawn of the Lobster in a mortar, pound finely, and mix with it a little butter and some breadcrumbs ; shape into small balls, fry in boiling butter, then put them in the pie. In the meantime the shells of the Lobsters should have been boiled in 1 pint of water together with a little pepper and salt; strain, add the oyster liquor to it, thicken a little, and pour into the pie. Cover with a flat of puff paste, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven till the crust is done. Stand the pie on a folded cloth, arrange the heads and small claws on the pie (see Fig. 1093), and oyster shells round. Serve either hot or cold. Lobster Pilau.—(1) Put the trimmings of any large fish into a boiler with eight or ten full-grown, well-washed Lobsters and a seasoning of onions, sliced ginger, peppercorns, twelve bay-leaves, salt, and 1 table-spoonful of coriander-seeds. Pour over sufficient water to cover, and boil on a slow fire until all are quite done. Put Jib. of fat into a saucepan, boil it, add ten or twelve onions cut in slices, cook them, browning slightly, remove the onions, add 1 breakfast- cupful of rice to the fat, cook until the latter is absorbed, add a few cloves, five cardamoms, two blades of mace, 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of salt, and six small sticks of cinnamon. Pour over sufficient of the fish liquor to cover, place the lid on the pan, and cook slowly until the whole of the liquor is absorbed, tossing the pan every now and then to prevent burning. Turn this out on to a dish, garnish with the Lobsters removed from their shells, strew over the fried onions, and serve. (2) Pick the meat carefully out of the tails of some boiled Lobsters, cut it into scallops, and warm them in a buttered saute-pan. Arrange a double row of the scallops on a hot dish in a circle, fill the centre with boiled rice, sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper, and pour some thin Spanish sauce over. Mix a little curry powder with some thin veloute sauce, stir over the fire till reduced, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a sauceboat, and serve with the Lobster. Lobster Pudding1.—Pound the meat and coral of a large Lobster to a paste. Mix with it lightly 1 teacupful of sifted breadcrumbs, cayenne pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce or Harvey’s sauce, 1 table-spoonful of cream, and two well-beaten eggs. Line a pudding-tin with very thin slices of fat bacon or fat salted Lobster—continued. pork, pour the pudding in, cover with a thin slice of fat bacon or fat salted pork, and fit the lid on. Plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling con- stantly for an hour. By the time the pudding is done, have ready in a small saucepan J pint of butter sauce, mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, a small quantity of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and, lastly, a beaten egg. Stir over the fire till it begins to thicken, then put to the side where it cannot boil. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve with pieces of lemon. Lobster Rissoles.—(1) Make a batter of flour, eggs, and milk, allowing to each egg 1 heaped teaspoonful of flour and 2 good table-spoonfuls of milk. Pound the coral of a boiled Lobster together with the yolks of one or two hard- boiled eggs until smooth ; take all the meat of the Lobster and chop it very fine, seasoning with cayenne, a little each of pounded mace and salt, and mix with it the pounded coral and egg. When the batter is well beaten and perfectly smooth, mix the Lobster into it by degrees till it is stiff enough to shape into rolls. Fry them in salad- oil, and serve either hot or cold on a folded napkin. If served cold, garnish with fresh parsley, if hot, with fried parsley. See Fig. 1094. (2) Take a large hen Lobster, pick all the meat from it, and pound fine in a mortar together with a small quantity of salt, cayenne pepper, chopped parsley, and half the coral. Beat into it 2oz. or 3oz. of butter and the yolk of an egg beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Flour the hands well and make this paste into egg-shaped balls, brush over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping to a light brown. Have ready at the side of the fire J pint of butter sauce in a small saucepan, stir into this half the coral of the Lobster, pounded fine, and 1 tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce ; let it come nearly to the boil, and then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream. Arrange the rissoles on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lobster Rolls.—Pick the meiat out of a Lobster and cut it into small pieces, mixing the creamy substance from the body with it. Put 2oz. of flour in a saucepan with J pint of cream or milk, stir it over the fire till thick, then put in 2oz. of butter, and continue stirring until well mixed. Take the preparation off the fire, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a few drops of anchovy essence, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and the pieces of Lobster. Prepare a puff paste, divide it into equal portions, and roll each piece out 4in. square ; put 1 table-spoonful of the Lobster on each, fold them over so as to form a case, damp the edges and press them together, trimming round neatly. Sprinkle flour over a baking-sheet, put the Lobster rolls on it, and bake them for fifteen minutes. When done, put them on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Lobster Salad.—(1) Pick the flesh out of two freshly-boiled Lobsters, keeping the shells (which should be nicely washed, and reserved for further use) as whole as possible. Chop the flesh finely, and mix it with a good mayonnaise salad- dressing. Wash and cut some lettuces into thin shreds, p>ile them in the centre on an oval-shaped salad-dish, arrange round it a border of endive, and pour the mayon- naise mixture in the centre. Cut some white heart of celery into pieces of various sizes, and arrange in fan-