816 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—con tinned. (2) Select a shoulder and breast of Lamb, cut them up in moderate-sized pieces, put them in a shallow stewpan with a little butter, and fry quickly till nicely browned. Peel and cut in quarters some young Jerusalem artichoke-bottoms, carrots, and onions, fry them for a few minutes, pour in a little broth, sprinkle in salt and pepper, and boil till the broth is reduced to glaze. Cut two tomatoes in halves, free them from seeds, and put them in with the Lamb, and also a small sprig of mint. When the moisture of the tomatoes has evaporated, the Lamb should be done. Pour in the stew- pan 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce, stir it over the fire for five minutes, then turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of toast, and serve. Stewed Lamb a la Valencie.—Cut into moderate-sized pieces a breast and shoulder of Lamb, and fry them in a stewpan with a little butter; when nicely browned, put in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of raw ham cut in dice, one small chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of red pepper, a clove of garlic, and a little salt; fry the meat for a few minutes longer, then moisten to height with a little broth, let it boil for two or three minutes, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the Lamb is tender. Put in 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, and let it stew for twenty minutes longer (with the lid of the stewpan on), or until the rice is done. When ready to serve, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Stewed Lamb Chops.—Cut the chops about |in. thick and trim them, put into a stewpan with a piece of mace and lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and milk-and-water in equal quan- tities to cover, and boil very gently until tender; then drain, put them into a clean stewpan, and pour over a small quantity of clear veal gravy. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and J table- spoonful of mushroom powder in a basin, and mix smoothly together with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Pour this mixture over the chops, stir well, and toss them about over the fire until on the point of boiling. Put a few white mushrooms in the stew ; when they are hot, turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a golden brown in butter, and serve. Stewed Lamb with Rice.—Cut into moderate-sized pieces a shoulder or breast of Lamb, and fry them over a sharp fire till nicely browned; then mix with them two or three slices of raw ham cut in dice, two chopped onions, a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and a clove of garlic; fry till all are nicely browned. Pour in sufficient broth to cover, and let the liquid boil for five minutes; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents till the Lamb is nearly done ; put in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of rice, and boil the stew again for a-quarter-of-an-hour ; then stand the saucepan at the side, and let the contents stew gently till the rice is done. When ready to serve, turn the stew on a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Stewed Leg of Lamb a la Fran^aise.—Select a leg of Lamb weighing about 81b., and place it in a small saucepan. Put in a muslin bag one small turnip, one onion, a few green celery-leaves, four sprigs of summer savory and the same of sweet marjoram, three or four cloves, and twelve allspice, tie the bag, and put it in the saucepan with the Lamb ; pour in 2qts. of boiling water, let it boil up, then stir in 1 teacupful of flour mixed with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, add also 2 table-spoonfuls of salt and a little cayenne pepper. Put the lid on, and stand the saucepan where the contents will simmer for four hours. Meanwhile prepare 1| pints of veal or mutton forcemeat, shape it into little balls, and fry them in boiling fat till browned. Boil six eggs hard. At the end of four hours, take the Lamb out of the saucepan, skim all the fat off the gravy, take out the bag of vegetables, and reduce the gravy by boiling rapidly for ten minutes. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till dark brown, being careful not to burn it, and mix it in with the gravy. Chop the whites and yolks of the hard-boiled eggs separately. Pour the gravy over the Lamb, make a hill of the whites of the eggs in the centre, cap it with some of the yolks, sprinkling the remainder of the yolks over the Lamb, arrange the forcemeat balls in groups round the dish, put a little parsley between each group, and serve. Stewed Leg of Lamb with Artichokes. — Select about eight young and tender artichokes, peel, and trim them Lamb—continued. carefully, cut lengthwise in two, and salt them. Slice the meat off a small leg of Lamb, cut it into small-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little bacon-fat, a sprink- ling of sage, salt, and pepper, and a clove of garlic, toss them about over a brisk fire till nicely browned, then put in the artichokes, well wiped, and 1 teacupful of white wine; put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents stew gently till done. Put in with the Lamb and gravy when cooked the juice of two lemons and a little chopped parsley. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with the bottoms or halves of artichokes, and serve. Stewed Loin of Lamb.—(1) Cut a loin of Lamb into steaks, remove the skin and part of the fat, put the steaks into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them. Pour off the fat, add boiling water sufficient to cover the meat, also a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas, and a small lettuce cut lengthwise in halves; cover over the pan, and stew gently for about half-an-hour or until the flesh is tender. Serve hot. (2) A loin of Lamb may be stewed whole or in steaks ; if the former, fasten the flap with a skewer, put the loin into a stewpan with |lb. of butter, and cover down close. Let it simmer for one hour, then turn it; simmer again for an- hour-and-a-quarter, and it will be done. Have ready hot rich brown gravy ; put the meat on a dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve with mint sauce in a sauceboat, and a lettuce, a few radishes, and spring onions for garnish. Stewed Neck of Lamb a la Jardiniere.— Put into a stewpan two scrag ends of neck of Lamb, and with them a dozen each of spring carrots and young onions, and six turnips cut in quarters ; put the lid on the stewpan, stand it close to the fire, and let the meat cook slowly in its own juice; the meat should be turned in an hour’s time, then left to cook for another hour. When the vegetables are tender, take them out, put them on a dish, cover with a plate, and place them in the oven to keep hot. Take the meat out when cooked, pour J pint of cold water into the pan, and skim off the fat; sprinkle in pepper and salt to taste, and when this liquor boils thicken it with a little flour previously worked smooth in some of the gravy ; put the meat back in the gravy, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Chop the cooked vegetables up, put them in a frying-pan with two pats of butter, and toss them about to brown lightly. Put the meat and gravy on a hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, and serve. Fig. 1026. Stewed Shoulders of Lamb with Green Peas. Stewed Shoulder of Lamb.—(1) Bone a shoulder of Lamb, cut off a little of the flesh, chop it fine together with an equal quantity of fat bacon, and with this stuff the shoulder. Boll it up, put it into a braising-pan with vegetables and a very little stock, and braise slowly for about two hours over a moderate fire. Take it out, glaze it, put it on a hot dish, and serve with tomato or sorrel sauce. (2) Stuffed.—Bemove the bones from the under-side of a shoulder of Lamb, leaving the shank-bone ; stuff the shoulder with veal forcemeat seasoned with pepper, salt, and mace, and fasten the ends up. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the shoulder; cover with more fat bacon and some fine herbs, pour in 1 pint of veal broth, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour ; when cooked, put the Lamb on a hot dish. Pour 1 pint of brown gravy into a saucepan with one boiled sweetbread cut in dice and a few pickled mushrooms, boil them for a few minutes, then pour the sauce round the Lamb, put some slices of lemon round the dish, and serve. It is usual to garnish the dish with potato cro- quettes and French beans or peas, as well as the lemon.