THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 830 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Larks—continued. Larks—continued. and bake it in a moderate oven. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Larks. When cooked take the croustade out of the mould, cut out the cover, trim off the pinched edges, take out the round of bread, wipe all the fat out of the hollow with a towel, fill it with a ragoht of cocks’ combs and truffles, pour in the reduced sauce, put the cover on again, brush the croustade over with beaten egg, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Then take it out, and serve. Larks a la Portugaise.—Singe, clean, bone, and cut the wings and legs off one dozen Larks, put the bones and trimmings in a steAvpan with a small carrot and a small onion cut into slices, a bay-leaf, a feAv cloves, and a bunch of parsley, and cover the bottom of the stewpan with some sherry; allovv this to reduce, and then moisten AAnth 1 gill of good gravy. Let all simmer gently for an hour and then strain it. Prepare a chicken forcemeat in the ordinary Avay and put it into a biscuit-bag; also have ready cooked a dozen small black truffles, as round as possible, and no larger than a Spanish olive. With the forcemeat, stuff the Larks and put in the centre of them a small round truffle, roll the Larks very neatly and then wrap each in a piece of muslin, and tie them AATith a string. Put them in a stewpan with some bacon over the bottom, pour in a little strong gravy made as above, and bake them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Meamvhile prepare and cook one dozen large mushrooms; take \ pint of Spanish sauce, and put it into a saute-pan with the same quantify of tomato sauce, 6 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and a little essence of Larks, reduced to demi-glaze. Shape the mush- rooms Avitlx a plain round cutter lfin. in diameter, arrange them in a saute-pan, unAvrap, and place on each a Lark, sticking them Avith the remains of the chicken forcemeat, cover, and put into the 0ATen for one or tAvo minutes. Sauce them, dress them on a plain border made Avith chicken forcemeat or mashed potatoes, and pile in the centre some Patna rice cooked with Avhite stock. Pour a little of the sauce over the Larks, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Larks a la Royale.—Select twelve large black truffles, as round as possible, trim nicely, and put them in a steAvpan with J bottle of Madeira and a little salt, put the lid on, and boil the truffles for seA^en or eight minutes; drain and stand them up on their smoothest surface, IioIIoav each one out, then glaze the interior Avith a paste-brush, and keep them covered. Chop and pound the pieces of truffles that Avere cut out of the centre, mix in a pinch of spices and 2 table-spoonfuls of broAvn sauce, then put this pounded mixture in the stewpan, with the liquor in which the truffles were cooked ;• reduce, then pass it through a sieve, and fill the hollowed truffles with it. In the meantime, remove the pouch and gizzards from one dozen fat Avhite fiekl-Larks, cut off the legs and stuff them with a force- meat of foie-gras; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, sprinkle with salt, and fry for eight or nine minutes over a sharp fire; when cooked, drain off the fat, pour over the Larks a little melted glaze, drain, and put one in each of the hollowed truffles ; mask the bottom of truffles in melted glaze, arrange them on a dish, putting seven first, fixing them firmly, then four on these, and one on the top. Pour the remainder of the broAvn sauce in a boat, and serve. Larks in Cases.—(1) Pluck, singe, draw, and bone the Larks; stuff each bird xvith a mixture composed of three parts minced Avhite flesh of cooked chicken and one part ham and raAV bacon seasoned with chopped sage, salt and pepper, and a small quantity of pounded mace. Butter as many paper cases as there are birds, spread a layer of the same forcemeat in each, put the birds in the cases, place a slice of bacon over each, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove the bacon, pour a small quantity of rich gravy and a few drops of lemon-juice in each case, stand them on a hot dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish AAuth parsley and cut lemons, and serve. (2) Bone the Larks, keep the livers on one side, put the bones and trimmings in a stewpan with two or three carrots and onions-, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a few cloves, and some water; season to taste with salt and pepper, and, if convenient, add a feAv pieces of ham or bacon. Boil the liquor until nicely flavoured, and then strain it. Cut the livers of the Larks into small dice together AAuth an equal quantity of calf’s liver and half the quantity of fat bacon. Put a feAv chopped shallots into a frying-pan Avith a lump of butter, fry them for a feAv minutes, then add the chopped mixture with a moderate quantity of minced parsley, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and stir the mixture over the fire for a feAv minutes; then rub the Avliole through a fine sieve. Put a small quantity of the forcemeat in each Lark, and roll them up tightly. Oil some paper cases, spread a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of each, then place a Lark in each case Avith a thin rasher of fat bacon over it. Put them into a good oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes. Put loz. of butter in a small steAApan Avith 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire, then pour in the prepared gravy, and stir it until boiling, adding more seasoning if necessary. When the Larks are cooked, remove the bacon, pour some of the gravy in each case, streAv OArer some finely-chopped parsley, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve quickly. (3) Bone the Larks carefully; put the bones and trim- mings hi a saucepan, Avith some trimmings of ham or bacon, a feAv peeled carrots and onions, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, three or four cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. CoArer the ingredients with Avater or common stock, and boil until the liquor is AArell flavoured and reduced. Cut up the livers of the birds and some calf’s liver into small pieces, and mix Avitlx them half their quantity of bacon also cut into small pieces; put them in a steAvpan Avith a lump of hutter and a few chopped shallots, fry for a feAv minutes, and season to taste with salt and pepper, a small quantity of pOAvdered spices, and finely-minced parsley; ay hen sufficiently fried, pass the mixture through a fine sieve. Stuff the Larks Avith some of the forcemeat, and roll them up, binding round Avith thread. Oil the interior of some paper cases, put a layer of the forcemeat in each, lay the birds in the cases, one in each, and a thin slice of bacon over. Place them in a brisk oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor from the trimmings into a small clean saucepan, put in a lump of butter that has been worked up Avith 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened. When cooked, place the Larks in their cases on a hot dish, pour some of the gravy in each case, streAV finely-minced parsley over them, garnish Avith parsley, and serve. (4) Prepare some Larks and stuff them Avith forcemeat as for Lark Patties ; then cut some paper cases, 2in. in diameter, and brush lightly over Avitlx oil. Put a layer of the same forcemeat Avith which the Larks Avere stuffed Jin. thick at the bottom of each case, place a Lark in each, cover them Avith another layer of forcemeat, and bake in a moderate oAren for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, mop the top of the forcemeat very lightly to remove any fat, pour in some perigueux sauce reduced Avith essence of Larks, and serve. Larks in their Nests.—This fancy dish is attributed to Dubois, whose ingenuity and perseverance have added so much to the art of cookery. Singe, clean, and bone a dozen Larks, sprinkle salt and pepper inside, and stuff them AA'ith a gratin forcemeat, Avith a feAv chopped raw truffles and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of poultry livers ; fold the Larks to form a round, and Avrap each in a strip of buttered paper in such a manner that the shape shall be preserved; put them in a buttered saute-pan, pour in a little strong gravy, cover Avith slices of fat bacon, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take out the pan, and leave the Larks in it till cool; remove the paper, trim the Larks, and put them in another small steAA-pan; glaze them, and leave them where they will keep hot. Singe the heads of the Larks, glaze them, and keep hot. Cook about a dozen globe artichoke-bottoms, drain and trim to an equal size and arrange on a small baking-sheet, the IioIIoav side uppermost, fix the heads on the Larks Avith a little skeAver of A\-ood, and put one in each IioIIoav of the mushroom. Brush the Larks over Avith a little sauce, poach some small balls of forcemeat shaped like