932 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Melons—continued. thin and the juice of two lemons to the syrup, pour it over the Melons, and let them get cold ; cover, and they are ready for use. (3) Peel the flesh of some Melons, weigh it, and to every pound of flesh allow lib. of sugar, one lemon, loz. of green ginger-root, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Pare the yellow rind off the lemon as thin as possible, scrape the ginger, and tie it together with the rind of the lemon in a muslin bag; squeeze the juice from the lemon, and strain it; put the sugar and water into a pan on the stove, and let it boil, keeping it well skimmed. When the syrup is clear, put in the peelecl flesh of the Melon, the bag of scraped ginger-root and lemon-peel, and the lemon juice, and boil till the Melon-flesh looks clear, taking off the scum as it rises. Then let the preserve cool in the pan, which must be removed from the stove when the Melon-flesh looks clear. When the preserve is sufficiently cooled, put it into jars, taking out the bag of lemon-peel and ginger unless their flavour be desired, in which case take it out of the bag and distribute it evenly on the top of the preserves. Water Melon with Brandy.—Have a large ripe water Melon, and with a knife cut out a piece in the centre 2in. square by 31 in. deep; remove the piece carefully, and pour gradually into the inside 1 pint of brandy ; replace the piece of Melon in its former position, and put the Melon in the ice-box for six hours to infuse ; set it on a dish, and send to the table, either whole or cut into slices, according to taste. Water Melon with Champagne.—Proceed as for Water Melon with Brandy, substituting lqt. of champagne for the brandy. Water Melon with Rum.—Prepared the same as for Water Melon with Brandy, pouring in 1 pint of rum instead of the brandy and proceeding as before. Water-Melon Fritters.—Cut a water Melon into strips, remove the rind and seeds, put the pieces into a basin, sprinkle with caster sugar and finely-chopped lemon-peel, and let them stand for an hour or so. Prepare a batter by mixing the yolk of an egg with 2oz. of flour and adding J table-spoonful of salad-oil, pouring in 3 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and mixing until quite smooth. Add the well- whipped whites of two eggs, and stiy lightly. Dip the pieces of Melon in this, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry to a light golden colour, or for ten or twelve minutes. Take them out, drain, pile them on a napkin spread over a dish, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve as hot as possible. MELT.—See Milt. MELTED BUTTER.—See Butter. MELTON-MOWBRAY FIES.—See Pork. MELTON VEAL.—See Veal. MENESTRA.—The Spanish name for a kind of stew or pottage which is of great repute in the provinces of Spain. A good receipt for its preparation is as follows: For this dish a variety of vegetables will be required. Peel and chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry it, without allowing it to brown. Cut Jib. of raw ham into small square pieces, put them in with the onion, dust over with flour, pour in 2 pints of broth, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire and put in any of the following vegetables obtainable : Lettuces, artichokes, asparagus, broad beans, green peas, French beans, truffles, and red peppers. The vegetables must be well washed and trimmed, and those that require longest cooking should be put in first. Add also a bunch of parsley and a bay- leaf, and season with salt and pepper. Keep the vegetables simmering gently until tender, then take them out of the stewpan, and keep them hot. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, and boil it until Menestra—continued. reduced to a creamy thickness; then put in 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of minced (Spanish) truffles, and boil them for a minute. Put the vegetables on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. MENESTRONE.—A favourite Italian stew, re- sembling Menestra, much approved of in Milan, where it is made as follows: Chop ilb. of bacon, wash and cut up a savoy cabbage, and put both into a stewpan with fdb of chopped raw ham and 1 breakfast-cupful of haricot beans. Pour in 5 or 6 pints of clear broth, and place the stewpan over the fire. After ten minutes, gentle boiling, add 1 teacupful of chopped celery, an equal quantity of haricot beans, and about 1 teacupful of cabbage-stalk cut into small squares. Boil these for ten minutes, then mix in 1 teacupful each of broad Leans, asparagus-heads, and green peas, fib. of un- washed rice, and two chopped smoked Milan sausages, and continue simmering gently at the side of the fire until the rice is tender. Grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese into a soup-tureen, and when the soup is cooked, pour it in, and serve it with a plate of crofitons of fried bread or sippets of dry toast. MENGAU.—A kind of gruel made in Brazil from green plantains. MENSCHENFREUND—The name of a favourite stomachic bitter prepared in Prussia. MENUS.—A dinner without a bill of fai’e is like a song without words—the music and execution may be ever so perfect, but the guest likes to know what the production is all about. A Menu is not necessary where the dishes are all served at once, for they are then before the guest, who knows as well as the host what there is for his delectation; but when courses are served one after another, it is only just and fair that the consumer should have some intimation of what is coming, that he may indulge in one, or reserve for another, as the inclination befits him. A good Menu, or bill of fare, that is to say one arranged with artistic care, is the triumph of the professional chef; he exhibits this evidence of his skill with great pride, and does not fail to call attention to the ornamentation of the card. A good cook bears in mind that a Menu is not merely a list of dishes, but a programme of the entertainment, showing the order in which the various dishes are to be served. Unhappily too much attention is paid by cooks to the classification of dishes and the division of the Menu into services; better would it be if a plain list were given of the order in which the dishes were to be served. Certainly some great reform is needed in the arrangement of Menus, and this will come to pass in due course. An experienced author writes: “ The theory of a Menu and of the composition of a dinner is simplicity itself; in general terms, it begins with an excitant, namely soup, satisfies hunger gradually by fish, savoury dishes, and roasts, with which latter a salad comes in to excite the digestion once more, and prepare the way for a vegetable, which will be followed by the dessert.” In composing your Menu, you must consult first of all the market, and secondly the number of guests to be served; in selecting the dishes, the chief things to avoid are such gross errors as the repetition of meats, or sauces, or the introduction at an early stage of highly- spiced viands. The order usually adopted in the Menu is : First course: Hors d’ceuvres, Soups, Fish, Removes, and Entrees. Second course: A Punch or Sorbet, Roasts, Vegetables, Sweet Entremets, Dessert, and Ices. Wines suitable for each service may be denoted at the side of the Menu, but it is usual to leave the selection to individual taste, some persons preferring to drink but one wine throughout the meal.