764 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tL'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Herrings—continued. these in a stewpan with of butter, 1 table-spoonful each of very finely-minced onion and parsley, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a small quantity of cayenne. Beat the whole over the fire for a minute or two, then take it oft', and it is ready for serving. This sauce is very good as an accompaniment for either broiled mutton chops or boiled fish. Salted-Herring Salad.—(1) This is a favourite dish amongst Germans. Cut off the heads and split down the backs of four or five Salted Herrings, take out the bones carefully, remove the fillets, and cut them into small pieces. Put some cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice, in a deep dish with one raw apple and a little cold roasted veal also cut in dice. Mix with the fish some pickled beetroot, salted cucumber, and a few gherkins, all finely chopped ; put them in with the other in- gredients, sprinkle over salt, mustard, 1 pinch of chopped chives, and 1 handful of capers, and pour in some vinegar and oil. Thicken the salad with 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce with eggs, dish it in a dome-shape, smooth the surface with a knife, and mask it with more of the mayonnaise. Decorate it with gherkins, capers, anchovy fillets, and cherries in vinegar ; put a few lettuce-hearts in the centre, surround the base with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. (2) Wash the required quantity of freshly-salted Herrings, let them soak in milk for three or four hours, drain them, cut off the heads and tails, and split the body to remove the bones. Arrange on a dish, garnish with minced onions and thin slices of pickled gherkins, sprinkle a few whole capers round, pour a little oil and vinegar over the fish, and serve. (3) Pick the fillets off some Salted Herrings and cut them into small pieces. Boil some potatoes with their skins on, and when cooked (they must not be overdone) peel and cut them into small pieces; put the potatoes in a basin, cover with oil and vinegar in equal quantities, dust salt and pepper over them, and stir about to mix thoroughly. Chop two or three very sour apples and some gherkins, and mix them, with the Herrings, in with the potatoes. Add a small finely-chopped onion and some chopped pickled beetroot. Toss all the ingredients together for a few minutes to incor- porate them, then turn them into a salad-bowl, and serve. (4) For this salad the white Dutch Herrings are the best; put the quantity required in water or milk, and leave them for a few hours to draw out the salt as much as possible. Split them lengthwise down the back, open them flat, remove the bones (if done with care all the bones can be removed with the backbone), and cut the flesh of the fish into small thin slices. For two Herrings, boil lib. of potatoes till soft, but not over-cooked, then drain them, and when cold cut them into slices. Finely chop as much veal-, pork-, or poultry- flesh as there is Herring-flesh. Cut two large sour apples into small squares; put the fish in a salad-bowl; beat loz. of butter to a cream, and mix with it 1 teacupful of oil, f tea- cupful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, f teaspoonful of caster sugar, and a small quantity of cayenne, or if preferred white pepper. Stir the dressing in with the Herrings, then mix in the potatoes and apples; strew a small quantity of minced chives over the top. Serve the salad without delay. (5) Steep some Dutch Salted Herrings in water for a few hours, then trim off the skin, split them, and remove the backbone; cut the fillets into small pieces. Peel and boil about 21b. of potatoes, taking care not to over-cook them; when cooked, drain, and cut them into slices. Put the potatoes in a salad-bowl, pour over sufficient Rhine wine to moisten, and cover the bowl. When the potatoes are cold, put in the Herrings—continued. pieces of fish and the chopped yolks of four or five hard- boiled eggs. If hard-roed Herrings are used, pound the roes to a paste, adding gradually, while pounding, about lj tea- cupfuls of vinegar and some crushed peppercorns; pour the mixture over the salad, toss it about with a fork to mix well, and serve. (6) Wash the Herrings in warm water and dry them on a cloth; skin, and cut them slantwise into slices, then place them on a dish in their original form. Arrange in alternate groups round them some young onions and gherkins, then a circle of sliced salted cucumbers; mix in equal quantities salad-oil and vinegar, pour it over the Herrings, sprinkle a few capers over them, and serve. A few pickles may be placed on the dish if liked. If the Herrings are old it is best to soak them in milk for a few hours. See Fig. 956. Stewed Salted Herrings with Eddoes.—This is an ex- cellent dish, much used in Barbadoes, where it is a favourite. The required quantity of Salted Herrings are stewed with butter and any desired seasoning, and eaten with eddoes boiled until the skins will readily come off by gently pressing them. Smoked Herrings.—These are also known as bloaters (which see) and red Herrings—the difference consisting principally in the smoking. They can be prepared at home as follows: Clean the Herrings well, and let them lie for one night in salt with a small quantity of saltpetre mixed with it. Next day run a stick through the eyes, and in this way thread them all. Have ready a cask of sawdust with a red-hot heater in the middle of it: fix the stick over this so that the Herrings hang in a row in the smoke, and smoko them for twenty-four hours. Broiled Bed Herrings.—Double and fold a large sheet of paper into a case large enough to hold six red Herrings. Take half-a-dozen good-sized red Herrings, cut off their heads and tails, skin, split them lengthwise into two fillets, and remove the bones. Butter the paper case both outside and inside, place the fillets in it, laying between each a little bit of fresh butter with a mixture of chopped mushrooms, sweet herbs, shallots, pepper, and olive oil, sprinkle them pretty thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, and broil them slowly over a clear but not too hot fire, taking care the paper does not burn. When done, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over them, and serve in the paper case as hot as possible. Dressed Red Herrings.—Cut the red Herrings open, boil some small beer and pour it over them ; let them steep in it for thirty minutes. Drain dry, warm them in a Dutch oven before the fire, rub a little fresh butter over them, and serve with egg sauce and mashed potatoes. Fillets of Red Herrings.—Select the required quantity of red Herrings, cut off their heads and tails, skin and bone them, and cut them lengthwise into fillets; put these in a basin, cover with salad-oil, and let them steep for five hours ; then drain, put them on a dish, pour fresh oil over them, and serve. Mashed Red Herring (Indian Style).—Put a large onion and two hot green chillies, all cut up into slices, into a basin, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and soak for several hours. Roll up a red Herring in paper, broil or fry it, remove all the skin and bones, and bruise it in a mortar, adding gradually the onions, chillies, and the liquor in which they have been soaking. When the whole is well mixed, the preparation is ready for serving. Preserved Red Herrings.—Cut off the heads of twelve red Herrings, put them in a stewpan, cover with tepid water, let the water get hot gradually over the fire, then take the stew- pan off, put the cover on, and let it remain for half-an-hour. Drain the Herrings, remove their skins, put them in a large basin, with a plate on the top, and let them macerate for two days. They are then ready for eating. Red Herrings a la Dauphin.—Remove the heads and tails of the Herrings, and bone them. Brush over with yolk of egg beaten up with butter and finely-chopped savoury herbs, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and if not well covered with the breadcrumbs the first time, leave them for five minutes and then brush them again with the mixture of egg, butter, &c.,