THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 903 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mackerel—continued. the fish in the sauce, and stir until the ■whole is well mixed, squeezing in some lemon-juice at the same time. Fill some scallop-shells with the mixture, strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and pour about 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter over each. Put them into a brisk oven for ten minute a, and then, if not sufficiently browned, pass a hot salamander over them. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the shells on it, with groups of parsley between each, and serve. Soused Mackerel. -(1) Select the required quantity of Mackerel, cut off their heads, draw, and wipe them ; place them in a fish-kettle, cover with water, put in a little salt and vinegar, and boil about twenty minutes. When cooked, drain, and put them in a deep dish. Boil J pint of vinegar with three bay-leaves, a few peppercorns, cloves, and a little pepper and salt, add half the volume of olive-oil, boil the mixture for a few minutes, then pour it over the fish, and leave them for twenty-four hours. When ready to serve, dish the fish with their sauce, and garnish with slices of lemon. (2) Clean and bone six Mackerel, wash well, cut them up into fillets, and rub them well with a mixture of ] oz. each of white pepper and cayenne, four cloves, 1 saltspoon- ful of allspice, four blades of mace, and 1 table-spoonful of salt, all well pounded together. The fillets should be slightly scored to let the powder work well in. Have ready a frying-pan with boiling oil, plunge in tire fillets, and fry them till browned; put them when cold into an earthen- ware or stone jar, cover with vinegar, tie a piece of paper over the jar, and leave until wanted. Stewed Fillets of Mackerel.—(1) Take out the fillets from a Mackerel that has been thoroughly cleaned, and cut each fillet into halves. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with a little flour, stir it about for a few minutes, then put in the fillets, and season with cayenne pepper, salt, and the rind of half a lemon. Fry them for a few minutes, then pour in gradually nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of port wine ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, and 1 pinch of ground mace ; boil this, and then take the fish out carefully, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Clean two or three Mackerel, cut off all the fillets lengthwise, and roll them up. Put some highly-seasoned veal gravy or fish stock into a saucepan with a little each of chopped fennel and parsley, put in the fillets, and stew for about ten minutes. Take them out, put them on a dish, add a liaison of flour and butter to thicken the liquor, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour this round the fish, and serve with a garnish of pickles. Stewed Mackerel.—(1) Clean the fish, trim off the heads, tails, and gills, and wash them well; pick some parsley off the stems, and lay some of it in a stewpan. Dust over a small quantity of powdered gum mastic, then put in half of the fish, place parsley and gum mastic over that, then put in the remainder of the fish, and cover that also with parsley and powdered gum mastic; moisten with 1J bieakfast-cupfuls of water, season with salt and pepper, and put the pan over the fire until the water begins to boil; then move it to the side and let it simmer for twenty minutes. When the fish is cooked, put it on- a hot dish, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (2) Split the Mackerel down the back, take out the bones, and cut the flesh in quarters ; put these on a grid- iron over a clear fire, and half cook them. Put 2 break- fast-cupfuls of rich gravy into a saucepan with a little each of finely-chopped shallot, fennel, and parsley, add also 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, h teacupful of ketchup, and a small lump of flutter rolled in flour; stir well over the fire until thickened, season to taste with pepper, salt, and cayenne, then put in the fish, and stew gently until they are done. Now add more thickening to the gravy,, also 1 wineglassful of port wine, stir for a minute or two, turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (3) Select half-a-dozen fine Mackerel, bene and clean them. Put 1 pint of gravy into a saucepan, with a little very finely-chopped parsley, fennel, and shallot, 2 table- Mackerel—continued. spoonfuls of ketchup, 1 table spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a small lump of butter that has been rolled in flour. When boiling, pour in 1 wineglassful of port, and let the fish stew in this for twenty minutes, turning them at the t nl of ten minutes. When cooked, take the Mackerel out very carefully so as not to break them, and put them on a hot dish. Mix with the stock 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, J wineglassful of port wine, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it up, pour it over the fish, and serve. Stewed Mackerel a la Turque.—Draw and clean the Mackerel, and blanch them in boiling water for three or four minutes ; drain them, and when cold remove the bones. Cut Jib. of onions into slices, put them in a frying- pan with some olive oil, and fry them till lightly browned; put half of the onions into a stewpan with what oil is left from the frying, add a small quantity of picked parsley and fennel, then put in the boned Mackerel and cover them with the remainder of the onions, sprinkling more picked parsley and fennel over them. Moisten with 2 table-spoonfuls of malt vinegar and sufficient of the liquor in which the fish was scalded to cover, season with salt and pepper, and place the pan over the fire. After the liquor boils, let it simmer only till the fish is tender. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, dust it over with powdered cinnamon, and serve. Stewecl Mackerel with Green Peas.—Fry one chopped onion in a stewpan with a little butter, but do not let it brown. Clean some Mackerel, cut off their heads and tails, put the fish into the stewpan, season with salt and pepper, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in a bunch of chopped parsley, 1 pint of green peas, and a little flour ; fry for a few minutes longer, then cover the fish with hot water, and le‘ the liquid boil. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for a-quarter- of-an-hour. When done, take the fish out, and put them on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and serve with the fish. Stewed Mackerel with Mussels. Drain and wash two or three fresh Mackerel, and divide each fish into four pieces; put them into a stewpan with sufficient white sauce to cover, and flavour with a few drops of essence of anchovies and lemon-juice, a small piece of lemon-peel, salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stew the fish gently until tender. Open three dozen fresh mussels, trim away all the yellow part, wash them in their liquor, and blanch in the sauce. Place the fish on a hot dish, arrange the mussels round it, pour the sauce over, first removing the piece of lemon peel, and serve. MADE DISHES.—An almost obsolete term for entrees and other dishes supposed to be made up of scraps and kitchen oddments. MADEIKA.—The name given to a very fine, “generous” wine, manufactured in the vineyards of Madeira. Madeiras are generally of good body, and gain alcoholic strength, improving greatly by age, the best being that about five years and older. As might be supposed, the wines of Madeira are not all alike; indeed, they differ very materially, some being rich and costly, almost like liqueurs, and others light, dry, and palatable. The latter kind are those best known to us, being those which the cook prescribes for many culinary purposes, but rarely uses. Kettner writes in protest against the uses of Madeira in cooking. He observes: “ In all the world there is not Madeira enough for a week’s consumption of the filet an Madere in Paris,” and therefore advises the use of Marsala, which is infinitely cheaper, and answers every purpose required of wine for cooking. Madeira when new, is of a light claret colour, which gives way to amber as age advances. Simmonds, in his work on “ Popular Beverages,” assures ns that “ the great ad- vantage of Madeira wine now is, that it is absolutely pure, the Government (of Madeira) having prohibited the impor- tation of other wines, and of beet, potato, and similar spirits, which might be used to fortify the wines.”