857 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Lentils—continued. most nourishing of all forms of pulse. A preparation of it with barley, known as Revalenta Arabica, has been much used for invalids. Lentils are also ground to flour and sold in packets. Boiled Lentils.—Steep the Lentils in water for a few hours, then drain, put them in a stewpan with plenty of cold water to cover, and boil for half-an-liour. At the end of that time drain the water off the Lentils, put in with them a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with five or six cloves, and boiling water to cover, and boil gently at the side of the lire until quite tender. Drain the Lentils, put in with them a lump of butter and about 1 table-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper, and toss about over the fire for a few minutes. When ready, turn the Lentils on to a hot dish, and serve. They make a good vegetable. Cream of Lentils.—Soak 1 pint of Lentils for four hours in cold water; then put them in a saucepan, and boil with 2qts. of water, one carrot, one onion, 2oz. of salt pork, six whole peppers, a bouquet garni, the bones of one partridge, and ^ table-spoonful of salt. Cook for forty- five minutes, then nib through a sieve ; cut half the breast of a partridge in slices, lay them in the soup-tureen with loz. of butter, pour the puree over, and serve with a handful of fried sippets of bread, suppressing the bouquet. Lentils a la Maitre d’Hotel.— (1) Boil lqt. of Lentils, having previously washed them in 3qts. of water with 1 table-spoonful of salt dissolved in it. When soft, strain off the water, put the Lentils in a saute-pan with |Ib- of maitre-d’hotel butter and | teacupful of the liquor in which they were cooked, toss about till the butter is melted, then turn them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Thoroughly wash the Lentils, then put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, and an onion stuck with four or five cloves. Boil the Lentils gently until tender, keeping them well covered with water, then turn them into a sieve and let them drain. Melt a large piece of butter in a stewpan, put in the Lentils with a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley and the juice of half a Lemon, season to taste with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for five or six minutes. Turn the Lentils on to a hot dish, and serve. Lentils and Bacon.—Wash the Lentils, put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, a bay-leaf and a blade of mace tied together, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, and boil gently until soft, adding more boiling- water occasionally; when cooked, drain the Lentils. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry; when nicely browned, put in ^lb. of fat bacon cut into small squares, fry that also, and when cooked, put in the Lentils. Moisten with a small quantity of clear stock, add some finely-chopped parsley, and season to taste with pepper. Boil the whole gently by the side of the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small crofitons of bread fried a bright golden brown in butter, and serve. Lentil Curry.—(1) Chop three or four onions together with a clove of garlic and two green chillies, and pound them in a mortar. Wash Mb. of Lentils, picking them over care- fully to remove all impurities, put them in a frying-pan, toss about over the fire until browned, then put them into a saucepan with the pounded mixture, 1 teaspoonful of ground turmeric, a moderate quantity of salt, and cold water to cover, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain all the water from the Lentils, and add 2oz. of butter and two sliced onions fried a golden brown. Toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread, and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice. (2) Slice three large onions and fry them in butter. Wash l pint of Red Lentils, and put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of water and the fried onions ; let them simmer gently till done. When the Lentils are soft, stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and turn all on to a hot dish. Garnish with crofitons of fried bread, and serve with boiled rice in a separate dish. Lentils—continued. Lentils with. Onions.—Pick carefully over the Lentils to remove any impurities, and wash well; put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water and boil until tender. Turn the Lentils when soft on to a fine sieve and let them drain thoroughly. Peel and cut into thin slices several onions, put them into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry. Put the Lentils in with the onions, season to taste with salt and pepper, moisten with a small quantity of clear stock, and let them simmer at the side of the fire for a few minutes. If stock is not convenient, moisten with a little of the cooking-water of the Lentils. When ready, turn the Lentils on to a hot dish, and serve. Lentil Pudding.—Put 4oz. of Lentil-flour into a basin With 1 hoz. of cornflour and 1 saltspoonful of salt; mix gradually in with these H pints of milk. When smooth, turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling ; let it get somewhat cool, then stir in four well-beaten eggs. Butter a basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil the pudding for an hour. When Fig. 1070. Lentil Pumiing. cooked, turn it out and serve while hot, with a sweet, fruit, or wine sauce poured over it. See Fig. 1070. Lentil Puree Soup.—(1) Put 1 pint of well-washed Lentils in a stockpot with 4qts. or 5qts. of warm water, a little salt, and a bunch of parsley and fine herbs. Boil till soft, then pass all through a fine hair sieve, pour the puree into a stewpan, stir till boiling, then move it to the side of the fire. Chop a leek and a small onion and fry till lightly browned, then add 1 handful of beetroot and lettuce-leaves, a few bits of sorrel and some white celery-leaves, all well minced; stir over the fire for ten minutes, then mix them with the puree; boil up again, add a lump of butter, and when the butter has dissolved turn all into a tureen and serve with sippets of toast. (2) Put two small pig’s ears, singed, washed, and scraped, in a small stockpot with a piece of raw ham, and pour in 3qts. or 4qts. of water; when boiling, move the stockpot to the side of the fire and let the ears simmer till half done, then add 1 pint of picked and washed Lentils, one onion, and a piece of celery. When the ears and Lentils are done, pass the Lentils through a fine hair sieve, turn the puree into a stewpan, pour the broth in, pass it again through the sieve, and stir over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, put the ears, cut in several pieces, in the saucepan, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Skim off the fat, turn the puree into a tureen, and serve with crofitons of fried bread. (3) Put the required quantity of Lentils in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, a pat of butter, a little salt, and sufficient water to cook them in. When soft, drain, and press them through a hair sieve. Put the puree in a glazing-stewpan with half its quantity of Spanish sauce, reduce, and strain through a fine hair sieve; finish the puree with butter and meat glaze, and serve while hot. (4) Wash 1 pint of Lentils, and put them in a saucepan with 3 pints of water, a small onion and carrot, a sprig of celery, and 1 dessert-spoonful of salt. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side and simmer the contents till the Lentils are done. When soft, drain the Lentils in a colander, reserving the liquor, then pass them through a fine hair sieve, pouring over them a little of the liquor now and again to help the passing. When done, put the Lentil puree in a stewpan and pour in a sufficient quantity of broth to make soup; let it simmer gently for half-an- liour, stirring often to prevent burning at the bottom of