TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 821 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Lamb—continued. the slices of liver, dust a little salt over, put them on a hot dish that has been embellished with a lace-edged dish- paper or a folded napkin, garnish with quarters of lemon, and serve. Ragoftt of Lamb’s Liver.—(1) Choose a clean liver, wash it, arid boil till tender. Make a rich brown sauce and season it with spices and wine. Drain the liver, cut it into thin round slices, put them in the sauce, boil up again till thoroughly hot, then pour all on to a hot dish. Arrange some slices of hard-boiled eggs and lemon alternately round the dish, and serve at once. (2) Wash the liver, put it in a saucepan of salted water, and boil. When tender, drain, and cut the liver into thin slices. Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry it over a brisk fire till nicely browned; dredge in loz. of flour and stir it in the butter till well mixed, then add gradually 1 pint of stock; season highly with salt, pepper, and spices, stir it over the fire, and boil for five minutes. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it the juice of half a lemon and 1 wineglassful of sherry, put in the liver, and make them hot again. Turn the ragoftt on to a hot dish, garnish with cut lemons and hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Salmis of Lamb’s Liver.—Boil the liver in plenty of water until tender, then drain and cut it into very thin slices. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stew- pan, and stir over the fire until well blended, then mix in smoothly 1 teacupful of water or clear gravy and 1 wineglassful of port wine. Continue stirring the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in two shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire for half-an-hour. Afterwards, strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan with the slices of liver, and keep them simmering slowly at the edge of the fire until hot, but not boiling. Squeeze the juice of a lemon in with the liver, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried cn nitons of bread, and serve. Lamb’s Pluck, or Pry.—All that can be con- sidered eatable of the Lamb’s internal organs may be included under this very comprehensive term, although by the butcher it is applied to the lungs, liver, and heart only, sweetbreads and kidneys having sufficient individual value to be treated separately. The pluck must be thoroughly cleansed before cooking, and all hard or stringy parts carefully cut away. Cooked as follows, Lamb’s Pluck is not to be despised: Boiled Lamb’s Pluck.—Wash and blanch the pluck, put it in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, the pulp of a lemon freed of pips, salt, cloves, and peppercorns, and sufficient water to cover. Place the saucepan over the fire till the water boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer till the pluck is done. Put two or three finely- chopped shallots into a saucepan with 3 wineglassfuls of vinegar, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Fig. 1033. Boiled Lamb’s Pluck. Pour f- breakfast-cupful of stiffly-reduced veloute sauce in with the shallots, and boil. Take the sauce off the fire and mix in gradually 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, 1 table- spoonful of made mustard, and 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped tarragon and burnet. When the pluck is cooked, j drain well, then place it on a hot dish, heart in the middle, I Lamb—continued. and other parts cut in pieces and put round (see Fig. 1033); pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Lamb’s Pluck with Ravigote Sauce.—Clean and blanch the pluck; put it in a stewpan lined with thin slices of bacon, add an onion stuck with four cloves and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, moisten to three-parts their height with white wine, season with salt and pepper, and cover with a few more thin slices of bacon. Stew very gently at the side of the fire for four hours. Finely chop three shallots ; put them in a small saucepan with 1 h tea- cupfuls of vinegar, put it on a brisk fire and boil until the vinegar is reduced to half its original quantity, then pour in 1| teacupfuls of thick veloute sauce and boil it up again. Move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in gradually 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, and a small quantity each of chopped burnet and tarragon. When cooked, drain the pluck, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Curried Lamb’s Pluck.—(1) Clean two white Lamb’s Plucks; line the bottom of an earthen stockpot with thin rashers of fat bacon, put in the plucks, with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and a large onion stuck with two or three cloves, pour in white wine to three-parts the height of the meat, season with pepper and salt, and cover with layers of bacon; put the stockpot over the fire till the wine begins to bubble, then move to the side or on to some warm ashes, cover with a soup-plate, and stew the plucks gently for four hours. When cooked, drain the plucks on a sieve and arrange them on a hot dish; skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, mix a breakfast-cupful of rich gravy with it, and boil up. Work 1 table-spoonful of butter together with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it into the sauce with some curry powder, and stir till thick and cooked. Pour the sauce over the plucks and serve. (2) Clean and blanch very white two or three plucks; line a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, put in the plucks, with a large onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley, season with salt and pepper, and pour in white wine to three-parts the height of the plucks, covering them with slices of bacon. Place the stewpan over the fire until the wine begins to bubble, then move it to the side and cook the contents very gently for four hours. Put the plucks on a sieve to drain, place them on a dish, and keep hot. Skim the fat ort' their cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a smaller saucepan, mix with it an equal quantity of rich gravy, put in it a small piece of butter that has been kneaded with curry powder, stir it over the fire until thickened and on the point of boiling, then pour it over the plucks, and serve. Lamb’s Pluck a l’Anglaise.—Trim the sweetbreads to a nice shape, put them in a saucepan with an onion and some clear broth, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Take the sweetbreads out and put the brains in the liquor and boil fast till hard, then take them out and leave till cold. Cut the heart into slices and put them with the milt into the saucepan, and stew gently till tender; cut the brains into slices, dip them in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, and fry them and the sweetbreads in butter. Dust some flour over the slices of heart, the milt, and liver, and fry till brown; then cut the kidney into slices and fry them gently for a minute or two. When all the above articles are cooked and browned, arrange them in the middle of a hot dish. Dredge a small quantity of flour into the pan in which they were fried, and stir about till it begins to brown, then pour in gradually the cooking- liquor of the sweetbreads, &c., and stir it over the fire till boiling,- seasoning to taste. Pour the gravy over the fry, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Lamb’s-Pluck Pie.—Clean the pluck, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes, then drain, and cut it into small square-shaped pieces. Clean the heart and liver, and cut them into pieces the same size as the pluck. Put some scraped fat bacon in a stewpan, place the pan over the fire till the bacon has dissolved, then put in the meats and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes.