735 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Haggis—continued. plenty of water, and boil slowly; it will require about the same time for cooking as the lights, &e., the whole taking about two hours. Drain them when cooked, and trim off all the sinewy parts or gristle. Chop a third part of the liver, and rub it through a wire sieve into a basin; chop rather coarsely the heart, the small bag, and 6oz. or 7oz. of mutton-suet, mix them with the minced liver, and stir in 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of coarse Scotch oatmeal. It must be Scotch oatmeal, as English oatmeal would not answer the purpose at all. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with some of the liquor in which the lights, &c., were boiled, but do not make it too liquid— about 1 breakfast-cupful should be a sufficient quantity. Leave the mixture in the basin for half-an-hour or so, then stuff it into the large bag that has been soaking in the brine, and sew it up securely, using some very strong thread for the purpose. Plunge the Haggis into a large saucepan of boiling water, putting a plate underneath to keep it from sticking at the bottom. Boil it quickly for an-hour-and-a- half, pricking the bag occasionally with a skewer to prevent it bursting, and pouring in more boiling water as the quantity diminishes. Directly the Haggis is taken out of the saucepan, serve it on a hot dish. It will not require either garnish or sauce. (3) Prepare the heart, liver, and lights of a sheep, parboil them, chop up very fine, removing all the sinewy parts, and mix in ^lb. of finely-shred beef-suet, a few chopped onions, salt and pepper to taste, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of slightly- baked oatmeal. Make the whole into a paste by adding- reduced broth. Clean and wash the paunch, boil it in salted water for a few minutes, then stuff it with the heart and liver mixture, sew it up securely, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for about three hours. Take it out when done, and serve. If preferred, the paunch may be done without, and the Haggis may be fastened round with a stiff paste. (4) Clean and prepare the heart, tongue, and liver of a sheep, chop them up fine with a little more than half their bulk of fat bacon, and mix in the grated crumb of a French roll and the rind of a lemon, two anchovies boned and finely chopped, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Put the whole into a pan, add two well-beaten eggs and 1 wineglassful of wine, mix all thoroughly, turn the preparation into a basin or mould, tie it over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about two hours. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (5) Finely chop the heart, kidneys, tongue, and a little of the liver of a sheep, mix with it a third of the combined weight in chopped fat bacon, and two anchovies, also the grated crumb of a French roll, a little grated lemon-peel, salt and pepper to taste, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 wineglassful of wine. When thoroughly mixed, put it into a mould or a clean calf’s caul, place it in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil for fully two hours. Serve hot. Hake—continued. cut root of this fin, that is if the part bearing it is left to denounce the fraud. Hake are seasonable at almost all times, and can be prepared in many tasty ways; especially as the backbone can easily be removed with the fingers when cleaning the fish, and practically there are few other bones to be in the way of the conversion of the flesh into almost any kind of fish dish, especially those suitable and prescribed for Cod. Pried Hake Cutlets.—Clean a large Hake, cut it lengthwise into cutlets, dry them with a cloth, dip them first into egg and then into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good brown colour. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried sprigs of parsley for garnish. Roasted Hake.—Clean a good-sized Hake, and stuff it with highly-seasoned veal stuffing ; sew it up, fasten its tail in its i mouth, and place it in a round baking-dish. Pour 1 gill of cream over it, place it in the oven, and roast until done. 1 Serve in the dish in which it was cooked, with a little butter sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and the liquor from the fish, mixed together and put in a tureen. Stewed Hake.—Put lib. of Hake, cut up in slices and rubbed well with flour, into a frying-pan, and fry to a light brown. Put a stick of celery and a very small chopped onion in a saucepan, fry them a little, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of stock with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour stirred in smoothly, a little lemon-peel, mace, peppercorns, parsley, and salt. Place the pan on the fire, boil up, put in the fish, remove the pan to the side, and let the contents simmer for about fifteen minutes. Place the pieces of fish on a dish, strain the gravy over, and serve. A little white of hard-boiled egg, finely minced, may be worked in the gravy just before serving, and the hard-boiled yolk grated over the dish for a garnish. Stewed Slices of Hake with Fried Mussels.—Clean a Hake and cut off three slices from the thickest part. Stew these in well-seasoned stock, with a little celery and onion, Imitation Haggis.—(1) Mix up mashed potatoes with an equal quantity of pieces of cold cooked beef cut up small, put this in a baking-dish with a little butter on the top, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and bake in a quick oven till done. (2) Mince up any beef or mutton, taking care to have plenty of fat, and mix it with half the quantity of coarse oatmeal well browned before a clear fire; add a few minced onions and a little salt and pepper, put the mixture in a pie-dish, place it in the oven, bake for thirty minutes, and serve. HAEE.—Ail authority on fish informs us that the flesh of the Hake (Merlucius vulgaris) is superior to haddock and plaice in flavour, digestibility, and nutri- tious qualities; but although eaten by the inhabitants of the coasts along which it is caught, it never finds its way inland. If this writer could visit some of the inland fish- markets he would see that Hake is frequently sold, and at a very low price ; and when cut up is sometimes palmed off upon the unwary for cod. The word Hake is a derivative of hook, in allusion to the peculiar hook-like fin just behind the neck (see Fig. 914), which is always cut away by the fishmonger when he desires to convert Hake into cod. A sharp or ex- perienced buyer would know a cod from a Hake by the Fig. 915. Stewed Slices of Hake with Fried Mussels. as for Stewed Hake. When done, arrange the slices on a dish, leaning one upon another; garnish the dish with fried mussels (see Fig. 915), and serve the gravy in a tureen. HALF-FISH.—A common name for a salmon when half-grown. HALF-GLAZE.—See Glaze. HALIBUT (Fr. Fletan; Ger. Heilbutte).—This fish takes its name from the Old English liali—holy, and but—a flounder, signifying therefore a holy-flounder, or one to be eaten on high days and holidays. It is known