759 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Heat-Conductors—continued. adaptation of the same principle to baking small birds, these being transfixed through the neck. Another very clever use to which this conducting power of metal can be applied is shown at Pig. 949, where the cook’s fear that a cake may not be done in the centre is obviated by a metallic cone which enters and conveys heat into the heart of the cake without disfiguring the outward appearance. See Heat. HEATH-COCK.—See Blackcock. HECTOGRAM, HECTOLITRE. — See Weights and Measures. HEDGEHOGS (.Fr. Herissons; Ger. Igel; Ital. Spinosi). —Amongst what may be termed eccentricities of gas- tronomy Hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus) may be classed, although it is urged that the flesh when stewed is both savoury and tender. Gipsies are said to regard them as rare delicacies, and cook them by rolling them up in soft clay, and then leaving them in the ashes of the camp fire until wanted. By breaking open the clay shell when baked sufficiently, the skin peels off with it, and leaves the steaming flesh. HEELS.—See Cow-heels. HEIDELBERG BISHOP.—-See Bishops. HELENA PUDDING.—-See Puddings. HELOISE CAKE.--See Cakes. HERBS.—It is a most remarkable fact that whereas the great secret of tasty cookery is dependent upon the flavouring contributed by aromatics, there is no subject upon which cooks are more absolutely divided. Attempts have been made by famous chefs to establish some rules of classification and combination for different purposes, but as each individual acted without consulting his compeers, the confusion has become worse confounded. At one time we were favoured with a sort of dual classification, Herbs generally being divided into pot- Herbs and sweet or aromatic Herbs, and these are described in a celebrated book on gardening as: Pot-Herbs. — Parsley, Purslane, Tarragon, Fennel, Borage, Dill, Chervil, Horseradish, Indian Cress, and Marigold. Sweet Herbs. — Thyme, Sage, Savory, Clary, Mint, Marjoram, Basil, Rosemary, Lavender, and Costmary. Besides these, there are a large variety of Pot-Herbs amongst wild plants, and these are enumerated as Black Bryony, Charlock, Ox-tongue, Spotted Hawkweed, Burdock, Willow-Herb, Fat-hen, Sea-orach, Sea-beet, Sow-thistle, Stinging-nettle, Chickweed, Sauce-alone or Jack-by-the-hedge, and Wild-rocket. Some of these have occasionally been boiled and used as vegetables, or in salad. Modern usage has added all manner of vegetables to the list of Herbs, and these French cooks style Potageres, because they are used in making soups. Then again there is the Bouquet Garni, and the British cook’s Fagot, and lastly, the Continental Herbes Fines, or Fine Herbs, which may be considered as a genuine attempt made by a few, and followed by many, to establish a sort of fixed Herbal code for certain uses. These are described under their different headings, and contain other flavourings besides those usually described as Herbs. The number of aromatic Herbs in general use has greatly diminished, indicating another attempt of artistic cooks to simplify the preparation of savoury dishes and sauces. Most of these are grown in our kitchen-gardens, and may be gathered fresh in season, or dried and powdered for winter use as follows: The Herbs should be picked on a dry day, and just as they are about to flower; the roots must then be cut off, and the Herbs freed from dust and dirt, washing them if Herbs—continued. necessary. Put them into an oven in flat baskets, or lay them in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, leave them until they are quite dry and crisped, but in no way browned. Take off the leaves, rub them between the hands, then through a coarse sieve, and bottle. Or they may be tied together in bunches, put in paper bags to keep away the dust, and hung up until dry, using as required. But this latter plan should not be adopted when it is possible to dry them more expeditiously by heat. Fig. 953. IIerb-trav. In every kitcben there should be a tray for Herbs (see Fig. 950), which can be carried about according to the requirements of the cook. Some five or six com- partments will be ample, and in these should be kept always handy and ready for use—powdered dried thyme, mint, parsley, marjoram, rosemary, tarragon, and chervil, or any other Herb, according to taste. The following receipts are a few of those which apply generally to Herbs, but for special receipts it will be necessary to refer to special headings: Pried Herbs.—Wash in plenty of water a large bunch of spinach, with about one-third its quantity of parsley picked from the stalks. Chop the parsley, also 1 handful of green onions, and mix all together with the spinaoh. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in the Herb mixture, and season with salt. Toss the pan over the fire until the contents are hot, then stand it at the side, put the lid on, and stew until the Herbs are tender. When cooked, turn the Herbs on to a hot dish, put some fried rashers of bacon on the top with a fried egg on each rasher, Fig. 951. Fried Herbs with Bacon and Eggs. and serve very hot (see Fig. 951). This is delicious served with broiled calf’s-liver. Herb Beer.—Take a small bunch of all or part of the follow- ing : Sweet fern, sarsaparilla, winter-green, sassafras, prince’s- pine, and spice-wood. Boil them with 2oz. or 3oz. of hops to 3galls. or 4galls. of water, and two or three raw potatoes, pared and cut in slices. The strength of the roots and hops is obtained more thoroughly by boiling them in two waters, for when the liquor is strongly saturated with the hops, it will tend to bind up the roots rather than extract their juices. The Herb-roots should be boiled for five or six hours, the liquor strained, and lqt. of molasses put to 3galls. of