TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 843 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Lemons—continued. over the fire. When the flour is cooked, add the juice of half a Lemon, a lump of butter about the size of an egg, and four well-beaten yolks of eggs ; continue stirring over the fire, but take care to remove it before the eggs curdle; Fiu. 1064. Lemon-Cream Pies. pour the cream into the plates of crust, and serve when cold. See Fig. 10b4. Lemon-Cream-Tarfc Meringue. —Boil 1 pint of water in a saucepan, put in another vessel 4uz. of pon dered sugar, mix with it loz. of corn-starch, grate in the rind of a Lemon, squeezing in the juice, and stir well with the spatula for one minute. Break in two whole eggs, beat all together for one minute, and add it to the boiling water in the pan, stirring sharply with a whisk until it comes to the boil, then take from the fire. Have ready a flat pie-dish lined with paste, put it in the oven, and bake for ten minutes, so that the crust gets a good golden colour. Remove from the oven, and pour the preparation into it, then let it get thoroughly cold. Beat with a whisk, in a copper basin, the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, mix in 3oz. of powdered sugar, and with a spoon lay half of it over the tart, using a knife to flatten it evenly on the top and sides. Pour the rest of the froth into a pastry-bag, decorate the top of the tart artistically, laying it in any fanciful design. Sprinkle over plenty of sugar, place the tart in a slow oven for ten minutes to let it get a pale brown colour, remove it, put it away to cool, slide carefully on to a dessert-dish, and send to table. Lemon Custard.—(1) Put into a saucepan lqt. of milk, the thin rind of a Lemon, two bitter almonds, and 41b. of sugar. Bring the milk to the boil, strain it gradi ally through a fine sieve into a saucepan over six well-beaten ' eggs, and stir well until it thickens. Pour it at once into custard-cups or glasses, and serve hot or cold as required. (2) Boil the peel of one Lemon till very tender, then rub it through a sieve into a stewpan; mix with it fib. of loaf sugar, the strained juice of two Lemons, the thinly- pared rind of one, and 1 pint of white wine. Boil all for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor and set them to cod, pouring the remainder into a dish; beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, and mix them with the cool liquor and peel; then strain them into a jug or basin, stir thoroughly, and set them over the fire in a pan of boiling water. When cooked, grate the peel of a Lemon on the top of the custard, brown it over with a salamander, and serve either hot or cold. Lemon Drops.—(1) Take a large piece of loaf sugar and with it grate off the yellow rinds of three large Lemons, scraping the surface off the sugar as it becomes yellowed. When all the rinds are grated and all the yellow sugar scraped off, add and mix vTell with it 1 table-spoonful of flour, and then beat it to a light paste together with the white of an egg. Drop it on white paper laid on a tin baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Make a mixture of powdered white sugar and strained Lemon-juice almost thick enough for a teaspoon to stand upright in. Put it over the fire in a deep pan and keep stirring till it is quite hot but do not let it boil ; then stir in a little more sugar, let it get hot, chalk the spout of the pan, and with a small stick make the sugar drop in small drops on tin or pewter plates. Let the drops get quite cold and then take them off the plates and put them on sieves into the stove to dry. Lemons—continued. Lemon Dumplings.—(1) Mince 4lb. of beef-suet very finely, then mix with it 4lb. of grated breadcrumb, jib. of caster sugar, and the grated peel of one Lemon ; mix all together with two well-beaten eggs. Form the preparation into dumplings, and boil them, tied in cloths, for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Serve while hot. (2) Sift 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and lib. of flour; add to it the juice and finely-chopped rinds of two Lemons and 41b. of caster sugar. Mix well, stir in two well-beaten eggs anti sufficient milk to make a stiff dough, form this into dumplings, tie separately in cloths, plunge them into a saucepan ot boiling water, and boil for an hour. Serve hot witn wine sauce. (3f F’inely grate lib. of stale crumb of bread ; free 41b. of beef-suet from skin, mince small, mix it with the bread- crumbs, and add 41b. of caster sugar, the grated rinds and strained juice of two Lemons, and bind the whole with four or five well-beaten eggs. Divide the mixture into equal portions, mould into dumplings, plunge them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. They should he well covered with water, and the lid should be kept on all the time. When cooked, take the dumplings out of the saucepan, put then on a hot dish, and serve as quickly as possible. They are very nice when accompanied by a Lemon sauce. Lemon Extract. —Cut the thinly-pared rinds of three Lemons into shreds. Put the peel into a bottle, pour on it 1 pint of brandy or whisky, and cork tightly. Shake the bottle frequently for the first four or five weeks. This extract will keep for years. Lemon Flavouring.—(1) Rub the rinds of four Lemons with 4lb. of lump sugar, put the sugar in a mortar with 2oz. of bitter almonds, blanched, pound them to a smooth paste, put it into small jars, tie paper over, and keep them in a dry store-closet till wanted for use. (2) Peel the rinds off two large Lemons and partially dry them in the open air ; bruise them in a stone mortar, pour over lqt. of spirits of wine, and shake oc •asionally until the colour is drawn out ; then add jpiz. of oil of Lemon, and let it stand. When clear, filter it. (3) Fill some wide-mouthed bottles with the thinly-pared rind of some fresh Lemons ; put in the blanched kernels of some plums or peaches, fill the bottles with brandy, and leave them for one month. Strain the brandy off, bottle it, and keep well corked till wanted. (4) Pare the rind very thinly oft' twenty-five Lemons, and put it into two bottles, each holding about lqt. ; fill up with unsweetened gin, cork them, and leave for a month, shaking occasionally di ring that time ; then drain the liquor off into small bottles. The peel can be used for any pur- pose and will keep for years. Lemon Fritters. -Beat up the yolks of five eggs together with jib. of powdered white sugar. Mix with them, when beaten quite light, 1 saltspoonful each of nutmeg and cinna- mon, and j- pint of cream; whip in lightly the whites of five eggs whisked to a froth, and then add fib. of self- raising flour, working it in as quickly and lightly as pos- sible; it should form a paste only just stiff enough to roll out. Take the rolling-pin and roll out the paste to a thick- ness of fin. Cut it into round pieces with a tumbler or a cake-cutter and fry in boiling lard; they ought to puli' up a good deal during the frying. Lay them on warm paper to drain. Serve liot with a sauce made of the whites of two eggs beaten as stiff as possible together with 1 glass of wine, 4 lb. of powdered white sugar, the grated peel of one Lemon and the strained juice of two. Lemon Froth. —Dissolve 2oz. of gelatine previously soaked in 1 pint of boiling water, then pour in 1 pint of cold water and add the rinds and strained juice of six Lemons. Let it stand till it begins to set, then take out the rinds and add the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a still' froth. When well-beaten into the jelly, turn it into a glass bowl, garnish with ratafias, and serve. See Fig. 1065. Lemon Granite-Ice. —Mix f pint of filtered Lemon-juice with 3 pints of syrup at 28deg., and freeze it into icicles