TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroni—continued. with a partially-boiled and chopped onion and a few cooked mushrooms, and pound until quite smooth. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and pounded mace, work in a small lump of butter, and moisten with beaten yolks of eggs, but not making it too liquid. Put the mixture into a stew pan with a small quantity of white stock and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of thick cream, and stir it at the edge of the fire until very hot, but not letting it boil. When the timbale of Macaroni is cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, cut oft the crust at the top, and remove some of the Macaroni; fill the space left with the above mixture, garnish it with truffles cooked in white wine, and serve. (7) Make some rich puff paste, roll out thin, cut it into narrow strips, twist the strips into a sort of cord, and coil this cord of paste into some well-buttered moulds so as to line them with it. Then fill each mould with boiled Macaroni, and cover them with grated cheese and sifted breadcrumbs mixed in equal quantities. Bake the timbales for three-quarters-of-an-liour, turn them out on a dish, and serve. (8) Well butter the insides of eight small timbale-moulds, and around these make circles with long pieces of boiled Macaroni, taking care to have the moulds well covered. Pill up the centres with minced lamb sweetbreads or veal forcemeat moistened with thick xvhite sauce, close the moulds, boil for half-an-li our, turn out carefully, garnish with parsley (see Pig. 1110), and serve. (9) Break Jib. of Macaroni into Jin. lengths, put them into a saucepan with salted water to cover, and boil until tender; pour the water off' the Macaroni and turn it on to a fine sieve to drain. Thickly butter the interior of a plain timbale-mould, line it with a sheet of buttered paper, and arrange the Macaroni in it in such a way that when turned out it will have the appearance of honeycomb. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, then pour in gradually J pint of boiling water ; dust hi a small quantity of salt, boil for a few minutes, then move it off the fire and stir in quickly a well-beaten egg. Turn the paste on to a plate and leave until cold. Chop lib. of lean veal that has been freed from all skin and bone, put it in a mortar with half its bulk of the above paste and 4oz. of butter, and pound until quite smooth. Season the paste to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Beat up the yolks of three eggs together with the white of one, 1 teacupful of milk, and J teacupful of cream ; stir them gradually in with the above mixture, and when quite smooth pour it carefully in the lined mould. Tie a sheet of paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Care must be taken to prevent the water entering the top of the mould. When ready, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, remove the paper, and serve it with a sauceboatful of truffle sauce. (10) Put 5oz. of Macaroni into a saucepan containing salted water, and boil, taking care to keep the pipes whole. When done, drain on a napkin, and cut up transversely in pieces about lin. long. Fill the hollow of the Macaroni with small pieces of truffle cut the shape to fit (see Fig. 1111), arrange these in a well-buttered timbale-mould, laying them close together, truffled end outwards, against the sides and bottom, and cover with a little quenelle Macaroni—continued. forcemeat. Prepare the fillets of twelve thrushes or other small birds, beat slightly to flatten them, and fry over a brisk fire, turning frequently ; add 8oz. of minced raw Fig. 1111. Truffles for Macaroni Timballs. truffles and salt and spices to flavour, and toss over the fire for a few seconds longer. Take the pan off' the fire, and add a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce reduced with a little wine, and trimmings of truffles. When cool, pour it into the timbale, cover the top with raw forcemeat, and put it in a bain-marie for forty-five minutes, to poach. Wipe the mould, turn out the timbale on to a dish, put an attelette, garnished with a truffle on the top (see Fig. 1112), and serve. A sauceboatful of the same sauce well reduced should also be served with it. This, if it is skil- fully prepared, makes a very fine dish. (11) Put Jib. of long pieces of Macaroni into a saucepan of water with a little salt and butter, and boil until tender. Strain off the liquor, and let the Macaroni get as diy as possible. Lay the pieces evenly in a buttered timbale- mould, cover with any forcemeat, fill up with pieces of game, fat bacon, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, mushrooms, and truffles, pour in sufficient rich sauce to moisten, cover the mould with a cloth, and steam for an hour. Turn out, and serve hot. (12) Boil Jib. of Macaroni in water for ten minutes, strain off the water, and return the Macaroni to the sauce- pan with loz. of butter; shake it over the fire for a few minutes, then add J pint of strained well-seasoned stock, and boil slowly till the stock is almost reduced. Mix with the Macaroni a small quantity of grated Parmesan cheese and a fricassee of chicken, stir all over the fire till quite hot, then pour it into a basin and let it stand till quite cold. When quite cold, butter a mould, dredge the inside of it rather thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, line it with half puff paste, and put in the Macaroni and chicken ; cover the mould, and bake in a slow oven. When baked, turn it out on to a hot dish, cut off the top, pour some white sauce ever and round it, and serve hot. (13) Put the required quantity of Macaroni into a sauce- pan with water, and boil fast until so soft that it can lie easily cut without breaking. Chop it into pieces ljin. long, arrange them inside a well-buttered mould, sticking the ends close together to give the appearance of a honey- comb ; cover these with a layer of quenelle forcemeat,