THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 738 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hams—continued. to serve, take it out, drain it, peel away two-thirds of the j rind, leaving the remainder at the knuckle end, and round I it nicely, smoothing the upper surface of the fat; cut out a | large piece from the centre of the Ham, cut it up in slices, I then ut them back evenly in the place they came from, j Put the Ham on a dish, fix a ruffle on the knuckle-bone, arrange j at the thick end a group of boiled French beans, at the other end some glazed carrots, and garnish both sides with rissoles and truffles. Reduce some Madeira sauce with trimmings of truffles, and serve in a sauceboat with the Ham. (3) If the Haim is very salt, it should be soaked all night; then clean and trim it, put it in a large saucepan or kettle, cover with water, and let it simmer slowly, allowing half-an- hour for each pound. Mix 1 teaspoonful of browned flour and | teacupful of moist sugar with a little port wine. Take the skin off the Ham when done, spread the paste over, and brown it in the oven. Put the Ham on a hot dish, wrap a paper ruffle round the knuckle, and serve with a brown sauce in which J- wineglassful of champagne has been mixed. (4) Put the Ham into cold water and let it steep from twenty-four to forty hours, changing the water two or three times; then wash it well, trim it, put it in a saucepan over the fire in plenty of cold water, together with onions, celery, carrots, garlic, bay-leaves, marjoram, thyme, parsley, cloves, mace (the quantities of these must depend on the size of the Ham and according to taste), and a bottle of sherry. Let the liquor come gradually to the boil, skim it carefully, and simmer from four to six hours. When it is done, remove it from the fire, but do not take it out of the liquor till nearly cold. Skin it, glaze it, and wrap a paper frill round the knuckle. (5) Select a fine freshly-cured York Ham weighing about 1 Gib., trim it, and steep it in cold water for twelve hours; tie in a cloth, put it in a boiler, cover with plenty of water, and boil gently for five hours. When cooked, drain the Ham and put it on a dish, rind downwards, to cool. Take the rind off when cold, trim the Ham, and glaze it. Dish it on a rice socle masked with Montpellier butter, place some cocks’ combs and truffles on silver skewers, stick them in the Ham, garnish with croutons of jelly, and serve. Fig. 919. Boiled Ham with Windsor Beans. (6) Select a lean Ham of about 71b. weight, steep it in cold water for twelve hours, take it out, lay it on a board or table, dry thoroughly with a cloth, put in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and let it boil for two hours; then remove from its stock, lift off the upper skin, trim it neatly, ornament the large end bone with a paper ruffle, and serve it with any kind of sauce desired. (7) Soak the Ham for two or three days in cold water, changing the water two or three times during the time. Wash and trim the Ham, put it into a large saucepan with plenty of cold water, 1 pint of sherry, a few carrots' and onions, three bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, a stick or two of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram tied together, a blade of mace, and half-a-dozen cloves. Place it over the fire until the water begins to boil, then skim carefully, draw it to the side, and simmer gently for four hours or so, according to the size of the Ham. When cooked, lift the saucepan away from the fire, and leave the Ham in its cooking-liquor until almost cold. Trim off the skin, brush the Ham over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, or strew finely-grated Hams—continued. and browned breadcrumbs over it. Fix a paper rill round the knuckle; if preferred, the Ham can be ornamented by piping over lard, coloured with cochineal or spinach-greening. (8) Saw the knuckle off a small Westphalian Ham, taking care not to splinter the bones; trim it, and soak for twelve hours in water, then boil it in plain water for four hours. When done, drain, take off the rind, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry the fat. When quite dry, glaze it, pour a rich brown sauce over, and serve. Boiled boned Ham.—Wash a Ham, put it in a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and boil for four or five hours, according to the size. Take the bone out, roll the Ham, and put it in a basin with a heavy weight on the top. When cold, put it on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Boiled Ham with Windsor Beans.—Boil and glaze a Ham. Boil some small Windsor beans, putting a little salt in the water. Mix a little veloute sauce with ^lb. of butter, a little winter savory, and chopped parsley. Drain the beans when tender, put them in the sauce, pour on to a hot dish, put the Ham on them, with a paper ruffle on the end, and serve (see Fig. 919). Boiled Slices of Ham. — Melt -V wineglassful of red- currant jelly in a saucepan, mix with it 1 teaspoonful of liquefied butter and some small thin slices of Ham, season with a little pepper, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Braised Ham.—(1) Put a trimmed Ham into cold water, and let it remain for two days ; then wrap it in a cloth, put in a braising-pan, cover well with water, and simmer till done ; drain, trim, and put it in another stewpan, with a bottle of Madeira wine poured over; place the cover on the stewpan, and simmer for half-an-hour. Take out the Ham and glaze it. Make a rice socle not quite as large as the Ham, put on a dish, place the Ham on it, and garnish round the socle with plain-boiled vegetables, such as carrots, onions, cabbage-lettuces, and French beans. Decorate five silver skewers with round discs of carrot and other vegetables, stick them in the thick meat of the Ham, and serve with Madeira sauce in a sauce-tureen. (2) American.—Select a lean Ham, partly bone it, without going to the first joint of the thin end, saw the shank- bone, trim the meat, and soak the Ham in water for twelve hours. Tie it in a cloth, put in a large saucepan, co.ver with water, and boil for four hours with a few cloves, pepper- corns, and sweet herbs, excepting bay-leaves. Take the Ham out when cooked, drain it, peel off the rind, put the Ham in a narrow braising-pan, pour a bottle of Madeira wine over it, put on the cover, and boil until reduced, being careful to baste the Ham frequently. Drain, put it on a hot dish, mix a little brown sauce with the cooking-stock, reduce it, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the Ham, and serve with vegetables. Braised Ham as in Milan.—Cook and dish a Ham as for Braised Ham, make some small paste croustades, and fill them with a preparation of cooked truffles, mushrooms, and macaroni, cut in small dice ; grate some Parmesan cheese over, and mix them up with Spanish sauce. Garnish the Ham with these croustades, and place two cocks’ combs and a large truffle on each of three silver skewers, and fix them tastefully in the Ham. Serve with Madeira sauce in a small sauce- tureen. Broiled Ham.—Either freshen a slice of Ham by soaking it in iced water over night, or by heating in enough water to cover it; then wipe dry, put it between the bars of a grid- iron, and brown slightly on both sides. Season with pepper, and serve plain or with fried eggs. Cold Boiled Ham with Aspic Jelly.—Select a freshly- smoked Ham, trim off the end of the knuckle-bone, and, after having soaked it for a few hours, boil it as for Boiled Ham (No. 2). When done, take the Ham out, drain it, cut the thigh- bone short, wrap the Ham tightly in a cloth, and let it cool. When ready to serve, take the cloth off, peel off the rind, excepting at the knuckle end, trim it neatly, glaze, fix a ruffle on the knuckle-bone, put a white paper on a dish, set the Ham on it, and garnish the base with chopped aspic jelly and truffles (see Fig. 920).