866 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Loach—continued. or other small fish, the flesh is very sweet but abounds in bones. LOAF CAKES.—See Cakes. LOAF SUGAR.—See Sugar. LOAVES.—See Bread. LOBSTERS (Fr. Homards; Ger. Hummer; Ital- Gamberi Marini; Sp. Laugostas).—These epicurean shell-fish (.Homarus vulgaris) need little or no description, being sufficiently well known to even the most lowly. They are caught along rocky shores, and some of the very finest are caught around Jersey, and amongst the islands north of Scotland. Imported Lobsters are brought by steam from Norway, being delivered into the London fish-markets nearly, if not quite, alive, which accounts for the display made by fishmongers of the strange-looking blue-black creatures. As soon as the Lobster is boiled, the shell turns scarlet, which will happen whether the fish was alive or dead before being put into the water. The amount of life left in a blue Lobster can be shown by the amount of claw-motion following the pressing of the eye with the finger. It is not always easy to discover whether a Lobster has been freshly boiled or not, because some fishmongers have a trick of putting a little wooden skewer in the tail, so that when springiness of that extremity is tested it cannot be straightened, which might deceive the unwary. Lobsters are generally best from April to the end of October, and should then weigh heavy and feel solid to the sense. The cock, or male Lobster, is better for boiling than the hen, or female, as the flesh is firmer, and more tasty; he can be distinguished by the brightness of the shell, and the narrowness of the tail. The hen Lobster is much broader and generally loaded with coral (or eggs) under the hinder parts, and is generally preferred, on that account, for making artistic dishes; a large variety of these being hereunder described. Aspic of Lobster.—(1) Cut some boiled Lobster-tails in slices, put them in a basin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze lemon-juice over them. Put a thin layer of aspic jelly in a plain cylinder-mould, ornament it with some hard-boiled eggs anil Lobster spawn, and leave till set, then pour in another layer of aspic jelly, Jin. thick. Spread a layer of montpellier butter Jin. thick on a baking- sheet, and on another baking-sheet spread a layer of Lobster butter Jin. thick, and stand them both on ice. Cut the montpellier and Lobster butters, when quite firm, with a round tin cutter to the size of the Lobster slices. Arrange alternately in a circle the Lobster slices and montpellier butter in the cylinder-mould, pour in enough aspic to come Jin. above them, and leave till set; then arrange a circle of Lobster slices and montpellier butter, dressing them reverse to the first circle, pour in more aspic jelly, and when set continue the alternate circles of butter and Lobster slices. When the mould is full, cover Lobster—continued. with a baking-sheet, pack it in ice, and let it remain for two hours. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, mask it -with Lobster butter, turn the aspic out of the mould on to it, garnish with chopped jelly and crofitons of jelly (see Fig. 1082), and serve. (2) Pick the meat carefully out of the tail and claws of a boiled Lobster; cut the meat of the tail into collops, and put them in a basin with the meat of the claws not cut, pour a little vinegar and oil over, anil sprinkle a little salt in. Pack a plain cylinder-mould in ice, and decorate the bottom with poached whites of eggs and sliced gherkins (the mould should be previously coated with a thin layer of aspic jelly). Pour a thick layer of jelly over the eggs and gherkins, and leave it till set, then arrange in a circle on it the finest slices of Lobster, cover with more jelly, and let that set. Mix with some thick mayonnaise a few gherkins and anchovies cut in squares, and whole capers. Pour it in the mould with more jelly, and leave it till set; finish filling the mould with jelly and slices of Lobster. Leave it in the ice for an hour. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on a cold dish. Arrange the claws of the Lobsters round, garnish the bottom of the dish with small halves of decorated hard-boiled eggs, and serve with a boatful of mayonnaise sauce. (3) Pick the flesh as large as possible out of a Lobster, and cut it into about twenty equal-sized slices. Mix 1 wineglassful of tarragon vinegar with 1 pint of white sauce, and boil till reduced to two-thirds. Dip the slices of Lobster in the sauce, and leave them till co >1; pour a layer of clear aspic jelly in the bottom of a flat cylinder-mould, and arrange in various shapes on it some whites of hard-boiled eggs, cut to resemble leaves, stars, diamonds, crescents, &c.; cover them with a little more jelly, pouring it in very carefully, so as not to disarrange them, and leave till set. Lay the slices of Lobster, slant- ingly, in a circle on the jelly, then fill the mould to the top with jelly, and place it over ice. Prepare a small quantity of finely-chopped salad. Put a teacupful of melted aspic jelly in a basin over ice, and whisk it to a white froth ; then mix with it, by degrees and alternately, some salad- oil and tarragon vinegar, allowing the oil to predominate. Continue whisking the sauce till it has the appearance of a smooth white cream, then season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Dip the mould in warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, wipe it, and turn the con- tents out on to a dish; fill the hollow in the centre with the salad, pour the sauce over the salad without allowing it to run over the jelly, and serve. (4) Put three small Lobsters in a saucepan containing boiling salted water, and boil them. When done, take the Lobsters out, stretch their tails out, and let them cool thus. Sever the tails and claws from the bodies of the cold Lobsters, open the claws, take the flesh carefully out, coat it with aspic jelly, and put it back again into the shells. Split each tail in half lengthwise, pick the flesh out, and cut it in slices. Clean anil wipe the tail shells, place a layer of chopped aspic at the bottom, then put in the slices of meat again, the red part uppermost. Fix in the centre of a pain-vert a small wooden column, ornament the pain-vert, surround the column with parsley- leaves so as to form a base for the tails, fix it on a round dish, take the six halves of tails, bending in the same direction, and arrange them on the pain-vert with the pointed ends downwards, leaning them against the column and supported at the base with chopped jelly. Put some neatly-trimmed sprigs of parsley at the top, arrange the finest claws on it, using chopped aspic and parsley to support them. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with cr hitons of aspic. Stick some prawns on an attelette- skewer, and fix it in the top of the column. Fill a sauceboat with mayonnaise sauce, and serve with the Lobster. Baked Lobster.—Pick all the meat from a large Lobster, put it into a mortar, and pound very fine together with 2oz. of butter; season to taste with white pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and then mix with it 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs. Beat up two eggs, and mix them with the breadcrumbs and pounded Lobster-