894 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Macaroons—con tinued. and the white of an egg. When the mixture has been beaten well for ten minutes, take it out with a spoon, a little at a time, form it into balls, brush these over slightly with yolk of egg, roll them in nonpareils (“ hundreds and thousands”), and place on cartridge-paper. Let them remain for a day, and then bake in a cool oven. When done, decorate them with little spots of dried cherries and angelica, fixing these on with icing-sugar. When cold, they are ready for use, or storing. (3) Blanch Jib. of almonds, wash them well, dry, chop them up, spread on a board in a diy place, and leave them for a day or so. Found well, and mix in the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth and Jib. of caster sugar. Put it out in teaspoonfuls on a sheet of paper spread over a baking-sheet, keeping them well apart, damp the tops slightly with a wet brush, put small shreds of almonds on the top, and bake in a slow oven until they are quite hard. When done, turn them over, damp the paper to remove it, and they are ready for use; or they can be preserved in tins or boxes. (4) Put the whites of four eggs into a whipping-bowl, beat them to a very stiff froth, squeeze in the juice of two lemons or limes, taking care not to let any pips go in, then add 41b. of caster sugar. When these are thoroughly mixed, add two more well-whipped whites of eggs, then an- other Jib. of the sugar, lib. of blanched and sliced sweet almonds, and lastly sprinkle over Jib. of flour. Place some pieces of wafer-paper over baking-tins, drop the mixture in table-spoonfuls on them, and bake in a very slow oven for two hours. (5) Put Jib. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar and pound them, adding gradually 4 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add lib. of caster sugar, beat in the almonds, and lay the mixture in small lumps over sheets of wafer- paper placed on a baking sheet. Bake in a moderate oven. (6) Put Jib. of ground sweet almonds into a basin, and mix them well with lib. of caster sugar and a little grated lemon-rind (zest). Beat in the whites of two eggs, and when they are thoroughly incorporated add two more, working the mixture in a mortar. Put it into a biscuit-bag and squeeze it out on to some wafer-paper, keeping the Maca- roons a little apart. Set three or four pieces of sweet almonds on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven. They can be put in tins until wanted. (7) Take Jib. of sweet almonds and 2oz. of bitter almonds ; blanch and pound them, put them into a boxVl with 12oz. of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs, and mix thoroughly with a wooden spatula for at least five minutes ; then take a biscuit-hag, slide down to the bottom of it a No. 3 tube, and put the preparation into the bag. Lay a piece of paper over a baking-sheet; then with the two hands press the preparation down gently, dropping it care- fully on to the paper in small quantities, the size and shape of a two-shilling-piece, as near alike as possible, shaping them perfectly with wet fingers, and taking care that each is entirely separated from the others. Then place the plate in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Before lift- ing the Macaroons out, see that they are a bright golden colour. Let them cool. To remove the Macaroons from the paper, wet a table, lay the paper of Macaroons on this for two minutes, and they can be easily removed. Macaroon Basket.—(1) Put fib. of loaf sugar and 1 gill of water into a small saucepan, and place it over the fire until reduced to a syrup. Thickly grease the exterior of a cake-tin with butter, dip the Macaroons separately into the syrup, and cover the bottom of the mould with it. Arrange a row of the Macaroons round the sides of the tin, first dipping them in the syrup; let them get cold, then put in another row, and so on until the tin is well covered, putting them closely together. Leave the tin until the Macaroons have well set, then lift it gently off, and fill the Macaroon basket with crystallised cherries. Whisk J pint of thick cream to a snow ■with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Put Jib. of loaf sugar into a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water and a small quantity of gum water, and boil to the crack (see Sugar boiling). Brush a marble slab over with a little Macaroons—continued. oil, pour the sugar on to it, pull it out, cut it into four long pieces, and twist two together. This must be done quickly before the sugar gets cold. Take the handles thus formed, fasten one end of them to one side of the Maca- roon basket, bring the other end over and fasten it on to the other side, then drop the whipped cream over the cherries (see Fig. 1114). This makes a very pretty ornament to a dessert-table, and will be found sufficiently simple in its construction. (2) Dissolve 1 table spoonful of gum arabic in J pint of boiling water; when thoroughly melted, mix in Jib. of powdered white sugar. Stir it over the fire till the" sugar is quite melted, and then let it simmer till very thick. Take an ordinary cake-tin, turn it upside down, and butter well the outside both bottom and sides. Take about lib. of Macaroons, stand the melted gum and sugar in a pan of boiling water so that it will keep hot, and cover the bottom of the tin with Macaroons laid close together, first dipping their edges in the melted gum and sugar to make them adhere to one another ; then commence to build walls of them up the sides of the tin, sticking them together as before with the melted gum and sugar ; let each row of the walls get quite firm before adding the next, and be careful in adding the last row to make it adhere to the bottom of the basket as well as to the row it is laid on the top of. Let the basket remain on the tin till quite firm and hard, then lift it off very carefully. Make two rings of Macaroons and stick one on at each end to represent handles. Stand the basket on a flat dish and fill it with whipped cream, heaping it high. Ornament the cream with comfits or little bits of red jelly. Macaroon Cake.—(1) Warm Jib. of butter and mix it in with lib. of sugar, working them to a cream; add six eggs, two at a time, beat them in, then add 1 teacupful of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and sufficient flour to make it of that consistency that it will roll out. About 21b. will be enough. Work the dough thoroughly on the table, roll out thin, and put it on a well-buttered baking-sheet. Pnt it in a moderate oven and bake slightly, as it will have to be baked again when used for Macaroon paste or such like. (2) Blanch and pound 2oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, moistening them occasionally with brown brandy whilst pounding. Beat the yolks of three eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with fib. of caster sugar and the pounded almonds. Blanch loz. of sweet almonds and cut them into thin fillets. Whisk three more eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the above mixture, then whisk the whole to a stiff batter. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Macaroon Cheese Cakes.—(1) Put 6oz. of Macaroons in a mortar with four blanched bitter almonds, and pound them smoothly; then beat them up with 3oz. of warmed butter, the yolks of four eggs, the whites of two, and caster sugar