THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 922 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. knife (see Fig. 1147) that the French cook prefers, maybe used, all that is necessary in addition being a thick strong ' Fig. 1147. Mincing-Knife. board. Carefully remove every particle of sinew, skin, and other tough parts before commencing to mince. Cold Meat en Persillade.—Cut the Meat into slices and lay them on a dish, put some small pieces of butter over, and strew with finely-shred parsley and shallots; season with pepper, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of good clear gravy, and strew over a thick layer of rasped toast. Put the dish in a brisk oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and serve very hot on the same dish. Cold-Meat Boudins.—Any cold remains of Meat can be used. Mince the Meat, put it in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth, moistening occasionally with clear veal or game gravy. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve, return it to the mortar, and beat up with it loz. of butler, one egg, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of powdered mace. Butter some small plain moulds or cups, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and steam for fifteen or twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour some nicely-flavoured tomato sauce over, and serve. Cold-Meat Boudinettes.—Take any cold "white Meat, and chop it very finely. Add either very fine breadcrumbs or mashed potatoes in the proportion of jib. to lib. of chopped Meat. Mix well together, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped herbs, and moisten with a little gravy. Butter well the insides of some cups, fill them with the moistened mince, and press it well in. Bake hi not too hot an oven for twenty minutes, then turn them out on a hot dish, pour some brown gravy round, and garnish each boudinette with a sprig of parsley. Cold-Meat Cakes.—(1) Mince 21b. of any cold cooked Meat, but pork for preference, and mix it up with some bread- crumbs soaked in wine, adding a little grated lemon-peel, and salt and pepper to taste. Shape the mixture into small balls, flatten and plunge them into a saucepan of butter, and fry until done and of a good colour. They may be either used as a garnish, or served on a dish. (2) Take some cold minced Meat, free it from all skin and gristle, add sifted breadcrumbs (about a quarter the weight of the Meat), a little pepper, salt, and parsley, and a few drops of essence of anchovy; moisten with egg. Flour the hands, roll the Meat into little balls about the size of a penny, flatten them, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, fry in butter until lightly broWned, and serve on a hot dish garnished with mashed potatoes and French beans if in season. Cold-Meat Croquettes.—(1) Trim off all the skin and fat from some c >ld Meat, and chop the lean part very finely. Put loz. of butter hi a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, then stir hi a small quantity of nicely-flavoured stock that has been quite freed from fat; put in the minced Meat, with a moderate quantity of chopped mushrooms, parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of powdered spices, stir over the fire until veiy hot, then stand the saucepan at the side; beat the yolk of an egg in the juice of half a lemon, strain them, and stir in with the above mixture. Turn the whole on to a dish, leave it until cold, then divide it into several equal-sized pieces, and mould them to the shape of cutlets; roll them in well-beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and leave them on a dish in a cold place for two or three hours. At the end of that time, egg-and-breadcrumb them again; put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a fiat stewpan, Meat—continued. place it on the fire, and when it boils put in the croquettes, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the cutlets as they are fried by putting them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire for a minute or two, then put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with plenty of fried parsley, and serve. (2) Any remains of cold boiled Meat may be used. Chop the Meat very finely and mix with it half the quantity of sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, and bread panada. Season to taste with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, bind the mixture with beaten eggs, shape it into small balls, and roll them hr finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, roll it, then put in the balls, and fry them until a bright golden brown. As the balls are cooked, take them out of the frying-pan, and lay them on paper near the lire to drain. When all are done, pile them up in the centre of a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of piquante sauce. (3) Any c >ld Meat minced will make croquettes. Take about one quarter of a half-quartern loaf of bread, soaked in water and squeezed dry; mix with the minced Meat and bread about 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 dessert-spoonful of ground ginger, three eggs, 1 pinch of ground mace, a little pepper and salt, and roll the paste into egg-shaped balls or croquettes. Have ready two or three well-beaten eggs in a basin, and Hour in another; first roll the croquettes in the Hour, then in the egg, fry in boiling dripping or lard, and serve hot. Cold Meat Curried Kabobs. -Peel and slice three or four pieces of green ginger, cut two onions rather thickly, chop 21b. of any kind of Cold Meat into pieces about Him square, and thread the Meat, onion, and ginger, two pieces alternately, on skewers about 2jin. long. Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and fry a sliced onion in it till brown ; then add the skewers of meat, and fry all together; sprinkle 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder over the meat, stir over the fire for five minutes, add 2 teaspoonfuls of chutney, two chopped gherkins, and 1 good-sized pinch of salt. The curry will take about one hour to cook over a slow fire. Before serving, squeeze over the juice of a lemon. Cold-Meat Cutlets.—Chop and pound jib. of cold Meat, mix with it jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, loz. of butter, and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and ketchup. Work this mixture to a stifl’ paste with a beaten egg, put it on a floured paste board, and shape it into cutlets ; flour them well, and insert in the end of each a small piece of macaroni (not cooked) to represent the bone. Brash over with egg, roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, fry in boiling lard, and serve hot. Cold-Meat Fritters.—(1) Take any cold cooked Meat, cut it up into small pieces, and sprinkle it over with salt and pepper. Have some frying-batter ready; take a small quantity of the batter up in a spoon, and put a little of the Meat in the centre, cover it with more batter, put it gently into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and let it remain a minute. Take it out, drain on brown paper, and serve hot. (2) Cut some slices of cold Meat, trim them nicely, brush over with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, strew them thickly with a mixture of parsley, sweet herbs, lemon thyme, and onions all finely chopped, and fry them. Have a brown gravy ready flavoured with ketchup and a very little cayenne pepper, thicken it with butter and flour, and stir in the last thing a small quantity of cream. Lay the fried Meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and strew over some crumbs of bread fried crisp. Cold-Meat Jelly.—Cut some cold cooked Meat into small slices, and dust them over with salt and pepper; dissolve loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of clear boiling stock ; arrange the slices of Meat in a mould, with a few sliced hard- boiled eggs, and fill up the mould with the stock. Put it into the oven for lialf-an-hour, then take it out, and stand it in a cool temperature. When quite cold and set,