THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 850 For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, l tensile, Sauces, iL'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Lettuces—continued. White Cos (see Fig. 1072), the name given to the latter being somewhat of a mystery. The Cabbage Lettuce is the best for cooking as in soups, and the White Cos best for salads. According to Herodotus, Lettuces were served at the royal tables of the Persians more than 400 years before the Christian era. In A.D. 200 they are mentioned as producing the opium of Galen, the celebrated Greek physician, a fact which led to the discovery of a mild narcotic drug contained in the juice of those which are bitter by age and overgrowth. This sedative power of the ordinary salad Lettuce is so small that it would be difficult to appreciate any such effect even after eating heartily of them. The name Lettuce is said to be a corruption of the French word lait, indicating their milky cjualities, and from this milk the medicinal lactucarium is produced by extraction. Besides the following numerous receipts for preparing Lettuce for the table, others in which Lettuces are used will be found distributed through this Encyclopaedia. Baked stuffed Lettuces.—Pick, clean, pare, and thoroughly wash six Lettuce-heads, parboil them for five minutes, drain well, and fill the insides with godiveau or sausage forcemeat. Tie each head, and put them in a saute-pan, laying down carefully, and add 1 gill each of Madeira sauce and white broth. Season moderately with salt and pepper, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Arrange on a hot dish, untie, pour the sauce over, and serve. Braise:! Lettuces.—Select some freshly-gathered Lettuces with firm white hearts, wash well in several waters, then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for five minutes. Take out the Lettuces with a skimmer, refresh them, then press well with the hands to extract as much of the water as possible; put some thin slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, fold the Lettuces, lay them in, season well, and cover with unskimmed broth. Put a sheet of greased paper over the Lettuces, and braise for an-hour-and-a-quarter on a slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid of the stewpan. When the moisture is reduced to a glaze, drain the Lettuces, put them on a hot dish, pour over some brown sauce or rich gravy, and serve. Braised stuffed Lettuces.—Having selected the required quantity of Lettuces, trim, wash, blanch, and drain them; cut the middle leaves out very carefully, fill the hollow with a fowl-and-truffle forcemeat, then tie the Lettuces round with string; line a stewpan with some slices of veal, place in some chopped carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, put in the Lettuces, moisten to their height with stock, and braise. Warm some bechamel sauce together with the yolk of an egg, put the Lettuces on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce poured over them. Cream of Lettuce.—Wash thoroughly the green leaves of three good-sized heads of Lettuce; drain, chop, place them in a saucepan with lib. of butter, and cook for five minutes, stirring lightly. Moisten with 2qts. of broth, Lettuces—continued. season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and \ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, add a bouquet garni and 4oz. of well-cleaned raw rice, cover the saucepan, and cook for forty-five minutes; then remove the bouquet, and strain the soup through a fine sieve. Clean the sauce- pan well, replace the soup in it, and heat thoroughly, but do not let it boil, meanwhile stirring gently with a spatula. Pour in 1 pint of sweet cream, stir a little more, and turn it into a hot soup-tureen. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Fried stuffed Lettuces.—Clean and wash as many Lettuces as are required, open out the leaves, and stuff them with veal or any rich forcemeat ; tie the Lettuces round and boil, or boil before stuffing, and then stew them in gravy. Take out the Lettuces, drain thoroughly, dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, or into thick batter with 1 wineglassful of brandy mixed with it, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. Serve very hot. The batter (if used) should be made quite four hours before being wanted. Lettuce-and-Cheese Salad.—LTse any dry rich cheese, such as Parmesan, Roquefort, or Gorgonzola, about 2 heaped table-spoonfuls being sufficient for a head of Lettuce of medium size. Carefully wash the Lettuce, tear the leaves apart, and lay them in a salad-dish ; grate the cheese or break it in small pieces, and scatter it among the Lettuce- leaves ; pour over all a plain salad dressing, and serve. Lettuce Salad.—(1) Take two fine Lettuces, remove the outer green leaves, wash and wipe carefully, place them in a salad-bowl, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, 4 teaspoonful each of chopped chervil and tarragon, and season with 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper diluted in 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and K- table-spconfuls of oil. Cut up, mix thoroughly, and serve. (2) Wash six or eight cabbage Lettuces, trim off the coarse and outside leaves, and pull the good ones apart; leave the Lettuces in water for about half-an-hour, then drain, place them in a cloth, and swing till dry. Pull the leaves in pieces, not cutting with a knife, and put them in a salad-bowl. Mash the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste in a basin, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, H teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat the ingredients well together, then add by degrees a small quantity of finely-chopped tarragon, 1 dessert-spoonful of coarse white pepper, another table- spoonful of vinegar, and about li teacupfuls of Lucra or Provence oil. When thoroughly amalgamated, pour the mixture over the Lettuce, and toss it about well. Garnish the salad with some hard-boiled whites of eggs cut into slices, and serve. (3) Hot.-—Trim off the outside leaves of a nice-sized cos Lettuce, wash it in plenty of water, dry well, pull the leaves apart, and place them in a salad-bowl. Cut two thin rashers of streaky bacon into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a finely-minced onion, and fry slightly but without letting them brown ; pour vinegar over the bacon, season with salt and pepper, and pour the whole over the Lettuce. Stir the salad well with a wooden spoon and serve whilst hot. Lettuce Soup.—(1) Cool and press eat all the water from about two dozen blanched Lettuces, cut them down the centres without entirely separating, dust over with salt and pepper, put them into a saucepan with 4 pint of veal broth and the same of rich fou l consomme, add a small bunch of parsley, a clove or two, one onion and carrot, and a little each of thyme and bay-leaf. Cover with a sheet of well-buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, and boil the Lettuces gently for fully two hours. Take them out, drain on a cloth, cut into halves or quarters, put them into a soup-tureen, pour in the strained stock in which they were cooked, together with 3 pints more boiling broth, and serve with pieces of toast floating on the top. (2) Wash the Lettuces and boil them in salted water; when tender, drain and chop them finely. Put about 14oz. of but;er and 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour into a sauce- pan, and stir over the fire until well incorporated; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, put in the