TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 749 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—con tinned. saucepan with one or two of its legs, chopped in halves, and the neck and breast; put in also a pat of butter, a hunch of sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns ; then place the pan over a fire, and fry until the flesh is a light brown. Toss the pan frequently. Dust over again with flour, and pour in gradually a little warmed broth and 1 wineglassful of white wine. The gravy should be a little thick. Put the pan over the fire again, and as soon as it boils, remove it to the side and let it remain until the meat is quite done. Take out the meat, drain it, pound in a mortar, and pass it through a sieve. Remove the fat from the soup, mis in the pounded Hare, take the pan off the fire, add a little cayenne, pour it through a conical sieve into a soup-tureen, and serve with small croutons of fried bread. (8) Skin and clean two Hares, cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with -Jib. of bacon cut up small, and add ilb. of butter. Cook the pieces of Hare until browned, and let the whole of the preparation get cold ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of red wine, 2 pints of rich consomme, and a bunch of sweet herbs, also lqt. of mushrooms, \ two onions, two cloves, and cayenne, mace, and pepper to taste. ] Bring the liquor to the boil, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and cook gently, skimming frequently, until . the meat is done. Take out the meat, remove any projecting bones, put it with the pieces of bacon into another saucepan, : strain in the liquor, and boil up once more before serving-. This is supposed to resemble turtle soup. (9) Cut the Hare into joints as if for jugged Hare, and put them over the fire with 4db. of lean beef, a good slice of ham, four onions peeled and cut small, two carrots scraped, washed, and cut small, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of winter savory, a sprig of lemon-thyme, a little salt, whole black pepper and allspice, three blades of mace, and lgall. of water. Let it boil till lqt. of the water is evaporated; then take out the Hare, strain the soup, and add 1 pint of port wine. Boil the soup up again, pour it over the Hare in a tureen, and serve it very hot. Hare Soup with Quenelles.—Skin and draw a Hare, chop off the feet and legs, cut three of them up in small pieces, also the breast and neck, and divide the body in halves. Chop up an onion, put it in a stewpan with a little celery, a carrot cut in slices, and a little lard, set the pan over a fire, and fry them; add a few uncooked veal or poultry trimmings, a ham-bone, a few strips of bacon rind, or a calf’s foot boned and blanched, and lastly, the pieces of Haro (except the one leg), and fry for about twelve minutes; then add a little broth and § pint of white wine. Boil it, skim well, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, made up of marjoram, basil, thyme, and bay- leaf, and also add a few cloves and peppercorns. When this meat is nearly done, skim off all the fat, and thicken with a little potato-flour or diluted arrowroot. Let it remain on the side of the fire until the meat is quite done ; then take it out, drain, and let it get cold. Skim off the fat again from the liquor, pass it through a conical sieve, add a few table- spoonfuls of Madeira, place it back in the saucepan, and put the saucepan again on the side of the fire. Cut the meat from the back and fillets transversely into collops, replace them in the soup, sprinkle over a little cayenne, and add a few quenelles made with the remaining leg of the Hare. Skim off the fat again, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Fig. 932. Terrine for Hare. Hare and Veal Pate.—Cut off all the meat from a Hare, take an equal quantity of veal, chop separately, and season Hares—continued. with salt and pepper. Put a layer of the minced Hare at the bottom of a pate-dish or terrine (see Fig. 932), next a layer of veal, and then thin slices of bacon, and so on until the dish is nearly full, finishing with bacon. Cover it over with bay-leaves, pour in ^ teacupful of water, put on the lid, close it hermetically with paste, and bake in a slow oven for ten or twelve hours, or in a baker’s bread-oven, leaving it there all the night after the bread has been withdrawn. Imitation Hare.—Chop some cold veal or fowl, beef-suet, two or three slices of a Spanish onion, and a little parsley, and mix them together in a mortar with about 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, seasoning with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and 1 pinch of cayenne. Pound the ingredients together, adding a small quantity of powdered thyme or marjoram, and bind the mixture with one or two well-beaten and strained eggs. Spread the stuffing over a thick piece of steak, roll it, and bind with fine string. Roast the meat in front of a clear fire, allowing between fifteen and twenty minutes for every pound. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy round it, and servo with a sauceboatful of the same. Imitation Hare Soup. Clean a bullock's heart (one freshly taken from the animal if possible), removing all the fat, pipes, and outside skin, split it in halves without separating, and remove all the blood. Cut it in slices, put them in a jar (with a close-fitting lid), add a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, salt and pepper, three onions (one of them stuck with cloves), a largo slice of bread, and 3oz. or 4oz. of butter rolled in flour ; cover over with cold water, put on the lid, hermetically seal it with paste, place it in a saucepan with boiling water up to the neck, and cook for three or four hours, keeping the water replenished. Take out the bread and the heart when tender, pound them in a mortar, moistening with beef-broth free from fat, and rub them through a sieve ; strain the liquor into a saucepan, add the heart, &c., and pour in as much more rich beef broth as is required for the soup. Boil up quickly, season with salt and cayenne to taste, add a liaison of flour and butter to bring it to the consistency of cream, stir in 1 table-spoonful of sugar and 1 wineglessful of port wine, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Jugged Hare.—(1) Skin and draw a Hare, cut it up into joints, sprinkle with flour, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown. Put a layer of thin slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, put in the pieces of Hare, fitting- them close together, and cover with another layer of bacon; then add i pint each of claret and beef gravy, a few pounded cloves and peppercorns, and a little salt. Place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer for about an-hour-and-a-half, or until the meat is quite tender. Take out the meat and put it on a dish in front of the fire, or in a cool oven to keep warm. Pass the gravy through a sieve, remove all the fat, and reduce over a quick fire to half its original bulk ; then add 1 wineglassful of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and if the soup requires thickening-, stir in a little butter and flour. Sprinkle in a pinch of cayenne, put in the pieces of Haro, make it hot again, and it is ready to be served. (2) Skin a Hare, draw it, cut it up first into joints and then again in halves, and add to them lib. of rump steak, cut up into pieces about l|in. square. Put a few pieces of the steak (the fattest part) at the bottom of an earthenware jar, then a few pieces of the Hare, and fill the jar with the remaining pieces of meat; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put in at equal distances from one another the rind of a lemon, eight whole onions, two or three blades of mace, a few peppercorns, six cloves, two bay-leaves, and a few sprigs of parsley and thyme; then add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and | pint of water or stock, and cover over the jar. Put it in a saucepan of water not quite up to the top of the jar, and boil for six hours or so, or until the meat is tender. Pour it out on to a dish, garnish with game forcemeat balls, and serve. (3) Put an onion (stuck with six cloves) and a bunch of sweet herbs into an earthenware jar. Cut a Hare up into joints, dust each piece over with a little pounded mace, salt and pepper, put them in the jar, cover over with water, place the lid on, and stew in a moderate oven for two-hours-and-a-