802 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. KNEADING.—The process by which the ingredients of dough are thoroughly blended (see Bread). The word is of very early extraction, probably from the Icelandic Tcnoda. KNEADING-TROUGH—A trough used by bakers for making bread. KNICKERBEIN.—The literal translation of this German word is “weak-kneed.” It has been given to a “pick-me-up,” on account of its supposed nerve-giving powers. It should be made as follows, and swallowed at one gulp: Put the yolk of an egg at the bottom of a champagne- glass, pour over gently 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, and on top of this again 1 wineglassful of alkermis or curaijoa, taking great care to have the latter floating on the top, and without mixing with the brandy. KNIVES.—When these were first used or manu- factured dates so far back into the remote ages that it would be almost absurd to hazard a guess. They appear to have been introduced with civilisation, wherever and whenever that may have ensued; therefore, we have accounts of them in our earliest historical records, either for the kitchen or table. d Fig. 1006. Ancient Knives. The history of Knives is very entertaining. The first of which we have any record were the sharp edges of flint (see Fig. 1006, a, b, e, f, g), which were much used in sacrifices. The two a, b, are drawn from specimens transferred from Ancient Egypt to the Berlin Museum, and c will be recognised as the knife of Egyptian hieroglyphics, which was made of bronze, d shows the Egyptian butcher with his dismembering knife and steel stuck in the belt. The illustrations e, f, g, are from Assyrian Knives in the British Museum. Fi'om the very earliest ages of civilised history Knives of metal appear to have been used; but amongst savages they were, and are now to some extent, manufactured from bone, hard wood, shell, or stone. In the thirteenth century Knives were mentioned under the name of Mensaculse and Artavi, and later on they are called Kenivets, from which we get the old English Knif, and our modern Knife. See Fig. 1007. Knives—continued. The varieties of Knives in modern culinary use are very great, differing in shape and size according to the uses to which they are applied. Those made for special purposes are described under special headings, such as Boning, Carving, Choppers, Cooking, &c. Fig. 1007. Modern Table Knives. One of the great charms of a well-ordered table- service is sharp Knives, a matter that is worthy of the cook’s especial attention, for when the blade is blunt, the meat appears to be tough, an idea that is not easily discarded. Knife-blades should be as bright as possible, and the handles free from the least semblance of grease or other uncleanliness. After using they should be wiped on a cloth to remove solid matters that might be adhering, and especially grease, for the sake of the Knife-board or Knife-cleaner. The practice of standing table Knives in hot water cannot be too severely deprecated, as the water spoils the handles, and the heat loosens the blades. Knife-cleaners are of various Fig. 1008. Rotary Knife-cleaner (A. Lyon). kinds, the Rotary (see Fig. 1008) being far superior to the old-fashioned knife-board, even in its improved con- dition, the board being covered with a soft material, and emery powder being used instead of bath-brick. "When Knives are put away for future use, the blades should be rubbed with a cloth saturated with mutton- suet; this will prevent rusting. KNOT.—This is the name given to a kind of sand- piper (Tringa canutus), a small bird which when fat and cooked can scarcely be distinguished from the quail. King Canute is said to have been so fond of them that the Continent was searched far and near for them. The plumage is described as grayish or ashy above, white with dusky liars under the tail coverts, and pale brown on the breast. They are met in northern latitudes during the summer months. KNUCKLE.—This term is used in cookery, and refers to the lower part of a leg of veal.