927 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Meat—continued. Stewed Tinned Meat and Rice.—Scrape the fat and jelly off lib. of tinned Meat, and chop the Meat finely. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, some of the fat and jelly off the Meat, and 14 pints of milk. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of ground mace and nutmeg. Boil the rice until tender, then mix the chopped Meat in with it. Mash about 21b. of boiled potatoes, mixing butter and salt with them ; roll them into small balls, dip them in beaten egg, and then in a mixture of breadcrumbs and chopped parsley. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when it boils put in the potato balls, and fry them until nicely browned. As the balls are fried, put them on paper near the fire to drain. When the Meat is thoroughly heated, turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with the potato balls, and serve. Tinned-Meat Balls with Salad.—Finely chop |lb. of tinned Meat, and mix with it 1 heaped teacupful of mashed potatoes, J table-spoonful each of chopped onions and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and a small quantity each of salt, pepper, and cayenne. Moisten the mixture with 1 wineglassful of salad-oil and milk, mixed in equal quan- tities, and a few drops of vinegar. Roll the mixture into small balls on a floured table. Beat an egg with 1 tea- cupful of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, and 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb ; dip the balls in it, then put them into a fiying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them over a brisk fire until well and equally browned. As the balls are cooked, put them on a piece of paper in front of the fire to drain as much of the fat off as possible. Put the Meat balls in the centre of a dish of nicely-dressed salad. Fig. 1149. Tinned-Meat Balls with Salad. place a few hard-boiled eggs that have been cut into halves lengthwise round (see Fig. 1149), and serve. Tinned-Meat-and-Bread Pudding.—Soak Mb. of any stale pieces of bread in cold water until quite soft, then drain them in a colander. Chop lOoz. or 12oz. of tinned Meat, and flavour it with powdered sage, salt, and pepper to taste. A finely-chopped onion may also be mixed with the Meat. Put the bread into a basin and beat it with a fork until quite smooth, then mix the Meat with it, and add 4 salt- spoonful each of pounded cloves, nutmeg, and mace. Beat two eggs with \ teacupful of flour, and stir them into the above mixture. Butter a dish, turn the mixture into it, put some pieces of butter on the top, place it in a brisk oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Serve the pudding very hot. Tinned-Meat Collops.—Peel two moderate-sized onions, slice them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry to a golden brown; then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 pint of stock, add a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf tied together, a few cloves, and salt and pepper to taste ; boil gently for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, strain the stock into a clean stew- pan, put in the Meat, which should have been cut into small nice-shaped collops, flavour with either walnut or mushroom ketchup and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and let the whole stew gently at the side of the fire for an hour. When ready, turn the collops on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Tinned Meat and Mashed Potatoes.—Peel and boil seven or eight large potatoes, and mash them; chop about lib. of tinned Meat and mix with the potatoes. Peel and chop a small onion, put it in a stewpan, with 1 scant tea- cupful of the fat and jelly of the Meat, 2 teaspoonfuls of Meat—continued. curry powder, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and vinegar, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Place the stewpan over the fire, and stir the contents until boiling, then mix the -whole with the Meat and potatoes. Pile the mixture in a pyramid on a dish on which it can be served and that will stand the heat of the oven. Strew grated bread- crumb over the pyramid, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and put it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, take the pyramid out of the oven, and serve while very hot with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Tinned.Meat-and-Oatmeal Pudding.—Put 1 heaped tea- cupful of oatmeal into a saucepan with 1 small peeled and finely-chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful each of anchovy sauce and grated lemon-peel, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour in 1 pint of water. Boil the oatmeal gently for half-an-hour, stirring it continually with a wooden spoon. Beat four eggs together with loz. of flour, and chop Mb. of tinned Meat and 4oz. of bacon. Mix the eggs, Meat, and bacon with the oatmeal, stirring the whole vigorously until well mixed. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and press down tightly; tie a well-floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, taking care that the water does not enter the basin, and steam the pudding for an-hour- and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Tinned-Meat-and-Oyster Pie.—Prepare a good Meat-pie crust, butter a pie-dish, and line it with it. Roll out a flat of the paste large enough to go over the dish and form a cover ; grease the interior of the crust in the pie- disli, then put in two jars of small cups, to prevent the cover falling in, which must be placed on the top. Trim off the paste neatly round the edges of the dish, and bake until lightly browned in a crisp oven. Meanwhile, prepare the following mixture : Put loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until mixed, but not browned, then pour in the liquor from a tin of oysters, add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quan- tity of powdered mace. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened. Chop about fib. of any kind of tinned Meat, put it with the oysters into the sauce, and boil all together for two minutes. When the pie-crust is cooked, take it out of the oven and turn it out of the pie-dish, first removing the jars. Pour the Meat mixture into the pie- crust, replace the cover, and put it in the oven again for a few minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, stand the pie on it, and serve. Tinned-Meat Patty.—Sift h teaspoonful of baking-powder with 41b. of flour, then mb in 2oz. of butter, and when quite smooth stir in sufficient water to form a light dough; knead well on a floured table, and divide it into two equal portions. Roll out one portion of the paste, line a buttered baking-tin with it, cover it with thin slices of ham, and over those spread a layer of tinned Meat. Roll out the remainder of the dough, cover the Meat with it, trim round the edges, and moisten and pinch them together. Bake the patty for a little under an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, cut it into squares, and leave it in the tin until cold. Tinned-Meat Pie.—(1) Peel and slice a large onion (or two small ones), and put it into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, and l teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, and ground mace ; pour in 1 pint of milk or water, or milk and water mixed, and boil the rice gently until tender, having it rather dry when cooked. Chop 8oz. or lOoz. of tinned Meat, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and ground mace ; add 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, dry mustard, and chilli vinegar, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped herbs. Turn the rice into a pie-dish, and mix the Meat mixture with it; smooth the surface with the blade of a knife and strew grated breadcrumb over, put three or four small pieces of butter or fat from the Meat on the top, and bake it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top, serve the Meat while very hot.