750 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Hares—continued. half or so. Take out the joints separately, and put them in a soup-tureen. Dredge a little flour and butter in the stock, boil up again, add 1 gill of port wine, pour over the Hare, and serve. (4) Skin a Hare, put it in a basin of water to soak, and let it remain for several hours, changing the water frequently. Chop it up, wash well, and put it on a strainer to drain. Place it in a jar with a sheep’s milt, and season with a little marjoram, mace, nutmeg, parsley, and lemon-thyme, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper. Cover the jar with a cloth, tie it down, put it in a saucepan with water up to its neck, and boil for three hours or so until the meat is done. Put a small quantity of flour in a basin with a little ketchup or soy, mix well, add it to the mixture in the jar, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. It is then ready to be served, and a few game forcemeat balls may be added if desired. (5) Skin a Hare, clean it, cut it into joints, and put them in an earthenware jar with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and a little more water than will just cover the Hare. Cover the jar, put it into a moderately-heated oven, so that the contents may cook slowly, and stew till the meat is done enough. Uncover the jar, take out the pieces of Hare, and thicken the gravy, first picking out the herbs, onion, and spices. When the thickening is sufficiently boiled in the gravy, strain it through a sieve, season to taste with cayenne, soy, and ketchup, pour it while boiling over the Hare, add a few forcemeat balls, and serve. (6) Skin and clean a Hare, wipe it with a cloth dipped in boiling water, dry it, cut it into good-sized pieces, and dredge each piece well with flour. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until hot, then put in the pieces of Hare, and fry them, turning to brown all sides equally. Pack the pieces of Hare in an earthenware jug, with two onions with three cloves stuck in each, ^ table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and Worcester- shire sauce, and 1 breakfast-cupful of brown stock, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Tie a piece of stout brown paper over the jar, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and steam the Hare for three hours, adding more boiling water occasionally to keep up the original quantity, but taking care not to let the water enter at the top of the jar. Butter a large, rather deep dish, line it with a good flaky crust, and bake it for half-an-liour. When the Hare is cooked, arrange the pieces on the paste, strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve over it, and serve while very hot. (7) Leicestershire Style.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut it into pieces, wipe each piece on a dry cloth (but they must not be washed), season them well with salt and pepper, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned. Wash and bone a couple of anchovies, chop them, and mix with them a small quantity each of chopped thyme and parsley, grated nutmeg, mace, 1 tea- spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and J- teaspoonful of pounded Fig. 933. Jugged Hare (Leicestershire Style). cloves. Put a few thin slices of fat bacon in a large earthen- ware jar, then drain the pieces of Hare from the butter, and put a layer of them in the jar; strew some of the mixture over, and cover in turn with another layer of bacon. Proceed to fill the jar in this way, strewing the seasoning between the layers; moisten with f breakfast-cupful of ale, put the lid on I the jar, and solder it round the edg'es with flour-and-water paste. Stand the jar in a saucepan with cold water to about two-thirds its height, and boil it for about four hours, more Hares—continued. or less, according to the age of the Hare. When the Hare is tender, put loz. of butter and -J- table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them on the fire until mixed, then pour in 2 pint of port wine and a few drops of mushroom ketchup. Take the pieces of Hare out of the jar, and put them in the sauce ; dust in a small quantity of mushroom powder, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle and a small quantity of browning, and toss the whole over the fire until boiling. Arrange the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, garnish with fried bread sippets and potato croquettes (see Fig. 933), pour the sauce round, and serve. (8) Skin and clean a Hare, and cut it into moderate-sized pieces, reserving the blood ; lard the shoulder pieces and the best pieces from the back and thighs with thin strips of bacon, and put them into a large stone or earthenware jar with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, two or three finely-minced shallots, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 pint of claret. Put the lid on the jar, solder round the edges with flour-and-water paste, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water almost up to the top, and boil for four hours. As the water reduces, fill up again with boiling water. When cooked, turn the Hare on to a deep dish, strain its gravy over it, and serve. (9) Cut a Hare into joints and the carcase into small pieces, and fry them with some fat bacon until browned. Drain the pieces of Hare from the fat, dust them over with finely-powdered dried parsley, thyme, and savory, and a small quantity each of pounded mace and allspice, and put them into a large earthenware jar ; put in also two finely-minced shallots, sufficient brown stock to cover the meat, and salt and pepper to taste. Tic a piece of bladder over the jar, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and keep it boiling for three hours, or longer if the Hare is an old one. When tender, take the meat out of the jar, skim the fat off the gravy, strain it, thicken with a small quantity of flour, and boil up again. Arrange the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (10) Clean a Hare, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, and put them into a jar just large enough to hold them, with a bunch of sweet herbs, the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, the juice of a whole one, one onion stuck with four cloves, and 2 wineglassfuls of port wine. Tie a bladder tightly over the jar, making it perfectly air-tight, put it into a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and keep it boiling rapidly for three hours. More boiling water should be added as the quantity becomes diminished. Afterwards take the jar out of the water, strain the liquor from the Hare into a small saucepan, remove the fat, and thicken it with flour, stirring over the fire until boiling. Lay the pieces of Hare on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve with red-currant jelly- Larded Fillets of Hare a la Minute.—Skin and clean a Hare, cut off the fillets, lard them, put them into a basin, season with ground mixed spice and salt, pour over sufficient oil to moisten, and let them soak for an hour. In the mean- time, pour some stock into a saucepan, and reduce it nearly to glaze; then add a large slice of fat bacon and the larded fillets, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and simmer gently for twelve minutes, by which time the fillets should be well cooked and glazed. Great care must be taken not to let the bacon burn, or the fillets will be spoilt. Put the fillets on a dish, add a little rich stock to the glaze, stir well, pour it over, and serve. Marinaded Fillets of Hare.—Cut six fillets of Hare into halves, beat them slightly, trim, and lard them. Put lqt. of vinegar and 1 pint of broth into a stewpan, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, three bay-leaves, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, about two blades of maco, Jib. of brown sugar, and a small lump of salt, and boil for twenty minutes. Put some slices of carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and leek into a deep dish, pour the boiling liquid over them, and leave till cold; then put in the fillets, covering well with the vegetables, and let them remain thus for three days. Drain the fillets, wipe with a cloth, put them in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and cook for twenty minutes. When done, glaze them, and brown lightly with a salamander.