4 J^OUSf£l)Ol0 llBoolvflf This bright little book is interesting in two ways — because the subject treated is of itself interesting, and because it is the work of a bright, independent mind, which looks at things from its own point of view and not from the point of view of what it thinks it ought to think. Charles L. Eastlake. Hints on Household Taste in Furniture, Up- holstery, and other Details. Edited by C. C. Perkins. New Edition. With Illustrations and colored Plates. 8vo, red edges, ^3.00. Respecting the appointments of the house, from the entrance hall to the highest bedroom, Mr. Eastlake gives the most excellent counsels. The paper, the carpets, the table furniture, the picture- frames, the book-cases, the chairs, and secretaries, all are discussed with an intelligent and cultured taste that is simply invaluable to any one who may seek how to make his home more beautiful. — The Independent (New York). Mr. Eastlake remembers that all builders and furnishers of houses are not rich; indeed, he gives especial thought to the thou- sands who greatly desire beautiful things, but must have inexpen- sive ones; and this increases the practical value of the book. — Boston Advertiser. Charles Wyllys Elliott. The Book of American Interiors. Contain- ing Heliotype Views of 22 striking Interiors now ex- isting in this country, including the Libraries of Mr. Longfellow, Mr. Bryant, and Donald G. Mitchell; and noteworthy Halls and Dining-Rooms in Boston, Al- bany, Newport, San Francisco, etc. Comprising, also, 30 smaller Illustrations. With descriptive letterpress and Essays on the Library and Dining-Room. Large 4to, $10.00. In shape, color, and letterpress, the book is most praiseworthy. As to its illustrations, they are eminently good and valuable. . . . The essays which accompany the plates are very agreeably and even learnedly written, and bear pleasantly on the theme of house- hold art, the study of which has become the life-work of their accomplished author. — New York Evening Post. Lucretia P. Hale. Fagots for the Fireside. i2mo, $1.25.