5 Charades, literati, anagrams, shouting proverbs, crambo, bean- bag, potato-race, clumps, jacoby, kopak, sapolio, Uncle Sam, and scores of other household games, old and new, with directions for playing, and a pretty love-story winding through them. The unwary person who opens this book will be sorely tempted to drop aH business, call together a company, and straightway fall to playing"the games here described and illustrated. It is the best collection we have seen, and will be a boon to any host or hostess . . . when entertaining young neighbors. Nor are all the games for immature brains; some of them will be found quite a test for older and better trained minds. — Christian Advocate (New York). Elizabeth Karr. The American Horsewoman. With numer- ous Illustrations, Glossary, and Index. Crown 8vo, $2.00. Contents : Introduction ; I. The Horse ; II. The Riding-Habit; HI. The Saddle and Bridle; IV. Mounting and Dismounting; V. The Seat on Horseback; VI. Holding the Reins and Managing the Horse; VII. The Walk; VIII. The Trot, the Amble, the Pace, the Rack; IX. The Canter; X. The Hand Gallop, the Flying Gallop; XI. The Leap, the Standing Leap, the Flying Leap ; XII. Defenses of the Horse, Critical Situations ; Addenda : Thirty-four points to be learned by Equestriennes; Glossary ; Index. “ The American Horsewoman,” by Mrs. Karr, has an especially timely value. Her little book, addressed solely to lady readers, embodies clear and concise teaching gained from many years’ expe- rience in horseback riding at home and abroad. She gives prac- tical hints, illustrated with thirty cuts, on the riding-habit, the sad- dle and bridle, mounting and dismounting, on the “whys and wherefores ” of a proper position in the saddle, and on the man- agement of the horse in walking, jumping, cantering, galloping, leaping, and in critical situations. The book concludes with an appendix containing thirty-four rules that every lady rider ought to be expected to know, and with a glossary of terms used in horsemanship. The letter-press no less than the other features of Mrs. Karr’s book is remarkably attractive.—Boston Advertiser. H. C. Leeds and James Dwight. The Laws of Euchre. As adopted by the Somerset Club, of Boston, March i, 1888. With some Suggestions about the Play. i8fno, 50 cents.