9 I^ou0rl)olt) llBocfefif Miss Parloa begins at the beginning, and takes her pupils through a complete course of theoretical and practical instruction, making each step plain and part of a necessary order of progress. Though designed as a text-book, it is well adapted for self-instruction, — the lessons in cookery, especially, being just such as are needed in the ordinary family-life. Miss Parloa has, in a rare degree, the art of imparting instruction, and as she knows so much about house- hold management, she does the public a great service by putting her knowledge at its disposal in so compact and cheap a form. — The Golden Rule (Boston). Elizabeth Stuart Phelps. What to Wear.? i6mo, ^i.oo. Her main arguments in behalf of a more modest and inexpen- sive attire, and suggesting such as is more convenient, more com- fortable, and more healthful, are very strong and very wise. . . . An exceedingly thoughtful, exceedingly valuable, and generally commendable little volume.— Christiajt Intelligencer (New York). Edward Sprague Rand, Jr. Bulbs. Eleventh Edition. Beautifully illus- trated, and with Appendices. i2mo, $2.50. This volume is the only work on the subject, and is an exhaus- tive treatise upon the culture of bulbs. ... A practical and valu- able work like this deserves a large sale. — Boston Daily Adver- tiser. Flowers for the Parlor and Garden. Twenty- sixth Edition. Illustrated. i2mo, $2.50. A complete manual for the cultivation of all plants commonly grown in the parlor, garden, and greenhouse, with notes on Ward- ian Cases, hardy shrubs, and wild flowers. The Window Gardener. Fifth Edition, greatly enlarged. i2mo, J*;i.25. A volume giving descriptions of all plants commonly grown as parlor plants, with directions for their cultivation, and notes on the proper soil, temperature, watering, hanging baskets, ivy, etc. Margaret Sangster. Poems of the Household. i6mo, $1.50. Many of these verses — almost all of which are about homely scenes of Household life — originally appeared in “ Harper’s Monthly,” “ The Christian Intelligencer,” ■ the “ Sunday-School Times,” etc.