6 l^ou6r!)olD 515oofe0 This attractively printed little volume is valuable as containing the latest modifications of the rules of the game, and also abun- dant plain and practical hints for the beginner, with illustrative examples of many fine points with which every ambitious player will be glad to familiarize himself.— The Critic (New York). Harriet Martineau. Household Education. i8mo, ^1.25. Contents : Old and Young in School; What the Schooling is For ; The Natural Possessions of Man; How to Expect; The Golden Mean ; The New Comer ; Care of the Frame ; Care of the Powers ; Will; Hope ; Fear ; Patience — Infirmity ; Love ; Ven- ef^ation; Truthfulness; Conscientiousness; Intellectual Training; its Requisites ; Order of Development — The Perceptive Facul- ties ; The Conceptive Faculties ; The Reasoning Faculties — Fe- male Education ; The Imaginative Faculties ; Care of the Habits — Importance of Habit; Personal Habits ; Family Habits ; Con- clusion. It is worth its weight in gold, a thousand times over, to parents and all who have to bring tip children. — Philadelphia Press (which expressed this opinion in italics). Rev. Theodore T. Munger. On the Threshold. i6mo, gilt top, ^i.oo. A book of thoroughly sensible, judicious, sympathetic, helpful talks to young people on Purpose, Friends and Companions, ^Ian- ners. Thrift, Self-Reliance and Courage, Health, Reading and In- tellectual Life, Amusements, and Faith. It is a book of a type similar to Mr. Clarke’s “ Self-Culture,” and calculated to do a great deal of good wherever it is attentively read, as it can hardly help being by any one who dips into it at all. We wish especially that every young man on the threshold of life might have such a wholesome introduction to its struggles and prizes as this book furnishes.— Christian Register (Boston). Catherine Owen. Ten Dollars Enough. Keeping House Well on Ten Dollars a Week. i6mo, $1.00. A love story and a cook-book in one. ... It is an exact ac- count of how well and how inexpensively it is possible for two persons and one servant to live, if the wife is only intelligent enough and industrious enough to undertake it. It is a most prac- tical and precise instructor about household matters. It renders it possible that love-matches may be made with happiest results. — New York Home Jourtial.