7 J^ousfft)olD ^oobs; Molly Bishop’s Family. i6mo, $i.oo. The principal titles of the contents are as follows : — Something about the Baby Spartan Mothers ; Choosing Fur- niture ; What to Do ? Molly engages a Nurse ; Why Freddy Ste- vens cried; Little John arrives, Clouds on Molly’s Horizon, Molly a Widow; Molly’s Third Baby, Ways and Means ; Molly has a New Idea ; Molly takes a House ; Molly in her New House, Be- ginning Business; Molly at Work, Boarders; Molly goes to the Woman’s Exchange; Incomings and Outgoings ; Expedients and Difficulties ; Cheese Cakes, Cold Meat Fie, Cold Meat Fritters, and other Recipes ; Molly’s Success, Her Children’s Education. Gentle Breadwinners. The Story of One of Them. i6mo, $i.oo. Contents : The Question of a Livelihood; Mrs. Bevan’s Pones, Dorothy as a Dressmaker; French Icing, Genoa Cake, Stumbling-Blocks in Dorothy’s Way ; Macaroons, Venetian Cakes, Cucumber Ragout; American Walnut Catsup, Canned Apple Sauce; Mince Meat, Mince Pies, Candied Lemon, Orange Peel; Gateau de Riz, Bevans, Bouchees de Dames, etc.; Portable Chicken Broth and Consomme, Spanish Macaroons, Vanilla Paste; Candy- Making, Caprices of Sugar and Syrup, Failures, and how to avoid them; Dorothy wins a Home and a Husband, Mrs. Garland as a Business Woman; Mock Haggis, Stuffed Lamb’s or Sheep’s Heart, Hashed Liver, Beef Heart Roasted, Stewed Knuckle of Veal, Braised Beef, Pea Soup without Meat, To Fry Bread, Celery Soup, Cucumber Soup, Potato Hash, Mrs. Bevan’s Cream Toast, Cheese Pudding, Bottled Mixed Spice. Catherine Owen is a genius. . . . The object of her book is to show women who have known better days some of the ways in which they may win independence. . . . The book is an incentive and an influence as well as a guide in the right direction. . . . Full of suggestive hints to housekeepers with abundant means as well as to the class for which it is principally intended. — Providence Journal. Progressive Housekeeping. Keeping House without Knowing How, and Knowing How to Keep House Well. i6mo, $i.oo. Contents : A P'ew Introductory Remarks; Order of Work for Monday, with some Instructions good for every Day in the Week ; The Monday Dinner, Washing; Bedroom Work and Ironing; The Ironing Table ; Washing Dishes and Caring for Lamps ; Ex- tra Work for Wednesday; Thursday, Bedroom Sweeping; Tlie Waste of the Household. To Clarify Fat, To Make Soft Soap, etc.