60 title in the Colleges of Physicians or Surgeons respectively; and that sucli preliminary examination shall form a common portal for all to pass through, by which a sufficient knowledge of medicine will be insured in the education of the Surgeon, and a sufficient knowledge of surgery in the education of the Physician. 5th. That the numerous corporate bodies throughout the United Kingdom, having the power of granting degrees or diplomas, should he assimilated in the amount of qualification required for the attain- ment of each degree of a like denomination, and that the possessors of such degrees be entitled to practice in every part of Her Majesty’s dominions. 4th. That the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons (subject to the alterations herein proposed) should be empowered to grant a licence to practice to all who are or may he hereafter enrolled in those colleges, and to all who are legally qualified practitioners at the time of grant- ing a new Charter or passing an Act of Parliament to confirm these arrangements. 7th. That a penalty he fixed for all who falsely pretend to be registered, or who assume a title to which the register does not give them a claim, and that summary punishment be provided for all un- qualified practitioners. 8. That the proposals for medical legislation put forward by the Conference of the Medical and Surgical Corporate bodies and the National Institute will neither be beneficial to the profession nor remedy the evils done by the Charter of 1843. We, your Petitioners, therefore pray that two, or three, or more, of the following gentlemen— J. Y. Arrowsmith, Esq., F.R.C.S.E., &c. W. J. Clement, Esq., F.R.C.S.E., &c. Peploe Cartwright, Esq., M.R.C.S.E. Drury Ottley, Esq., 5, Bedford Place, London, M.R.C.S.E. W. P. Brookes, Esq., Much Wenlock, M.R.C.S.E. be admitted to give evidence before the Committee of your Honourable House on the proposals herewith submitted to your consideration, and which have been adopted and agreed to by us. And your petitioners, &c. HENRY JOHNSON, M.D. President of the Associated Medical and Sur- gical Practitioners of Shropshire and North Wales, and Chairman of the Meeting on behalf of the following Gentlemen, 158 in number.