73 of ft Council numbering 48, every individual being a General Practitioner, upon which Council the duty has been imposed ol representing the interests of an Association of General Practi- tioners numbering at least 4000. No statement is given of the number of individuals who attended the Meeting at which the Petition was agreed upon. [Copy.] To the Honorable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members of the Gloucestershire Medical and Surgical Association, Showeth,—That the charter granted to the College of Surgeons in 1843, forms an insurmountable obstacle in the path of Medical legislation, and that no attempt to adjust, by Act ot Parliament, the difficulties of this subject, can be successful or satisfactory, until the injustice perpetrated by that obnoxious measure be done away with. That the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, if rightly organized, are quite sufficient for the requirements of the profession in this coun- try, and that the proposed creation of a new corporation, for the enrolment of the General practitioners, is uncalled for by any necessity, and that such new institution would be alike injurious to the interests of the profession and the public. That the parties who have undertaken to appear, on the part of the general practitioners, in the conferences which have led to the pro- posal of a new corporation, have no title whatever to be considered as representing the views and opinions of that great body of the profession. That the foregoing statements of opinion are copies of certain resolutions proposed at a special general meeting of the Gloucestei- shire Medical and Surgical Association, held at Cheltenham, on the 20th instant, and passed unanimously. Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray, that as a preparatory step to any measure for the regulation of the medical profession, the provisions of the charter granted to the College of Surgeons in 1843, and the manner in which they were carried out, may undergo a searching investigation, and that your honourable House will be pleased to reject any Bill concerning the medical profession which shall tend in any way to perpetuate the injustice inflicted by the said charter upon the great body of the members of the College of Surgeons. And your petitioners will ever pray, &c.