of “ The Royal College of General Practitioners of England ;” and 82 General Practitioners should be united into one body politic and corporate, with power to appoint a Court of Examiners to examine all persons who shall hereafter desire to practice as “ Surgeon-Apothe- caries” or “ General Practitioners” as to their competence to practice in that capacity, and to grant or withhold letters testimonial of the fitness and qualification of such persons to practice as Surgeon-Apothecaries, or General Practitioners. AND WHEREAS it has been represented to us that there are now practising in England and Wi ales as Surgeon-Apothecaries or General Practitioners divers persons who have obtained the diploma of the College of Surgeons of England, but who have not obtained a certificate of qualification to practice as an Apothecary from the Court of Examiners of the Master M ardens and Society of Apothecaries, and are not otherwise au- thorized by law to practice as an Apothecary in England or Wales ; and divers other persons who have obtained such certificate of qualifi- cation as aforesaid, or are otherwise authorized by law to practice as an Apothecary in England or Wales, but who have not obtained the diploma of the College of Surgeons of England, and are not otherwise authorized by law to practice the art of Surgery in England or Wales; and divers other persons who are not authorized by law to practice either as Surgeons or Apothecaries in England or Wales, but who are legally authorized to practice either as Physicians, Surgeons, or Apothecaries in some other part of the United Kingdom : And it appears to us expedient that such several persons should, under certain restrictions hereinafter expressed, be admitted into the said body corporate. AND WHEREAS our trusty and well beloved A. B. of and C. D. of now lawfully practising as Surgeon-Apothe- caries or General Practitioners, have by their Petition humbly besought us to grant to them and to such other persons as are herein- after in that behalf mentioned, our Royal Charter of Incorporation for the carrying into effect the purposes aforesaid. NOW KNOW YE that we of our especial grace, certain knowledge and mere motion, HAVE willed, ordained, constituted and granted, and by these presents for us, our heirs and successors, DO will, ordain, con- stitute and grant unto the said A. B. and C. D. in manner following, (that is to say):— 1.—THE said A. B. and C. D. and also every person qualified as hereinafter provided, who within the times respectively for that purpose hereinafter limited, shall cause his name to be enrolled as a Member of the College hereby constituted, or who shall at any time hereafter be chosen as hereinafter mentioned, shall be incorporated into one body corporate and politic, by the name