(>2 llmt the sentiments entertained by your petitioners arc fully borne out and corroborated by Mr. G. J. Guthrie, who formerly occupied the honourable position of President of the Royal College of Surgeons and have been fully detailed and explained by him in evidence before a Committee of the honourable the House of Commons, (in his replies to questions numbered respectively, 194, 235, 251, 252, 253 258 2o9, 260, 261, 281, 284, 285, and 291, in the published “Minutes of Evidence.”) Your petitioners therefore pray your right honourable House, that it will withhold its sanction to the establishment of the Royal College of General Practitioners, or to any new medical corporation or licensing body whatever. That it will bestow such powers on the Royal College of Surgeons of England as shall enable it to remedy the injustice perpetrated on the great body of its members by the Charter last granted, and like- wise render it efficient for directing the examinations of the profession generally, as also such other powers as may enable it to afford pro- tection to its various members in the exercise of their professional duties. And your petitioners will every pray. This petition is composed of six paragraphs. The Council fully concurs in the allegation contained in the first paragraph, of injustice done by the Charter of 1843, to the Members of the College of Surgeons; and it is a sense of that, with other weighty considerations, which lias induced the Profession to claim another Charter of Incorporation. 1 he second paragraph contains more than one palpable mis- repi’esentation. It asserts that the establishment of a Royal College of General Practitioners will deprive the Members of the College of Surgeons of their present rights and privileges. This is diametrically opposed to the truth. According to the “ Principles before recited, which comprise the establishment of a new College—every Member of the College of Surgeons will retain his title of Surgeon—every Member of the College of Surgeons will be registered as a Surgeon—every Member of