2G Register to be made and published. General Practition- ers. That the Council should consist of one of Her Majesty’s Principal Secretaries of State, in right of his office, (who should also be President of the said Council, with power to appoint a Vice-President), and that the other Members of the Council (of whom not less than two- thirds should be registered members of the Medical Profession) should be such persons, not more than twelve, whom Her Majesty, with the advice of Her Privy Council, should deem fit to be members of the said Council. That the Council should be empowered, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to appoint a principal Secretary and local Secre- taries for Scotland and Ireland, and Clerks, Messengers, &c.: and that the Members of the Council, the Secretaries, Clerks, &c., should receive such salaries as the Lords of the Treasury should think proper to allow. III. That a Eegister should be made and published by the said Council, as soon as conveniently may be, of all persons entitled, as after explained, to be registered as Physicians, Surgeons, or General Practitioners, and who shall apply to be so registered within one year if residing in any part of the United Kingdom, or within two years if resident abroad; for which a fee of Ten shillings shall be paid by each person so registered. And that to the Register should after- wards be regularly added the names of all persons who shall receive Letters Testimonial, as after explained, of their fitness to practise as Physicians, Surgeons, or General Practitioners; and that for such registration should be paid the sum of Five pounds in the case of a Physician or Fellow of the College of Surgeons, and of Two pounds in the case of a General Practitioner. All such Fees should be applied towards defraying the expenses of this Act. The Register to be formed on the plan of a specimen submitted to the Committee of the House of Commons in 1847, by the Registrar of the College of Physicians. And all persons desirous of being continued on the Register, should be required to send their names and residences to the Council, annually, but without the payment of additional fees. The Register to be received as evidence in Courts of Law. IV. That those persons should be entitled to be registered as General Practitioners, who shall be enrolled as Members of the Royal College of General Practitioners within one year from its first Incorporation, according to the provisions of a Charter which has been prepared for that College; and that those persons should after- wards be entitled to be so registered who, having attained the age of twenty-two years, shall have received Letters Testimonial of their fitness to practise as General Practitioners, from the examining Board of the Royal College of General Practitioners, and who shall also