38 regular rotation, the first named or senior Vice-President lor the time being, shall have all the powers of President until another President shall be appointed. 21. - ON the last Wednesday in the month of in the year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-one, and on the last Wednesday in the month of in every following year such of the Members of the College, as shall for the time being be entitled to vote as aforesaid, shall meet in the Common Hall for the time being of the said College, or in such other place as aforesaid, and shall elect from those Members who shall be qualified to be elected as hereinafter provided, eight persons to be resident Members, and eight other per- sons to be Members of the said Council; and every such Member so elected, shall continue of the Council for three years, and until his successor shall be elected. PROVIDED ALWAYS that those who shall be elected as resident Members of the Council shall reside within ten miles by highway or road from the General Post Office, in the City of London, during the whole of the said three years, or in default of his so doing he shall cease ipso facto to be a Member of the Council, but without invalidating any acts in which he may have con- curred after ceasing to be such Member. 22. —NO one shall be qualified to be elected President or a Member of the Council of the said College, unless at the time of such election he shall either have been for fifteen years a Member of the said College, or unless he shall have possessed the diploma or licence by virtue of which he shall be a Member of the said College for at least fifteen years before the election. 23. —WHENEVER any vacancy shall happen either in the Presidency or among the Members of the Council in any way other than by regular rotation as aforesaid, such vacancy shall be filled by the election by the Council (upon some early and convenient day to be fixed by them for that purpose) of a substitute instead of the person by whom the vacancy shall have been made, and every such substitute shall continue President or a Member of the Council until the time when the person in whose stead he shall be chosen would have gone out of office in regular rotation; and whenever such vacancy shall have been made in the Council by a resident Member, the substitute shall be a person qualified to be a resident Member of Council. PROVIDED ALWAYS that any such substituted Mem- ber of Council who shall have been elected less than Twelve calendar months before the time when the Member in whose stead he shall have been elected would have gone out of office in regular- rotation, shall be eligible for immediate re-election on the Council. 24. —THE Council shall meet on such days and times as they shall from time to time appoint, and also whenever they shall be summoned