tiateship, was of a standard at least as high as that of the examina- tion imposed by the College of General Practitioners on ordinary candidates. 12.—WHERE several diplomas shall be granted bearing date on the same day, such diplomas shall be numbered under such regulations as the Council may think fit, in order to show the order and priority of such diplomas among themselves. 13- 11IE Council of the said College shall cause the name of every Member for the time being of the said College, and such other particulars concerning such Members as the Council shall think it desirable to register, to he entered according to their respective seniorities (to be determined as hereinafter mentioned) in a Book or Register to be kept for that purpose, at the Common Hall of the said College, or such other place for the time being as the said Council shall direct; and such Book or Register of Members shall at such times and subject to such reasonable regulations as the Council for the time being shall direct, be open to the inspection of any Member of the said College at the said Common Hall, or such other place as aforesaid. 14. —THE President hereinafter named shall be entered first in such Book or Register; the three Vice-Presidents to be named by the Council as hereinafter mentioned, shall be entered next after him in the order in which they shall be named; then the Members of Council hereinafter named, except the three Vice-Presidents in the order in which they are hereinafter named ; then the other Members of the College according to the dates or numbers of their respective diplomas ; but as respects those Members to whom separate diplomas shall be granted during the first two years before mentioned, only according to their respective priorities next after those mentioned in the general and special diplomas, and with respect to those whose names shall be included in one general diploma, according to the order in which their names shall severally stand in the schedules to such general diplomas respectively. And in the case of those to whom an extension of time is hereby granted, next after those mentioned in the said last general diploma, according to the date recited in their respec- tive special diplomas. 15. —THE Council of the said College shall consist of forty-eight of the Members of the said College, of whom twenty-four shall reside within ten miles by highway or road from the General Post Office, in the City of London, and such twenty-four shall be called (Resident Members of the Council.) 16. —A. B. shall be the first President of the said College, and shall continue as such President until the last Wednesday in the month of in the year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-one, and