43 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. the cooking school branches who has had lessons from good chefs writes thus to me:—“The chef at the Junior Carlton, also the chef at the Adelphi Hotel in Liverpool, and the late Monsieur Blanchet, of York, all keep the lids off their stock-pots; they say lid on makes soup cloudy and poor. I don’t find it so. They say, with lid on the steam drops and so weakens the soup. I think it wastes a great deal of the flavour and certainly does not make it clearer. I also find that if the vegetables are put in only during the last hour-and-a-half, and the onion not skinned or fried, it makes a much better and fuller flavoured soup, as by long cooking the vegetables absorb a great deal of the flavour of the meat, and much of their own is certainly lost. Another thing I think cooks make a mistake in is, they say to boil greens a good colour you must leave the lid off! I find it does not make any differ- ence ; all they want is plenty of room and water, and cer- tainly it helps to prevent any smell.” For all this, the profound respect I have for the late Monsieur Blanchet leads me to opine that nothing he did could be wrong, and he kept the lid off. “ The secret of making soup is to begin with cold water, to bring it slowly to the boiling-point, a mere ripple on the surface, to let it simmer gently and continuously for hours, never boiling up and never ceasing to simmer. On these three points—the gradual production of the heat, the moderation of the boiling (simmering) and keeping it up to the end—the flavour and clarification of the broth largely depend, and it is easy to manage this in an earthen vessel. But it is just as possible with an iron or copper stock-pot. It may not be so easy upon an open fire, but there is no difficulty whatever on the closed ranges which are now so common. There is another needless direction—soup should never be greasy. Every particle of fat should be removed. It is tedious to do so, however, by the ordinary process of skimming, and so we are sometimes advised to make the broth beforehand and to make a supply for two days. When the broth cools the fat will cake on the surface and then be