THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. reumatic oven.” You see by this language what very positive views a competent judge holds as to the impossi- bility of making an oven do the work of the open fire, and I ask you, in the interests of good cooking, never to listen to what interested dealers in ranges may tell you. An open fire and a horizontal spit (see Utensils) are quite possible adjuncts to a modern kitchener, and if you insist upon them they will be supplied. I do not say that this horizontal spit is to be found at every ironmonger’s, but I have shown that the motive-power can be applied at the side of an ordinary meat-screen to the horizontal spit, on the value of which, for roasting purposes, Dr. Mitchell very properly insists. At the same time, let me appreciate at its true value the oven in a modern kitchener for poor people who cannot afford a jack. Yet even with an oven the basting should not be dispensed with ; and as you have to open your oven for the purposes of turning the meat, so you may avail yourself of the same opportunity for basting, taking care to open and close the door gently. If we reflect for one moment on the difference between the coffee-berry in its simple state and the flavour produced by roasting, we shall realise what the action of fire may do in developing a hidden fragrance. You will see under the head of Boiling and Simmering how a crust or shell is formed by a proper process, within which the sapid constituents of the meat are retained, rendering it juicy and well-flavoured. So it is in roasting or baking ; for whether the meat be surrounded by water or in an oven, or before the fire, so soon as the waterproof coating is formed around it, the further changes are effected alike in both cases by internal vapour or steam. In roasting or baking, therefore, the fire should be at first made very hot, until the surface-pores are completely plugged and the albuminous crust is formed. As a broad rule, you may take fifteen minutes to the oound for beef and mutton, and seventeen to twenty