4o THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. as possible out of the meat, to separate the juices from the meat and convey them to the water. This is the case, whether the French practice of serving the liquid potage, or bouillon as a separate dish, and the stewed meat or bouilli as another, or the English and Irish fashion of serving the stewed meat in its own juices or gravy, as in the case of stewed steak, Irish stew, &c. The cruel murder that is commonly perpetrated upon good mutton chops, in pre- paring Irish stews, is very deplorable. The chops are put into a saucepan in water, and the water is boiled or * simmered* i.e. kept at 212°, whereby the albumen is at once coagulated, thus hindering the ready exosmosis of the juices. This is continued until both albumen and fibrin are so much hardened that they contract (as the white of egg does when used as a cement). The meat curls up curiously in consequence of this contraction, the albumen is made to resemble gutta-percha, and the fibrin to resemble cotton wool, before the extraction of the juices is completed. “ Not so with the frugal stew of the poor French peasant, who does more with one pound of meat, in the way of stewing, than the English cook with three or four. The little bit of meat, and the large supply of vegetables, are placed in a pot, and this in another vessel containing water —the bain marie. This stands on the embers of a poor little wood fire, and is left there till dinner-time, under conditions that render boiling impossible, and demand little or no further attention from the cook ; consequently, the meat, when removed, has parted with its juices to the potage, but is not curled up by the contraction of the hardened albumen, nor reduced to stringy fibres. It is tender, eatable, and enjoyable, that is, when the proper supply of saline juices of the meat, phis the saline juices of the vegetables, have been taken into the system. “Eaten alone, like our roast beef, it would be like the bone soup offered to the dogs by the academicians ; but * My idea of the word “ simmer,” as will have been seen, is that it represents the action of water at 15S0 to 165° on meat, and not that of water near boiling point.—S. B.