4 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. the unctuosity of the French beef, and would not lend itself to sauces and rich consommes without using up far more than would be required in France. What does this mean, but that quantities of beef used for soup in one country will not do for the same soup in another country. It depends on the butcher. It is the same with ham—the flavour of which is not to be measured by weight—a hundred pounds of French ham will not yield the flavour contained in ten pounds of Spanish, German, or English hams. It would be easy to multiply such examples, showing that quantities are deceptive, because they are unintelligible apart from quality.”—(Dallas.) Some remarks of an apologetic character may not be out of place in this introduction. When we use the word “ principles,” we assume a certain possession of scientific data on which these “ principles ” are based. Unfortunately, and here the apology comes in, the refinements attending the best knowledge of the “ prin- ciples” are so multiple that, according to present lights, a good practical cook with taste would beat the finest theo- retical chef, who confined himself to weights and measures in food, fire, and utensils, and in whom the necessary good taste might be absent. Here and there we may find the observations of a scien- tific man, like Mr. Mattieu Williams, whom I have freely quoted, of the greatest importance as proving the why and the wherefore of certain principles; but, infallibly, we must recognise that Science is now and again to be left alone, and an appeal made to her handmaid, Art. So much for the difficulty of laying down the “ Principles of Cooking ” on a purely scientific basis, and, this apology made, I may proceed with my work, but I wish to insist very specially that no one, male or female, working for wage or working for love, need ever proceed to practice in the kitchen until he or she has mastered the great and essential difference between Boiling and SIMMERING. In that lies the major part to be played in spoiling or improv- ing the food committed to his or her care.