THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 47 done, add your vegetables, carrots, leeks, turnips, celery, and the hearts of a cabbage or two. Turnips are dangerous in hot weather, as they make it turn sour sooner than if absent. Set this pot-au-feu in your earthen or copper stock-pot, simmer for three or, if you like, five hours. When ready for serving, the beef or mutton is taken out and garnished with the vegetables, pickled gherkins, or caper sauce, or, if veal, as a fricandeau with brown gravy, or, if a fowl, with rice, after being browned in the oven. To serve the broth or soup, place slices of bread or crust in a soup tureen, on which a portion of the broth is poured through a colander. The bread is left to soak in this, and then the tureen is filled with the rest or a portion of it. If you retain a portion or all for next day, you have another chance to remove the fat. So important do I consider as a national question of economical utilisation of food, and a decent civilised way of presenting it on the table of persons of moderate means, that I pursue the subject of the pot-au-feu, in giving you the views of Careme, the great cook of bygone days. He says, “ the stock-pot of the French artisan supplies his principal nourishment; and it is thus managed by his wife who, without the slightest knowledge of chemistry, conducts the process in a truly scientific manner. She first lays the meat into her earthen stock-pot, and pours cold water to it in the proportion of about two quarts to three pounds of the meat [this proportion has been disputed, and is more likely to have approached one pound to the quart] ; she then places it by the side of the fire, where it becomes slowly hot ; and as it does so, the heat enlarges the fibre of the meat, dissolves the gelatinous substances which it con- tains, allows the albumen (or the muscular part which pro- duces the scum) to disengage itself, and rise to the surface, and the OSMAZONE (which is the most savoury part of the meat) to be diffused through the broth. Thus, from the simple circumstance of boiling (simmering) it in the gentlest manner, a relishing and nutritious soup will be obtained,