THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 79 contrary to the common Opinion, it not being long, since Cucumber, however dressed, was thought fit to be thrown away, being accounted little better than Poyson. Tabernier tells us that in the Levant, if a child cry for something to Eat, they give it a raw Cucumber instead of Bread. T he young ones may be boil’d in White Wine. The smallest sort (known by the name of Gerckens) muriated with the Seeds of Dili, and the Mango pickle are for the Winter.” Of garlick (Allium), John Evelyn says in his quaint way, “ dry towards excess ; and though both by Spaniards and Italians and the more Southern People, familiarly eaten with almost everything, and esteemed of singular Vertue, and thought a Charm against all Infection and Poyson, we yet think it more proper for our Northern Rustics. . . . We absolutely forbid it entrance into our salletting by reason of its intolerable Rankness, and which made it so detested of old ; that the eating of it was (as we read) part of the Punishment for such as had committed the horrid’st crimes. To be sure ’tis not for Ladies Palats, nor those who court them, farther than to permit a light touch on the dish, with a Clove thereof, much better supplied by the gentler Roccombo. Note, that in Spain they some- times eat it boiled, which taming its fierceness, turns it into nourishment, or rather Medicine. “ Leeks and Cibbols, P or rum, hot and of vertue Prolifick ; since Latona, the Mother of Apollo, long’d after them : the Welsh who eat them much are observ’d to be very fruitful. They are also friendly to the Lungs and Stomach, being sod in milk ; a few therefore of the slender and green summeties, a little shred, do not amiss in composition. “ Onion, Cefa, Porrum; the best are such as are brought us out of Spain, whence they of St. Omer’s had them, and some that have weigh’d eight pounds. Choose therefore the large, round, white and thin-skinn’d. Being eaten crude and alone with Oyl, Vinegar and Pepper, we own them in Sallet, not so hot as Garlick, nor at all so rank : Boil’d they give a kindly relish ; raise appetite, corroborate the Stomach, cut Phlegm, and profit the Asthmatical: But