14 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. because more food is spoiled throughout the empire by mistaking boiling for simmering, than by any of the other processes by which cooks destroy food and torture the persons who are to eat it. Let me define here what that which is called a boiled leg of mutton properly cooked is not—it is not boiled in any sense of the word. You bring your water fully to boiling-point before you plunge in the leg, but the meat itself whilst being closed in its pores by the action of the boiling-water reduces that water immediately in tempera- ture, and if you are wise you will never allow that to rise again to boiling-point. For the rest of the time, during which it is in the pot, it remains at a simmering tem- perature. Almost all cookery-books require re-editing in respect to this expression “ boiling,” the word being most frequently used where nothing more than “simmering” is meant. In the same way, in consequence of the advent of the kitchener, we are gradually getting to the use of the word “ roast,” where in reality we mean the process of “ baking.” The distinction is not of the same lasting importance, because you do not absolutely spoil food where you use the oven instead of the spit. In the case of boiling versus simmering, you do spoil the food and make it hard, and by the misuse of a verb you bring up two or three genera- tions to a slipshod habit of using a verb which does not represent fact. Our verbs in cooking may be said to be to Roast, to Bake, to Grill, Broil or Toast. These last are synonymous, as shown by the French verb griller. Pain grille is toasted bread, which we shorten into “ toast,” although we might in accuracy just as well call bacon done in a Dutch oven “ toast.” To Fry, to Boil, to Simmer, to Stew (soups, sauces, &c.), to Braise, to Baste, to Brown, to Clarify, to Reduce. To Saider (here we use a French verb, because we have no equivalent to repiesent the process. Literally, it is to “toss,” effectively), to Fry lightly, to Flavour, to Strain, to Sweeten, to Roll, to Knead, to Mix, to Stir, to