81 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. In the early part of this Handbook I pointed out that the preparation of a salad might very well come under the head of cooking. Of course it is not strictly correct to use the term cooking to a dish that is not cooked, but prepared raw. Letting that pass, let me point out to the reader, rich and poor, gentle and simple, what a store of good food and winning palate-flavour is open to us in the use of raw vegetables. It is not my place here to give you a recipe or lay down some rigid rule for the application of the oil and acid (vinegar), but I would point out to you that such is our universal ignorance about salads, that you may walk into any hotel or any restaurant, or almost any club, and be straightway insulted in the matter of a salad by the host of the one, the proprietor of the other, or the committee of the third. You think that I am using strong language. Not at all. The controllers of the destinies of these several institutions imagine that if you ask for a lettuce it is suffi- cient to present you one with the condiments—oil, vinegar, &c.—ordinarily employed. I will say n.othing here of the probable absence of a chive, or be difficult because the vinegar is probably a chemical expression. What I want to illustrate as a point in the preparation, or (as I like to term it) the cooking of a salad, is that these controllers of the destinies of the several institutions above-named will present you with a wet lettuce, or other herb, and regard the existence of salad-bowls on their premises as un- necessary. This is the insult offered daily to the traveller and the non-traveller, and it will not be until the British public become awake to the fact that a salad cannot be prepared or cooked with wet vegetables, or without a salad-bowl, that landlords will mend their ways and allow us to enjoy the fruits of the earth in peace. Of course this means that water, oil, and vinegar don’t mix well together, and, in short, that when you ask a land- lord to give you a lettuce to prepare yourself, you do not want a wine-glass full of water added to it. Dallas, in his [H. 9,] G