4i THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. eaten with these juices, it is wholesome, and sufficiently savoury. Whether the potage and the meat should thus be separated, or whether they should be stewed together, as in an Irish stew, &c., is merely a matter of taste and custom ; but that a stew should never be boiled, nor placed in a position on the fire where boiling is possible, should be regarded as a primary axiom in cooking where flesh meat is concerned. In making soups or stewing a dish, our object is the reverse of that described under Roasting, Baking, or Boiling. We want no crust or shell around the inner fibrine and juices, but we desire to take these out and combine them with the more or less liquid surrounding them. In no case and for no purpose do we want them to be submitted to boiling heat, because we want no coagula- tion to take place. The better to act on it, beef should be cut up small. The following is what Count Rumford said on the subject:— “ It is natural to suppose that many of the finer and more volatile parts of food (those which are best calculated to act on the organs of taste) must be carried off with the steam when the boiling is violent; but the fact does not rest on these reasonings. It is proved to a demonstration, not only by the agreeable fragrance of the steam, which rises from vessels in which meat is boiled, but also from the strong flavour and superior quality of soups, which are prepared by a long process over a very gentle fire. “ In many countries, where soups constitute the principal part of the food of the inhabitants, the process of cooking lasts from one mealtime to another, and is performed almost without either trouble or expense. As soon as the soup is served up, the ingredients for the next meal are put into the pot (which is never suffered to cool, and does not require scouring) ; and this pot—which is of cast-iron or earthenware—being well closed with its thick wooden cover, is placed by the side of the fire, where its contents are kept simmering for many hours.”