THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 44 easily removed. The advice is good up to a certain point. It saves labour to make a good supply of broth at a time ; it loses nothing in two days, even in hot weather, if kept in clean fresh vessels. But there is a simple mechanical contrivance to get rid of grease, which ought for ever hence- forth to render the little eyes which appear on the surface of soup an impossibility. All the fat rises to the top of the stock-pot ; if there is a tap at the bottom of it, the broth will flow out without a particle of grease. Common sense will tell the cook to beware of salt. It is well to put it in the stock-pot from the beginning, because it helps to make the scum rise ; but what is barely enough for a full stock- pot may be a great deal too much when the liquid boils (simmers) down to half. The liquid flies off in steam, but the salt remains. The advantage of sugar is not so well known. It is as much for the saccharine matter which they contain as for anything else that onions, carrots, and turnips, are so necessary to the stock-pot. A little pinch of sugar at table is often a wonderful improvement to a tasteless soup. But a soup too sweet is sickly, and the cook must be very careful in applying it to the stock-pot. She must take into account also the sweetness of the caramel with which she will probably have to give the finishing touch of colour to the soup before sending it to table.” (Dallas.) “There are four different broths—two simple and two double—which are the foundations of nearly all the soups which can be imagined. “i. Beef broth, or bouillon; 2. Double broth, or consommt; 3. Veal stock, or gravy (in French, blonde de beau—another double broth) ; and 4. Fowl broth, which is simple. There is a remarkable difference of opinion as to the quantity of cold water to be added to beef and beef-bone in order to make broth or bouillon. A pound of water is exactly a pint, and whereas some authorities (Liebig, Dubois, and Bernard, the latest) declare that a good broth requires equal quantities of solid and liquid, a pound of the one to a pint of the other—the most recent authority of all, and a very great one too (Jules Gouffe), recommends in one receipt