29 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. with a clean cloth and soak them in the batter, from which they are thrown into the boiling fat or butter and fried to a rich gold colour. When quite crisp, and if the required colour, take them out of the fat and lay them on clean white paper or cloth to absorb the fat.* Serve on a cloth. Cutlets, on the other hand, only require to be soaked in batter previous to frying. Vegetables, whether artichokes, cauliflowers, &c., are partly boiled in salt and water before being fried. Potatoes are preferable not boiled, and they are cut into strips so as to fry more easily. I have given this as an example from a country where frying is a specialite. You will imagine it to be very elaborate and to take a vast deal of time, but cooking is not to be done without trouble, and in reality this resolves itself into the question whether you have or whether you have not all your requisites in order and to hand. No Italian girl would make a difficulty about it. It is in details of the kind shown to be necessary here in making a simple fritto that English cooks are so deficient. And now to the gravest of all the principles which affect the absolute act of frying. It is not enough that your fat should be in a spitting or bubbling state. It is a heat beyond this that you require, and which you will best find out by throwing in a small piece of bread and testing whether it turns colour immedi- ately. If you omit this precaution with regard to heat, and put in your food too soon, you will take it out sodden instead of crisp, and it will never become of a bright and golden colour. On the other hand, if you let the fat rise to too great a temperature before putting in the food, it will become black. The required temperature varies from 380° to 400° Fahr., and as you will probably not test by a thermometer, you will find at first that your patience, with the best inten- tions, will be tried ; potatoes requiring the severer, while a * All fried articles require the fat to be absorbed in this manner.