63 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. such as peas, spinach, endive, more digestible, and broths and gruels, the insipidity of which is due to their starch, become more agreeable. It tempers the acidity of certain fruits, and when employed in such small quantities as to be unsuspected, it softens as well as heightens the flavour of many savoury sauces and ragouts. So employed, it forms a connecting and harmonising link between the sharpness of salt and the pungency of spice. Sugar is suitable to every temperament, climate, sex, and age. It is almost the only seasoning allowable to persons whose system is suffering from irritation, such as convalescents recovering from inflammation of the stomach, bowels, lungs, &c. (De- tainere.) Salt (chloride of sodium) I need not dwell on. Vinegar is properly obtained by the acetic fermentation of wine, but it is very difficult to obtain. Ordinary English vinegar is, so far as the kitchen is concerned, a chemical monstrosity. Try and buy French vinegar from a respect- able Italian warehouseman. Herbal vinegars require care- ful treatment and must not be boiled. Wherever mustard is prescribed in a recipe for a sauce mustard flour is meant, and not mustard that you have made for the cruet-stand. With reference to the very strong flavour of garlic, the “ prince of the onion tribe ” as I have called it elsewhere, remember that you may often get all the flavour you require, say a mere suspicion, by rubbing a knife or a dish with it. In any case, for social reasons connected with its peculiar smell, it must be used very carefully, but there are cases in invalid cookery where it becomes indispensable. “ Onions, cloves, rocambole, shalots, and leeks, belong to the same natural family as garlic, and possess the same properties, only in a less degree. Rocambole comes nearest to it.” (Delamere.) Pepper, ginger, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, capsi- cum or cayenne pepper, mustard, and horse-radish, all come under the head of condiments for seasoning. “Their importance lies in this, that as all animals are