27 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. into steam. The water was originally on the surface'and between and within the fibres of the flesh of the sole. The continual expansion of this water into vapour, and its out- bursting, prevents the fat from penetrating the fish, so long as the temperature is maintained above 212°, and thus the substance of the sole is cooked by the steam of its own juices, and its outside browned by the superheated fat. “ Now, let us suppose that a merely greased plate, like the bottom of a frying-pan, is used. Only one side of the sole is cooked at first—the side in contact with the pan—• therefore it must be turned to cook the other side. When thus turned, the side first cooked with its adhering fat is cooling; its steam is condensing between its fibres, and the fat gradually entering to supply the place of steam, while the other side is cooking. Thus it is more greasy than if rapidly withdrawn from the bath of hot fat, and then allowed to drain before the steam commences to condense. “ Here is a frying-kettle, exhibited by Mr. Burton, with a wire frame or grill, fitting the bottom. On this the fish is laid, and by this it is raised immediately it is cooked, and the fat drained away. A stew-pan, or any other suitable kind of kettle, may be used, if provided with the wire basket for lifting; or a frying-pan of the ordinary kind, if deep enough. “ Although the quantity of fat required for starting this kind of frying is considerable, the consumption at each operation is less than when the greased plate is used ; the material of the fat bath can be used again and again with occasional clarifying by methods well understood in the kitchen, but the fat used for smearing the frying-pan is nearly all wasted by the overheating and carbonising of a portion of it. Of course, two or more supplies of fat are required, one for fish, another for cutlets, &c., and another for such delicacies as apple fritters, which especially require the fat bath.” The plunging food into fat heated to from 300° to 400° naturally creates round it the same crust of which we speak in boiling and roasting. You may obtain thermometers