65 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. I do not think this recipe is less valuable because it is old, and certainly the various housewives throughout the country who supplied the learned Professor of Botany with their several recipes, seem to have had a far higher ideal before them in the matter of flavour than obtains among us at the present day. The fact is, they believed in the virtues of herbs, lemon-peel, &c., and did not depend on the grocer to furnish them with a ready-made conglomera- tion of spices to save themselves trouble. On the other hand, there are plenty of what may be called store sauces, of which you know the ingredients that may safely be taken under your consideration and valued for their individual flavour. Of such are mushroom and walnut catsup, Tarragon vinegar, eschalot or garlic vinegar, eschalot wine, anchovy sauce, mushroom powder and powder of savoury herbs, or of the faggot of herbs already mentioned. Wherever a herb is powerful, and you can present it in a liquid form, there you are secure to apportion the flavour with the greater delicacy. A bunch of herbs {bouquet garni) represents that in the kitchen which in the flower-garden we should call a nose- gay, but for bunch the word faggot is more in use. There are various faggots, and Dallas, in his invaluable work (‘ Kettner’s Book of the Table’), has made the following enumeration of them :— (1) Faggot of Parsley.—This is a little bunch of parsley tied up with cibols or spring onions. It is in French called a bouquet. (2) Faggot of Sweet Herbs.—What the French call a bouquet garni. This used to be described as a faggot of parsley with the addition of a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme. As in practice, however, when this faggot is used, there are onions or shalots besides, the cibols or spring onions of the parsley faggot come to be of small account. It is better, therefore, to leave out the cibols, and to describe it as made up of parsley, bayleaf, and thyme. (3) Faggot of Ravigote.—Tarragon, chervil, burnet, and [II. 9.J F