THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. ing his essences, the chain is complete ! First, we have the brutalized digger of roots; then the shy entrapper of the finny tribes ; and next, the fierce, foul feeder, devouring his ensnared prey, fat, blood, and muscle ! The next age of cookery may be called the pastoral, as the last was that of the hunter. Here we have simple mild broths, seasoned, perhaps, with herbs of the field, and the kid seethed with milk. From the Gothic and Celtic tribes emerged the Chivalrous, or rather Feudal age of cookery—the wild boar roasted whole, the lordly swan, &c. Cookery had made considerable progress in England before the Reformation. We find the writers of those ages making large account of an art from which common sense, in all countries, borrows its most striking illustrations and analogies. The ambitious man ‘ seeks to rule the roast; ’ the meddling person ‘ likes to have his finger in the pie ; ’ ‘ meat and mass hinder no business ; ’ the rash man ‘ gets into a stew,’ and ‘ cooks himself a pretty mess ;’ ‘a half loaf is better than no bread ; ’ ‘ there goes reason to the roasting of an egg ; ’ ‘ fools make feasts, and wise men eat them ; ’ ‘ the churl invites a guest, and sticks him with the spit ; ’ ‘ the belly is every man’s master ;’ ‘he who will not fight for his meat, what will he fight for ? ’ ‘a hungry man is an angry man ; ’ ‘ it’s ill-talking between a full man and a fasting ; ’ ‘ it is the main business of every man’s life to make the pot boil ; ’ or, as the Scots more emphatically have it, ‘ to make the pot play brown,’ which a maigre pot will never do.” [Here we have the origin of the term “ pot-boiler ” applied to the pictures of modern painters which have been finished without much regard to the artist’s real powers in order to provide money to make the pot boil.J “ The proof of the pudding is in the eating,” was here interposed by one of the members of the Cleikum Club, and with this observation I may conclude my extracts from this entertaining lecture. The great authority of early English cookery is the 1 Forme of Cure,’ composed about A.D. 1390, by the Master Cooks of Richard II., which was published in 1780, by that able antiquary, Mr. Pegge.—(‘ Ency. Met.’)