THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 3i flavoured. It should be boiled for only a few minutes, and then kept for some time at a temperature of from 158° to 1650 Fahr.” The learned writer has based the above on experiments by Liebig, than whom we can have no higher authority. But can any one pretend to say that meat that has passed through such a process can, when placed on the table, pre- sent to us boiled provision ? I trow not. The most we can say is that a large joint of meat may be suffered to boil two minutes, whilst for small pieces of meat the act of plunging into boiling water will be sufficient for the coagulation of the albumen. And again, let us reflect what the “ few minutes ” of the scientific man may mean. Cooks have not always their eye on the clock, and a “ few minutes,” in fact any minutes beyond the number (two) that I prescribe, may be lengthened into that very indefinite period which secures that the meat shall be hard and any chance of its internal parts being cooked in the lower temperature (158° to 165°) reduced to a minimum. It would be an advantage if cooks would retain their proclivities for water at boiling point for the infusion ot tea. How often do we hear “ The water ’as boil’d, Mum,” from the lips of one who would not hesitate to keep a leg of mutton in full boiling water for a couple of hours ! You may boil salmon, lobster, and crabs, with advantage, but salmon if large, should be placed in cold or tepid salt and water with a teaspoonful of vinegar in it. If small, it may go into the boiling water at once. For other fish see To Simmer. In all cases you will skim as you would do with meat. When done get it out of the water as fast as possible, and set the drainer diagonally on the kettle. If you want to keep it hot some time before serving, dip a napkin in the hot liquor and spread it over the fish. You may boil puddings of all kinds also. It is generally agreed that salt beef, salt pork, and salt fish, are not plunged into boiling water, but are put into cold water which gradually rises to the desired temperature.