THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 3 The word cookery is derived from the Latin coqjio, and means to bake, roast, boil, &c. It also comprises the preservation of food otherwise than by the action of fire, as, for instance, where dry beef, or fish, or fruit, has been obtained by the heat of the sun. You may take drying in the sun to have been the most original form of cooking, as fire has not been always universally known. When it became known to man, and acquired the title of one of the elements, roasting first before it, or grilling food on it, or baking underneath its ashes probably followed, and the use of hot water could only have obtained when vessels or utensils capable of containing water and resisting fire came to be manu- factured. In cooking, we have to appeal to the senses to aid us, and the variation in the performances of cooks may be due to the fact that all have not at one and the same time, in the greatest conditions of perfection, eyes to see with, touch to feel, a sense of smell, or a perfect taste—for all these are required. More than that, the cook may easily be misled by the quality of the compounds or ingredients to be dealt with. The following observations, by a man of great talent, exemplify this:— “ It is well to be particular in receipts; but it is idle to put out of sight the fact that particulars vary every day, in every country, and in every household—the sugar of England is a good deal sweeter than the sugar of France—the salt of France is much more salt than that of England. The quantities to be used, therefore, must continually vary. Again, everybody knows that vegetables are not alike in flavour; some apples are comparatively tasteless, so are some carrots, and one lemon is sharper than another. Therefore in one kitchen a lemon, an apple, or a couple of carrots, will go further to flavour a sauce than double the number in another kitchen. Care me praised the beef of England, he said it was perfectly beautiful, tender, delicious to taste, pleasant to behold, but he also said that it wanted B 2