So THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. eaten in excess, are said to offend the Head and Eyes, unless Edulcorated with a gentle maceration. In the mean- time as to their being noxious to the sight, is imputable only to the vapour rising from the raw onion, when peeled, which some commend for its purging and quickening that sense. How they are us’d in Pottage, boil’d in milk, stew’d, &c., concerns the kitchen. In our cold Sallet we supply them with the Porrum, Sectile, tops of Leeks, and Eschalots (Ascalonia) of gust more exalted, yet not to the degree of Garlick. Or (by what of later use is much pre- ferred) with a Clove or two of Raccombo, of a yet milder and delicate nature, which by rubbing the dish only, imparts its vertue agreeably enough. In Italy they frequently make a Sallet of Scallions, Cives, and Chibbols only seasoned with Oyl and Pepper, and an honest laborious country-man, with good Bread, Salt, and a little Parsley, will make a contented meal with a roasted onion. How this noble Bidb was deified in Egypt we are told, and that whilst they were building the Pyramids, there was spent in this Root, Ninety Terce oigold among the workmen. So luscious and tempt- ing it seems they were, that as whole nations have subsisted on them alone, so the Israelites were ready to return to slavery and Brick-Making for the love of them. Indeed, Hecamedes, we find, presents them to Patroclus, in Homer, as a Regalo; but certainly we are either mistaken in the species (which some will have to be Melons'), or use Poetick License, when we so highly magnify them.” Again he says : “ We have said how necessary it is that in the composure of a Sallet every plant should come in to bear its part without being overpower’d by some Herb of a stronger taste, . . . but fall into their places like the Notes in Music. . . . Thus the comical magister cook, introduced by Damoxemus, when asked 7ra9 ear tv avToi<; cruftcpovta; What Harmony there was in Meats ? The very same (says he) that a Diatesseron, Diapente, and Diapason have one to another in a consort of music.” “ Oyl,” says Evelyn, “ should not be high-coloured nor yellow ; but of a pallid olive-green.”