THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 6 of A, Food,* and the Reports of the Jurors will enlighten the public on the merits of the latest forms of ranges, &c., made to assist us in utilising B, Fire. But C, the utensils we employ, demand particular attention from me, for on their shape, make, material, and cleanliness, the success of the cook’s work will very much depend. Utensils, then, will be my first study; then the verbs which we employ in cooking, and their illustration. UTENSILS. If I give you a list, as near as may be, of all possible kitchen requisites, it by no means follows that they are to be desired by all sorts and conditions of mankind. I shall afterwards accentuate the more important, and I will only italicize here those without which it is difficult to carry on the most modest operations :— Ice-mould, ice-pudding mould, spice-box, pepper-mill,pestle and mortar, baking-sheet, dish-covers, freezing-machine, turbot-kettle, fish-kettle, dripping-pan and ladle, preserving- pans, gravy-strainers, egg-whisk, frying-basket, salamander, Bain-Marie pan, jelly-bag and stand, seasoning-box, omelette- pan, cutlet-pan, cooks' knives, pallet-knife, kitchen-fork, copper stew-pans, stock-pot, iron saucepans (enamelled), boiler, braiz- ing-pan, frying-pan, colander, Yorkshire-pudding tins, copper-moulds, tin-moulds, border-moulds, larding-needles, trussing-needles, skewers, saw, chopper, cutlet-bat, paste-board, * On the other hand, it is not an unfair thing for the compiler of this Handbook to insist that the English cook is unfairly handicapped by the market-gardener. All the principles in the world will not enable the cook to make vegetables appear and taste fresh that a gardener, who only consults his own convenience or that of the market, sends in twenty-four hours before the proper time. The anti-scorbutic properties of the vegetables may remain, but their fresh garden flavour will have disappeared, and, as I have said elsewhere in the article already mentioned, we want in cooking to extract the subtle essence of the garden and present it in the dining-room. Always admitting that you must afford proper time for the cook to clean them, the later vegetables are gathered the better.