46 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. (like Dubois and Bernard) insist that the grand bouillon to be properly made must never be composed of beef alone : it must be composed of beef, veal, and fowl, the constituents of a consommin the proportion of 6 lbs. of beef to 2 of veal and 1 of fowl.” (Dallas.) Velvet-Down (Veloute). (Gouffe’s receipt slightly altered.) Take six pounds of veal and two hens with the fillets cut off. Put them into a stewpan with a quart of stock for every pound of veal and fowl combined. Boil it, skim it, add to it two sliced onions, two carrots, a faggot of sweet herbs, a little salt, mignonette, pepper, and sugar, and thicken all till the meat is cooked, when the stock should be strained through a napkin, and freed from fat. Mix, without browning, three- quarters of a pound of clarified butter with the same quantity of flour, add the stock to it; stir it on the fire till it boils, then simmer it on the stove corner for two hours to reduce it, get rid of all grease, and pass it through a taminy. I have spoken of stock or broth made from the stock- pot, and preserved as the basis for other soups or sauces. I will now speak of a soup that may go direct from the stew-pan to the table. This is the pot-au-feu, which Gouffe calls Tame de la cuisine de manage (the soul of household cookery). Some one else said of it: “ e'est la soupe qui fait le soldatand Henri IV. of France did not make himself unpopular when he gave expression to the wish that each of his subjects might have a hen available for his pot-ait-feu. This shows that divers meats may be placed therein, and you are not restricted to beef, mutton, or veal. Here again I must impress on you that simmering of the gentlest character is necessary, and that a crust of albumen, the result of boiling, is fatal. Put in, then, what meat you like, only of the very freshest kind, say two pounds to three quarts of water (others adopt one pound to the quart); let the water be cold ; when you have taken the scum off, say when the meat is two-thirds