OF THE CEUEBRU.M. 407 white externally, of a ^ay colour Avithin, and are united to eacJi other by a small grayish band whicli is easily torn, and which con- tributes to form the floor of the tliird ventricle. It is in them that the anterior prolongations of the fornix end. Farther back, between the anterior peduncles of the cerebral pro- tuberance, there occurs a triangular excavation, of which the bot- tom, filled by the Avhite substance, also forms part of tlie floor of the third ventricle, and is perforated by several apertures for vessels. On the sides of these anterior peduncles, are seen the middle lobes of the brain, separated from the posterior by a groove direct- ed obliquely backwards, much less deep than the fissura Sylvii, and corresponding to the upper edge of the petrous process of the tem- poral bone. Both present anfractuosities and circumvolutions, which are less sinuous than those of the upper surface of the he- mispheres. The depth of the former does not equal half of that of the upper anfractuosities. Between the posterior and middle lobes of one side and those of the other, is placed the cerebral protuberance, behind which occurs the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, uniting the two ce- rebral hemispheres. Between this extremity and the upper surface of the protuberance, is a broad transverse slit, which conducts into the third ventricle the arachnoid membrane and pia mater, and which contains the arachnoid canal and the pineal gland. To the right and left, it is continuous v/ith another semicircular slit, placed be- tween the corpora fimbriata and the thalami of the optic nerves, at the bottom of a fissure which we have described, and which allows the pia mater to penetrate into the lateral ventricles. These three slits, thus united, establish a manifest communication between the exterior of the brain and its internal cavities, and Bichat gives them the general name of the Great Cerebral Slit ox fissure. Lastly, there is observed, at the backmost part, and in the me- dian line of the inferior surface of the brain, the termination of the great interlobular fissure, which lodges the end of the falx cerebri. 2. OF THE CEKEBELLUM CONSIBEUED WITH IIEFEUEXCE TO ITS EXTERIOR. 1437- The Cerebellum is less than a third of the size of the brain. Its weight, which varies much according to the dilferent ages, is commonly in the adult man, the eight or ninth part of that of the brain, and the sixteenth or eighteenth in the new-born in-, fant. Its form, which is symmetrical and regular, corresponds to that of the inferior occipital fossae, in Avhich it is lodged. Its breadth is much greater than its height, and it may be compared to two depressed spheroids, ])laced beside each other on a horizon- tal plane, and confounded by a portion of their surface. It is of a reddish gray colour externally, and is soft and proportionally lighter than the brain. Its surface presents an assemblage of gray