MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 341 becomes thicker, tlien enlarges a second time, and is inserted at the back part of the last phalanx of the thumb. 1206. Its posterior sicrface is covered by the extensor carpi ul- naris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis cligitorum, and ex- tensor indicis, and at its lowest part by the skin. The anterior surface lies upon the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis, the two bones of the fore-arm, the tendons of the radial extensors, the first metacarpal bone, and the pha- langes of the thumb. Its upper ecotremity is frequently united with that of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 1207. It extends the last phalanx of the thumb upon the first, and, in other respects, acts as the preceding muscle. OF THE EXTENSOU FEOPllIUS INDICIS, OR INDICATOR. 1208. Similar in form to the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, this muscle arises, by short aponeuroses, from the posterior surface of the ulna, and from the interosseous ligament, a httle beneath it, and to the outer side. From thence it descends outwards, increasing a little in size at first, and then diminishing. A tendon contained in its substance, becomes separated towards the posterior annular li- gament of the wrist, unites with those of the extensor communis digitorum, hy means of a membraniform cellular tissue (1186), passes into the same groove with it, is embraced by the same sy- novial membrane, and, on arriving at the back of the hand, is situ- ated to the outside of that which the extensor communis sends to the fore-finger. It is confounded with it behind the articulation of the second metacarpal bone, with the first phalanx of the fore-finger, to terminate in the manner indicated, (1186.) 1209. Its posterior surface is covered by the extensor carpi ul- naris, extensor proprius minimi digiti, and extensor communis digito- rum. The anterior lies on the ulna, the interosseous ligament, the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, the inferior extremity of the radius, and the back of the hand. Its upper ecctremity is confound- ed with that of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 1210. It extends the three phalanges of the forc-lingcr, and, in other respects, has the same uses as the other extensors. 5. Uadial Regioti. OF THE SUPINATOR LONGUS. 1211. This muscle, which is elongated, fusiform, flattened from before backwards in its upper fourth, and transversely in the rest of its extent, arises, by very short tendinous fibres, and over an ex- tent of about two inches, from the outer edge of the humerus, be- tween the brachialis internus and triceps extensor. An aponcuro.