PASSIVE ORGANS OP LOCOMOTION. are completed by corresponding portions of cellules, formed on the edges of the ethmoidal notch of tlie frontal bone, or by thin la- minae, belonging to the ethmoid bone itself. In the latter case, howevci’, there is always one before, which remains open to meet the frontal sinuses. In the spaces between these cellules, are seen narrow grooves, which are converted by the frontal bone into canals, the external orifices of which assume the name of internal orbital holes. 133. A Nasal or Inferior Surface. This surface is covered over its whole extent by the pituitary membrane, and is so dispos- ed that it can only be entirely seen after chviding the bone into two longitudinal portions. It is of a quadrilateral form, broader behind than before. In its middle part, it presents a vertical plate, having a longitu- dinal direction, frequently deflected to either side, irregularly qua- drilateral, and varying in extent. This is the Perpendicular Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, which forms part of the septum of the nasal fossae, and is placed at right angles to the cribiform plate. On its lateral surfaces, which are lined by the pituitary membrane, it is marked by vascular and nervous impressions. Below, it is terminated by a blunt edge, which is articulated with the vomer and the triangular cartilage of the nose ; anteriorly, by a margin thicker above than below, which in the former direction is connect- ed with the nasal ridge of the coronal bone, and in the latter, with the nasal bones themselves ; posteriorly, by another thm and sharp edge, which is articulated with the septum of the sphenoidal sinu- ses ; while above, it is confounded with the cribiform plate. In its upper part, it is traversed by the internal olfactory canals. These canals, which are short and oblique before, vertical and elongated in the middle, very long, and inclined backwards poste- riorly, become converted into mere gi’ooves, and never descend lower than half the height of the plate. They are seen terminat- ing by numerous apertures, havmg an oblique form. 134. To the right and left of the perpendicidar plate, a deep narrow groove, more contracted before than behind, and frequent- ly larger on one side than the other, leads to beneath the olfactory canals, of which it allows the middle holes and anterior fissures to be seen, and is limited externally by a very uneven surface, which presents various objects for examination. Behind and above, there is observed upon it a small thin plate, bent upon itself from above downwards, and most commonly from within outwards. This is the upper turbinated bone of the nasal fossce, anteriorly to which is a square rugose surface, and beneath it a sort of horizontal chan- nel, wliich forms part of the superior meatus of the same nasal fossce. This channel occupies about the posterior half of the whole length of the ethmoid bone, and presents anteriorly an aper- ture which leads into the posterior cells of the bone, the number of which varies from three or four to ten, and which all communi- cate with each other, and are frequently closed behind by a bony