PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. J8U B. ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORAX. 1. STEllNO-COSTAL AUTICIILATIONS. 588. We already know that tlie first seven ribs are the only ones that are truly articulated with the sternum l)y tlie interven- tion of a pretty long cartilage, while tliose wliicli follow them are jnerely joined to each other by means of the same sort of cartilage, and the two last even fioat loose among the muscles at their ante- rior extremity. These circumstances naturally lead us to divide these articulations into two orders; that of the True or Sternal Ribs, in which little motion is allowed, and that of the False or Asternal Ribs, in which the motions are more distinct. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE TRUE RlliS WITH THE STERNUM. 589- The inner extremities of each of these cartilages (95) pre- sent a surface which is lodged in one of the small cavities placed upon the lateral edges of the sternum (80), and which, together with these edges, is invested with a slight layer of cartilage, the surface of which is not very smooth. Two radiated ligaments, the one anterior, the other 'posterior, strengthen this species of arthro- dia. A very compact, and extremely thin synovial membrane, furnished with hut httle synovia, covers the articular surfaces. It is not in general easily perceived, but is a little more distinct in the two or three upper articulations than in those which follow, excepting, however, the first, in which there is an absolute conti- nuity of substance between the costal cartilage and the sternum. This capsule is connected before and behind with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the articulation, and is moreover strengthen- ed, above and below, by some irregular fibres. 590. There almost always occurs, in the articulation of the second of these cartilages, a fibrous fasciculus which proceeds from its projecting angle to the retiring angle of the sternal caA'ity, and which divides this articulation into two parts, which renders two synovial membranes necessary. 591. Anterior Ligament. This ligament is broad, thin, mem- branous, triangular, and composed of fibres which proceed in a radiating manner from the inner extremity of the cartilage, to he expanded over the anterior surface of the sternum, where they are interlaced with those of the ligaments of the opjiosite side, and of those situated immechately above and beneath, with the ])criosteum of the bone, and with aponeurotic fibres of the pcctoralis major. The direction of the fibres of this ligament is such, that the upper fibres pass obliquely upwards, the lower obliquely downwards, and the middle fibres horizontally. They are not all of the same