118 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. forwards. Thus, in the standing posture, a line drawn horizon- tally backwards from the upper edge of the pubes, falls nearly upon the middle of the sacrum. In the ordinary state, the inclination of the abdominal strait comes in consequence to be 35°; but it varies according to the attitude assumed. 412. With respect to the lines which are drawn transversely from one part of the pelvis to that which corresponds to it on the other side, they are always horizontal; these parts being placed at the same level, on account of the symmetry of this portion of the trunk. 413. From the circumstance that the two straits of the pelvis have not the same inclination, each of them has necessarily a dif- ferent axis; that of the abdominal strait, passing through the centre of the space it circumscribes, would fall upon the lower third of the sacrum, while the axis of the perineal strait would pass from its centre to the sacro-vertebral angle, and meet the former about the middle of the pelvic excavation, forming with it an obtuse angle opening anteriorly. Moreover, the axis of the great pelvis is near- ly vertical, while that of the excavation is sensibly oblique from above downwards, and from before backwards. It will be guessed that this determination of the axis of the pelvis is not given here with mathematical precision ; but, such as it is, it is of much im- portance to the accoucheur to know it. 3. DIMENSIONS AND PROPORTIONS OF THE PELVIS IN THE WELL- FORMED FEMALE. 414. Dimensions of the Great Pelvis- 1. From one superior and anterior iliac spine to the other, 10.023 inches. 2. From the middle of one iliac crest to the corresponding point of the opposite side, II.O76 inches. 3. From the middle of the iliac crest to the edge of the abdomi- nal strait, 3.510 inches. 4. From the middle of the Uiac crest to the sciatic tuberosity, 7-410 inches. 415. Dimensions o f the Abdominal Strait. 1. Sacro-pubic diameter, 4.290 indies. 2. Iliac diameter, 5.460 inches. 3. Oblique diameters, 4.680 inches. 4. Circumference, 14.820 inches. 416. Dimensions of the Perineal Strait. 1. Diameter from the coccyx to the pelvis, on account of the mobility of the former bone, from 4.290 to 5 inches.