ORGANS OF SENSATION, 48^2 vcvse direction within the vertebral canal; tlie rest descend so much the more obliquely towards the hole by which they are to emerge the lower they are situated, so that between the origin and exit of the last there is an interval of the height of a vertebra. In the intervertebral holes, the two roots, which are very close to each other, are separated by a thin partition which seems to divide into two the fibrous canal of the dura mater (1494,) and only unite beyond the ganglion formed by the posterior. They then give rise to the trunk of the nerve itself, which, after a very short course, separates into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. OF THE FIRST PAIR OF CERVICAL NERVES. 1659. Posterior Branch. This branch is larger than the ante- rior, which is the reverse of what is observed in the other cervical nerves. It is reflected from beneath upwards under the lower edge of the obliquus capitis inferior, ascends between it and the complexus major, proceeds inwards, traverses the last mentioned muscle, be- comes sub-cutaneous and divides into several twigs upon the occi- pital bone. At its commencement, it communicates upwards with the sub-occipital nerve (1656,) and downwards with the correspond- ing branch of the second cervical nerve (1661.) It also gives a fi- lament to the highest part of the levator anguli scapulae. At the moment of this reflection, it sends before the complexus major nu- merous filaments which descend into its substance and are there lost, or which, passing under its inner edge, gain its posterior sur- face, and are there distributed as well as in the complexus minor and splenius, and sometimes in the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mas- toideus. Lastly, it terminates at the back part of the head, by twigs which are expanded in the occipital muscle anti mteguments, or anastomose with the filaments of the frontal, sub-occipital (1656) and posterior auricular (1608) nerves, and with those of the cervical plexus (1673.) 1660. Anterior Branch. It separates from the preceding near- ly at a right angle. It turns over the lateral articulation of the atlas and axis, between the transverse processes of these vertebrie. There it is covered by the levator anguli scapulae, splenius and first inter- transversalis coUi, and immediately after divides into several twigs. One of these ascends upon the atlas to form a nervous arch with a filament of the sub-occipital nerve (1655 ;) another divides into se- veral filaments which go to the superior cervical ganglion; a third loses itself in the rectus capitis anticus major; a fourth enters in- to the formation of the cervieal plexus, uniting by two or three anastomoses with the anterior branch of the second cervical nerve ; a fifth, which is very small and very high, anastomoses ivith the pneumo-gastric nerve.