19() l‘ASSIVE ORGANS OE LOCOMOTION. the inner extremity of the clavicle, and on the other, to the poste- rior and superior part of the sternum, on the edges of the articular cavity. Its anterior surface covers the two synovial membranes, and a part of the circumference of the fibro-cartilage. The pos- terior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroi- deus muscles. 641 Inter-clavicular Ligament.—This name is given to a very distinct fasciculus, placed transversely above the upper extremity of the sternum, between the heads of the two clavicles. Its ap- pearance varies in different individuals, it being sometimes thick, and sometimes thin, at one time simple, at another composed of several separate bundles. It is always flat. Its fibres, which are parallel are longer above than below, frequently separated by small apertures, and always more compact and closer in the middle than at the extremities. They are also curved, and their concavity, which is not very decided, is directed upwards. These fibres arise from the upper part of the sternal extremities of the clavicles, and are partly confounded with the aponeuroses of the anterior portions of the sterno-mastoid muscles. Frequently this ligament has only shght membraneous adhesions to the sternum, while, at other times it is strongly fixed to its periosteum and hgaments. Its posterior surface corresponds to the sterno-hyoidei and sterno- thyroidei muscles; the anterior., to the integuments. Its iip- per edge forms with the sternum a notch, through which vessels pass. 642. Costo-clavicular Ligament.—This ligament does not form an intimate part of the articulation of which we are treating, it be- ing in no shape attached to the sternum. It is of a rhomboidal form, short, flat, and very strong, with dense, compact, obhque fibres, longer externally than at the inner part, and proceeds from the inner and upper part of the cartilage of the first rib, ascend- ing obliquely backwards and forwards, to be inserted into a promi- nence which the lower surface of the clavicle presents internally. One of its surfaces is directed forwards and upwards, and is cover- ed in a great part by the subclavius muscle; the other, which faces backwards and downwards, touches the subclavian vein. At its inner part it corresponds to the articulation. 643. Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage.—It consists of a nearly circular plate, fitted to the articular surfaces of the sternum and clavicle, between which it lies. It is thicker at its circumference than in the centre, which is sometimes perforated. The circum- ference is united to the ligaments described above, especially the anterior and posterior. Above and behmd, where it is very much thicker, it is fixed to the head of the clavicle; downwards and inwards, where it is very thin, it is attached to the union of the sternum with the cartilage of the first rib, partly confounding itself with the perichonch'ium of the latter. The structure of this organ is perfectly similar to that which we observed in the fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Its fibres arc also much more