OF Till-: VELUM TALATI. 593 2037. Mtisculur layer of the lips. This has been already de- scribed. It is formed in the upper lip, by the levator labii supe- rioris almque nasi, levator proprius, zygomaticus minor, and depres- sor aim nasi, on either side; in the under lip, by the qu^ dratus genae and levator menti; in the commissures, by the bucci- nator, triangularis, levator anguli oris, and zygomaticus major ; lastly, their free edge is especially constituted by the orbicularis oris. 2038. Mucmis layer of the lips. Here the mucous membrane is remarkable for its redness, the small number of villosities which appear upon its surface, and its very distinct epidermis. Between it and the muscular layer, there occur a multitude of large mucous follicles, rounded and prominent, mostly separated from each other, and opening by a very distinct orifice upon the posterior surface of the lips. They are commonly named labial glands. 2039. The arteries of the lips are all furnished by the external carotid, and in particular by its labial, submenUl, mental, buccal, infra-orbitar, alveolar, and transverse branches. The veins cor- respond to them, and open into the two jugular veins. Their lym- phatic vessels descend towards the ganglia which are situated beneath the chin, in the course of the submental artery. Their nerves are suppUed by the infra-orbitar (1587), wiental (1599) and facial (1614) nerves. C. OF THE VELUM PALATI AND POSTERIOR APERTURE OF THE MOUTH. • 2040. The Velum palati is a soft, broad, thick mobile partition, appended to the extremity of the vault of the palate, and separat- ing the mouth from the pharynx. Its form is nearly quadrilateral. Its two surfaces, the anterior and posterior, are smooth, and pre- sent nothing remarkable, unless it be the anterior, which offers at its middle part a small prominence formed by the palato-staphyli- nus muscle (1013). Their direction varies according to the motions performed by the velum palati. Its upper edge is very thick and fixed to the vault of the palate ; the lower edge is free and floating beneath the base of the tongue. It presents at its middle part an appendage or prolongation which is named the Uvula. The uvula is of a conical form, and varies in volume and length in different subjects. It forms the inferior edge of the velum palati into a double arch, terminated on each side by two pillars which are continuous with the tongue and the pharynx. These pillars of the velum palati are placed the one before the other, and separated by a triangular sjiace in wliich are lodged the tonsils. They are united above, but diverge below. The anterior is oblique, and contains in its substance the glosso-staphylinus mus- cle. The posterior is nearly vertical, and formed by a portion of the pharyngo-staphylinus muscle internally. 2041. Mucous Layer of the Velum Palati, It forms a kind of