MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 279 very distinct and dose slieath; the tendon is curved from above downwards and from within outwards at a right angle. It then proceeds backwards and downwards between the rectus superior and the ball of the eye, and is converted into a radiated aponeu- rosis which continues to descend over the outer and posterior part of the ball of the eye, where it terminates, near the entrance of the optic nerve, confounding a portion of its fibres with the sclero- tic membrane. 941. This muscle is placed between the orbit, the optic nerve, the superior and internal recti muscles, and the ball of the eye. 942. It carries the ball of the eye forwards and inwards, making it experience a rotatory motion which directs the pupil downwards and inwards. OF THE OBLIQUUS INFERIOU OCULI, OK OBLKiUUS MINOR. 943. The ohliquics inferior which is situated at the anterior and under part of the orbit, is smaller and less rounded than the pre- ceding muscle. It is attached to the inner and fore part of the orbit or surface of the superior maxillary bone, a little to tli6 out- side of the lachrymal groove, whence it is directed backwards and outwards, curving upwards upon the convexity of the eye between it and the rectus externus. It then degenerates into an aponeu- rosis which terminates in the sclerotic membrane, at the distance of two lines from the entrance of the optic nerve. 944. Its infenor surface rests upon the floor of the orbit; the tipper corresponds to the ball of the eye and to the rectus in- ferior. 945. It carries the ball of the eye inwards and forwards, and directs the pupil upwards and outwards. When it acts along with the preceding muscle, the eye is carried forwards and inwards, which counterbalances the effort made by the united recU muscles. 3. ffasal Region, OF THE PYRAMIDALIS NASI. (M. Fronto-nasal, Chauss.) 946. This muscle, which many anatomists regard as an appen- dage of the frontalis, with whose fibres it is interlaced at its upjxir part, covers the nasal bones. The two pyramidal muscles are united above, and only separate towards the middle of the nasal bones, to terminate in a diverging manner, in a membranous tissue rather cellular than fibrous, which occupies the sides of the nose, and also receives the fibres of the friangularis nasi. I^ach of