OUGAS'S OF SENSATION. 40G corresponds to the posterior edge of the process of Ingrassias (lid.) and is continued inwards and backwards, nearly at a right angle, into another longitudinal fissure, limited externally by the middle lobe, internally by the optic nerves and the anterior peduncles of the cerebral protuberance. This second fissure allows the pia matter to pass into the lateral ventricles of the brain ; but it is closed by the arachnoid membrane. Posteriorly, it communicates with a transverse fissure of which we shall presently speak. To- wards the point of union of these two fissurps, there is seen a whitish space, perforated with several apertures which admit ves- sels of considerable size, thus presenting an arrangement of rare occurrence at the surface of the brain. This white surface also presents some striae, and ascends towards the corpus callosum, with which it seems to be continuous Between the two interlobular fissures, is the commissure of the optic nerves, from the upper surface of wdiich there is seen to rise a grayish membrane, of a pulpy consistence and yet pretty firm, transparent and furnished with but few vessels, which closes the anterior extremity of the third ventricle, and proceeds to the ante- rior and inferior part of the corpus callosum. Behind the commissure of the optic nerves is a grayish tubercle, the Tuber cinereum of Soemmering, which is connected with these nerves, under which it sinks a little, and is prolonged posteriorly as far as the mamillary eminences, which are as it were enveloped by it. It forms a part of the floor of the third ventricle, and con- tains in its centre a small nucleus of white substance. From the middle of this tubercle, descends obliquely forwards the Pituitary Stem, a sort of thin, slender, conical prolongation, of a reddish colour, which passes under the commissure of the optic nerves, and terminates by its summit, in a small soft body, lodged in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone (115.) It is not hollow internally, as several authors have supposed, and it is invested by an envelope furnished by the arachnoid membrane. The small organ in which this stem ends bears the name of Pituitary Gland. Its structure and uses are not yet well known. It is rounded and transversely elongated, and rests upon the dura mater, which surrounds it on all sides, excepting at its upper part, on which the arachnoid membrane is expanded. It does not pre- sent the uniform vascular structure peculiar to glands; but it is evidently composed of two portions, intimately connected, yet dis- tinct. The first of these portions, w hich is the largest, is anterior. It is of a gi-ayish yellow colour, convex before, notched behind, and of the form of a kidney. The posterior, which is smaller, is soft, pulpy, and impregnated with a whitish viscid fluid. The pituitary gland is traversed by some blood-vessels. It sometimes contains small calculous concretions. The Mammillary or Pisiform 7'uberrlrs, ( C'orjinra Alhicanfia,) are situated behind the gray substance from which the pituitary stem takes it.s rise. They have the form and size of a pea, are