OF THE HYPOGASTRIC OR INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 743 26G1. Femoral or Crural Vein. This immediately succeeds the popliteal vein, and ascends obliquely at the inner and fore part of the thigh, close to the femoral artery, and following precisely the same course up to the crural arch (2586). It is at first placed behind the artery; but above it is in contact with its inner side. It receives a great number of deep branches, precisely similar to those of the artery, and a superficial branch, which is the foUow- ing. 2662. Internal Vena Saphena (Veine tihio-mallcolaire, Chauss.) Its first radicles occupy the inner edge of the great toe, and form on the back of the foot, near the metatarso-phalangeal ar- ticulations, a transverse arch which unites with the external sa- phena, and whose convexity, which is directed forwards, receives a certain number of twigs coming from the toes. All these roots united ascend before the maleolus internus, over the ankle-joint, and form a trunk which is further augmented by many branches which come from the tarsal and metatarsal regions. This trunk then ascends at first vertically, afterwards obliquely backwards, along the inner part of the leg, and passes behind the internal condyle of the femur. It then ascends almost vertically on the inner side of the thigh, before the adductores and gracilis mus- cles, and receives branches which come from the posterior and su- perficial part of the thigh. One of these branches is larger than the rest. It commences at the fore part of the leg, or around the inner condyle of the femur, by several roots of considerable size, some of which anastomose with the trunk of the vein itself. It then ascends obliquely between the skin and the fat, receiving many twigs from them. The internal vena saphena then ascends as far as the crural arch, where it discharges itself into the femoral vein. There, it receives several Abdominal Subcutaneous Veins, a vein which corresponds to the circumflex iliac artery (2507), and the External Pudic Veins. 2663. External Iliac Vein. Placed beneath and a little inter- nally of the artery of the same name (2502), this vein receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and follows precisely the same course. The Epigastric and Circurr^ex Iliac Veins open into it. It receives moreover in the male a pretty large vein which enters by the inguinal ring, united to the spermatic cord, and which comes from the envelope of the testicle. 8. OF THE VEINS WHICH FORM THE HYPOGASTRIC OR INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 2664. The Hypogastric Vein, placed in the excavation of the pelvis, behind the artery of the same name, is composed of a num- ber of branches corresponding exactly to those of the artery, with the exception of some which we proceed to describe. 3 c