NOMENCLATUUE OF THE MUSCLES, 257 and they afford the very great advantage of multiplying them much without any loss of surface. Those which are arched serve to pre- vent the vessels from suffering compression during the contraction of the muscle. 4. OF THE FIBROUS SHEATHS. 799. The Fibrous Sheaths are a kind of envelopes destined to keep down the tendons at their passage over the bones, in the places where they are reflected, and to prevent them from expe- riencing any other deviation than that caused by the contraction of the muscles to which they belong. Some of these sheaths, as those of the wrists, contain the united tendons of several muscles ; others, as those of the fingers, are intended for a single tendon, or for two only. Of these latter, some are of considerable length, while others merely form a kind of ring. They all, in general, present the form of a hollow semi-cylinder, which is completed by the bone to which they are attached; and they thus form a sort of canal. This canal is lined by a synovial membrane. They are confounded at their edges with the periosteum- They are very strong, and their tissue is very dense and close. The fibrous sheaths which envelope several tendons together, bear the name of Annular Ligaments. Some of them, as at the fore part of the wrist, leave all the tendons in contact with each other; those of the posterior part of the wrist, on the contrary, send between them small fibrous partitions which serve to isolate them. 5. NOMENCLATURE OF THE MUSCLES. 800. There is much difference as to the number of the muscles. Some authors make them amount to four htmdred and more ; M. Chaussier admits only three hundred and sixty-eight. As most of the muscles are in pairs, and there are but very few single, it might be supposed that the number of names would be much less. Yet the greatest confusion prevails in their nomenclature; for there is not one among them that has not received more than one name, and some have as many as a dozen, which sufficiently accounts for Dr. Schreger, of Furth, having employed a thick octavo volume to unravel these complicated synonymes. Some, in fact, have been named after their uses; for example, the diaphragm, buccinator, extensors, supinators^ pronators, flexors, levators, depressors, constrictors, &c. But it sometimes happens that an error has been committed in this respect, and besides a muscle may have several uses at once. Thus the levator anguli sea-