8-2(3 OF THE OMENTA. neum, witli wliich wc are already acquainted, and wliich extends transversely from the right side of the cardia to the corresponding extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver, and from above downwards, from the inferior surface of the diaphragm to the py- lorus and duodenum. It is under it that the foramen of Winslow occurs, and between its two lamime that the biliary and hepatic ves- sels are lodged. It contains in general a little fat. 3001. The Great Omentum is a very large fold, free and float- ing upon the circumvolutions of the intestine. It is irregularly quadrilateral, and more commonly on the left side than on the right. Its base is attached anteriorly to the great curvature of the stomach, and posteriorly to the arch of the colon. Its edges are continuous above, the one with the colic omentum, the other with the gastro- splenic omentum, and farther down with the neighbouring portion of the lumbar colon. It is formed of two laminae, each composed of two lamellae, the one superficial, the other deep. The two lamellae of the anterior lamina leave between them and the great curvature of the stomach a triangular space (2059) ; but they are afterwards confoimded, and ascend together to form the posterior lamina. At the upper part of this latter, they separate again to embrace the arch of the colon, and form the transverse mesocolon. The one joins the mesentery, the other ascends towards the foramen of Winslow. There is found in the substance of the great omentum a very large quantity of vessels and fat, the latter generally having flak^es dispersed through it. 3002. Colic Omentum. This is a fold of the peritoneum which exists only on the right side, and which is placed behind the great omentum. It nearly fills the angle formed by the union of the right and transverse portions of the colon. Sometimes it extends as far as the coecum or towards the spleen. Its two laminm are separated by arteries and vems belonging to the colon. 3003. The Gastro-spknic Omentum is formed by the perito- neum, which, from the edges of the fissure of the spleen, proceeds over the cardiac extremity of the stomach. It contains hi its sub- stance the splenic vessels and vasa breviora. 3003. Besides the omenta, the peritoneum forms other folds, such as the mesentery, the mesocolon, the mesorectum, the meso- coecum, the broad ligaments of the uterus, the suspensory liga- ments of the liver, the adipose appendages of the large intestine, &c. These, however, have already been described.