633 IlIGHT AUlllCLE. Inferiorly, the orifice of the vena cava inferior is furnished with a membranous replication which advances into the cavity of the auricle, and is named the Eustachian Valve. The breadth of this valve varies much in the adult, but it can never entirely close the aperture of the vein. Its dimensions are more considerable in children, and especially in fetuses, and it becomes gradually obli- terated with age, so as to be very indistinct in old persons. Its position is nearly vertical, and its form semilunar. Its posterior surface, which is directed backwards, to the right and upwards, corresponds to the cavity of the vena cava inferior. The anteHor, which has an opposite direction, corresponds to the cavity of the auricle. Its free edge, which looks upwards and backwards, is sometimes reticular. It is more or less concave, but is always very thin. Its right extremity is connected with the circumference of the vena cava inferior, while the left is prolonged upon the inner wall of the auricle, and is continuous with the anterior pillar of the fossa ovalis, of which we shall presently speak. Under the Eustachian valve, and above the entrance of the ven- tricle, is the common aperture of the coronary veins, which is also furnished with a semilunar valve, but broad enough to close it entirely, and of which the free edge is directed downwards. 2. Its anterior side presents at its upper part the small cavity of the appendage, remarkable for the prominences which are formed in it by a multitude of fleshy columns crossing each other, and inferiorly, the wide aperture by which the two right cavities of the heart com- municate. This aperture is circular when the heart is full, ellip- tical when it is empty, and is margined with a kind of white zone, of which we shall subsequently speak. It is called the Right auri- eulo-venticular opening. 3. The outer side presents nothing remarkable but a great num- ber of irregular prominences, formed by muscular bundles which leave between them spaces of various dimensions, and of which the principal are in general directed from behind forwards. These prominences are commonly less numerous than in the appendage. 4. Its inrier side is formed by a septum which separates the right auricle from the left. In the adult it presents under its mid- dle part a depression which is named the fossa ovalis, and which is more distinct above than below, where it disappears insensibly, becoming continuous with the vena cava inferior. The surface of this depression is sometimes smooth, sometimes uneven and reti- culated. It does not appear to have any fixed limit behind; but, anteriorly, it presents a kind of very thick semilunar valve, of which the inferior extremity is continuous with the Eustaclmn valve. By its inner surface, this valve corresponds to another valve which projects in the left auricle, and which forms of itself the bottom of the fossa ovalis. On pushing from behind forwards the handle of a scalpel between these two valves, a passage is easi- ly obtained from the right auricle into the left. The space occupied in the adult by the fossa ovalis is occupied in the fetus by an aperture which is named the foramen ovale