ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 318 upper part of the hand, the first from the fore and outer part of the tendon of tlic flexor profundus, which goes to the fore-finger ; the three following from the separation of the other tendons of the same muscle, so as to he attached to two of them at once. From thence they descend, following different directions; the middle two verti- cally, the outer outwards, and the inner inwards; and when they have arrived at the outer side of the articulation of the metacarpal bones, with the first phalanges of the fingers, they become very thin, and terminate by flattened tendons, which proceed behind the first phalanx, becoming broader, are confounded with the tendons of the con-esponding interossei, and go, along with them, to be lost in the outer edge ot the tendons of the extensor digitorum commu- nis. These tendons vary much in their dispositions. They fre- quently divide into two, and one of their branches is attached to the phalanx. 124-2. Their anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor digitorum profundus, by the palmar aponeurosis, and by the collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers. The posterior surface lies upon the interossei, the inferior transverse metacarpal ligament, and the phalanges. 1243. They bend the fingers upon the metacarpus, carry them a little outwards, and fix the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. or THE INTEROSSEI. 1244. These muscles are seven in number, two for each of the middle fingers, and one for the little finger. Four are situated on the back of the hand, and only three in the palm. According to their uses, they are designated by the names of abductors and ad- ductors. 1245. Interossei inclicis. Its abductor is the largest of the in- terossei. It is of a triangular form, thin, and flat, and arises along the outer edge of the second metacarpal bone, and from the upper half only of the inner edge of the first, as well as from the ligiv- ments which connect these bones with the trapezium. Between these two origins, there exists, superiorly, an interval through which the radial artery passes. The two fascicidi which arise from them unite afterwards into a single one, which terminates in a tendon, partly attached to the outside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx, partly to the extensor tendon of the index. Its posterior surface is covered by the skin; the anterior by the first lumbricalis, the flexor brevis and abductor pollicis, and by the skin. It draws the fore-finger outwards, and the first metacarpal bone in- w'ards. I’lie adductor of the fore-finger is situated in the palm of the hand. Thin and prismatic, it arises from the two up})cr thirds of the inner side of the second metacarpal bone, and from the liga- ments by which that bone is connected with the trapezoidcs. It is