171 OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. 571. In all the moveable articulations, there occur certain organs of a reddish colour, varying mucli in their volume, figure and si- tuation. Sometimes there are several of them together in the same articulation; frequently there is only one, which is of remarkable size, as in the ilio-femoral articulation; and it is to be observed that the more motions an articulation has to perform, the more nu- merous and the larger tliese bodies are. They are of various shapes, some being quadrangular, others semilunar, &c. Sometimes they are placed in particular cavities of the bones, sometimes merely at the circumference of the latter ; but, whatever be their position, it is always such that they are completely protected from pressure when the bones move upon eacli other. RosenmuUer thought he perceived, in the tissue of these bodies, secretory follicles, wliich Clopton Havers named GlandulcR muci- lagmosce,* imagining the synovia to be secreted by them, in which he was followed by Winslow, HaUer, Bertin, Portal, Heyligers, &c. But most of the modern anatomists have rejected this opi- nion, and among those who have done so we distinguish the names of Walther, Bichat, Boyer, Bedard, &c. These do not distin- guish the bodies in question from cellular tissue, as the most canreful chssection discovers no traces in them of the parenchyma peculiar to glands, as no vestige of an excretory canal can be per- ceived in them, and as they are entirely resolved into cellular tissue by insufflation, as well as by maceration. These bodies must therefore be considered as masses of adipose tissue, whose volume varies according to the quantity of fat which they contain, and in which the arterial and venous vessels are infinitely subdivided be- fore arriving at the membrane, with respect to which they perform the same office as the pia mater does with reference to the vessels of the brain. The meshes of these small bodies contain an oleagi- nous substance of a peculiar nature, and injections show that the vessels are infinitely ramified and anastomosed on their walls, in which respect they are evidently different from the cellular tissue of the rest of the body. We also observe that the synovial mem- brane forms above each of these alleged glands a multitude of float- ing fringes, variously cut on their free edges, which are particularly well seen by dissection under water, and on which Beclard has re- cently made very curious researches. It was these fringes that Havers considered as the excretory canals of his glands arranged alongside of each other; but, properly speaking, they are nothing but folds of the synovial capsiile, which contain in their substance cellular tissue, fat and blood-vessels. • Nova: Obicrv. dc Osiihus, &c. 12mo. Amst. 1731, p. ?09.