501 or THE LUMBAU NERVES AND PLEXUS. OF THl:: SECOND LUMBAU NEUVE. I72G. Posterior Branch. A little smaller than the preceding, it equally passes between the transverse processes, sends inwards twigs to the multifidus spinse muscle, traverses the mass of the sacro-spinalis, gives it some filaments, creeps in the same manner under the lumbar aponeurosis, perforates it toward the iliac crest, and is expanded by a great number of subdivisions in the integu- ments of the upper and back part of the thigh. 1727. Anterior Branch. It communicates with the lumbar ganglia, the anterior branches of the first and second pairs of the lumbar region, and enters into the composition of the lumbo-abdo- rainal plexus. OF THE THIRD LUMBAU NEUVE. 1728. Posterior Branch. Still smaller than that of the second, it is distributed precisely in the same manner, and also ramifies in the integuments of the upper and back part of the thigh. 1729- Anterior Branch. It communicates with those of the second and fourth lumbar nerves, and with the lumbar ganglia, contributing also to the formation of the lumbo-abdominal plexus. OF THE FOURTH AND FIFTH LUMBAU NERVE. 1730. Posterior Branches. They are both very small, and lose themselves in the fleshy mass of the sacro-spinalis muscle, without going so far as the aponeurosis which covers it. They also send some filaments into the multifidus spinae muscle. 1731. Anterior Branches. They communicate with each other, and with the lumbar ganglia. That of the fourth nerve re- ceives a branch from the third, and that of the fifth terminates the lumbo-abdominal plexus, descending into the pelvis to throw itself into the sciatic plexus. OF THE LUMBO-ABDOMINAL OR LUMBAR PLEXUS. 1732. Formed by the union of the anterior branches of the five lumbar nerves, which all send twigs to it, this plexus is situated on the lateral parts of the bodies of the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrae, before the base of their transverse processes, and behind the psoas magnus. It represents a kind of elongated cor«t, very narrow above, much broader below, where the nerves unite with each other farther from the vertebral column than above. It com-