MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. 289 toward the lower and lateral part of the tongue, where it is conti- nuous with a portion of the iibres of the stylo-glossus, after hav- ing passed between its two bundles, and finally terminates in the dermis of the mucous membrane. The second portion, or Basio- glossus, which is not so broad, but thicker, covers the preceding portion a little at its upper part, and is separated from it below by the lingual artery. It arises from the upper part of the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone, and descends a little ob- liquely backwards and outwards. Lastly, the third portion, or Ckotidro-glosstcs originates from the small horn of the same bone, as well as from the cartilage placed between the body and the large horn, and ascends upon the sides of the root of the tongue, where it is confounded, hke the basio-glossus, with the lingualis and genio- glossus without its being capable of being traced to the tegumentary membrane. 997- The Older surface of this muscle is covered above by the stylo-glossus, with which it is connected ; a little farther down, by the mylo-hyoideus, the great hypo-glossal nerve and the submaxil- lary gland; and stiU farther down, by the genio-hyoideus, stylo- hyoideus and digastricus. The inner surface is in connection with the constrictor pharyngis medius and genio-glossus muscles, the lingual artery, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. . 998. The hyo-glossus lowers the base of the tongue, or raises the hyoid bone when the tongue is fixed. When it acts on one side only, it inclines the tongue towards the same side. OF THE GENIO-GEOSSUS. 999- The Genio-glossus is a triangular radiated muscle, trans- versely flattened, and situated between the tongue and the lower maxillary bone. It arises from the upper tubercle of the genial process, by a small but very strong short tendon, which is more prolonged externally than internally, and from which proceed the fleshy fibres, diverging and following different directions, but al- most always perpendicularly to the axis of the tongue. The upper fibres, which are the shortest, are at first horizontal, but on arriv- ing at the lower part of the tongue, curve upwards and forwards to reach its point. The middle fibres, which are less curved, are con- founded on the side with the lingual muscle. The inferior arC much longer, and descend obliquely backwards to lose themselves at the base of the tongue, or even to be attached in part to the summit of the small horn of the os hyoides, or to be continued into the constrictor pharyngis medius. There results from this arrange- ment that the muscle represents a triangle whose base is attached to the tongue, where its fibres are interlaced with those of the liiH gualis, stylo-glossus, constrictor pharyngis superior, constrictor me^ dius, and hyo-glossus. At the place where the two genio-glossi touch each other behind, there is observed a small bundle of fibres, u