PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 150 muscles of the sole of the foot, and are separated by a depression into which a stout ligament is fixed. Anteriorly, this surface contracts still more, and is terminated by a rough tuberele into which is inserted the inferior calcaneo-seaphoid ligament. The anterior surface of the caleaneum is the smallest of all. It is eoncave from above downwards, slightly convex from without inwards, covered with cartilage, and articulated to the os cuboides. The portion of the bone which sustains this surface is contracted, and has received the name of the Great Process of the Caleaneum. Its posterior surface^ which is convex in all directions, presents inequalities at its lower part, where the tendo Achillis is inserted. Its upper part is smooth and polished, and is separated from the tendon just mentioned by a synovial bursa. Its outer surface., which is broader behind than before, is mark- ed anteriorly with two superficial grooves, directed downwards and forwards, for the passage of the tendons of the lateral peronei muscles. It lies, in a great part of its extent, immediately under the skin, and presents anteriorly, on the great process, inequalities to which the extensor brevis digitorum pedis is attached. The two grooves are separated by a spine into which is inserted the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Lastly, its inner surface, which is broad, concave from before backwards, slightly convex from above downwards at its posterior part, forms an arch under which slide the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum pedis, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus poUicis pedis. The tendon of the latter muscle passes in a very distinct groove, which occupies the upper part of this surface, and which is formed under the small process. The plantar vessels and nerves are also lodged in this cavity. Posteriorly and below, it presents inequalities to which the accessory muscle of the flexor longus di- gitorum is attached. OF THE ASTRAGALUS.* 521. The Astragalus, which, next to the caleaneum, is the largest bone of the tarsus, is of a very irregular and somewhat cubical form, and occupies the middle and upper part of the tarsus, where it ap- pears as if wedged in between the two maUeoli. Its upper surface is formed, in its two posterior thirds, by an articular surface broader before than behind, convex from behind forwards, inclined back- wards, a little concave in the transverse direction, which represents a kind of pulley with a shallow groove, articulated with the lower extremity of the tibia, and having its outer edge more prominent than the inner. Its anterior third presents a rough depression, for the insertion of ligaments, which constitutes a portion of the neck of the astragalus. Its lower stirface presents two articular surfaces. ’AfrjayaXo;, t(llus.