ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 73-1. nix. Tims united, these two veins form to the right and left veins whicli are called the Venai Galeni. 2G23. Ve7tce Guleni. 3’hey direct themselves horizontally back- wards in the tela choroides, placed in the canal which the pia mater forms by penetrating into the middle ventricle of the brain, and externally of that which the arachnoid membrane presents at the same place. They issue from the brain towards the posterior curve of the corpus callosum, and immediately introduce themselves into the right sinus of the dura mater by its anterior extremity (1478), crossing each other, so that the left goes to the right side of the sinus, and the right to the left side. 2624. Superior Cerebellar Veins. Arising from the"substance of the cerebellum, and expanded over its whole upper surface, they unite into two or three trunks, which ascend obliquely forwards along the ^Jro6•e5S^^s vermiformis superior (1414), bend upon themselves, leave the cerebellum, and penetrate into the straight .sinus towards the middle of its length (1478). Some) of these veins, which are smaller than the others, open into the venae Galeni. 2625. Inferior Cerebellar Veins. Disposed nearly in the in- verse direction of the preceding, and at the inferior surface of .the cerebellum, they unite on each side into two or three trunks, which bend over the great circumference of the organ, and ascend verti- cally to open into the corresponding lateral sinus, at considerable distances from each other (1480). 2626. Lateral and Inferior Cerebral Veins. They are as nu- merous as the superior (2590), and have a similar disposition, but at the base and upon the sides of the brain. United, on each side, into three or four trunks pretty near each other, and enveloped by sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, they leave the brain together, direct themselves obliquely forwards and outwards, and open into the upper part of the lateral sinuses, behind the base of the petrous process, and passing through the fibrous bundles of the tentorium cerebelli. 2627. Ophthalmic Vein. It arises from aU the parts contained within the orbit, from the pituitary membrane, the palpebrie, &c., and, in a word, from all the organs to which the ophthalmic artery is distributed.* The roots of the one have the same disposition as the twigs of the other (2258), and this vein is formed by the A«c/i- rymal Veins, the Central Vein of the Retina, the Infra-orbitar Vein, the Ciliary, Ethmoidal, Palpebral, and Nasal Veins. We observe, however, that in the choroid membrane, the radicles of the ciliary veins form a distinct layer from those of the arteries (1862), and that they are so flexuous and anastomose so frequently toge- ther, that they receive the name of Fnsa Vorticosa. Resulting from the union of all the veins which we have enumerated above, the ophthalmic vein passes out of the orbit by the inner part of * No veins have yet been discoveied in tlic ineinbrnim pupillaris of the foetus.