61 THE SKULL IN GENERAL. A large v^’ormian bone of a quadrilateral form frequently occupies the place of this union. 205. The last-mentioned suture, which is frequently designated by the name of the Median or Frontal, and which is generally indistinct, and occurs much more frequently in children than in adults, ends at the nasal spine of the frontal bone, where it is con- tinued on each side into a line formed by the ethmoidal notch of that bone as it joins the ethmoid, and which afterwards terminates at a right angle in the sjjhenoidal suture, under the name of Eth- moidal Suture. It is in it that the internal orbitary foramina occur. 206. The sutures which, as we have said, are formed by the mutual connection of the bones of the skull, are not so fixed and determinate as not to present considerable variations. It is not the case, however, that their number is greater in females than in males, as has been asserted by some of the older anatomists. In certain individuals, they are partly effaced ; and skulls have even been alleged to have been seen, in which there were no sutures at all, of which Bartholin* mentions several examples. Some years ago, I presented to the medical faculty of Paris a skull in which the frontal suture was obliterated on one side. The tri- quetrous bones are sometimes so numerous in the lambdoid suture, as to produce the appearance of a double suture in that place. Vesalius and Eustachius saw the sagittal suture separating the occipital bone into two portions ; and Ruysch observed a subject in which it extended over the occipital and frontal bones. Van Swieten*j" had a skull in which the same suture was an inch broad at the top of the head, and contracted before and behind. 207. The outer surface of the skull is divided into four regions, as follows : 208. Upper Region. This region is of an oval form, and is limited anteriorly by the nasal protuberance, posteriorly by the outer occipital protuberance, and laterally by a curved line which extends over the coronal and parietal bones. There is observed upon it, anteriorly and in the middle line, the suture which unites the two pieces of the frontal bone, or merely the remains of this suture. On the sides of the latter, are the frontal pro- tuberances, which surmount the superciliary arches, and which are situated beneath the fronto-parietal suture. In the middle part of the latter is seen the termination of the sagittal su- ture, on the lateral parts, on which are observed the parietal holes behind, and more to the outside a broad smooth surface, from which rises the parietal protuberance. This suture ter- minates at the angle formed by the union of the two branches of the lambdoid suture, which proceeds downwards and backwards toward the temporal bone, and presents in the interval above, a * Anatome quartum raiovaia, p. 701. Lugdnni. 1677. t Comment. T. I. p. 377. r *