ORGANS OR SENSATION. 405 they are separated are called AnfractuositieH or Furraivs, (An- fractus seu Sulci.J The number and size of the circumvolutions of the brain vary exceedingly. They are seldom found the same in the two lobes. In individuals of the same age, they are sometimes very large, and sometimes very small. In general, they are of small size in fetuses and newly-born children. The anfractuosities are equally variable in their disposition. Always narrow, of a depth always about equal and extending to an inch, they are sometimes very long, and some- times very short. They are lined by prolongations of the pia ma- ter. Their direction is transverse, longitudinal or oblique. Some of them are simple, but the greater number present subdivisions in their course, and are continuous wdth the neighbouring ones, while there are some which proceed towards the inferior surface of the brain. In these anfractuosities, there are observed deep-seated se- condary prominences, which, arising from one circumvolution, arc inserted into corresponding depressions formed upon the contigu- ous circumvolution. The circumvolutions and anfractuosities of the brain do not, as Bichat remarks, at all correspond to the emi- nences and cavities of the inner surface of the skull. 1436. Lower Surface of the Bruin. This surface of the brain has been regarded by most anatomists as formed of several distinct regions, which they have named Lobes, and which occupy the base of the hemispheres. These lobes are three in number on each side. The anterior rests upon the orbitar arch; the second or middle forms a considerable prominence below the level of the first, and fills the middle and lateral fossae of the base of the skull; the third, or posterior, is supported by the tentorium cerebelli, and presents a slight excavation. The base of the cerebrum presents first, at its fore part and in the median line, a fissure, which is the termination of the great fissure that separates the hemispheres. This fissure is only filled by the cerebral falx in its anterior third, its two posterior thirds being occupied by vascular prolongations which pass from one hemisphere to the other. It is limited above by the anterior part of the corpus caUosura. It separates from each other the two anterior lobes, whose plain, nearly triangular, and anteriorly contracted surface is observed on its sides. On each of these lobes is formed a very deep rectilinear groove, which seems to be an anfractuosity separating two circumvolutions. It is directed from behind forwards, and a little from without inwards, and lodges the trunk of the olfactory nerve. On the outside of this groove, are some anfractuosities and cir- cumvolutions less distinct than those of the upper region, and at its back part there is observed, on each side, between the anterior and middle lobes, a considerable angular transverse depression, which lodges one of the principal branches of the internal carotid artery, and which is prolonged obliquely upwards and backwards upon the convex surface of the hemisphere, where it is lost in the neighbouring anfractuosities. This is the Fissura Si/lcii, wliich