ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 058 HRANCnES wiricn arise from the internal maxillakt ARTERY BETWEEN THE TWO TTEUYGOID MUSCLES. 1. OF THE POSTERIOR DEEP TEMPORAL ARTERY. •• 2273. It arises a little after the preceding, and is even sometimes produced by it shortly after its commencement. Concealed at first between the temporalis and pterygoideus externus, it afterwards ascends obliquely under the jfirst of these muscles, becomes vertical, creeps over the temporal fossa, and divides into a great number of ramifications, which are distributed to the periosteum of that fossa, and to the fibres of the temporal muscle. These ramifications anastomose anteriorly with the anterior deep temporal artery, and externally with the middle and superficial temporal arteries. 2. or TH?: MASSETERIC ARTERY. 2274. Inferior in size to the preceding, it sometimes arises along with it by a common trunk. Directed outwards, between the pos- terior edge of the temporal muscle and the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, it passes over the notch which separates the latter part from the coronoid process (293), throws some small tirigs into the upper portion of the masseter muscle, then descends obliquely forwards, between it and the ramus of the maxillary bone, dives into its substance, subdivides and anastomoses there with the trans- verse artery of the face. 3. OF THE PTERYGOID ARTERIES, 2275. They vary much with respect to their number, size, and orioin. They almost all come from the maxillary artery itself, but there are some of them which arise separately from the middle me- ningeal and posterior deep temporal arteries. They are distributed to the two pterygoidei muscles, and especially to the outer. Their course is very irregular; some of their smallest ramifications ac- company the deep temporal nerves. BRANCHES WHICH ARISE FROJI THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY IN THE ZYGOMATIC FOSSA. 1. OF THE BUCCAL ARTERY. 2276. It is sometimes wanting. Pretty frequently it does not come from the intermd maxillary artery itself, but arises from the