OF THE BONES OF THE FORE ARM. 127 It is on account of the greater projection of this pulley that the humerus inclines outwards, when it is placed by its lower extre- mity on a horizontal plane. At the fore part of this extremity, and above the articular surface, is a superficial cavity which lodges the coronoid process of the cubitus when the fore arm is bent; and at the back part, is observed a deeper fossa, which receives the olecranon when the fore arm is extended. Lastly, above the small^ head, is a depression, into which the edge of the upper eavity of the radius is received during the forced flexion of the joint. 450. Structure, Articulatimis, and Development. The hume- rus is compact in its body, spongy and cellular at the extremities, and contains a large medullary canal. It is articulated to the sca- pula, the radius, and the ulna; and is developed by eight points of ossification, one for the body, one for the head, one for the large tuberosity, one for the small tuberosity, one for the pulley of the lower extremity, one for each of the condyles, and one commonly for the small head. 3. OF THE BONES OF THE FORE ARM. OF THE RADIUS. 451. The Radius, which is situated nearly vertically at tlie outer part of the fore-arm, is a little shorter than the ulna. It is smaller above than at its lower part, and is slightly curved inwards about the middle. It is divided as follows. 452. Body or Middle Part. It is prismatic, and trigonal. Its anterior surface becomes gradually broader as it descends, is plain in the greater part of its extent, and about a third from the upper extremity presents the orifice of the canal by which the vessels pass into the bone, and which is directed upwards. The three upper fourths of diis surface give attachment to the flexor longus pollicis manus, and its lower fourth to the pronator quadratus. Its pos- terior surface is convex in its upper third, which is covered by the supinator brevis. In the middle it is slightly concave, and receives the insertions of the extensors of the thumb. At the lower part it is eonvex, and is covered by the extensor communis digitorum, ex- tensor proprius indicis, and extensor longus poUicis. The outer surface, which is rounded and convex in its whole extent, gives attachment at its upper part to the supinator brevis ; in the middle, where a rough impression is observed, to the pronator teres; and, at its lower part, is eovered by the tendons of the radial extensors of the carpus. 453. I’hese three surfaces are separated by an equal number of prominent edges, of wliich the posterior is rather indistinct at its upper and lower parts, although pretty obvious at the middle. The inner, which is very distinct, thin, and sharp, and somewhat arched in the middle, gives attachment to the interosseous ligament.