ORGANS OF SECRETION. 794 ness between those of the stomach (2058) and oesophagus (4041). It is pretty thick towards the fundus, between the vesiculai semi- nales, and at the superior region, but is everywhere else extremely thin. It is composed of a great quantity of small whitish fasciculi, flattened, and affecting various directions. The greater number however are longitudinal, a few only being transverse. Those which are situated in the median line appear to ascend from the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder towards the urachus. The rest arise from the lateral parts of the neck, and cross each other at the superior region. Sometimes, as we have already said (2882), they unite into cylindrical columns, which cross each other, and are more or less prominent. The neck of the bladder is not surrounded by a particular mus- cle, as some anatomists aver, who have even designated this alleged muscle by the name of the Sphincter. The fleshy fibres are only brought closer together around it than elsewhere; and they are there applied upon a layer of whitish, firm, elastic, extensile tissue, having a fibrous appearance, which is prolonged, becoming thinner as far as the base of the trigonal space, and which contributes to form the prominence of the uvula vesicas. 2888. Cellular Coat. This is a thin layer of pretty dense, ex- tensile, lamellar and filamentous tissue, which connects together in an intimate manner the mucovts and muscular coats of the bladder, and in which numerous vessels and nerves are seen to creep. 2889. Mucous Coat. Continuous with that which lines the ureters and urethra, this membrane is thin and whitish, especially towards the neck of the bladder. In the rest of its extent, it is frequently marbled with a slight red tint. Its villosities are very delicate and not readily seen. In the natural state, no crypts or mucous follicles have been yet perceived in it; in certain patholo- gical cases, however, their presence is very apparent. 2890. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the bladder arise from the hypogastric (2485), umbilical (2482), ischiatic (2494), middle hemorrhoidal (2491), and internal pu^c arteries (2497)- They vary much in number and size. The largest are situated on the lateral parts of the bottom and in the vicinity of the neck. They have all a very flexuous course. Its veins, which are much more numerous than its arteries, join the hypogastric venous plexus (2640). Its nerves emanate from the sciatic (1731) and hypogastric (1832) plexus. ^ Its lymphatic vessels ramify in the hypogastric ganglia (2718).