OF THE SACRAL NERVES. C07 second and fovirth sacral nerves, descends outwards under the ori- gins of the glutiEus maximus, passes through that muscle giving oft' some filaments to it, becomes subcutaneous, expands and sends its filaments into the integuments of the lower]and inner part of the hip and margin of the anus. 1754. Anterior Branch. Smaller than that of the first two pairs, it communicates with the sacral ganglia, throws filaments into the hypogastric plexus, descends outwards, and, uniting with the Jjvo neighbouring nerves, enters into the sciatic plexus. OF THE FOURTH SACRAL NERVE. 1755. The two branches of this nerve are precisely similar to those of the preceding nerves, and do not require to be particularly .described. The anterior enters into the formation of the sciatic plexus. GF THE FIFTH AND SIXTH SACRAL NERVES,. 1756. Posterior Branches. They are considerably smaller than those of the preceding nerves. They communicate with each other, and the fifth moreover receives a filament from the fourth. They .then lose themselves aj-ound the anus. 1757. Anterior Branches. That of the fifth passes between the sacrum and coccyx, and that of the sixth escapes through the lateral and superior notch of the latter bone. They communicate with each other and with the fourth, but contribute very little to the sciatic plexus. They are distributed to the ischio-coccygeuSj levator ani and sphincter ani muscles. OF THE SCIATIC OR SA-CRAL PLEXUS. 1758. It is particularly formed, as we have already said, by the anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, and by that of the first four sacral nerves. It occupies the lateral and posterior part of the excavation of the pelvis, and lies upon the pyramjdalis muscle, behind the hypogastric vessels, the rectum and bladder, the uterus and a great quantity of adipose tissue. Its breadth is much greater internally, where it is limited by the anterior sacral holes, than ex- ternally, where it is continuous with the sciatic nerve; and its structure is dift'erent from that of the other plexus which we have hitherto had occasion to examine. In place of forming a kind of net-work, by sending twigs to each other, the branches of which it is formed, join immediately so as to give rise to a kind of thicl^ nerve flattened from before backwards.