VERTEBRAL COLUMN.2S 64. The following are the more peculiarly distinctive characters of the different vertebrae. 1st, Cervical vertebrce. Spinous apophysis bifurcate ; base of the transverse apophyses perforated by a hole. 2d Dorsal vertebrce. Articular faccttes on the sides of the body, and on the summit of the transverse apophyses. 3d, Lumbar vertebrce. Spinous apophyses quadrilateral, com- pressed, horizontal, tubercular at the extremity; articular apophy- ses, concave above, convex below. 4th, Atlas. No spinous apophysis or body ; an annular form. 5th, Axis. Body surmounted by a large rounded tooth-like apophysis. 6th, Prominent vertebra. Spinous apophysis very prominent. 7th, First Dorsal vertebra. An entire articular cavity above, a half cavity only below, on the sides of the body. 8th, Te7ith Dorsal vertebra. A single entire depression on each side of the body. 9th, Eleventh Dorsal ve^'tebra. Only one articular cavity on either side of the body ; no articulating surface on the transverse apophysis. 10th, Twelfth Dorsal vertebra. The same characters; but the lower articular apophyses convex and turned outwards. d. OF THE VER.TEBRAL COLUMN IN GENERAL. 65. Dimensions. We have already said that the twenty-four vertebrae united constitute the vertebral column, the length of which is nearly the same in all individuals, unless when it happens to be distorted in consequence of some malformation. In general, it is about a third of the whole length of the body, and the more ordinary dimensions of its different regions are as follows : the cervi- cal 6 inches, the dorsal 12, the lumbar about 6:5. It increases in thickness from above downwards, so as to repre- sent a pyramid with its base below. But this increase of thick- ness is not perfectly graduated; and the general pyramid which it represents seems to be composed of three subordinate pyramids, of which the lower has its base on the sacrum, and its summit at the fifth dorsal vertebra, which is also the summit of the middle pyramid, whose base corresponds to the first dorsal vertebra. The summit of the third pyramid occurs at the level of the axis, and is surmounted by the atlas, which is much broader than the other vertebrfE. , 66. Direction. Anteriorly, the vertebral column is convex along the neck, concave at the back, and again convex at the loins. Posteriorly, the opposite curvatures are observed. This arrange- ment obviously depends upon the various degrees of thickness which the bodies of the vertebrae present before and behind in each of the regions of the spine.