740 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. arch into which open numerous twigs frequently anastomosing to- gether, and expanded over the thyroid body and in the muscles which cover it. They communicate with the superior thyroid veins, and collectively constitute the Thyroid Venous Plexus. From this plexus comes ofl‘ the trunk of the vein, which runs at first transversely outwards, then descends obliquely upon the tra- chea, from which it is separated by much fat, upon the pneumo- gastric nerve, and the common carotid artery, and opens inferiorly and posteriorly into the left subclavian vein, which consequently covers it inferiorly. 2647. The two subclavian veins equally receive, besides the in- ternal and external jugiilar veins, the Vertebral and Superior In- tercostal veins. 2648. Vertebral Vein (Veine chebrale posterieure, Chauss.) It commences in the muscles of the occipital and posterior cervi- cal regions, by a great number of roots which collect into a single trunk towards the occipital foramen. This trunk directs itself for- wards, above the atlas, penetrates into the foramen wliich occupies the base of the transverse process of that vertebra, and there com- municates with the lateral sinus of the dura mater, by a twig lodg- ed in the posterior condyloid foramen. The vertebral vein then descends in the canal which lodges the vertebral artery (2298), communicating by each of the interverte- bral foramina with the vertebral sinus, and receiving at the level of each intervertebral space a twig which comes from the muscles of the neck. It issues from its canal at the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra, receives a branch which corresponds to the deep cervical artery (2323), and unites with another considerable vein, which com- mences upon the lateral region of the head, where it communicates with the lateral sinus of the dura mater by the mastoid foramen, and which descends before the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, sending numerous anastomosing twigs to the trunk of the vein itself, and receiving many twigs from the neighbouring muscles. After this union, the vertebral vein descends, beside the arterjs between the rectus capitis anticus major and scalenus anticus mus- cles, passes on the left side before the subclavian artery, and on the right, behind it and the recurrent nerve, to open posteriorly and inferiorly into the subclavian vein. 2649. Right Superior Intercostal Vein. It is sometimes want- ing, and is always smaller than the left. When it exists, it com- mences by branches distributed in the two superior intercostal spaces, and afterwards united into a single trunk, which issues from the thorax by its superior circumference, and opens posteriorly and inferiorly of the subclavian vein, near the vertebra?. 2650. Left Superior intercostal Vein. It is always larger and especially longer than the right. It commences in the eighth, se- venth or sixth intercostal space, by some twigs which partly anas- tomose with the vena-azygos and vena semi-azygos, and ascends