J308 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. smooth and on a level with the convexity of the scaphoid and se- milunar bones, and is covered by the synovial membrane of the radio-carpal articidation. The smallness of the intervals which they occupy accounts for the extreme shortness of these ligaments. 682. Dorsal or Posterior Liyaments. These are two in num- ber, and are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row of the carpus, between the scaphoid and semilunar bones on the one hand, and on the other, between the latter bone and the pyrami- dal. They are in a great measure confounded with the neighbour- ing fibrous organs, and are continued into each other by some of their fibres. Of these the superficial are longest. 683. Palmar or Anterior Ligaments. These ligaments, which are not so strong as the dorsal, are placed deeply under the ante- rior radio-carpal ligament, and directing themselves transversely, are attached on the one hand to the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and on the other to the latter bone and the pyramidal. In pass- ing from one of these bones to the other, they contract adhesions to the interosseous ligaments. 684. The pisiform bone is articulated to the pyramidal in a dif- ferent manner. The rounded surface by which it corresponds to the pyramidal bone is covered with cartilage, and gives attach- ment, by its circumference, to a small isolated and rather loose sy- novial membrane, strengthened by some irregular bundles of fibres. 6. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE SECOND ROW OF THE CARPUS. 685. Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments. They present the same disposition as those of the first row; but there are three of each hind which extend transversely, inwards and backwards, from the trapezium to the tTapezoides, from the latter to the os magnum, and from the os magnum to the os unciforme. Of their fibres, which are parallel, the deeper are shorter than the superficial. The dor- sal ligaments are more distinct than the palmar. 686. Interosseous Ligaments. Of these there are only two, one between the trapezoides and os magnum, and one between the os magnum and os unciforme. The first is less marked than the second, which occupies the space situated before the articular sur- faces. Both are irregular fasciculi, intermingled with adipose tissue. c. articulation of THE TWO ROWS OF THE CARPAL BONES WITH EACH OTHER. 687* This articulation is composed of two arthrodim and an en- arthrosis. The contiguity of the scaphoid bone to the trapezium and trapezoides on the one hand, and on the other, that of the