OF THE FACIAL NERVE. 467 the infra-orbitar (1589), mental (1599), and buccal (1594). With the latter especially they form numerous anastomoses which are ob- served around the facial artery and vein, and which send secon- dary filaments along their divisions. 1616. Cervico-facial branch. It descends obliquely downwards in the substance of the parotid gland, behind the ramus of the jaw, towards the angle of which it dives under the platysma myoides, di- recting itself forwards. The twigs which it furnishes are distin- guished into those which arise from it above the base of the jaw, and those which separate from it under that point. 1617. Stipra-maxillary.Twiqs. They are two in mimber. The ttpper, which is pretty large, arises from the right angle imme- diately beneath the lobule of the ear, and directs itself transversely forwards over the lower part of the masseter muscle, concealed for some time by the parotid gland. It then dives under the platysma myoides and triangularis muscles, dividing iirto four or five fila- ments which are distributed to these muscles, to the buccinator, orbicularis oris, and the integuments. Some of these filaments as- cend towards the cheek-bone, others descend towards the lower lip. All of them have frequent anastom6ses with the preceding and fol- lowing twigs, and with the infra-orbitar, mental, and buccal nerves. The louwr Twig turns over the angle of the jaw, sending some filaments to the lower part of the masseter and pterygoideus inter- nus muscles, and covered by the platysma myoides. It then di- rects itself obliquely forwards and downwards over the outer sur- face of the masseter muscle, crossing the direction of its fibres, and dividing near its anterior edge into several filaments which throw themselves into the same muscles as those of the preceding twig, and moreover into those of the lower lip and chin, as well as into the skin of these parts. They have also precisely similar anasto- moses. 1618. Infra-maxillary Twigs. These twigs are two or three in number, arise together or separately, and are even sometimes united at their origin with the lower supra-maxillary twig. They descend forwards and downwards over the anterior and superior part of the neck, covered by the platysma myoides. Towards the angle of the jaw, they divide into a great number of divergent filaments which follow the base of the bone anastomosing with the supra- maxillary and mental twigs, and are distributed to the integuments of the neck and the platysma myoides, where they unite with some filaments of the cervical plexus. 1619. The disposition of the facial nerve, such as it has been indicated above, is not constant. It presents extremely numerous individual varieties, and seldom offers the same arrangement in two different subjects. That which we have described, however, is its most common disposition. On account of its very numerous anastomoses, several authors have called it the Small sympuUwiic nerve.