ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 310 a portion of the corpus cavernosum. Its fibres, which are nearly transverse and very sliort behind, oblique and longer before, termi- nate, the first on the sides of the bulb of the urethra, tlie otliers below the corpus cavernosum, where they are confounded with its membrane. 1090. TliQ upper surface of this muscle covers the bulb and the commencement of the spongy portion of the urethra, as well as the corpus cavernosum. The lower surface is covered by the skin, the sphincter ani, and erector penis, from which it is separated by much cellular tissue. 1091. This muscle compresses the posterior part of the canal of the urethra, which it carries backwawls and upwards. It accele- rates the ejection, of the urine and seminal fluid. OF THE TRANS VERSUS' PERIN.EI. 1092. This is a small flat, thin, irregular muscle, varying much’ in form, more commonly triangular, sometimes composed of several separate bundles, and situated at the posterior part of the perin- aeum. It is pretty frequently wanting in women: It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the inner part of the tuberosity of the ra- mus ischii,. above the erector penis and root of the corpus caverno- sum, directs itself inwards and a little forwards, and terminates'at a tendinous line placed between it and its fellow, being also in part confounded with the accelerator urinm and sphincter ani, and in the female with the constrictor vaginae also. Sometimes all its fibres unite with the accelerator urinoethey are always longer be- hind and below,, than before and above- 1093. The anterior surface of the transv.ersus perinaei, which is inclined downw:ards, corresponds to the erector penis and accele- rator urinae, and to a mass of cellular tissue, which fills up their in- terval. The posterior surface is covered by the levator ani, from which iff is separated by much cellular tissue, and externally by the deep branch of the internal pudic artery. 1094 It concurs with the accelerator urinae, to compress the urethra ; and with the levator ani, it supports the lower part of the rectum and the bladder. h. IN WOMAN. OF THF- ERECTOR CLITORIDIS, OR ISClIIO-CAVERNOSUSv. 1095. It presents nearly the same arrangement as in the male, but is much smaller. It arises by aponeuroses, from the tubero- sity of the ischium, and terminates by embracing the cavernous body of'tlic clitoris,, to the erection of which it appears to contri- bute-