293 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. membrane of the velum palati and by the levator palati mo^s above; by the constrictor of the pharynx below. The anterior surface is in contact with the aponeurosis of the circumflexus palati above, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx below. 1016. When the two muscles act together, they lower the velum palati, while at the same time they raise and shorten the pharynx. It is in deglutition that it principally acts. OF THE CONSTRICTOR ISTHMI FAUCIUM, OB GLOSSO- STAPHYLINUS. 1017. This is a kind of small fleshy cord, very thin, somewhat flattened, and pretty regular, which is situated in the anterior pillar of the velum palati, between the membrane of the palate and the constrictor pharyngis superior, before the tonsil. Its lower extre- mity loses itself in the base of the tongue. The upper, which is narrower, is confounded, in the velum palati, with the palato-pha- ryngeus and circumflexus palati. This muscle lowers the velum palati and raises the base of the tongue. IV. MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 1. Anterior Cervical Region. OF THE LATISSIMUS COLLI, OR PLATYSM.A MYOIDES. (M. Thoraco-facial, Chauss.) 1018. This muscle has the appearance of a very thin fleshy membrane extended over the fore part of the neck, from the upper part of the thorax to the lower part of the face. It is of a quadri- lateral form, broader above and below than in the middle. Its fibres originate in the adipose tissue which covers the upper part of the deltoides and pectoralis major, and sometimes even so far down as the fourth rib. From being at first scattered, they are brought nearer each other, and ascend obliquely inwards, the plane which they form on the sides of the neck assuming some degree of thickness. The two muscles thus converge toward each other. At the middle of the base of the jaw, they expand a second time. Their more anterior fibres, which are the longest and largest, inter- mingle beneath the symphysis of the chin, and terminate in the skin of that part. The middle fibres are fixed to the external oblique line of the lower jaw, and to the base of that bone. Seve- ral of them pass across those of the depressor anguli oris to be con- tinued into the quadratus genae, or ascend to the commissure of the lips. The posterior arc in part confounded with the depressor anguli oris, and are in part lost in the cellular tissue of the cheek.