OF THE BONES OF THE TARSUS. 149 and lies immediately under the skin. The inner presents a small triangular smooth surface, concave from behind forwards, convex from above downwards, which is articulated to the astragalus, and is limited behind by a rough uneven depression, giving attachment to one of the posterior ligaments of the ankle-joint. Above this articular surface is a rough triangular space, which connects the fibula with the tibia. Anteriorly, the malleolus externus presents a thin uneven edge, into which ligaments are inserted. Posteriorly, is another much broader edge, in which there is formed a groove for the passage of the tendons of the lateral peronei muscles. Its summit forms a pyramidal eminence which gives insertion to the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. 519. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The body of the fibula is formed of compact tissue. Its extremities are chief- ly composed of cellular tissue. It contains a medullary canal. It is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each extremity; and is articulated to the tibia and astra- galus. III.—OF THE BONES OF THE TARSUS.* OF THE CALCANEUM, OR OS CALCIS.-f* 520. This bone occupies the posterior and inferior part of the tarsus, and especially contributes to form the heel by the large prominence which it presents behind. It is elongated posteriorly, and slightly compressed internally and externally. It is the largest bone in this part of the lower extremity. Its 7ipper surface presents posteriorly a space, concave from be- fore backwards, convex in the transverse direction, situated ante- riorly to the tendo AchiUis ; in the middle a broad convex articu- lar surface, looking forwards and outwards, and articulated to the astragalus ; anteriorly and to the outside, a rough uneven depres- sion for the attachment of ligaments; anteriorly, and to the inside, another articular surface, narrow, oblong, and slightly concave, which is also articulated with the astragalus, and which is separated from the preceding by a deep rough transverse groove, into which is inserted a ligament proceeding toward the astragalus. This sur- face is formed upon a projection which the bone here makes, and which is uneven on the inside to give attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. It is named the Small Process of the Calcaneum. Its lower surface, which is much narrower than the upper, presents posteriorly two tubero.sities, of which the inner is the largest. These tubero.sities afford insertion to the superficial • Tet^tot of the Greeks j Tarsus among the Latins, f 2*iX(j of the Greeks ; in Latin, Calx, the Ilcel.