181 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. leno-tli, the superficial being longer than the deep-seated, whidi become so much the shorter, the nearer they come to the joint. From the mutual interlacing of the fibres of all the anterior liga- ments, there results a kind of membrane of considerable thickness, which entirely covers the sternum, and which is much more appa- rent at its lower part than above. In some subjects, it even forms at the lower part a kind of triangular plane, separate and distinct. The anterior ligament is covered anteriorly by the pectoralis ma- jor. 592. Posterior Lkjament. It is not so thick as the preceding, and its fibres are not so apparent, although their disposition is ab- solutely the same. By their mutual interlacing, they form on the mediastinal surface of the sternum, a true membrane (the memhrn- na sferni of some authors), as thick as that arising from the ante- rior ligament, but smooth, polished, without distinct fibrous fasci- culi, unless it be merely a few which extend over its whole length, which would seem to indicate that it does not entirely originate from the posterior ligaments. It is traversed by a considerable number of small blood vessels. 593. Ligament of the Ensiform Cartilage, or Costo-ooiphoid Ligament. Besides having the same ligaments as those of the other cartilages of the true ribs, the cartilage of the seventh is con- nected with the ensiform cartilage by a particular ligament, whose dimensions vary much in different subjects. This ligament gene- rally presents itself in the form of a small elongated and very thin fasciculus, which, arising from the lower edge of the cartilage, de- scends obliquely inwards and expands over the anterior surface of the sternal appendage, uniting with that of the opposite side. It is covered by the rectus abdominis. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE FALSE RIBS WITH EACH OTHER. 594. We have already pointed out (94) the manner in which the sixth, seventh, and eighth sterno-costal cartilages meet each other by their contiguous edges, by means of small oblong surfaces. These articular surfaces vary much as to form and extent, and are also frequently observed between the eighth and ninth cartilages. Each of these articulations is furnished with a small synovial bursa much looser and more apparent than that which exists at the point of junction of the preceding cartilages with the sternum. Each is also strengthened by oblique and irregular fibres, which proceed from one cartilage to the other, from before backwards, are much more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly, and are confounded with the perichondrium. Moreover, the inner extremities of the first three or four abdominal ribs are connected by a kind of small liga- mentous cord, with the lower edge of the next cartilage above. The corresponding extremity of the cartilages of the two last ribs in gen-