ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 594. cluplicatirre in which is contained the muscular layer, and is con- tinued anteriorly into the membrane of the mouth, and posteriorly into those of the nasal fossae, so that the palatal and pituitary mem- branes unite upon the free edge of the velum palati. The ante- rior lamina of this layer is less red than the posterior, and covers a multitude of mucous follicles, which are extended over the fore part of the muscles, and are so close as to be in contact with each other. They form of themselves nearly the whole thickness of the uvula. They are yellowish, rounded, and compressed; their excre- tory orifice is not easily perceptible. These follicles are much less numerous, and of smaller size, under the posterior lamina. 2042. Muscidar Layer. The muscles of which it is formed have already been described. They are the peristaphylini interni and externi (1007), the glosso-staphylini (1017), the pharyngo- staphylini (1014) and the palato-staphylinus (1013). 2043. The arteries of the palate are furnished by tlie internal maxillary, labial and superior pharyngeal arteries. Its veins unite with those of the tongue and pharynx, and open into the jugular vein. Its nerves are furnished by MeckeFs ganglion, and come from the palatine twigs (1799). The glosso-pharyngeal nerve also furnishes some filaments to it (1628). 2044. Beneath the velum palati is the posterior aperture of the mouth, of which the form is nearly quadrilateral, and which is li- mited by the base of the tongue, the velum and arch of the palate, and the lateral pillars of the velum, as well as the tonsils. Its size is in no case equal to that of the anterior aperture. It is however subject to vary, but only from above doAvnwards, for on the sides it is hmited by the pterygoid processes, which are incapable of mo,, tion. d. OF THE TONSILS. 2045. The Tonsils (Tonsilloi, Amyydalce) are bodies lodged between the pillars of the velum palati, the form of which has been compared to that of an almond invested with its woody covering. Their size varies in different subjects, which is also the case with their figure. They represent an ovoid, of whicli the larye eadremi- ty, directed upwards, corresponds to the point at which the pillars of the velum meet, while the sviall extretnily^ which looks down- wards, rests upon the base of the tongue. Their external surface adheres to the constrictor pharyngis superior muscle. The infer- nal, which is convex and free, projects more or less, and constitutes the sides of the isthmus of the fauces. Their anterior edge is ap plied against the glosso-staphylinus muscle, and the posterior agamst the pharyngo-staphylinus. 2046. The tonsils seem to be continuous with the mucous fi)lli- clcs of the base of the tongue (2007), divided into several lobes, sometimes continuous and sometiipes separated Irom each