MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 273 with its fellow, obliquely when by itself, in which case it produces a motion of rotation by which the face is turned to the same side. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR. (M. Atloido-occipital, Chauss.) 909. It is situated before the rectus posticus major, and lias nearly the same form, but is shorter. It is attached to the tuber- cle of the posterior arch of the atlas by a short tendon, with radiat- ing fibres, from whence it proceeds nearly in a vertical direction, becoming broader toward the occipital bone, where it is uiserted into the impressions observed near its crest, and above its lower curved line, not far from the occipital hole. 910. Its SMj/ace, wliich is inclined downwards, is co- vered by the complexus magnus, from which it is however separat- ed by much fat, and by the preceding muscle. The anterior sur- face covers the occipital bone, the posterior occipito-atloidal liga- ment, and the vertebral artery. 911. It inclines the head backward upon the atlas., ) OF THE OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR. (M. Axoido-atloidien, Chauss.) 912. Elongated, rounded and fusiform, it is attached by indis- tinct aponeurotic fibres to the tubercle of the spinous process of the axis near the rectus major. It then proceeds backwards, out- wards and upwards, and is inserted behind and beneath the summit of the transverse proeess of the atlas, by means of aponeurotic fibres which are also indistinct. Its posterior surface is covered by the complexus major and minor. The anterior is applied upon the la- mina of the second vertebra, the posterior axoido-atloidal ligament, and the vertebral artery. 913. It impresses a rotatory motion upon the first vertebra, which turns the face toward its own side. OF THE OBLiaUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR. (M. Atloido-sous-mastoidien, Chauss.) 914. It is situated on the sides and behind the articulation of the head, and is an elongated and flat muscle, narrower below than above. 11 arises by a sort of small tendon from the summit of the first transverse process of the neck, before the preceding, with which it is a little united. It then ascends backwards and inwards, becoming broader, and arrives beneath the outer part of the supe- rior curved line of the occipital bone, and sometimes at the mastoid process of tlie temporal, where it is fixed between the splcnius and rectus capitus posticus major, by pretty distinct aponeurotic fibres.