LACHRYMAL SAC AND NASAL DUCT. 771 delicate prolongation of the conjunctiva, which is thus continuous with the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac. 4. OF THE LACHUYMAL SAC. 2794. The Lnchri/mal Sac (Saccus Lachrymalis) is a small membranous bag, lodged at the inner angle of the orbit, in the channel formed by the lachrymal bone and the ascending process of the upper ma.xillary bone. It presents the form of an ovoid si- tuated vertically and a little compressed from without inwards. Its outer side is covered anteriorly by the skin, the orbicularis palpe- brarum, and its tendon, which divides it transversely into two por- tions, of which the lower is narrower and more elongated than the upper. Posteriorly, it corresponds to the caruncula lachrymalis and the conjunctiva, and furnishes some insertions to the inferior ' oblique muscle of the eye. Its inner side fills the lachrymal groove (338), and is closely attached to the bones which constitute it. Its upper eootremity, which is dilated and rounded, forms a ! more or less remarkable prominence above the tendon of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum. The inferior ewtremity is continuous with the nasal canal. * 2795. In its interior^ the lachrymal sac is lined by a mucous : membrane, which is continuous with the mucous membranes of the i eye and nasal fossae. This membrane adheres strongly to the bony : groove. Its colour is reddish. The existence of crypts or follicles cannot be discovered in it, although it is very soft and as it were pulpy. It is always covered with mucus. 2795. At the exterior, the lachrymal sac is formed by a fibrous aponeurotic membrane, which many anatomists have considered as the r^ected tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum. This mem- : brane, which is white, dense and strong, is fixed on all sides to the : bony edge of the lachrymal groove. Anteriorly, it is intimately : united to the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum and to some of i its fleshy fibres, to which it even gives insertion. It may also, in I a certain degree, be considered as a prolongation of it. ; 2707- The arterial ramifications of the lachrymal sac are espe- i daily derived from the palpebral arteries. Its nervous filaments I come from the external nasal nerve. .5. OF THE NASAL DUCT. 2798. We have already described this canal with relation to the i bones of which it is composed (350). It is sufficient for us here to ■ say that the bony canal is lined by a cylindrical prolongation of the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac, which forms in its in- ' terior another canal, which is rather thin, and has no valve in its course. This second canal adheres feebly to the periosteum, and