CARTILAGES Cf TilE LARYNX. Si)3 and represents a kind of ring which occupies llie lower ]iart of that organ, and which is niucli higher behind than before. Its exter- nal surface, which is very narrow anteriorly, gives attachment there to the crico-thyroidci innscles. On the sides it becomes broader, is a little covered by tlie thyroid cartilage, and presents above a small rounded eminence, convex and polished at its sum- mit, to be articulated with the small horns of that cartilage. I’os- teriorly, it becomes still broader, and presents a quadrilateral plane, at the middle of which a longitudinal prominence separates two de- pressions in which arc inserted the posterior crico-arytenoid mus- cles. Its inner surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the larynx. Its upper circninferenee is obliquely cut in its two anterior thirds, where it gives attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane. Its posterior third, which is more elevated, is horizontal, and pre- sents two smooth convex surfaces, inclined backwards and outwards, which are articulated with the base of the arytenoid cartilages. To the fore part of these surfaces are attached the lateral crico-aryte- noid muscles. Its inferior circumference is horizontal, and placed at the same level in its whole extent. It is convex before, and a little notched at the sides, and is connected by a membrane with the first ring of the trachea. OF THE AKVTENOID CARXILAGE.?.'*^' 1404. They are two in number, and arp situated at the upper and back part of the larynx, above the cricoid cartilage, the level of which they surpass a little on the inner side. They are smaller than it, and have the form of a triangular pyramid, a little twisted upon itself from before backwards. Their jjosterior surface, which is concave, gives attachment to the arytenoideus muscle ; the ari- terior, which is a little concave below, and convex above, corre- sponds to part of the arytenoid gland, and gives attachment to the thyro-arytenoidei muscles, and the ligaments of the glottis; the inner, which is narrow, flat and vertical, is invested by the mucous membrane of the larynx, and is in contact with that of the opposite side. The.se three surfaces are separated by as many prominent and sl:arp edges, of which the anterior presents several inequalities, The l)ose of these cartilages presents posteriorly a concave and smooth articular surface, inclined downwards and inwards, and connected with that which the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage presents. '^I’his surface is limited externally by_ji rounded tubercle, to which are attached the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and crico-arytenoideus posticus muscles. Anteriorly it presents a larger eminence, of a triangular form, sometimes isolated from the rest of the cartilage, and which gives attachment to the ligament of the glottis or the thyro-arytenoid ligaments. suiumit of the ai'y- * 'Aj ill the form of n fiinnsl.