278 ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. of the eye, tliat they have all nearly the same form, and agree in possessing the following characters in common; 1st, three of them, the inferior, the outer, and the inner, arise ])osteriorly from the same small tendon which is attached near the pituitary fossa at the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, and which, after travers- ing the latter, divides into three portions, which are distributed one to each of them; 2dly, their fleshy fibres, which are at first paral- lel, are afterwards divergent; 3dly, once that they have passed the middle portion of the ball of the eye, they experience a manifest curvature; 4thly, they are close together at the bottom of the orbit, but separate anteriorly to embrace the ball of the eye; their broad and thin aponeuroses are partly confounded with the scle- rotic membrane; 5thly, they are connected together by cellular tissue, which gives them the appearance of a conical bag around the eye. 938. Besides their position and their relations to the surround- ing parts, the recti are distinguished from each other by various characters. The inferior and superior arc flattened from above downwards; the external and internal laterally. The external and internal are shorter than the others. The upper is the thinnest, the inner the thickest. The outer, which is more curved than the rest, receives a pair of nerves for itself. The inner alone proceeds directly forward; the others are oblique, especially the outer 939- When these muscles act together, they draw the ball of the eye into the bottom of the orbit. By contracting successively in pairs, they impress upon it all the intermediate motions between those which we have already mentioned, and make it perform a sort of ch’cumduction. OF THE OBLiaUUS SUPEEIOK OCULI, OE OBLiaUUS MAJOE. 940. The obliquus superior is a slender rounded, fusiform muscle, much longer than any of the preceding, but thinner and narrower. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the orbit, and is reflected upon itself, about the middle of its course. It arises behind, by short aponeuroses, and near the optic foramen, from the prolongation of the dura mater which lines the orbit. It is there confounded a httle with the insertion of the levator paljie- brae superipris. It then proceeds horizontally to the internal orbi- tar process, passing beneath the internal orbitar foramina hen arrived there, it degenerates into a slender and rounded tendon, surrounded by a kind of cellular sheath, which is soft and loose. It is engaged in a cartilaginous ring which converts into a canal the depression observed upon the frontal bone at this place, and of which the two extremities are attached to the bone in a moveable manner by very short fibrous ligaments. In the interior of this sort of pulley is a synovial capsule which is reflected over the tendon and accompanies it for some time, forming around it a