3H- ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, 1103. We ought also to remark here that the psoas magnus and iliacus interims, which issue united through tlic crural arch, are covered and kept in their place in the iliac tbssa, by an aponeurotic lamina to which modern anatomists have given the name of fascia iliaca^ and in which is confounded the tendon of the psoas parvus, when that muscle exists. Ecuternally, it descends on the one hand, toward the thigh along with the psoas and iliacus muscles, while on the other it unites intimately with the ligament of Fallo- pius, so as very accurately to close the crural arch from the ante- rior and inferior spine of the iliac bone to the ilio-pectineal eminence. Internally, it is attached to the crest of the pubes, passes before the pectineus muscle, is prolonged into the hollow of the groin, and is there continued into the deep lamina of the fascia lata. OF THE OULIQUUS ABDOMINIS EXTERNUS, OR COSTO-ABDO- MINALIS. 1104. The obliquus abdominis eaoternus is one of the largest muscles of the body. It represents a kind of fleshy membrane, ir- regularly quadrilateral, curved backwards, and occupying the side and fore part of the abdomen. It arises posteriorly from about the two anterior thirds of the outer edge of the crista ilii, by short aponeurotic fibres which are continuous with those of the fascia lata. Anteriorly, it comes from the superficial lamina of the abdo- minal aponeurosis, (1103.) The fleshy fibres of the first origin as- cend nearly vertically, and are attached to the inferior edge of the last three ribs by digitations which are covered by those of the la- tissimus dorsi, with which they are interlocked, (884.) Those which proceed from the aponeurosis, are so much the shorter and more oblique the higher they are, and are continuous with the pre- ceding. They proceed to the lower edge of the fifth and sixth ribs, where they seem to join the pectoralis major, and to the outer sur- face of the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs, where they are attached by very distinct digitations, longer and broader than those of the latter ribs, and of which the upper edge is attached to a ridge run- ning obliquely downwards and backwards, which also gives insertion to the serratus magnus, so that there is a distinct interlocking here also, (851.) Their summit is very elongated, and terminates in a small tendon at the lower edge of the rib. AU the digitations of the obliquus externus form together a curv- ed line, the concavity of which is turned downwards, because the attachment of the highest takes place very near the cartilage of the rib. to which it belongs, and those of the next digitations, as far as the fifth, inclusively, separate more and more, to appro.ximate gra- dually again in the last, so that the last of all is attached to the lower edge and the summit of the cartilage. 1105. The outer surface of this muscle is covered by the skin, | and frequently at The' back part by the latissimus dorsi. At i other times, there exists between these two muscles a triangular