582 ORGANS OF sensation. tlie floor of the nasal fossae. Some others, but less developed, are also observed behind the septum. This structure is I'endered very apparent by slight maceration in water. Moreover, the duplication of this membrane which closes the en- trance of the maxillary sinu.=, contains a true gland, of an irregular form, and covered with an innumerable quantity of small excretory vessels. In man, this organ is much less developed than in ani- mals, in which it pours out a particular fluid by means of a very long and voluminous canal. 1994. The pituitary membrane does not present a uniform structure in its whole extent. Near the nostrils it is much less red than when examined at a greater depth. It is there much less spongy, as well as thinner, although at the same time denser, and gives rise to hairs which are more or less numerous in diflerent in- dividuals, but are always more abundant and longer in strong and vigorous persons. These hairs, which are named Vibrissce, placed at the entrance of the nasal fossae, strain the air, as it were, in its passage, and prevent the introduction of foreign bodies into these cavities. They are generally black and stiff, and are often bifur- cated at their summit, and send off small twigs from each of their sides. They have the same generative organs as the hairs that are observed on other parts of the body. There is distinctly seen in them a thick, white, pearly external capsule, as developed as in the hairs of the chin, which contains a sheath, directly enveloping the root of the hair, surrounded at its upper part by sebaceous follicles infinitely smaller than those of the wings of the nose. These hairs have also internally a kind of canal divided by septa. 1995. In the sinuses, the pituitary membrane is destitute of follicles, and loses much of its red colour, its vessels scarcely appear- ing to contain any blood in the ordinary state. It is there very thin, especially in the sphenoidal sinuses and ethmoid cells, where it resembles the arachnoid membrane and has no villosities at its surface. The dense and fibrous layer which is united to the peri- osteum can no longer be observed, and its adhesion to the waUs of the sinuses is very shght. 1996. We have already made known the essential organ of smell, the olfactory nerve (1509), which is expanded in the pitui- tary membrane. This membrane moreover receives a great num- ber of other nervous filaments, which are furnished by the intemal nasal nerve of the ophthalmic (1555), the frontal twig of the same trunk (1553), the ganglion of Meckel (1769), the great palatine nerve (I77I), Vidian nerve (177^), and the anterior dentar twig of the superior maxillary (1560). 1997- The arteries of the pituitary membrane are furnished by the branches of the internal maxiUary artei’y known under the names of spheno-palatine ; by the infra-orbitar, upper alveolar, palatine, and pterygo-palatinc; by the supra-orbitar and ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic artery, the internal carotid artery, the superior labial artery, and the dorsal arteries of the nose. Its veins