631 OP THE HEART. 2. OP THE HEART.* a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2173. The Heart (Cor), the centre of the circulation, is a hol- low muscular organ, of an irregular conical or pyramidal form, in- clined forwards, downwards, outwards and from right to left, flat- tened posteriorly and inferiorly, and lodged in the pericardium. We have already pointed out its general relations in describing the latter organ. Its volume varies much in different individuals. Its mass, com- pared with that of the body, is very small; but, in general, it is so much the greater the younger the subject is. Although it is re- tained by the pericardium, the mediastinum and large vessels, its situation changes every moment during life, because it follows the motions of the diaphragm, or because its weight drags it in different directions, according to the position that is assumed. 2174. Its anterior surface, which is turned a little upwards, is convex, and presents, in its middle, a groove which traverses it obliquely from above downwards, and from left to right, and in which are lodged the anterior coronary artery and vein, in the midst of a considerable quantity of adipose tissue. The portion of, this surface which is situated to the right of the groove, is much broader than that to the left. 2175. Its posterior surface is directed downwards, and is nearly horizontal. It is flat, and rests upon the aponeurotic centre of the diaphragm, from which it is separated only by the serous mem- brane of the pericardium. It is traversed. nearly vertically by a groove which receives the posterior coronary artery and vein, and which joins the preceding at the apex of the heart. The portion of the posterior surface of the heart which is to the left of the groove is much broader than that which occupies its right side. 2176. The right side of the heart is at the same time inferior. It is thin, coming to an edge, longer than the left, and resting upon the diaphragm. The left side is directed backwards and upwards. It is obtuse, rounded, very thick, and coasted by the posterior coro- nary artery. 2177- The base of the heart, which is situated above,, behind, and to the right, slightly inclined from above downwards, and from left to right, is separated from the vertebral column by the aorta and oesophagus, and is connected with the pericardium through the medium of arteries which issue from it, and of veins which go to it. There is observed upon it an oblique groove, which indicates •the junction of the auricles and ventricles. The summit, which looks forwards, downwards, and to the left, is lodged in a notch of the lung of that side (2145), corresponds to the interval of the * Kijj, of the Greeks. 2 T