OF THE FACIAL NERVE. 465 temal muscle of the malleus, after passing through a small aper- ture formed in the bone. At the posterior wall of the cavity of the tympanum, another filament, still smaller, traverses the base of the pyramid, and throws itself into the muscle of the stapes. Still lower, the upper branch of the vidian nerve separates from it anew, descends parallel to it for some time, is reflected upwards and out- wards, and introduces itself into the cavity of the tympanum by an aperture situated beneath the pyramid. This branch then takes the name of Chorda tympani. 1607- In passing through the stylo-mastoid hole, the facial nerve furnishes several twigs which go to the neighbouring parts, of which the most considerable is the 1C08. Ihmtenor auricular Twig.—It descends at first deeply for a few lines, is then reflected upon the anterior part of the mas- toid process, from whence it is directed behind the pavilion of the ear. There it divides into two filaments, an anterior., which rami- fies upon the internal surface of the pavilion, and gives some fila- ments to the posterior auricular muscle, and a posterior, which is expanded by subdividing upon the mastoid process, and in the oc- cipitalis muscle and the neighbouring integuments. These rami- fications anastomose with those of the cervical plexus. The other twigs which the facial nerve furnishes at the same point, are the following :— 1609- Stylo-hyoid Twig.—This twig sends several filaments to the muscles which arise from the styloid process of the temporal bone. One or two of these filaments traverse the stylo-hyoideus muscle, and anastomose with the filaments of the superior cervical ganglion. . , „ 1610. Infra-mastoid Twig.—It passes into the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, passes through it after furnishing it with some filaments, and divides into two filaments. One of these ascends inwards behind the internal jugular vein, and anastomoses with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve at the moment when it issues from the skull. The other descends along the styloid process, and unites with the superior laryngeal twig of the pneumo-gastric nerve. 1611. After furnishing these three twigs, the trunk of the fa- cial nerve itself enters into the parotid gland, where it is at first deeply concealed, but whose surface it approaches by descending obliquely forwards. At the end of a passage of seven or eight lines, it divides into two branches: a superior or temporo-facial, which is larger, and an inferior or cervico-facial, which is smaller. 1612. Temporo-facial Branch. It proceeds forwards and up- wards, into the substance of the gland, towards the neck of the condyle of the jaw, of which it crosses the direction, and behind which it sends one or two filaments to anastomose with those of the superficial temporal nerve (1590). It then divides into seven or eight twigs, which arc diffused in a radiating manner over the temple and face, and which are distinguished, according to their position, into the following.