I OllGANIZATlON OF THE BLADDER. 793 [ 2881. The iVecA 0/Me viewed externally, represents, ; in the male, a kind of truncated cone, longer laterally and inferiorly ' than above. It is nearly horizontal in the adult, and is directed \ obliquely forwards and downwards in the child. It is embraced \ anteriorly by the prostate gland, r'6§tt>.,posteriorly upon the rec- ' turn. 3. IXTEUNAL SURFACE OF THE BLADDER. 2882. The internal surface of the bladder is formed by a mucous membrane furnished with a great number of villosities, much less apparent than those of the stomach or intestines. It presents, in the greater part of its extent, and in its empty state, numerous ir- regular ruga3 which disappear when the bladder is full. In certain subjects only, there are observed elongated persistent prominences, crossing each other in chfferent directions, and separated by cellules varying in breadth and depth. This disposition is owing to a greater development of the muscular fasciculi of the bladder; and when it exists, the bladder which presents it, is commonly called a Columnar Bladder. ( Vessie d colonnes.) 2883. The name of Trigonal Space of the Bladder (La trigone de la vessie, Lieutaud,) is given to a smooth triangular surface, on the inside of the bladder, in the middle of its fundus, and where the mucous membrane is destitute of rugee. The two posterior an- gles of this triangle correspond to the mouth of the ureters, and the anterior to the origm of the urethra. Its sides are each about an inch long. Its base is directed backwards, and its summit forwards. The walls of the bladder are a little thicker here than elsewhere. 2884. The orifice of the urethra, which is also named the Neck of the Bladder, has the form of a kind of crescent, of which the circumference is pretty thick. It embraces a small tubercle which is designated by the name of the Uvula Vesicce (Luette vesicale) and which is formed by the projection of the mucous membrane. 2885. The Fundus or Bottom of the Bladder is in general all that part of its internal surface that corresponds to the inferior re- gion of its external surface (2877)- 4. ORGAXIZATION OF THE BLADDER. 2886. Peritoneal or Serous Coat. Placed entirely at the sur- face, it belongs to the peritoneum, which from the upper edge of the pubes, is reflected over the superior, posterior, and lateral re- gions of the bladder, the only parts of that organ which are con- nected with it. A leather loose cellular tissue unites it to the mus- cular coat, and is then prolonged all round the bladder, of whose walls it seems to constitute a di.stinct layer. 2887. Muscular Coat. It is intermediate in colour and thick-i