4.13 OF THE MEDULLA SPINALIS. mences between the two corpora restiformia. It is closer on its edges, narrower and less deep than the anterior, especially in the adult. These two median grooves, according to M. Chaussier’s ob- servation, from whom we borrow several important details, receive a fold of the proper membrane of the spinal marrow, and serve for the transmission of a great number of vascular twigs, which pene- trate by a multitude of small holes into its substance, and are there subdivided. In the bottom of each of them, there is seen a layer of white substance. In the posterior, this substance is formed by two longitudinal bundles. In the anterior, it is formed by trans- verse filaments which cross each other in the median line, and it presents a greater degree of thickness in the neck than in any other part of its extent. By the disposition of these grooves, the organ is deeply divided in its whole length, and as it were separated into two thick cords intimately united in their whole extent. 1448. On the anterior and posterior surfaces of the body of the spinal marrow, on either side, and at some distance from the median groove, are the collateral grooves, which are superficial and pretty broad, and in which are inserted the roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior, which are more marked, have rounded and very white edges, and a reddish bottom formed by a very soft sub- stance. They commence by a rather indistinct line between the olivary eminence and the restiform body, and become broader and deeper as they descend. From the axis to the ninth dorsal verte- bra, they are half a line in breadth. Each of them divides into two parallel lines, separated by the white substance, which are gradu- ally lost upon the inferior extremity. In their whole course, they present a series of small holes regularly disposed one above the other, in which the roots of the nerves were inserted. The two anterior collateral grooves commence between the cor- pora pyramidalia and olivaria. They are less apparent, narrower and more superficial. Their bottom is less red, firmer, and more dense. These grooves are much more distinct in newly-born children than in adults. 1449. The lateral surfaces of the body of the spinal marrow correspond to the base of the transverse processes. They are nar- rower and rounded. No trace of groove or longitudinal division is perceived upon them, although some anatomists maintain the con- trary. 1450. The inferior extremity of the spinal marrow presents two bulgings, of which the upper is larger and of an oval form, the infei.or smaller and conical. 5. INTERNAL ORGANIZATION OF THE BRAIN IN GENERAL. 1451. The substance of the brain is soft and pulpy ; but its con.sistence varies according to the age. It is almost Iluid in the