ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 213 tact of the head of the femur (494) with tlie cotyloid cavity of the iliac hone (391), the former however not being entirely received by the latter, but presenting a portion of its extent beyond the edge of the cavity. The two surfaces are covered by a very distinct diarthrodial cartilage. That of the head of the femur is much thinner at its circumference than in the middle, where it is inter- rupted by a depression which gives attachment to the inter-articular ligament. The cartilage of the cotyloid cavity presents the reverse aiTangement, and terminates at the sort of impression which it pre- sents in its deepest part. This articulation is furnished with a sy- novial membrane, a capsular ligament, an inter-articular ligament, and a cotyloid ligament. 706. Capsular Ligament. (Memhrana capsularis, Weit.) This is the strongest, thickest, and largest of the capsular ligaments. It embraces the whole artictdation, and extends from the margin of the cotyloid cavity to the base of the neck of the femur, directing itself downwards and outwards. It is not so loose as the capsular ligament of the humerus, to which it has in many respects a great resemblance; nor is it perforated by a tendon. Its thickness is very considerable, especially at the fore and upper part, where it is sensibly augmented by a fibrous fasciculus which descends from the anterior and inferior spine of the iliac bone, confounds itself with the capsule, and terminates at the anterior line of the base of the neck of the femur, becoming much broadened. The thickness is moderate at the inner and posterior parts of this ligament, whose structure is not easily discovered, and the direction of whose fibres is very irregular. Internally, these fibres are often sufficiently separated from each other to allow the synovial membrane to be seen between them, and yet in this direction they are strengthened by some detached fibres from the upper part of the obturator hole. Near its attach- ment to the neck of the bone, the capsule is perforated, especially at its fore part, with a great number of apertures which allow ves- sels to penetrate. 707. The Outer Surface of the capsular ligament of the hip joint is covered anteriorly by the rectus femoris, psoas and iliacus muscles. A particular synovial membrane separates it from the united tendons of the two latter muscles. Internally, the obtura- tor externus and pectineus, lie over it; posteriorly, it rests upon the quadratus femoris, gemelli, pyriformis and obturator internus; and above, is subjacent to the glutaeus minimus, which adheres pretty closely to it. Its Inner Surface is entirely invested by the articular synovial membrane. Its Upper Circumference is attached to the margin of the coty- loid cavity, from the cotyloid ligament to two or three lines be- yond ; and at the level of the inferior notch is attached to this li- gament itself. It is also connected by a particular fasciculus to the anterior and inferior tubercle of the ilium, and by some fibres to the edge of the obturator foramen, as we have already said. It