ORGANIZATION OF THE DUODENUM. 607 2. Of the Duodenum, a. COKKORMATIOX AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2095. The Dnodenum,* by which the intestines properly so called commence, immediately succeeds to the stomach. It is less voluminous than that organ, but has a greater diameter than the rest of the digestive canal, and is susceptible of great dilatation. It occupies the deep middle part of the abdomen, wliere it is con- cealed by the transverse mesocolon or by the stomach. 2096. The direction of the duodenum is such that it may be divided into three portions. The first, which is about two inches long, commences at the valve of the pylorus (2091), proceeds horizontally backwards and to the right, and ends near the neck of the gall-bladder, uniting angularly with the second, which has a vari- able length, and which descends vertically and a little to the left, as far as the third lumbar vertebra. The third portion is directly continuous with the second, with which it does not form an angle. It proceeds transversely to the left, before the vertebral column, and ends with being directed upwards and forwards, toward the upper extremity of the mesentery, above the superior mesenteric vessels, which cross its direction, and which are embraced by a kind of curve which it forms for them. The first portion is covered, in the greater part of its extent, by the peritoneum, and is in connection with the hepato-gastric omen- tum. It is often tinged yellow by the transudation of the bile. The second has no other connection with the peritoneum than that of being covered by the upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon. Tlie third is contained between the two laminm of that fold. From this disposition, the duodenum forms a kind of semicircle which circumscribes the pancreas, and has its concavity to the left, and its convexity to the right. It only appears to be kept in a fixed position in its two inferior thirds. 2097- The relations of the duodenum to the neighbouring or- gans are the following : above, it corresponds to the liver and part of the neck of the gall-bladder; below, it is limited by the inferior lamina of the transverse mesocolon ; anteriorly, it is covered by the superior lamina of this fold inferiorly, and by the stomach and right extremity of the arch of the colon above; posteriorly, it is applied upon the anterior and right lateral parts of the vertebral column, the right kidney, the vena cava inferior, the aorta, and the right pillar of the diaphragm. By its whole inner side, it em- braces the pancreas, from which it is separated below by the supe- rior mesenteric vessels. Its outer side is immersed in the sub-pc- • It is so named on account of its lengtli being commonly estimated at twelve finger breadths.