ORGANS OF SENSATION. 512 mis nerve When it has arrived at the foot, it bifurcates and produces two divergent secondary twigs. The inner follows the corresponding edge of the foot, furnishes several filaments to the cellular tissue, the integuments, and the muscles of the great toe, and runs along the first metatarsal bone and great toe, reach- ing almost to its extremity. The otiter runs between the first two metatarsal bones, and sends its ramifications over the upper and outer part of the second. 1776. External and Superficial Tivig of the Back of the Foot. It runs along the middle part of the upper surface of the foot, be- tween the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes and the in- teguments, after sending some filaments over the outer malleolus. Towards the posterior extremity of the metatarsus, it separates in- to three secondary twigs. The inner is prolonged between the se- cond and third metatarsal bones, and spreads its divisions over the outer side of the second toe and the inner side of the third- The middle twig, passing between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, is distributed in the same manner to the third and fourth toes. Lastly, the outer runs in the interval between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and loses itself on the corresponding toes. Frequently this twig is replaced by one of the twigs of the outer saphenus nerve, but it always at least communicates with it. 1777. Anterior Tibial Branch. It traverses the upper extre- mity of the peroneus longus and oxtensor digitorum communis, descends at first obliquely inwards between the fibula and these two muscles, gives them several filaments, then directs itself be- tween the fibula and the extensor proprius poUicis and tibialis an- ticus, before the interosseous ligament and along the anterior tibial artery, which is placed mternally of it above, and externally below. After passing under the annular ligament of the tarsus along with the tendon of the extensor pollicis muscle, this nerve separates on the back of the foot into two twigs, an inner and an outer, both deeply seated. 1778- The largest of the twigs of this nerve, before its division, arises near its origin. It traverses horizontally the upper extremi- ty of the extensor communis digitorum, and divides into several filaments, of which the inferior are distributed to that muscle and the tibialis anticus, while the upper ascend under the origin of the latter, and lose themselves around the knee joint. It also sends lowe?” down a considerable twig to the extensor digitorum commu- nis, and two or three others to the extensor proprius pollicis and tibialis anticus. 1779- Internal and Deep Twig of the back of the Foot. It runs along the inner edge of the extensor brevis digitorum pe- dis, to which it gives some filaments, passes under the ])ortion of it destined for the great toe, places itself between the first two metatarsal bones, sends ramifications to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and to the integuments, and at length divides into two filaments, which spread out, the one on the outer side of the first