ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 205 surfaces of the forearm to that of tlie opposite side. The two la- teral edges of this ligament are intimately confounded with the periosteum of the radius and ulna. Its anterior surface is covered, in its three upper fourths, by the flexor profundus digitorura and the flexor longus pollicis manus, which are partly inserted into it, and which have between them the anterior interosseous vessels; and in its lower fourth, by the pronator quadratus. Its posterior surface is in connection with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis mctacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internochi polhcis, extensor se- cundi interuodii pollicis, and the extensor proprius indicis. It commonly presents two or three flbrous bands which descend from the ulna towards the radius, and which consequently have an op- posite direction to that of the other fibres. Lastly, this liga- ment, which is notched above, as we have said, is perforated at its lower part by a very distinct oval aperture, for the passage of the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. (j^O. Round Ligament, also called the Oblique Ligament (Chor- da transversalis Oubiti, Weit.) This ligament seems destined to replace the precechng in the upper part of the interosseous inter- val. It is a round fibrous cord of very small size, situated in a plane anterior to that of the interosseous ligament, following an opposite direction, and separating superiorly the flexor sublimis di- gitorum from the supinator brevis. It is attached above to the anterior and superior part of the ulna, beneath the insertion of the brachialis internus ; whence it descends parallel to the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps muscle, and afterwards attaches itself to the radius, immediately beneath the bicipital tuberosity. It leaves between it and the radius a very distinct triangular space, filled with cellular tissue. Sometimes it is composed of two fasciculi; one of which passes behind the tendon of the biceps, and is insert- ed into the outside of the bicipital tuberosity. c. LOWER RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. 671. This articulation is formed by the reception of the head of the ulna into a concave surface which the radius presents at its lower and inner part, (455.) The two surfaces are invested by a very thin and smooth cartilage, and are merely surrounded by some irregular fibres, which strengthen the synovial membrane anteriorly and posteriorly. The principal means of union observed here is a fibro-cartilage. G72. Triangular Fibro-cartilage, (Cartilago intermedia tri- angularis, Weit.) This fibro-cartilage, which is placed trans- vcpely between the lower extremity of the radius and ulna, is thin, narrow, yellowish, and triangular, as its name implies. It is denser and more cartilaginous at its circumference than at the centre, thinner and broader externally than internally, and formed of more apparent fibres below than above. Its upper surface, whicli is concave and smooth, is contiguous to the lower part of the head of the ulna; the loiver surface, which is also con-