ORGANS OF SENSATION. d-32 nus, to the edges of the lateral groove of the occipital bone, and anteriorly, to the upper edge of the petrous process, on which the su- perior petrous sinus occurs. Its inner circum ference, which is much smaller, free, and nearly oval, forms in a great measure the circum- ference of the aperture of which we have just spoken, which is broader and more elevated behind than before. The extremities of the two circumferences of the tentorium cerebelli meet at an acute angle, arc elongated, cross each other like the legs of the letter X, and pass over each other, on either side, to be attached to the two corresponding clinoid processes. The upper branch, which is es- pecially continuous with the small circumference, is more marked than the other. It passes over the side of the pituitary fossa, aug- ments its depth, and is inserted into the anterior clinoid process. The lower branch, which terminates the great circumference, com- pletes the upper edge of the hole through which passes the trifacial nerve, proceeds obliquely inwards, and is attached to the posterior clinoid process. 1499- Falx Cerebelli. This is a small triangular lamina, pretty broad above, indistinct below, extended from the internal occipital protuberance to the occipital hole, at the fore part of the occipital crest, and placed between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its base is continuous with the tentorium cerebelli. Its summit is bifurcated, and the two branches of this bifurcation are more or less prolonged upon the sides of the occipital hole. 1500. The dura mater presents no trace of muscular organiza, tion in any point of its extent. It is manifestly fibrous, as we have said, and its fibres are especially very apparent in the folds, and in particular at the upper part of the falx cerebri. Their di- rection is never constant or regular. They cross each other in va^ rious ways, or form obhque planes superimposed upon each other. The strength and denseness of this membrane are very remarkable. It does not appear to receive any nerves, excepting, as Chaussier remarks, some filaments which come from the system of ganglions, and accompany its arteries, which are pretty numerous, and have walls formed in its substance. They are the middle meningeal ar^ teries furnished by the internal maxillary arteries, and many other smaller branches supplied by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, the lachrymal, the inferior pharyngeal, the vertebral, the occipital, and the temporal arteries. It is moreover traversed in various points by venous canals, which are named the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. 1501. These canals, which are of variable dimensions, and dis- posed in a symmetrical and regular manner, have walls formed ex- ternally by the dura mater, and lined internally by a smooth and polished membrane, of a serous aspect, and which is met with in the interior of all the veins. Being constantly stretched in all points of their extent, they c<tn neither change place, nor even contract upon themselves. TJieir cavity ])rcscnts at intervals bridles which pass irreguhu'ly from one wall to the other, ami