ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 4b’6 to tlie upper part of the larynx, where they divide into two branches, the external carotid and the internal carotid. Inferiorly the right carotid is a little anterior to the left, but as it ascends it places itself in the same plane. The interval which these two arteries leaves between them is filled below by the trachea and oesophagus, and above by the la- rynx. 2224. Anteriorly, the left carotid is covered in its lower part by the left subclavian vein, the thymus gland and the clavicle. Both are then placed in the interval of the sterno-cleido-mas- toidei, sterno-hyoidei, thyro-hyoidei, and omo-hyoidei muscles, by which they are separated from the platysma myoides, which, how- ever, almost immediately covers them above. 2225. Posteriorly, the common carotids are applied upon the vertebral column, and more immediately upon the inferior thyroid arteries, and the longi colli and recti capitis antici majores muscles. 2226. Internally, they correspond to the trachea, the thyroid body, which advances a little upon them, the larynx and the pharynx. That of the left side is moreover in relation with the oesophagus. 2227. Externally, they are coasted by the internal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric nerves, and the communicating cords of the su- perior and middle cervical ganglia (1806). All these parts are connected by a filamentous cellular tissue, having little fat, and filled with lymphatic ganglia. 2228. In their whole course, the common carotid arteries pre- serve the same calibre. In fact they give off no branch, excepting some very slender ramifications which lose themselves in their own walls or in the neighbouring muscles. OF THK EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 2229. This artery is particularly destined for the face and the exterior of the skull. Its volume is equal to that of the internal ca- rotid, excepting in young children, in whom the latter is larger, on account of the greater development of the brain and organs of sense. 2230. The external carotid artery extends from the upper part of the larynx to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. Placed near the internal carotid at its commencement, and even situated internally and anteriorly of it, it ascends parallel to it until under the digastric muscle, where it crosses its direction winding out- wards and backwards to gain the angle of the jaw, and become more superficial. It then proceeds between the ear and the posterior edge of the lower jaw, concealed by the parotid gland, and divides into two branches which are named the Temporal awd. Internal AIaxillary Arteries.