133 OF THE BONES OF THE CABPUS. narrower and concave anteriorly to be articulated to the os mag- num, receives the insertions of ligaments behind. OF THE os MAGNUM. 469. The us magnum or capitntum is the largest of the carpal bones. It is thick and cubical below, rounded and hemispherical above, and its height is greater than any of its other dimensions. Its upper surface^ which is named its hea,d^ has the greatest part of its convexity turned backwards and outwards. It is support- ed by a contracted neck, in the form of a groove, and is receiv- ed into a cavity presented by the scaphoid and semilunar bones to- t^ether. Its inferior surface is divided into three portions, of which the outer, which is inclined outwards and is concave and smooth, is articulated with the second metacarpal bone ; while the middle portion, which is broader than the rest, horizontal, and turned a little obliquely upwards at its posterior part, rests upon the third metacarpal bone; and the inner, which is very small, plain, and also horizontal, is joined to the fourth. Its posterior surface is broad and convex below, a little concave above, and gives attachment to ligaments, as does the anterior^ which is narrower. The outer surface is plain, and is articulated to the trapezium. The inner surface, presents posteriorly and above, a larger concave space, which is connected with the unciform bone ; the remaining part is rough and gives attachment to ligaments. OF THE os UNCIFOEME. 470. Next to the os magnum, this is the largest of the bones of the carpus, of which it occupies the inner and lower part. It pre- sents somewhat of the form of a wedge, with the base chrected downwards. Its upjier surface is extremely narrow, rounded and smooth, and is articulated to the semilunar bone. The lower sur- face is divided into two portions, which rest upon the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; the posterior is triangular and uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments; the anterior bears internally and below a large eminence, somewhat curved upon itself outwards, which affords attachment to the annular ligament of the wrist, and .some of the muscles of the little finger; the outer is smooth above and behind to be articulated with the os magnum, uneven before and below where it gives insertion to ligaments ; the inner, which is very oblique, is concave downwards and backwards, convex above and before, and is articulated to the pyramidal bone. 471. Structure and Development. All the bones of the car- pus are formed of a loose and spongy tissue, which in the recent state is filled with a great quantity of fluid. A very thin layer of compact tissue invests their surface. They are developed by a single point of ossification, excepting the os unciforme, wliicli has two. The pisiform bone does not begin to ossify until about the