OF THE SUT3CLAVIAN VEIN. 739 quently with the cephalic vein. It tlien throws itself deeply into the axilla, and is manifestly continuous with the axillary vein. 2()42. A.villary Vein. This vein is, therefore, the result of the union of all those which we have examined in the hand, fore-arm, and arm, whether deep or superficial. It ascends obliquely inwards under the clavicle, always placed before the axillary artery, from the tendon of the pectoralis major to the inferior extremity of the scalenus anticus muscle. In this course, it receives the Cireumflesc Veins, the Inferior Scapular, Lo)i(j Thuracic, Superior Thoracic, and Acromial Veins, which correspond to the branches furnished by the axillary artery. 2643. To the axillary veins succeed the Subclavian Veins, which extend from the inferior extremity of the scalenus anticus muscle, before which they pass, to the vena cava superior, which they form by their union. Both proceed at first transversely in- wards, and then bend downwards to enter the thorax. But they present difierences according as they are examined on the right or on the left side, on account of the position of the vena cava supe- rior. Thus the right subclavian vein is very short, and approaches the vertical direction more in the second part of its course. It is covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, the sterno-clavicu- lar articulation, the cartilage of the first rib, and a small portion of the sternum. It is applied externally and posteriorly against the right lamina of the mediastinum, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the right subclavian artery, and the scalenus anticus muscle. It cor- responds internally to the aorta. Moreover, its size is always less than that of the left. The latter is much longer and -approaches the horizontal direc- tion more than the riglit. It is also covered by the same parts, and, moreover, by nearly the whole length of the sternum, and by the muscles which are attached to it. It covers the scalenus anti- cus muscle, the left subclavian artery, the left lamina of the medi- astinum, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the arch of the aorta, and the brachio-cephalic artery. It is also always larger than the right. 264'4. The left subclavian vein receives two veins which the right does not receive. They are named the Lefl Internal Mam.- mary, and the Left Inferior Thyroid. 2645. Left Internal Mammary Vein. Its roots are seen wherever the corresponding artery sends its twigs, and are collected into a single trunk which ascends backwards and outwards upon the posterior surface of the stcrno-costal cartilages, and which open into the left subclavian vein, beside the superior intercostal. In its course, this vein is augmented by the superior diaphragmatic vein, and by the left mediastinal and thymic veins. 2646. Left Inferior Thyroid Vein. Its roots, on leaving the inferior part of tlie thyroid body, anastomose with those of the right inferior thyroid vein, and thus form, before the trachea, an