167 OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. The circumference of these cartilages terminates insensibly on the bony surface, by gradually becoming thinner. We observe, however, with regard to the thickness of the cartilages, that it is much ffreater at the centre than at tlie circumference of those which cover the heads of bones, while an opposite arrangement is observ- ed in those which cover the corresponding cavities. The thickness is uniform in the cartilages of the different articulations by plani- form arthrodia, as in the carpus and tarsus. 560. It must not be supposed that the synarthrodial articulations are entirely destitute of cartilages, because they are not susceptible of motion. In all those whose surfaces present denticulations, or merely juxtaposition, there is seen a cartilaginous layer of great tenuity, continuous with the two bones which are connected, and which become thinner and more adlierent as age advances, and are even very frequently, in old age, transformed into a true osseous substance. In the sutures of the skull, these cartilaginous laminae are thinner at the inner than at the outer side of the wall. 561. The articular cartilages, which are destitute of fibrous peri- chondrium and visible blood-vessels, are formed of longitudinal fibres, crossed by other transverse and oblique fibres. These fibres are so closely compacted, that at first sight they seem to constitute a homogeneous whole. They are easily seen on cutting a carti- lage, as they form distinct prominences on the edges of the section. The areolae which they circumscribe are filled with a gelatinous pulpy matter, which is more abundant in children. The elasticity of this tissue is very great, especially in adult age, and is well re- tained in the state of death. 562. These organs remain untouched after a pretty long mace- ration, and resist putrefaction in a high degree. The action of a strong heat makes the cartilages curl, as it does to almost all the other animal tissues. Boiling in water gives them a yellowish tint, and then covers them with reticular cracks, which allows them to become detached in small polygonal plates, which are soon al- most completely resolved into jelly. By desiccation in the open air, they become hard, horny, semi-transparent, and lose their elasticity as well as the greater part of their volume. 563. The cartilages contain cellular tissue. When they are de- prived, by boiling, of the gelatine which they contain, there is ob- tained a kind of membranous parenchyma, which sufficiently proves its existence. They receive very minute blood-vessels, which pro- ceed from branches situated near the articiilation, and chiefly in the substance of the capsules, and which creep more or less oblique- ly into their substance. Although very delicate injections fully demonstrate the presence of these vessels, it appears probable that in the state of health, the greater part of those which are then seen do not contain blood, and are only filled with white fluids of a na- ture yet unknown. No nerves have as yet been traced into the substance of the cartilages. 564). Liijaments. The ligaments, which arc met with in almost