OF THB SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. in general one or two are found in the substance of the frontal hone, which discharge themselves into the frontal vein, two in the substance of the parietal bone, which open into the lateral sinuses of the dura mater and into the deep temporal veins, and one in the occipital bone, which opens into the occipital vein. From this ar- rangement, it is easy to judge that these vessels contribute to the formation of the internal jugular vein. Moreover, it is to be remarked that the veins of the diploe have numerous anastomoses with each other, and that they communi- cate, internally and externally of the skull, by a multitude of emis- sary twigs, with the venous trunks which creep upon that part, or with the sinuses formed in the dura mater. 2637- After receiving all the branches mentioned above, the in- ternal jugular vein forms a large trunk which descends vertically along the anterior and lateral part of the neck, behind the omo- hyoideus and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, and the cervical branch of the hypoglossal nerve ; before the rectus capitis anticus major, the vertebral column, the commencement of the subclavian artery and the scalenus anticus muscle, and externally of the com- mon carotid artery and pneumo-gastric nerve. This vein opens into the sub-clavian, and presents on the right side the same direc- tion as the vena cava superior, while on the left it forms a right angle with the subclavian. 2638. In this latter course, the internal jugular vein receives only a few cutaneous veins, and some branches which issue from the thyroid body under the name of Middle Thyroid Veins. C. OF THE VEINS WHICH, BY UNITING, FORM THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. 2639. Brachial Veins. The collateral arteries of the fingers, the branches of the pahnar arches, these arches themselves, the ra- dial and ulnar arteries, and all their divisions, are accompanied each by two venous branches which exactly follow their course, and which become larger and larger as they ascend towards the elbow joint, where they form four principal and deep veins, which unite two and two, so as afterwards to constitute* two large trunks. These run along the brachial artery, and embrace it at different points by anastomosing twigs, which they send off to each other. They re- ceive in their course all the veins which accompany the divisions of the artery, as the internal collateral vein, the deep humeral vein, &c., and open into the axillary vein at the same place as the basilic. 2640. Cephalic Vein (Veine Radin.le Cutanee, Chauss.) It commences by a great number of radicles, disposed in the form of a net-work on the back of the hand, and upon the muscles of the thumb. These radicles unite into a single trunk, which takes the