S88 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. dons below. It arises from tlie inner condyle, by means of the common tendon; from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and from the coronoid process of the ulna, by pretty long aponeuroses ; from two aponeurotic partitions which exist between it and the floxor carpi ulnaris internally, and the pronator longus,pal- maris longus, and flexor carpi radialis, anteriorly. From these diffe- rent points there proceeds a rather thin fleshy bundle, which de- scends a little obliquely outwards, and receives another broad, thin, and flat muscular plane, which comes from the anterior edge of the radius, where it is attached by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, between the supinator brevis and flexor longus pollicis. The muscle then increases in breadth and thickness, and is fre- quently still more augmented by another portion which arises se- parately from the inner condyle. It descends vertically, and soon divides into four portions, wliich proceed, one to each of the last four fingers. Two are anterior, united to each other by their edges, and belong to the middle and ring fingers ; two posterior, one for the fore finger, the other for the little finger. The latter is the smallest, while that of the middle finger is the broadest and thickest. They are all terminated by tendons proportioned to their size, which are connected together, and with those of the flexor perforans by loose cellular tissue. 1172. Each of these tendons commences very high upon the fleshy portion to which it corresponds. That of the middle finger extends along its outer and posterior side, and receives the fibres which arise from a part of the common tendon and from the an- terior edge of the radius. It is accompanied by them until close to the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. That of the ring finger, which is at first concealed in the substance of its fleshy portion, afterwards appears at its fore part, but pretty low, and receives the fibres of a part of the common tendon and of the aponeurotic septum which separates the flexor perforatus from the flexor carpi ulnaris. The tendon of the little finger also commences very high on the anterior surface of its fleshy portion, which comes from a tendinous intersection placed in the substance of the muscle, like that of the fore-finger ; but the latter descends much farther on the tendon. 1173. These four tendons pass into the groove which the anterior surface of the carpus presents, and are there kept down by the an- nular ligament, beneath which they separate from each other to descend, in the palm, behind the palmar aponeurosis, and before the tendon of the flexor perforans and the lumbricales. They then enlarge a little, are enveloped by a loose cellular sheath, are engaged toward the heads of the metacarpal bones, between parti- tions formed by the palmar aponeurosis, and are lodged in a groove which the anterior surface of the phalanges presents, in which they are retained by a peculiar fibrous sheath. Before arriving at these sheaths, the tendons exhibit the ap- pearance of a middle longitudinal division, and present posteriorly