572 ORGANS OF SENSATION. marked with: a depression which is observed at the bottom of the internal auditory canal. This depression lodges the cochlear branch of the acoustic nerve (1621), and transmits it into the in- terior of the cavity by a great number of porosities. It terminates, becoming narrower, towards the summit of the axis itself, which is marked with a small cavity named the Infundibulum^ and of which the entrance is wide and slanting. The surface of the bony axis is spirally marked by a double groove, and presents a great number of small holes for the passage of the nervous filaments of which we have just made mention. 1964. The Lamina of the circumference of the Cochlea^ im- mersed in the spongy tissue of the petrous process, of the form of a very elongated isosceles triangle, were it supposed to be developed and extended, is compact and bent upon itself in the direction of its breadth. It forms a kind of half canal, of which the edges are a little thicker than the rest and firmly united to the axis, around which it describes two spiral turns and a half, advancing upon the infundibulum. These turns are closely united together in the place where they meet, and form an equally spiral cavity which goes on gradually diminishing. 1965. The Lamina Spiralis, or Spiral Septum of the Cochlea, divides this cavity in its whole length into two parts. Bony in the portion connected with the axis, it is membranous in that connected with the lamina of the circumference. Broader to- wards the base of the cochlea, it ends upon the axis, towards the middle of the second turn, by a kind of hook where the point of the infundibulum commences. In its bony portion it is com- posed of two lamellae between which there is observed a great number of small canals for nerves. Its membranous portion is ex- tremely thin, and exists alone from the middle of the second turns to the summit, where it is perforated by a small rounded aperture. 1966. The two cavities which result from the presence of this septum have been called the Scalce or Gyri. One of them is inter- nal, the other external. The former would communicate with the cavity of the tympanum by the fenestra rotunda were it not closed by its membrane. The latter opens freely into the vestibule. The internal is broader and shorter, and the surface of the septum which corresponds to it is wrinkled and uneven. The external is nar- rower and longer, and the surface of the septum which corresponds to it presents prominent radiating lines. They communicate with each other by the aperture of the summit of the septum, and gra- dually contract from their commencement to their point of com- munication. The vertical section of each of them presents nearly the form of a semicircle. 1967- The Aqueduct is an extremely narrow canal, of which the upper orifice is seen in the internal scala, near the fenestra ro- tunda, and the inferior on the posterior edge of the petrous pro- cess (189)j before the jugular fossa. It is from three to four lines in length, descends obliquely forwards, and represents a very