751 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION IN GENERAL. 2692. The Lymphatic Vessels are extremely numerous. Aris- ing from the surface of the membranes and from the tissue of the organs, they transmit all the absorbed fluids to the venous system. Those which take up the chyle during the process of digestion in the intestines constitute a separate order, known by the name of Chyliferous or Lacteal Vessels or simply Lacteals. Although they differ in their uses from the other lymphatic vessels, they have pre- cisely the same organization and anatomical disposition. 2693. Lymphatic vessels occur in all parts of the body ; but in whatever parts they are examined, they form two distinct planes, a superficial and a deep-seated. Thus, the whole exterior of the body is covered by a net-work of these vessels placed in the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, while others occupy the intervals of the organs. This disposition is not confined to the limbs only, where it is more easy to observe it, but exists in each particular organ, the liver, lungs, pancreas, &c. We also observe that the superfi- cial absorbents are distributed in a uniform manner, while the deep- seated unite into bundles around the blood-vessels, whose direction they exactly follow. But these planes communicate frequently together by numerous anastomosing twigs, and even entirely unite to form common plexus, as is observed at the upper part of each limb. 2694. The lymphatic vessels are much smaller than the arteries or veins. Their caliber varies much, according to the state of the subject in which they are examined. Thus in subjects whose cel- lular tissue is drenched with serous fluids, they are much more ap- parent. The disproportion between the size of the roots and that of the trunks is still greater than in the blood-vessels. 2695. The lymphatic vessels are in general cylindrical; but they present at intervals dilations of greater or less size, which give them a knotted appearance, and which are owing to valves placed in their interior. 2696. In general, they are more or less straight in their course ; but their anastomoses are excessively numerous. They frequently cross each other, forming successive plexus. Another still more remarkable fact, is the frequency of their alternate unions and di- visions, so that a great number of twigs, after being collected into a single trunk, separate a second time, and again form one or more trunks. 2697- The disposition and nature of the extreme roots of the absorbent vessels are entirely unknown. 2698. Before terminating in their principal trunks, the branches of the lymphatic trunks have to traverse a greater or less number of Lymphatic Ganglia, that is to say, small organs of variable form and size, collected together in greater or less quantity, or isolated. These ganglia are not very numerous along the limbs; but they occur abundantly in the abdomen and thorax. Each of them re- ceives one or more lymphatic vessels by one of its sides. These vessels subdivide to infinity in its substance or at its surface, with-