812 ORGANS OF GENERATION. (2531) and nerves (I7G8). The latter have anastomoses with all those of the genital parts. 2953. The Nymphcs * (Labia mirtora). These are two erec- tile, elongated membranaceous ridges, transversely flattened, thicker at their middle part than at the extremities, arising to the right and left, from the lateral parts of the prepuce and clitoris, which they separate from each other, situated upon the inner sur- face of the labia, and terminating towards the middle of the con- tour of the orifice of the vagina by becoming gradually thinner. Their length varies much. They are sometimes very small, and in some cases are entirely wanting, of which Riolan and Morgagni adduce examples. In some tribes their size is such that they pro- trude beyond the labia, and require to be cut off The nymphae are formed each by two laminae of the mucous membrane of the vulva folded upon itself, and contain in their sub- stance a thin layer of an erectile spongy tissue. Numerous ves- sels also ramify in their substance. 2954. Meatus Urinarius and Urethra. In the female the orifice of the urethra is named the meatus urinarius. The urethra in her IS very different from what it is in the male, being only an inch in length, much wider, and capable of being dilated to a great ex- tent. It is very wide at its commencement, and descends oblique- ly forwards to terminate at the lower part of the vestibule, above the orifice of the vagina. In this course, it describes a slight curve, the concavity of which is directed upAvards. Its lateral parts and its lower part are in a manner embraced by the upper wall of the vagina. Superiorly, it is in connection with the inferior ligament of the bladder, the symphysis of the pubes, and the cor- pus cavernosum of the clitoris. I’he mucous membrane which lines it is reddish, and forms several very prominent longitudinal folds. It presents, especially below, a great quantity of mucous lacunae. This membrane is enveloped by a thin layer of spongy tissue, and no body similar to the prostate is met with at its ex- terior. The outer orifice of the urethra is surrounded by a kind of rim, formed by the mucous membrane of the vulva, and which is always more prominent below than above. 2955. Entrance of the Vagina. It is occupied by the hymen or carunculae myrtiformes. 1. The Hymen,* the existence of which Avas long disputed, and which is considered as one of the surest signs of Aurginity, is a more or less distinct replication of the mucous membrane of the vulva at the moment which it penetrates into the vagina. Its form is extremely variable, being semilunar, parabolic, or circular, nor does it in ge- neral close the canal in an accurate manner. Sometimes, hoAvevcr, • i\u/i(piu of tlio Gi-.'cks, bccatise they were snppospd to direct the stream of tlie urine, and to preside tiver its cinis.siou, as tlie N\m)ilis over lountaiiis. -t- Tfiiiiv, yiioiibniiia.