MUGOUS MEMBRANE OF THE MOUTH. 591 meters, moreover, present numerous individual differences. The walls of the mouth and the various organs wliich it contains, are lined by a common mucous membrane. a. OF THE COURSE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE MOUTH. 2031. Inferiorly it commences on the free edge of the under lip, of which it lines the posterior surface, to be afterwards reflect- ed upon the body of the maxillary bone. There it forms opposite the symphysis of the chin, a fold which is more developed below than above, and which is named the Frenum of the under lip. It is lost insensibly upon the lip. The membrane then sends into each alveolus a prolongation which strengthens the insertion of the roots of the teeth, and is continuous with a membranous lamina which lines these cavities. From thence it proceeds over the pos- terior surface of the body of the inferior maxillary bone, forms op- posite the symphysis the Frenum or Bridle of the tongue (2007), covers, as we have said, the whole surface of that organ, gains the epiglottis, and is continued into the mucous membrane of the larynx (1417) and that of the pharynx. 2032. Superiorly it commences on the free edge of the upper lip, forms between it and the superior maxillary bones a bridle similar to that of the lower lip, gains the upper alveolar arch, sends prolongations into the corresponding alveoli, passes to the vaidt of the palate, of which it closes the anterior foramen and the two pos- terior holes, receives the nerves and vessels which pass through them, and is reflected over the fore part of the Velum palati, on the free edge of which it is continuous with the pituitary membrane (1988). 2033. On either side, this membrane, proceeding from the com- missure of the lips, hues the cheeks at the middle of which it pre- sents the orifice of the parotid duct, and proceeds over the branches of the inferior maxillary bone, forming a vertical fold at the level of their anterior edge. At the backmost part, it turns over the glosso-staphylini (1017) and pharyngo-staphylini muscles (1014), to form the pillars of the palatal vault, between which it covers the tonsils. Beyond this it is continuous with the membrane of the pharynx. 2034. The mucous membrane of the mouth presents numerous variations of structure, according to the region of the cavity in which it is examined, there may, however, be assigned it as a ge- neral character, that it contains in its substance a great quantity of mucous follicles, which even seem to form a particular membranous layer in some places, and that it is covered by a very distinct epi- dermis.