MUSCLES OF THE HAND. S4'5 nate by bhort aponeuroses all along the outer edge of the first me- tacarpal bone, and sometimes partially on the tendon of the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 1227. Its anterior tmrface is covered by the preceding muscle and by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the anterior annu- lar ligament of the wrist, the articulation of the trapezium with the first metacarpal bone (696), part of the anterior surface of the lat- ter bone, and the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. 1226. It impresses upon the first metacarpal bone a rotatory motion which opposes the thumb to the other fingers. OF TIIK FLEXOE BKEVIS POLLICIS MANUS. 1229- Placed within and beneath the two preceding muscles, short, of a rather irregular form, and bifurcated at its two extremi- ties, this muscle has two separate origins. It arises anteriorly and externally, from the fore and under part of the anterior annular li- gament of the carpus, from the trapezium, and from an aponeurotic septum interposed between it and the opponens pollicis. Its other origin, which is posterior, is from the lower part of the os magnum, from the upper extremity of the third metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments by which they are united. The two portions of the muscle descend outwards, separated at first from each other, but soon united behind the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, to which they aflbrd a kind of longitudinal channel (1182.) Arrived at the lower extremity of the first metacarpal bone, they separate anew ; the outer is confounded with the tendon of the abductor pol- licis (1223), and is attached to the fore part of the upper extremity of the first phalanx of the thumb, and to the outer sesamoid bone of its articulation ; the inner is united to the summit of the adduc- tor poUicis, and in like manner goes to be attached to the phalanx and to the inner sesamoid bone. These two insertions take place each by a pretty strong tendon. 1230. The anterior surface of the flexor brevis pollicis is cover- ed, at the middle, by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis; in- ternally, by those of the flexor profundus and by the first two lum- bricales; externally, by an aponeurosis, by the skin, and by tlic a.bductor brevis pollieis. The posterior surface corresponds to the first metacarpal bone, to the first two dorsal and to the first palmar interossci, as well as to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. Its outer edge is often confounded with the opponens pollicis, and the inner with the adductor. 1231. It bends the first phalanx of the thumb upon the first metacarpal bone, and the latter upon the trapezium. OF THE AnDUeXOR POLLICIS MANUS. 1232 This muscle, which is broad, thin, and triangular, is still