ORGANS Ol-' SENSATION. 4iy and again enlarges at the middle of the cervical region. After contracting a second time towards the end of that region, it ac- quires more thickness at the upper part of the back, then dimi- nishes in its lower part, to terminate at length by a kind of oval tubercle. It does not lie loose in the vertebral canal, nor is it ap- plied against its bony surfaces ; but it is constantly sustained in a fixed’manner in the middle of that cavity, a little nearer the anterior wall however than the posterior. In the spinal marrow, there are distinguished a middle part or body, and two extremi- ties. 1446. Upper Extremity, or Medtilla oblongata, (Bulbe rachi- dien, Chauss.^ It is contained within the skull, and forms a sort of bulging which extends from the pons Varolii to the great occipital hole. It contracts in proportion as it descends, and is slightly com- pressed from before backwards. Its anterior surface, which is broad and convex, and lies upon the occipital bone, is remarkable for four eminences symmetrically placed alongside of each other. Two of these eminences are internal, and are separated by a me- dian groove, much deeper above than below, filled by the pia ma- ter, and continuing over the whole anterior surface of the spinal marrow to its inferior extremity. These are the Pyramidal Em- inences or Corpora Pyramidalia. They seem to arise from the in- ferior extremity of the pons Varolii, where they are broader and more prominent, and after a course of eight or ten lines, disappear in- sensibly in the tissue of the spinal marrow. Opposite the atlas no traces of them are observable. The two lateral eminences are named the Olivary Eminences or Corpora OHvaria, and are separated from the other by a slight depression. They are very firm, of an oblong form, prominent in their middle, rounded at their extremi- ties, and are white on the outside. The posterior surface of the upper extremity of the spinal mar- row contributes to form the fourth ventricle, and is directly con- tinuous with the pons Varolii, there being no line of separation in- terposed. It is hollowed in the median line by a part of the cala- mus scriptorius, which is closed below by a fold of the arachnoid membrane, and which termmates at the height of the occipital hole. On each side, there are observed two whitisli oblong eminences, named Corpora restiformia, which contribute to the forniation of the cerebellum. 1447. Body of the Spinal Marroiv.—We have already made known the enlargements and contractions which it presents during its course (1445.) Its anterior surface corresponds to the bodies of the vertebrce. It presents a great number of transverse small folds or grooves, more or less near to each other, particularly ap- parent from the last cervical vertebra to the ninth dorsal. A very deep and distinct fissure runs along its whole extent, chviding it in- to two equal lateral portions. Its posterior surface also presents transverse folds ; but they are less visible than on the anterior. It also is divided in its whole length by a median groove which com-