S'^8 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. paratcs it from the brachialis internus. Its fleshy fibres descx;nd backwards and outwards. 1154. After their union, these three portions of the muscle form a thick and broad bundle, concave before for embracing the hume- rus, and terminate by a very strong tendon, also broad and thick, which is attached to the posterior and upper part of the olecranon, over a considerable extent of surface. This tendon commences by two aponeuroses. The outer, broad and thin, .with longitudinal and parallel fibres, arises behind the muscle, towards its middle part, and sends downwards a fibrous prolongation to the aponeuro- sis of the fore-arm. The inner, which is narrower but broader, descends in the substance of the muscle from the point of junction of its three portions, after having even extended for some time along the anterior surface of the lower part of the middle portion. 1155. Besides the fleshy fibres which are furnished to it by each of the three portions, the common bundle receives a great number of others which arise along the lower third of the posterior surface of the humerus, to near the olecranal cavity, and descend obliquely backwards upon the anterior surface of the tendon. The outer side of the tendon and of its aponeurotic origins serves for the in- sertion of several others which come from about the lower fourth of the outer edge of the humerus, where they leave between them a small aperture for the passage of the radial nerve and its accom- panying vessels, and which appear to form a particular muscle se- parated from the rest of the outer portion by a line of cellular tis- sue. They are short, have little obliquity, and are even transverse below, where they are parallel to the superior fibres of the anco- neus. Lastly, at its inner part, this same tendon is also furnished with fleshy fibres which come from the lowest part of the inner edge of the humerus. 1156. The posterior surface of the triceps extensor is convex, and covered above by the teres minor and deltoid, and in the rest of its extent, by the brachial aponeurosis and the skin. The ante- rior surface covers the sub-scapularis, teres major and latissimus dorsi, above. It is united to the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint by cellular tissue. At its lower part, it is in connection with the posterior surface of the humerus, to which it is attached, ex- cepting at the place where the radial nerve and the collateral ves- sels pass. Lastly, at its lowest part, it is apphed upon the poste- rior part of the elbow joint. 1157. The triceps extensor acts in opposition to the biceps and brachiahs internus, extending the fore-arm upon the arm, and in certain circumstances, the arm upon the fore-arm. When the fore- arm is extended, its long portion carries the arm backwards. It may also sometimes move the scapula upon the humerus.