OF THE ILIAC BONE. Ill sacrum, and the fourth always unites at an early period with the third. This union liappens much later in the female than in the male. . 388. Articulations and Development. The coccyx, which is articulated solely to the sacrum, commences its development with four or five points of ossification, one for each of its portions. I have, however, sometimes observed three distinct centres in the first piece. Occasionally, also, the second and third pieces are each de- veloped by two lateral bony nuclei. The cartilages, of which it is entirely formed in the fetus, ossify later than those of the sacrum. It is further to be observed, that the coccyx unites with the sacrum earlier in the male than in the female, in whom it is moreover lontrer and more curved. O OF THE COXAL,* ILIAC,*f* OR HAUNCH BONE. 389. Form. The Haunch Bone (os innommatum, os coxa- rum, os iliacum) which is a double unsymmetrical bone, of a qua- drilateral form, curved upon itself in two different directions, as if it had been twisted, contracted in the middle, and of a very irregu- lar figure, is the largest of all the flat bones, and occupies the la- teral and anterior parts of the pelvis. It is divided into the fol- lowing parts:— 390. Femoral or External Surface. This surface is at its upper part directed outwards, backwards, and downwards, at its lower part forwards. In its upper and posterior portion, there is observed a narrow, convex, uneven surface, to which is attached the gluteus major. This surfaee is terminated beneath by a low circular ridge, which is named the Upper Curved Line, and surmounts another broader surface, concave behind, and contracted at its fore part, into which is inserted the gluteus, medius, and which is in like man- ner bounded by a ridge named the Lower Curved Line, which pro- ceeds from the sciatic notch, to unite with the iliac crest, and re- ceives an aponeurosis belonging to the gluteus medius. A little more downwards is observed the orifice of a canal which transmits vessels to the bone, in the middle of a very large convex surface, which gives insertion to the fibres of the gluteus minor, and which, at its anterior and lower part, presents inequalities, into which the curved tendon of the rectus femoris is inserted. All this portion of the external surface which we have been describing forms a sort of wide fossa, alternately concave and convex, and which some anatomists designate by the name of External Iliac Fossa. 391. Downwards and forwards, this surface presents, at its up- • Coxes, the haunches. + T liis name is derived from the circumstance that these bones support the parts which the ancients named Ilia, that is to say, the flanks. 3