ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 197 apparent at the circumference than at the mulclle part, where they cannot be distinguished. 6‘44-. Synovial Membranes.—They are two in number, on ac- count of the disposition of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, which renders one insufficient. The one belongs to the clavicle and upper surface of the fibro-cartilage, the other invests the sternum and the opposite surface of the same organ. By their external surface, they adliere, in a great part of their extent, to the four ligaments described above; but in the intervals of these ligaments, they can be easily distinguished, and may even be made to form small protruding vesicles by pressing the surfaces against each other. They generally contain very little synovia. In other re- spects they are similar to the synovial membranes of the other arti- culations, and only communicate together in cases where the fibro- cartilage is perforated. 2. SCAPULO-CLAVICULAll ARTICULATION. 645. This articulation is of the kind designated by the name of Plain Arthrodia. The two surfaces which are presented for the purpose of forming it, the outer extremity of the clavicle (440) on the one hand, and the upper edge of the acromion (426) on the other, are covered with a shght layer of cartilage, remark- able for its little density and whiteness. There commonly occurs be- tween them a very thin inter-articular hgament, pretty frequently narrower than the surfaces themselves, and always of a very vari- able form. Two ligaments, the one superior the other inferior, belong to the articulation, which is fined by a synovial membrane ; but the clavicle is also connected with the coracoid process by another very strong ligamentous fasciculus, without any contiguity of sur- faces. 646. Superior Ligament.—It forms a broad and thick fascicu- lus, of a quadrilateral form, flat, shorter before than behind, which covers the whole upper part of the articulation, and which is it- self covered by the interlaced aponeuroses of the deltoid muscle and trapezius. It is composed of parallel fibres, directed oblique- ly from within outwards, and from behind forwards, longer in pro- portion as they are more superior, which are attached, on the one hand, to the upper part of the outer extremity of the clavicle, and on the other to the upper part of the acromion. 647. Inferior Ligament.—It resembles the superior in form, and is nearly as distinct as it. Its fibres, which are laxer and less numerous, frequently leave intervals between them, and are attached to the lower edges of the two surfaces. Anteriorly, it is continuous with the preceding ligament, but is separated poste- riorly from it by a space which is filled with cellular tissue. Be-