257 MUSCLES OF THE CIIE6T. tlie opposite muscle as f\ir as the level of the ensiform cartilage, and is then gratlually lost in the linea alba of the abdomen. Its upper edye is contiguous externally with the deltoid muscle, from which it is separated by an interval broader above than below, and in which the cephalic vein is lodged in the midst of cellular tissue. Lastly, its inferior edge, which is thin internally, and much thicker externally and at the upper part, forms, above, the anterior edge of the hollow of the axilla. 842. The pcctoralis major has two very dilferent modes of ac- tion. It moves the arm, or contributes to respiration by acting upon the ribs. When the arm is hanging by the side of the body, it carries it inwards and forwards ; Avhen it is raised, it lowers it; w’hen in rotation outwards, it turns it inwards. Its clavicular bun- dle entering into action by itself, slightly raises the humerus. The o})posite effect is produced by its lower fibres, which also depress the tip of the shoulder. On the other hand it acts upon the thorax, when the humerus is fixed. It then draws the ribs and sternum upwards, which ren- ders it a muscle of inspiration. It can even raise the trunk upon the limbs, as in the action of seizing the branches when one is climbing a tree, &c. OF THE PECTOHALIS MINOH. (M. Costo-coracoidien, Chauss.) 843. The Pectoralis minor is situated at the upper and fore part of the thorax, behind the preceding muscle. It is thin, flat, triangular, and much smaller than the pectoralis major. It is atr tached by its base, which is directed inwards, to the upper edge and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, by three or four thin and rather broad aponeurotic laminae, which are continu- ous with the fibrous plane that covers the external intercostal muscles. T’he lowest of these digitations is also the largest. On leaving these aponeuroses, the fleshy fibres ascend convergingly upwards and backwards, so that the muscle becomes gradually narrower at the same time that it increases in thickness. Towards the axilla, they give rise to a tendon, winch is much sooner apparent anterior- ly and below than posteriorly and above, and which is attached to the anterior part of the inner edge of the coracoid process as far as its summit, where it unites with the coraco-brachialis and biceps. 844. The anterior surface of the pectoralis minor is covered by the pectoralis major. Between them is a layer of adipose cellu- lar tissue, in which are contained some of the thoracic vessels and nerves. Frequently a very small portion of this surface extends Imyond the pcctoralis major, and is covered by the skin. Its pos- terior surface is applied upon the ribs, the external intercostal muscles, the serratus magnus, the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. Its tipper edge is shorter than the lower. 845. The pcctoralis minor draws the shoulder forwards and s