355 MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. part, it turns the femur in rotation inwards, and in the contrary- direction by the posterior part. It also acts in standing and in progression. OF THE GLUT.EUS MINIMUS. 1263. The Glut (PUS minimus is smaller than the mcdius, and is situated under it. It is a flat muscle, of a triangular form, with radiating libres. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the inferior curved line of the iliac bone, and from the anterior region of its crest, beneath the glutmus medius, as well as from the whole space comprised between these parts and the edge of the cotyloid cavity. Proceeding from thence, the fleshy fibres converge, and descend, the middle ones vertically, the anterior and posterior obliquely. The middle and posterior go to the inner surface of a broad apo- neurosis, of which the outer part receives some bundles from the glutaeus medius, and which is accompanied by the anterior fibres of the glutaeus minimus as far as the trochanter, where it is converted into a strong and thick tendon, which embraces the anterior region of that eminence. A small synovial capsule, in most cases, fa- vours its motions. 1264. The outer surface of this muscle, which is inclined back- wards, is covered by the preceding in the greater part of its extent, and a little, posteriorly, by the pyramidalis. The inner surface covers the iliac bones, the fibrous capsule of the thigh joint, the curved tendon of the rectus femoris, and the triceps extensor in a small part. Its upper edge is convex; the anterior is a little connected below with the glutoeus medius; the posterior is covered above by the pyramidalis, to which it is parallel below. 1265. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. 2. Iliac Region. OF THE ILIACUS INTEKNUS. 1266. This muscle lies in the iliac fossa, from which it borrows its name. It is broad and thin above, thick and narrow below, trian- gular, radiated, andflabelliform. It arises, by very small aponeuroses^ from about the upper three-fourths of the iliac fossa, the innerlipof the two anterior iliac spines, the ilio-lumbar ligament, and the two ante- rior thirds of the inner lip of the iliac crest. From these points its fibres converge and descend, the inner, which are very short, ver- tically, the outer more and more obliquely. The latter are the longest. They are all successively inserted into the outer edge of the tendon of the psoas magnus, which they accompany to the small trochanter (809,) passing with it under the crural arch. 1267- Its anterior surface, which is concave above, and convex