PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. S6 mode of connection and formation, present a certain analogy to horns, and thus differ in many respects from the other bones of the body. The teetli, in fact, are exposed in a great part of their surface to the contact of the air, while the other bones of the body are completely shielded from it. Their number varies at the different periods of life, while that of the other bones in general is always the same. The other bones continue without being replaced until death; when death is the effect of old age, the teeth, on the contrary fall, out before it arrives, and even then they are not the same that existed during childhood. Their colour is commonly of the pirrest white; their hardness is even greater than that of the petrous process of the temporal bone ; they have no periosteum ; lastly, their mode of development and nutrition is peculiar to themselves, and they are formed of two different substances, and not merely of two tissues of the same nature. 298. The teeth have in general the form of a very irregular co- noid, of which the base is directed toward the cavity of the mouth, while the apex, which is single or divided, and always perforated, corresponds to the bottom of the alveoli. In each of them there is distinguished a part situated external to the alveolus, and covered by a vitriform substance, which is named the Crown. It is bounded by a contraction termed the Neck, which separates it from another portion entirely concealed in the, substance of the jaws, and which is the Root. We shall now examine the particular characters which these two parts present in the adult, in the different kinds of teeth, of which there are generally thirty-two, sixteen in each jaw, and which are divided into three classes,—Incisors, Canine Teeth, and Grinders. We would also observe, that they are all articxdated with the al- veoli by gomphosis, and in such a manner as to be almost abso- lutely immoveable, and that in the recent state their root is sur- rounded by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the mouth, which is named the Alveolo-dentary Periosteum. OF THE INCISORS. 299. The Incisors, (Incisive or Fore Teeth, Incisores,) are eight in number, four in each jaw, of which they occupy the mid- dle and fore part. Their Crown is of the form of a wedge. It is quadrilateral, compressed from before backwards, broad and thin towards the free edge, contracting and becoming thicker towards the root; slightly convex, smooth and polished anteriorly, con- cave and of somewhat less extent behind, where it is limited on each side by a triangular narrow plane surface, the base of which is turned toward the root, and which is contiguous to the neighbour- ing tooth. The layer of enamel which covers the crown external- ly, is thinner behind, and especially at the sides, than before, and is circumscribed towards the neck, anteriorly and posteriorly, by a