88 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE GlUNHEllS. 303. The Grinders, (Molar Teeth, Molares,) are in number twenty, there being ten in each jaw. Very frequently, however, there are only sixteen or eighteen, and in some very rare cases twenty-two or twenty-four are observed. They occupy the farther part of each aveolar arch, and present a Crown which is broader than high, and a Root more or less divided. 304. The Upper Grinders are pretty generally stronger than the lower. Their axis is inclined outwards, and is sometimes ver- tical. In those of the lower jaw, it is directed inwards. 305. The first two pairs of grinders in each jaw have been designated by the name of Bicuspidati. They are smaller than the canine tooth which they follow. Their crown is irregularly cylindrical, flattened before and behind, where it is contiguous with the neighbouring teeth, and surmounted by two conical tu- bercles separated by a groove which follows the direction of the alveolar arch. The outer of these tubercles is more prominent and larger than the inner. They are more distinct in the upper small molares than in the lower, in which they are so disposed as to leave two small depressions between them. The outer presents, on the side opposite the other, irregular depressions and small points, which render its surface very uneven in that direction. The root is generally simple, sometimes bifurcated at the summit, especially in the upper jaw, but seldom entirely double. It presents on each of its surfaces a very deep groove, and is separated from the crown by a nearly circular neck. Its summit is pierced by two holes. 306. The next three on each side are called the Large Grinders or Multicuspidati, and are in general remarkable for their great size. Their crown, which is nearly cubical, slightly rovmded ex- ternally and within, and flattened in the other directions, mani- festly exceeds the level of the small grinders on the outside of the arch. On its upper surface there are observed four or five pyra- midal tubercles separated by very distinct grooves. Their root, which is shorter than that of the small grinders, is divided into two, three, four or five branches, which all present an aperture at their summit, although they vary as to their degree of divergence, direction and inchnation, as well as to their length, and the smooth- ness or roughness of their surface. The enamel descends a httle lower upon the fr-ee faces of these teeth than upon the sides by which they touch each other. Then* neck is very distmct. 3(>7- The first of the large grinders is the broadest and largest of all. Its crown has commonly three outer and two inner tu- bercles. In the upper jaw, its root is triple or sometimes quad- ruple ; in the lower, it is only double. 308. The second large grinder is a little smaller. In the lower ]aw, its tubercles, which are four, are separated by a crucial groove ; but this arrangement is much less regular in the upper, where the