ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 206 aponeurotic fibres, wliich are sometimes interlaced with those of the otlier muscle. 1025. Its en'ternal surface is covered posteriorly by the corn- plexus minor, splenius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus ; in the middle, by the maxillary gland, which is lodged in the angle formed by the tendon; anteriorly, by the platysma myoides. Its inner surface lies upon the stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the external and internal carotid, the labial and lingual arteries, the internal jugular vein, the hypo-glossal nerve, and the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles. 1026. This muscle depresses the under jaw, or raises the os hy- oides and carries it forward. Its posterior portion appears to assist in raising the upper jaw, by acting upon the skull. OF THE STYLO-HYOIDEUS. 1027. This is a long and slender muscle, placed at the upper and lateral part of the neck. An aponeurosis, which is consider- ably prolonged upon the fleshy fibres, attaches it to the styloid process, near its base, and is separated from the latter by a small synovial bursa. It descends from thence inwards and forwards, following the direction of the posterior belly of the digastricus. It becomes broader, and then generally bifurcates, in a more or less distinct manner, to give passage to the tendon of that muscle. Uniting its two portions again, it is inserted at the lower part and on the sides of the body of the hyoid bone, by short aponeurotic fibres. 1028. Its outer surface is covered by the digastric muscle. The inner is in relation with the external carotid, the labial and lingual arteries, the internal jugular vein,, the stylo-glossus, stylo- pharyngeus, and hyo-glossus muscles, and the hypo-glossal nerve. 1029. It raises the hyoid bone, and consequently the larynx, carrying it at the same time backwards and to a side. When the two muscles act together, the hyoid bone is raised directly and carried backwards, OF THE MYLO-HYOIDEUS. 1030. This muscle is broad, thin, flat, and of a truncated trian- gular form. It is situated at the upper and fore part of the neck, behind the lower jaw. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the internal oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, between the last molar tooth and the mental process. Its anterior fibres, which are very, short, proceed obliquely downwards and inwards, and are confounded with those of the opposite muscle, along a sort of ten- dinous raphe, which descends from the symphysis of the chin to the hyoid bone, and which degenerates below into a thin aponeuro- sis uniteel to that of the digastric muscle. The other fibres, which