SSO ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. directions, from the pronator teres and palmaris longus. Its fibres form a bundle, whicli is large in the middle and slender at its ex- tremities. They descend a little outwards, and near the upper third of the fore-arm, terminate upon a tendon, which at first con- cealed among them, afterwards separates, descends in the original direction of the muscle, passes before the wrist-joint, then enters, behind the abductor and opponens pollicis, a groove of the trapezium, in which it is retained by a ligamentous sheath and by a small prolongation of its own fibres, and at length, sinking back- wards and outwards, is attached to the fore part of the upper ex- tremity of the second metacarpal bone, becoming broader at its in- sertion. This tendon, which is narrow and round below, is broad and thin above, and is sooner separated from the fleshy fibres ante- riorly than at its back part. 1162. The anterior surf ace 0^ the flexor carpi radialis is covered externally by the supinator longus, and in the rest of its extent, by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The posterior is applied upon the flexor digitorum perforatus and flexor longus pollicis muscles, and upon the wrist joint. Its two edges are connected above with the pronator teres and palmaris brevis. 1163. Synovial Bursa. The fibrous sheath which keeps its tendon in the groove of the trapezium seems to come from the extremity of the radius, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and from the outer edge of the groove. It is attached to the inner edge of the latter, to the trapezoides and second metacarpal bone, where it is continuous with the insertions of the neighbour- ing muscles. This sheath contains an elongated synovial mem- brane which is reflected over the tendon, and frequently rises above it. 1164. This muscle bends the hand upon the fore-arm, turning it a little mwards. When the hand is fixed it bends the fore-arm upon it. OF THE PALMARIS LONOUS. 1165. This muscle is often wanting in one or other arm, some- times in both. It has the same form as the preceding, internally of which it is situated, only it is thinner and more slender. It arises above from the inner condyle by the common tendon; be- hind, externally and internally, from aponeurotic partitions which that tendon sends between it and the flexor perforatus and flexor carpi radialis ; anteriorly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The small bundle formed by its fleshy fibres descends vertically along the middle part of the fore-arm, and is terminated by a thin, flat, very slender and very elongated tendon,* which loses itself in the upper part of the palmar aponeurosis, after sending some fibres to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. • The form of this muscle is sometimes different, commencing by a long and slen- der tendon and terminating by a fleshy belly. K.