OF THE PULMONARY ARTERY. 63d One of these, tlie Ilight jhiriculo-ventrictdar Orifice^ which is situated posteriorly, is broader, and separated from the other by an interval of about an inch, communicates with the auricle, and is furnished with a membranous fold, named the TriglocMn or Trictispid valve, on account of its being commonly divided into three triangular portions. One of the surfaces of this valve is turned towards the walls of the ventricle, and the other on the side next the cavity of the auricle. Its adherent edge is attached to the circumfer- ence of the orifice, and surrounds it without interruption. Its free and mobile edge is connected witli the cordaa tendineae or tendons of the columnae carneae. It is very irregular, and presents variable intersections, among which, however, there are always remarked two or three of larger size than the rest. One of these, which is triangular, longer and broader than the others, and directed from above downwards, exactly closes, when it is laid down, the entrance of the pulmonary artery. This valve, which is thin and transp^ rent m its whole extent, becomes decidedly thicker at its free edge, for the attachment of the small tendons, of which we have spoken. The other aperture of the base of the ventricle, is of smaller size than the preceding, and leads to the pulmonary artery. C. PULMONAnY ARTERY. 2186. This artery, which is destined to carry into the lungs the blood which is to be submitted to the action of respiration, arises therefore from the upper and left part of the right ventricle, within which its orifice is surrounded by a callous ring, which indicates the limit of the fleshy fibres of the heart. But, externally, these fibres ascend upon the artery, over an extent of about half a line. This orifice is moreover frirnished internally with three membranous folds, which are named Sigmoid or Semilunar Valves. They have the form of a crescent when they are applied against the walls of the vessel; but, when laid down, they resemble those baskets in which pigeons are hatched. Adhering to the artery by their whole convex and inferior surface, they present above a free, horizontal, and straight edge, on the middle of which is placed a small pro- minent tubercle, of a fibro-cartilaginous consistence. They are in contact at their extremities, and are thin and transparent. When let down, they completely close the artery, and prevent the blood which it contains from entering into the ventricle. 2187- Immediately after its commencement, the pulmonary ar- tery directs itself obliquely upwards and to the left, crossing the course of the aorta, to which it is united by an abundant adipose cellular tissue. It is placed at its left side, and at the end of a course of two inches, at the height of the second dorsal vertebra, it divides into two timnks, one for each lung. These trunks sepa- rate from each other almost transversely, and circumscribe between them and the bronchi, which are above, an irregular rhomboidal