ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 3i6 more deeply seated than the flexor brevis. It arises from the three inferior fourths of the anterior surface of the tliird metacarpal boncj between two of the interosseous muscles, by short aponeuroses, to which succeed the fleshy fibres, which descend outwards converging, and terminate in a tendon united to that of the preceding muscle, and attached, along with it, to the inner and upper part of the first phalanx of the thumb. It often sends a fibrous prolongation to the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii poUicis. 1233. Its anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor profundus, by the first two lumbricalcs, and by the skm. The posterior corresponds to the first three intcrossei, and also to the skin. 1234. This muscle carries the thumb inwards, and brings it near the other fingers. 2, Internal Palmar Region. OF THE PALMARIS BREVIS. 1235. This name is given to four or five small bundles of mus- cular fibres which do not exist in aU subjects, and which are met with immediately under the skin, at the inner and upper part of the palm of the hand. They are surrounded and separated by fat, have a transverse direction, and are parallel to each other. They arise from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and from the inner edge of the palmar aponeurosis, and terminate in the chorion of the skin. They correspond to the skin anteriw'ly, and to the abductor and flexor muscles of the little finger, and the ulnar ar- tery and nerve, posteriorly. They vary much in their form, and their use is to increase the concavity of the palm by pucker- ing the skin of the region which they occupy and pushing it forwards. OF THE ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI. 1236. This is a long flat muscle, broader at its middle part than at the extremities. It arises from the anterior and inferior parts of the os pisiforme, by aponeurotic fibres, which are continuous with the tendons of the flexor carpi idnaris. From thence it descends ver- tically along the inner edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is at- tached to the inner side of the upper extremity of the first pha- lanx of the little finger, by a tendon of variable length, which is united to that of the flexor brevis of the same finger, and which sends some fibres to join the inner edge of the tendon of its ex- tensors. 1237- Its anterior surface is covered by the palmaris brevis, by