Syu ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. vis. Arrived upon the upper surface of tlie plialanges, the first three are united with the inner edge of the tendons of the extensor brevis digitoruin, and they are all strengthened by a prolongation of the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei. They then become broader and form a sort of aponeurosis which covers the whole up- per surface of the toes, dividing and terminating precisely in tlie same manner as the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum manus (1186.) 1329. The anterior edge of this muscle is covered by the tibial aponeurosis to which it adheres above, the annular ligament of the tarsus, and the skin. The posterior covers the fibula, the inter- osseous ligament, the tibia, the ankle-joint, the extensor brevis digi- torum, and the toes. The inner corresponds to the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius poUicis, and is united above with the former. The outer is confounded above with the peroneus longus, at the middle with the peroneus brevis, and below with the peroneus tertius. 1330. It extends the three phalanges of the last four toes, and bends the foot on the leg, or the leg on the foot. OF THE PERONEUS TERTIUS. 1331. This muscle does not, exist in all subjects. It is situated at the anterior and inferior part of the leg, and is of an elongated form, thin and compressed. It arises from the lower third of the fore part of the fibula, the interosseous ligament, and an aponeu- rotic partition which separates it from the peroneus brevis. From thence it descends a little inwards, confounded in a great part of its extent with the preceding muscle, and degenerates into a ten- don which lies at first upon its anterior surface, then separates, passing under the annular ligament of the tarsus, in the same groove with those of the extensor communis, crosses the course of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, becomes broader, and is con- verted into an aponeurosis which is inserted at the outer edge of the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and into the neigh- bouring part of its body, sending a prolongation to the outer tendon of the preceding muscle^ 1332. The outer surface of this muscle, which,is directed a little forwards, is covered by the aponeurosis of the leg. The inner surface is confounded with the extensor communis digitorum. It covers in the foot the extensor brevis digitorum pedis and the first metatarsal bone. Its posterior edge is applied upon the fibula and interosseous ligament, and is united with the peroneus brevis. 1333. It bends the foot upon the leg, raising its outer edge. It also bends the leg on the foot.