STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN. 417 7. STRUCTCRE OF THE BHAIN IN PARTICULAlt. 1460. All the bundles of medullary fibres which, by their expansion, are intended to form the brain, are placed at the upper part of the spinal marrow, (Medulla oblongata.) They are especially the ante- rior pyramidal eminences and the olivary eminences. With respect to the former, there is a very remarkable peculiarity to be observed, which is, that they do not contribute to form the brain on the same side as that on which they originate. Thus the inferior fibres of the anterior pyramidal body of the right side, for example, unite in small bands, whose number varies from two to five, at about fifteen lines beneath the cerebral protuberance. These bands proceed to- ward the left side, which in like manner sends some to the right side, but in such a maimer that one of them passes most common- ly above another, and beneath a third, whence there results an in- terlacement resembling mat-work, and from three to four lines in extent, above and beneath which there occurs a transverse cord, more or less apparent. After they have thus crossed each other, the bands ascend upon the anterior surface of the upper extremity of the spinal marrow, (1446,) progressively acquiring more vo- lume, so as to be broader above than below, and it is this that pro- duces the form of pyramids. The latter are a little contracted at their meeting with the cerebral protuberance, and in their passage frequently send off some fibres which turn round the olivary bo- dies. 1461. The anterior pyramids soon penetrate into the cerebral protuberance, and immeiately divide into a considerable number of bundles immersed in the cineritious substance, which itself gives rise to new bundles which join the first and reinforce them. They all follow different directions. They are stratified, or interlaced with each other, and with the fibres of the anterior surface of the protuberance (1442.) At length they unite, and are seen emerg- ing upon the sides of the upper extremity of this portion of the brain, and forming at the inferior surface of the cerebrum the greater part of two broad and thick white fibrous cords, which, from being at first very close to each other, proceed forwards and outwards, diverging and increasing in size, and which are named the Peduncles of the Brain or Crura Cerebri. The fibres of these peduncles are longitudinal, fasciculate, very apparent exter- nally and anteriorly. At their lower surface, they leave between their intervals, more or less marked striae, which are filled up with cineritious matter. They are themselves connected together, in the middle, by the white lamina which forms the floor of the third ventricle. They contain, in their interior, cineritious matter, which has a deeper tint than that of the rest of the brain, and is often blackish. Its consistence is also firmer. Its transverse sec- tion forms a semilunar spot. This substance furnishes them with new fibres in their passage, which continually augment their vo-