791 EXTERNAL SURFACE OF THE BLADDER. ureter of the right side is placed externally of the vena cava infe- rior, to which it is parallel. 2873. The calyces, pelvis, and ureter appear to have the same organization. Their walls are composed of two membranes. The outer of these membranes is thick, of an opaque white co- lour, covered externally of the pelvis and ureter by a prolongation of the fibrous capsule of the kidney. The inner is mucous, very thin, white, and semitransparent. It is prolonged from the calyces over the mammillae, and, perhaps, even introduces itself into the uriniferous tubes. D. OF THE BLADDER. 1. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2874- The Bladder (Vesica urinaria) is a musculo-membran- ous reservoir, lodged in the adult in the excavation of the pelvis, immediately behind the pubes, and destined to retain for some time the urine, which is afterwards to be ejected from it. Sometimes, but very rarely, the bladder is entirely wanting, and then the ure- ter opens into the rectum or vagina. Somewhat more frequently, its anterior wall is wantmg, and the posterior forms externally a soft and spongy tumour at the lower part of the abdomen. The form and dimensions of the bladder vary in a remarkable manner in the different sexes and ages. In the adult male, it is conical; in children it is cylindrical, much elongated from above- downwards, and protruding above the upper strait of the pelvis. In the adult female, especially if she has born several children, it is rounded, and is broader than long. The bladder also presents some variations in its dimensions, which appear to depend upon our mode of living in society, and the contracted habit of retaining the urine for a greater or less time. Its capacity, however, is generally greater in the female than in the male. The direction of the bladder is never absolutely vertical; but it is slightly inclined from above downwards and from before back- wards, and its summit is a little inclined to the left. When, in cTonsequence of the accumulation of the urine, it is distended to such a degree as to rise above the symphysis of the pubes, this obliquity becomes still more obvious. 2. EXTERNAL SURFACE OF THE DLA1)I)EII. 2875. This surface, which is unequally convex, is divided into six different regions, distinguished from each other by their rela- tive position. 3 F