ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 336 f'orc-ixrm, and ai'ises by a very thin aponeurosis expanded over its inner third, from the lower fourth of tJie anterior edo-e of the ulna and^ the corresponding part of the anterior surfac^ of that bone. From thence it is directed transversely outwards, and ter- minates at the fore part of the lower fourth of the radius by indis- tinct aponeuroses. Its fibres arc so much the longer the more su- perficial they are. Its anterior surface is covered by the flexor digitorum profundus, flexor longus pollicis, flexor carpi radialis, and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and by the radial and ulnar arte- ries. The j)osterior surface covers the two bones of the fore-arm and the lower part of the interosseous ligament. 1185. It turns the radius upon its axis from without inwards, and thus induces pronation of the hand. 3. Posteriai' and Superficial Region of the Fore^arm. OF THE EXTENSOlt DIGITOEUM COMMUNIS, 1186. This muscle, which is long, round, fleshy and simple at its upper part, terminating below in four tendons, arises above by a tendon which is common to it and the other three muscles of the same region, between which it sends prolongations, and which comes from the outer condyle; internally, from a long aponeurotic partition sent oflP from that tendon, and which separates it from the extensor proprius minimi digiti; externally, from a shorter partition placed between it and the extensor carpi radialis brevior; posteriorly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. From these different origins, its fleshy fibres proceeding obliquely, form a bundle, at first thin, then thicker, and afterwards thin again, which descends vertically, and at the middle of the posterior surface of the fore-arm divides into four portions at first united by cellular tissue, and terminated each bjr a tendon at first concealed in their substance, and ac- companied by the fleshy fibres to near the wrist, particularly in those of the ring finger and little finger. These four ten- dons are placed beside each other and are connected by a kind of soft and loose cellular membrane. They vaiy' in size. That of the ring finger is the strongest and thickest; the next is that of the middle finger, and the little finger has the smallest. They pass along with the tendon of the extensor indicis in a groove which is formed behind the carpal extremity of the radius, where they are kept down by the posterior annular hgament. Beneath this ligament, the tendons diverge, become broader, and proceed to the base of the metacarpal bones. The last three are commonly longitudinally slit, and send small aponeurotic bands, varying in size, and more or less oblique, to each other. Opposite the articu- lations of the metacarpal bones with the phalanges, they contract and become thicker. They then enlarge anew, and receive the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei, formmg with them an 7