260 MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. the Kcconcl, and to an aponeurosis plaocd between them, and is sometimes confounded with the scalenus posticus. The second is broad and thin, and arises from an oblique line upon the second rib. The third and fourtli arc a little narrower, and arc attached to the corresponding ribs, upon similar ridges running obliquely from above downwards, and from behind forwards. The last digi- tations, which arc narrow and so much the longer the lower their situation is, originate together from the outer surface and upper edge of the fifth, sLxth, seventh, and cightli ribs, and intermingle with the digitatious of the obliqnus externus abdominis. 1550. Each of these chgitations furnishes to the body of the muscle a more or less distinct bundle. The union of these bun- dles, which are distinctly separated below by intervals filled with adipose tissue, seems to give rise to a division of the muscle into three portions. The first of these portions, which is superior, tliick, narrow, and short, comes from the two first ribs, and ascends to the posterior angle of the scapula, where it terminates by unit- ing with the levator anguli scapula;. The middle portion, which is broad and thin, proceeds, in a horizontal direction, from the second, tliird, and fourth ribs, to the vertebral edge of the scapula, where it is inserted by short aponeuroses, between the rhomboidcus and subscapidaris. The tliird or inferior portion, which is thick, broad, and radiated anteriorly, and contracted posteriorly, ascends obliquely from the last digitations towards the lower fourth of the same edge, and the inferior angle of the scapula, on the anterior surface of which it particularly terminates. , . 851. By its external surface, the serratus magnus is in relation at its lower and fore part with the skin ; posteriorly and below, with the latissimus dorsi, but higher up with the subscapvilaris; above and before, it is covered by the two pectoral muscles, the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. By its inner surface, it is applied upon the first seven or eight ribs, the corresponding external in- tercostals, and a portion of the serratus posticus superior. 852. The motions which the serratus magnus may induce are of two kinds, the one belonging to the scapula, the other to the thorax. When the three portions act simultaneously, it moves the scapula forwards ; its first portion contributes to the depression of the tip of the shoulder; while its lower portion, on the contrary, raises it, by drawing the inferior angle of tlie bone forwards, and enters espe- cially into action when heavy burdens are raised. If the scapula has been originally fixed by the trapezius, rhomboidcus, and leva- tor anguh, it becomes a muscle of inspiration, by drawing the ribs outwards and upwards. OF THE LEVATOn ANGULI SCAPULAE, ANGULARTS BCAPUL/E. ( Trachelo-sca/pulaire, Chauss.) 853. This long and thick muscle is situated at the lateral and pos- terior part of the neck. It is longer posteriorly than anteriorly, and broader below than above. It is attaclipd to the posterior tubercle