OF THE INTEIINAL TOPLITEAL NERVE. 513 toe, the other bn the inner side of the second, communicating with the superficial filaments already indicated (177^)- I78O. External and Deep Ttvig of the bade of the Foot. It passes outwards and forwards imdcr the posterior part of the ex- tensor brevis digitorum, and then divides into a great number of filaments, which are distributed to that muscle and the interossei. 2. OF THE INTERNAL POPLITEAL OR TIBIAL NERVE. I78I. The Internal Popliteal Nerve is larger than the preced- ing, and seems to be the true continuation of the sciatic nerve. It descends at first nearly vertically into the ham, along the outer edge of die semimembranosus muscle, between the crural aponeu- rosis and the popliteal vessels, from which it is commonly separated by much adipose tissue. Then entering between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, it passes behind the knee joint and the poplitaeus muscle, then between the latter and the upper extremity of the soleus. There it passes through the arched aperture which that muscle presents (1337), takes the name of Tibial Nerve. It then descends along the leg, between the soleus muscle, which is behind it, and the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, which are before, and externally of the posterior tibial artery, with which it is closely connected. Towards the lower part of the leg, it becomes superficial, places itself on the inner side of the tendo AchiUis, dives under the arch of the calcaneum, above the origin of the abductor poUicis, and divides into two branches, one of which is the internal, the other the external plantar nerve. 1732. External Saphenal Twig. It arises from the internal pop- liteal nerve, at about an inch above the corresponding condyle of the femur, descends with the external vena saphena along the back part of the leg, in the interval which separates the two heads of the gastroc- nemius muscle above. It then places itself behind their union, gains the outer side of the tendo Achillis, sends several filaments to the in- teguments, and joins a twig of the external popliteal nerve (1773). Ti’here results a pretty large trunk, which is named the External Saphenus Nerve., and which continues to descend on the outer side of the leg, behind the peroneus longus and under the aponeurosis. There then proceed from it a great number of filaments which al- most all enter beneath the tendo Achillis, and are spread out to a distance upon the sheath which is anterior to it. It then winds behind the outer ankle, gains the outer and upper extremity of the loot, reaches the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and there divides into two secondary twigs, after sending several filaments to the abductor minimi digiti, and surrounding cellular tissue. Of these two twigs, the inner, which is placed above the extensor brevis digitorum, follows the fourth metatarsal bone and loses itself on the corresponding sides of the last two toes; while