ORGANS OF SENSATION. M.2 is more open than the outer. Tins {IHlerence arises from the cir- cumstance that the fibres of the orbicularis j)alpehrarum are inserted internally upon a tendon which does not exist at the outer angle (91B). From the latter a number of wrinkles are seen to proceed in a radiating manner towards the temple. 18G9. The free edges of both eyelids are in contact with each other, and supported by a libro-cartilage. That of the upper eye- lid is directed downwards, while the other looks upwards. They are cut obliquely from before backwards, and are so disposed as to form, on being brought together, a narrow and triangular canal, of which the ball of the eye constitutes the posterior wall. This ca- nal is broader internally, especially opposite the puncta lachryma- lia, than externally. It serves to conduct the tears towards these orifices during sleep. I'lie free edges of the eyelids are concave and rounded over an extent of two or three lines on the side next the nose, where they correspond to the caruncula lachrymalis. At the moment when they begin to be cut obliquely, there is observed a small tubercle in which is placed the orifice of the lachrymal ducts. There also they change their direction, become nearly straight when the eye is open, and present on the side next the eye, as far as the outer angle, a row of small holes which are the excretory orifices of the Meibomian glands, before which, near the skin, is a series of hairs which are named Cilice. I87O. The Cilice., which collectively are named the Eye-lnshes, are hard and solid hairs, most commonly of the same tint as the hair of the head and eyebrows, sometimes, however, of a different colour, and arranged in two or three rows. They are more nu- merous, longer and stronger in the upper eyelid than in the lowTr, and their length is still greater at the middle of the edge where their bulbs are inserted than at its extremities. Those of the upper eyelid are at first directed downwards and then curved upwards. The reverse takes place in the lower. We have already said that they are entirely wanting between the puncta lachrymalia and the inner angle of the eye. 1871- The Caruncula* Lachrymalis is a small soft membra- nous tumour of a pale colour, placed in the inner angle of the eye behind the internal commissure of the eyelids. It is formed by a fold of the tunica conjunctiva, in the substance of which arc ob- served mucous follicles and the bulbs of some very minute hairs. 2. OHGANIZAXION OF THE EYELIDS. I872. Skm of the Eyelids. It is distinguished from that of the other parts of the body by its extreme delicacy and its transparen- cy, qualities which become more sensible towards the free edge of • Diinunitive of Caro, flesh.