PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 6 The Lymphatic^ or ahnorhent vessels, ( Vence Lymphaticce, Duc- tus Lymphatici,) are also thin, transparent, and furnished inter- nally with valvules; but, in place of blood, they contain a pecu- liar fluid named ly7npJb, which they empty into the veins.* We may also consider as vessels the Excretory Ducts, (Diictus Excretorii,) which arise from the glandular organs, and transmit externally, or into particular reservoirs, the fluid secreted by them. D. The Bodies, (Ossa,) which are the hardest, most compact and solid parts of the body. They furnish a basis and support for the other organs, and are composed of a cartilaginous and cel- lular organised parenchyma, incrusted with earthy salts. The aggregate of all the bones in the body bears the name of Skeleton. E. The Cartilages, (Cartilagines,) whose substance, which is of a milky-white and opaline colour, is less compact, less heavy, less hard, and more elastic than that of the bones, and is capable of be- ing reduced to gelatin by boiling. They are flexible and elastic, and sometimes serve to prolong the bones, as is the case \vith those that are observed between the ribs and sternum ; or they cover their articular extremities, as in all the moveable joints. In other cases, they enter into the formation of organs, as in the larynx, the nose, &c. The direction of their fibres is not easily perceived, because they are so close that at first sight they appear to form a homo- geneous whole. F. The Fihro-Cartilages, or Membraniform Cartilages, which are intermediate between the cartilages, properly so called, and the ligaments, and appear to be nothing but the latter incrusted with gelatin. They possess great flexibility, are highly elastic, very thin, and compose certain organs, such as the external ear, and the trachea; or enter into the constitution of joints, as those which occur in the articulations of the clavicle and jaw, the knee joint, &c. Cartflages of this kind also exist wherever there is much friction of a tendon upon the periosteum of a bone, as is observed at the lower extremity of the tibia, fibula, &c. G. The Ligaments, (Ligamenta,) whose nature is evidently fibrous, and which are situated around the joints. They vary much in their form and general appearance, being sometimes ex- panded into membranes, and sometimes constituting compact, rounded, whitish cords of great strength, attached to the bones by their two extremities. H. The Muscles, (Muscidi,) which are organs of a red or red- dish 'colour, possessed of great conti*actility, and composed of a fibrous tissue collected into fasciculi of various sizes, and kept to- gether by celkdar tissue, in which are seen vessels and nerves; and, what is peculiarly characteristic of them, linear series of mi- croscopic globules. " A great division of these vessels is destined to carry the chyle from the intcs- tiiuil canal, conveying it into the general mass of blood. These are called lacteals. K.