ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 300 OF THE CONSTEICTOR PHARYNGIS MEHIUS, 1047. This muscle, which is also membranous, and nearly tri- angular, arises from the retiring angle formed by the union of the large and small horns of the hyoid bone, and from the whole extent of these two bony appendages, as weU as from the stylo-hyoid liga- ment. The inferior fibres, which are shorter, are directed down- wards and backwards ; the middle fibres are transverse; and the superior, which are longer, ascend obliquely. They are all inter- laced with those of the opposite side, forming at the posterior part of the pharynx a raphe, whose inferior extremity, which is very much attenuated, is concealed by the preceding muscle, while the upper, which is also very acute, is attached to the basilar process by a kind of aponeurosis. Some of the fibres of this muscle are frequently continuous internally with those of the genio-glossus. 1048. The constrictor medius is covered, in its outer surface, by the hyo-glossus and lingual artery externally, and by the con- strictor inferior behind and below. In the rest of its extent, it is united by cellular tissue to the muscles of the anterior occipito-cer- vical region and to the anterior vertebral ligament. The inner surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the styio-pharyngeus, pharyngo-staphyhnus and constrictor superior. OF THE CONSTRICTOE PHAEYNGIS SUPERIOR. 1049. Membranous and broad like the others, but stiU thinner, and of an irregularly quadrilateral form, it arises externally from a considerable number of different parts : 1. from the lower half of the edge of the internal wing of the pterygoid process ; 2. from an aponeurosis which is common to it with the buccinator, and which extends from the pterygoid process to the posterior part of the in- ferior alveolar arch ; 3. from the extremity of the myloid line (290 ;) 4. from the sides of the base of the tongue, betweu the stylo-glossus and hyo-glossus. It sometimes even arises a little from the tube- rosity of the palate bone, the internal peristaphyline muscle, or the styio-pharyngeus, and from the styloid process. The fleshy fibres of the first origin descend a little backwards and presently ascend towards the base of the skull, so as to form a sort of arch. They are attached to a thin and yet firm aponeurosis (the cephalo-pha- ryngeal,) which is attached to the basilar process, but only by its extremities, and so as to leave an empty space between the bone and its middle part. The other fibres proceed in a transverse di- rection to be interlaced with those of the opposite muscle in the middle of the posterior part of the pharynx. 1050. The outer surface of this muscle is covered posteriorly by the constrictor medius, and laterally is in connection with the stylo-glossus, stylo-pharyngffius, the internal carotid artery, the in-