121, PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. part of the thorax, between the sternum and acromion, so as to cross obliquely the direction of the first rib. It is twisted in the form of an Italic S, somewhat in the manner of the keys used by the ancients; less curved and longer in the female than in the male; prismatic and triangular, or irregularly rounded in its two inner thirds, contracted in the middle, broad and flat at the outer part. It is divided into the following parts. 438. Body or Middle Part. Its upper surface is broader to- ward the outer part than at the inner, where it is rounded, and gives attachment to the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. The lower surface presents the same disposition, and is uneven. There are observed upon it, at its inner part, rugosities for the insertion of the costo-clavicular ligament, and at the middle a longitudinal groove, where the hole is observed that gives passage to the ves- sels which nourish the bone, and which receives the fibres of the subclavius muscle. At its outermost part there is a prominent ridge, running obliquely backwards and outwards, to which are at- tached the coraco-clavicular ligaments. Its anterior edge is broad and convex in its inner half, where the pectoralis major is inserted, narrow and concave in its outer half, to which the deltoid muscle is affixed. Its posterior edge, which is thick, concave, smooth, and rounded internally, gives attachment externally, where it is uneven and convex, to the trapezius. 439- Sternal or Anterior Extremity. This extremity is in- clined downwards and forwards, and is considerably thicker than the rest of the bone. There is observed upon it a triangular, broad, uneven surface, convex from above downwards, concave from behind forwards, and covered with cartilage, to be artierdated with a narrower surface, which we have aheady mentioned as oc- curring at the upper extremity of the sacrum. Ligaments are at- tached aU round its margin, and its lower and posterior angle is much more prominent than the others. 440. Acromial or Posterior Extremity. It is more raised than the preceding, rests upon the coracoid process, and uiclines back- wards and upwards. It is articulated to the acromion by a narrow surface, oblong from behind forwards, inchned obhquely from above downwards, and from without inwards, and covered with cartilage. Like the preceding, it is perforated with numerous small vascular apertures. 441. Structure. The body of the clavicle is composed of a thick layer of compact tissue externally, and of a spongy tissue with large areolae internally; but no traces of a medullary canal are perceived in it, as in the other long bones, unless occasionally in extreme old age. The extremities are principally formed of cellu- lar tissue, and covered by a thin plate of compact tissue. The ca- nal of the nutritive vessels is very narrow. 442. Development and Articulations. The clavicle, which makes its appearance at a very early period in the fetus, commences its development by a single point of ossification for the body; but