PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 38 osseous planes, named Vertehvdl Lamince, with the transverse pro- cesses. 2d, The two lyansverse Apophyses or Processes, (Processus Transversi,) which are directed outwards on either side, and give attachment to muscles. 3d, The four Articular or Oblique Processes, (Processus Oh- liqui,) of which two are superior, and two inferior. They are covered with cartilage, and serve to connect the vertebrae with each other. These different processes are united in such a manner as to form a sort of ring of the upper and lateral parts of the vertebras. This ring is joined to the body by a kind of pedicle, in which are • scooped but, above and below, the Notches, which are deeper in the latter than in the former direction, and which by their union form the holes of conjunction, or intervertebral foramena. The Hole or foramen of the vertebrae, which is oval or tri- angular, and concurs to form the canal, is placed between the bodies and the processes. The vertebrae are all articulated with one another. 49. Structure and Development. While the body of the ver- tebrae is cellular, their processes are almost entirely formed of compact tissue, being spongy only in the middle and in the places where they are enlarged. Sometimes, as Bertin has remarked, the spongy substance of the body of the vertebrae is very soft, and is even found substituted by three or four large cavities, separated by partitions, and ending in the vascular apertures of the posterior surface of the body. The development of these bones generally takes place by three points, of which one belongs to the body, and the other two to the lateral and posterior parts. In newly-born infants, the spinous process is not yet formed. Sometimes it has a point of deve- lopment of its own. Even at a pretty advanced age, the summit of the other processes is cartilaginous; and there are developed in its interior accessory points, or epiphyses, as well as at the up- per and under surfaces of the body. In this manner, each vertebra, properly speaking, commences its development by six or eight points, forming so many pieces, which are perfectly distinct at the period of birth, and which I have even met with in the bodies of individuals eighteen or twenty years of age. 50. Divisions. The vertebrae, as we have already said, occupy three regions, the neck, the back, and the loins, on which account they are distinguished into cervical, dorsal, and himhar. In each of these classes they present pecuUar characters, and they are commonly designated by their numerical name, counting from above, there being seven cervical, twelve dorsal, and five lumbar. 51. It is right, however, to observe, that each vertebra has a pretty close resemblance to the one preceding, and the one follow- ing it, both in form and size. The general character of the verte-