OF THE FACE IN GENERAL. 93 trie and tliyro-hyoid muscles. The inner is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. In the same subject, they frequently present great differences in their form and size, on the different sides. 319- The two upper pieces, called also the Small Horns, or Si(r- perior Hyoid Bones, are short, pyramidal, inclined backwards and upwards, and terminated by a more or less prolonged point. They give attachment below to some fibres of the genio-glossus muscle, and above to the stylo-hyoid ligament. It is not rare to hnd one of these pieces twice as long on one side as on the other, and this side is almost always the left, as Du- vernoy and J. F. Meckel have remarked. 320. Structure, Decelopment, and Variations. The hyoid bone contains much cellular tissue in its body ; its branches are much more compact. It commences its development toward the conclusion of the foetal life by five centres of ossification, one for each of its portions. Sometimes, in advanced age, all these por- tions unite into a single piece. The stylo-hyoid ligament has also been observed, by becoming ossified, to permit the styloid process to be directly united to the small horns. It also pretty frequently happens that one of the branches, as we have already said, is longer and more curved than the other. E. OF THE FACE IN GENERAL. 1st. conformation. 321. Without reckoning the hyoid bone, which belongs to the face only as a very remote appendage, and which does not really enter into its composition, we shall distinguish in this part of the head, which is very symmetrical, several very unequal regions, which we shall describe in succession, with the exception of that which occu- pies tlie upper part, and which is confounded with the skull. Nor shall we here treat particularly of the sutures, as we did with res- pect to the skull, for they have no longer the same mutual relations. 322. Anterior Region. This is what constitutes the Face pro- perly speaking. It extends vertically from the upper edge of the nasal bones to the chiij. Its external limits are formed by the cheek bone, the projecting ridge which descends under the malar tuberosity, and the external oblique line of the lower jaw. It is very broad at its upper part, and especially between the two cheek bones; but the breadth gradually diminishes from the ujiper third downwards. 32.3. At the middle and upper part of this region, there are ob- served marked inequalities which connect the nasal bones with the frontal, and form a suture which surmounts the No.se itself, a pyra- midal eminence, more or less prominent in different subjects, which forms a sort of vault inclined forwards, narrow above, broad below.