214. PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ascends perceptibly higher at the outside than internally, and is strengthened in a great part of its extent, above and behind, by the termination of the curved tendon of the rectus femoris, which even passes to its inner surface. The Inferior Circumference is closely fixed around the base of the neck of the femur. It de- scends lower at the outside than internally, where it sometimes does not pass beyond the middle of the neck of the bone, and is limited anteriorly and posteriorly by the two oblique lines of the neck, and by the small trochanter below and the greater above. 708. Round Ligament of the Head of the Femur, or Inter- articular Ligament. This is a flat, triangular fasciculus of fibres, extended from the extremities of the inferior notch of the cotyloid cavity to the rough depression of the head of the femur, and enve- loped by a very loose sheath of the synovial membrane. Its inner surface, which is slightly directed upwards, is contiguous to the cellular mass which occupies the bottom of the cotyloid cavity. The outer surface, which looks a little downwards, is applied against the head of the femur. Its base is bifurcated, that is to say, it is formed of two flattened bands, of which the upper and smaller comes from the corresponding extremity of the cotyloid notch, internally of the ligament of the same name, while the infe- rior, which is larger, comes from that of the opposite side. These two bands are united by a fibrous membrane, and are confounded together towards the head of the femur. This ligament, which was first described by Vesalius, is some- times wanting. 709. Cotyloid Ligament. The circumference of the cotyloid cavity, which is of itself very prominent, is further eked out by means of this fibro-cartilaginous rim which surmounts it, and which renders it perfectly regular, by closing up the three notches observed in it. It resembles the glenoid ligament of the shoulder joint, but is stronger and larger. It is applied upon the bone by a base about three lines broad, and is terminated, in the other di- rection, by a free and sharp edge, inclined a little inwards, and em- bracing the circumference of the head of the femur. This liga- ment is broader at the level of the notches of the cavity than in their intervals, and is not continuous with the diarthrodial carti- lage, there existing a very distinct circular groove between them. Its two surfaces are lined by the synovial membrane ; but the outer is contiguous to the capsular ligament, and the inner to the head of the femur. At the level of the notch of the cavity, it passes from one of its extremities to the other, and is thus transformed into a true hole. It is composed of fibres which arise externally from the circum- ference of the cotyloid cavity, incline a little towards its interior, and terminate on the inside of this same circumference, at a greater or less distance from it. Ifliese fibres are very close and compact, and are joined externally by some of the fibres of the curved ten- don of the rectus femoris.