ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 3Q0 elbow joint is converted into a tendon which makes its appearance a little sooner on the outside than internally. At first broad and thin, it is in a great measure concealed by the fleshy fibres. When it has fairly emerged from them, it becomes narrower and rounded, turns obliquely outwards, and furnishes by its inner edge a pretty broad fibrous prolongation, which proceeds downwards and inwards to join the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, before the brachial artery and the pronator tores. It then sinks between the supinator longus and pronator teres, and on arriving beneath the elbow, twists upon itself to terminate by embracing the bicipital tuberosity of the ra- dius, at its back part. 1147- The anterior surface of the biceps is covered above by the deltoid and pectoralis major; in the rest of its extent, by the brachial aponeurosis and the integuments. The posterior surface rests upon the humerus, the coraco-brachiabs and brachialis inter- ims muscles, and the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its inner edge is united above with the coraco-brachialis ; in the middle and below, it is coasted by the brachial artery. 1148. Synovial Bursa. A thin, very loose synovial capsule, generally containing a good deal of the moisture, invests the outer surface of its lower tendon, the fore part of the bicipital process and of the neck of the radius, is engaged in a notch of the circumference of the supinator brevis, and contributes much to facilitate the mo- tions of the muscle. 1149. The biceps flexor bends the fore-arm on the arm, turns the hand forwards when the palm is directed backwards, or bends the arm upon the fore-arm when the latter is fixed. Lastly, it may bring the humerus and scapula closer together, and strengthens the shoulder joint by means of the tendon of its long portion. OF THE BRACHIALIS INTERNUS. 1150. This muscle is deeply seated at the lower and fore part of the arm, before the elbow-joint. It is flat, broader in the middle and at its upper part than below. It arises from the outer and in- ner surfaces of the humerus, over a space extending from the del- toid impression to near the elbow-joint, and is also attached along the inner edge of that bone, to an aponeurotic partition which separates it from the triceps extensor, and along its outer edge close to the supinator longus. From these origins it descends nearly vertically, increases to its middle part, then becomes a little thinner, passes obliquely inwards over the elbow-joint, and termi- nates at the rough impression observed beneath the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna, by a broad and thick tendon, which commences by several portions at a considerable distance above the joint, in the substance of tlie muscle, especially on the outer side, and sends some fibres to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The middle fibres of this muscle arc vertical, and longer than the inner or outer.