PASSIVE ORGANS 01’ LOCOMOTION. 58 substituted by one of them.* They also pretty frequently occur between the two parietal bones, and espeeially at the union of their upper and anterior an^le, where one is then seen which is of a qua- drilateral form and of large size. The lower and anterior angle of these bones is also sometimes substituted by a triquetrous bone, which varies in size, and is frequently of an oval form. It is sel- dom that any are observed in the sutures between the temporal and parietal bones, and still more seldom in the Case of the skull. We have, however, pointed out one as in many cases occupying the summit of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. 193. In general these bones are of the same thickness as the other bones of the cranium; but it may happen that they are merely formed in their outer or inner table. 194. They vary much as to extent, and are very irregular in their form. In general their two surfaces are smooth; their cir- cumference is furnished with denticulations, by which they are con- nected with the other bones of the skuU, or even with each other. Sometimes, however, they are so small as to rise in scales, and this is particularly the case when they occupy the inner surface of the sutures, as Hunauld has observed. Sometimes, on the contrary, they rise above the other bones, and form a prominence which might be taken for an exostosis. Their structure and development are similar to those of the other bones of the skull; in other words, they are formed of two tables of compact substance, separated by a table of spongy sub- stance or diploe. b. OF THE SKULL IN GENEKAL. 1. OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE SKULL. Outer Surface of the Skull. 195. Viewed from without, the skull, in general, presents the form of a pretty regular ovoid, of which the small extremity is an- terior, and commonly bears the same proportion to the large ex- tremity in the adult as thirty to thirty-one. It is flattened on the sides in the region of the temples, and below towards its base. Over the rest of its extent it is convex. Its whole outer surface is pretty smooth at the upper part; but beneath it is uneven and perforated with a great number of holes. It is also observed that on the outside the skull is always more subjected to the laws of symmetry than on the inside. 196. It is more particularly on the outside that the mode of * This bone lins been named the Epactal by some authors. It is only developed after birth, and is met witli in one subject out of about fifteen or twenty.