MUSCLES OF THE THUNK. 25:i transverse ligaments, the dorsal vessels and nerves, and a portion of the external intercostal muscles lastly, the posterior surface corre- sponds to the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus and transversus of the abdomen, the inferior and superior serrati, the aponeurosis which goes from the one to the other, the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, rhomboideus, and splenius. «27. External Branch or Sacro-lumhalis. This branch extends from the transverse processes of the four or five last cervical verte- bra?, to the bundle which is common to it with the preceding. It is elongated, thick, pyramidal, more developed below than abovoy separated from the longissimus dorsi merely by an adipose line, and tbrected someAvhat obliquely from below upwards and from within outwards. The fleshy fibres of the sacro-lumbalis which come from the common mass, that is to say, from the posterior part of the iliac crest and from the aponeurosis, ascend almost vertically and termi- nate at the six last ribs by five, six, or seven flat tendons, which are inserted below the angle of these ribs. Twelve other small internal, elongated, slender tendons, so much the shorter and thicker the lower they are, are inserted above the angle of all the ribs. Each of them gives rise to a fleshy bundle, which is confounded with those in its vicinity, after having ascend- ed obliquely upon the angle of the ribs. These bundles continue the body of the muscle, which without them would cease at the middle of the thorax. After uniting with each other, these pro- cesses ascend obliquely outwards and terminate in tendons at first united by their neighbouring edges, so as to form a sort of mem- brane, then isolated, and becoming longer and more slender the higher they are. These tendons, which cover the posterior sur- face of the fleshy bundles, are attached below the angle of the up- per ribs and to the tuberosity of the first, as well as to the summit of the last four or five transverse processes of the neck.* 828. The posterior surface of the sacro-lumbalis has the same connections as those of the longissimus dorsi. The anterior sur- face covers the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis, the ribs, the external intercostal muscles, the longissimus dorsi and trans- versalis colli. The inner surface, is applied against the longissimus dor.si, being only separated from it by branches of the dorsal nerves. Its outer edge, between the pelvis and thorax, corresponds to the point of junction of the posterior and middle laminae of the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis. 829. The sacro-spinalis prevents the vertebral column from yielding to the weight of the organs placed before it and which would tend to drag it forwards. It bends it backwards when it acts in conjunction with that of the opposite side, and laterally, when acting singly. The sacro-lumbar branch may serve to de- * Tlii.s portion of the muscle, attached to the transverse processes of the cen'icnl vertebrae, is almost universally described by British writers under the name of Cervicalis de-icendcm.