OKGANS OF SECRETJON. 71 i] an almond. It re.sts upon the mylo-hyoideus muscle, wliich sepa- rate.s it from the preceding gland, and is covered by the mucous membrane of tlie mouth, beneath which it forms a prominence. It is moreover in connection, internally, with the genio-glossus muscle; anteriorly, witli the body of the jaw; posteriorly, with the deepest extremity of the submaxillary gland, with which it often appears confounded between the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoi- deus muscles. 2811. This gland has several excretory ducts, whose disposition is liable to much variation. They are always very .slender. Six or eight proceed from its upper part to open upon the sides of the frenum linguae, while five or six others issue from its lateral parts, and perforate singly the mueous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Two, three, or even a greater number, are also seen to end in the sub-maxillary duct. These latter are very short, and frequently unite into a single trunk before terminating. All these duets appear to have the same strueture as that of the sub-maxil- lary gland, and like it are thin and transparent. 2812. The arteries of the sublingual glands come from the facial and sublingual; their nerves are furnished by the lingual and hy- poglossal. OF THE PANCREAS OR SECRETING ORGAN OF THE PANCREATIC FLUID. 2813. The Pancreas* is a gland which is deeply seated in the abdomen, lying across the vertebral column, betw'een the three curvatures of the duodenum, behind the stomach, and to the right of the spleen. Its form is irregular and very variable, as are also its extent and weight, the latter being from two to six ounces. This organ, wdiich is much longer than broad, and flattened from before backwards, is slightly concave posteriorly, to be ac- commodated to the curvature of the vertebral column. Its right extremity is larger than the left. 2814. Its anterior surface, which is inclined upwards, is covered by the upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon, the stomach, and the first portion of the duodenum. 2815. Its posterior surface presents at its upper part a groove in which are lodged the splenic vessels. It corresponds, moreover, to the superior mesenteric vessels, the aorta, the vena cava, and several nervous and lymphatic plexus. 2816. Its upper edge is intersected by the course of the coehac artery, and is directed backwards. The loiver edge lies upon the third portion of the duodenum, and is separated from it by the su- perior mesenteric vessels. 2817- Its left extremity, which is very thin, is prolonged beneath the spleen, to near the corresponding supra-renal capsule, and is • ns», omnc; flesliy.