OF THE COURSE OF THE PITUITARY MEMBRANE. 5JQ D. OF THE COUKSK OF THE PITDITAHY MEMDUANE. 1988. This membrane, which belongs to the class of mucous membranes, lines in their whole extent the nasal fossic and internal part of the nose, from the apertures of the nostrils to the pharynx, where it is continuous with that of the mouth, the velum palati and Eustachian tube, while anteriorly it seems to arise from' the skin. It is prolonged over all the eminences of the olfactory ca- vities. It penetrates into all their anfractuosities and has an ex- tremely complicated course. After covering the floor of the nasal fossm, it ascends in the in- ferior meatus and covers it. There it meets the orifice of the na- sal canal (350), dives into it, and is thus continuous with the tuni- ca conjunctiva of the eye through the puncta lachrymalia. In this place it forms a small circular and very distinct replication, which much contracts the entrance of the duct, but whose disposition is very variable. Sometimes this replication contracts the oriflee of the duct to such a degree that a stylet cannot be introduced into- it without difficulty. From the inferior meatus, the pituitary membrane is reflected over the inferior turbinated bone, to which it adheres only in a rather loose manner. Below the turbinated bone, it forms, espe- cially behind, a replication which descends lower than it, and which consequently enlarges it. This replication loses itself in- sensibly behind in the rest of the membrane. Above the inferior turbinated bone, the membrane penetrates into the middle meatus, in the fore and upper part of which it finds an aperture (the infundibulum) more or less widened at the mouth, which allows it first to enter into the interior ethmoid cells, and afterwards into the frontal sinuses, without forming any kind of replication. A little more posteriorly is another aperture, frequently very narrow, leading into the maxillary sinus, which the membrane completely invests, forming around its bony oriflee a very distinct fold, which contains between its two laminae a glandular organ, respecting the existence of which we shall after- wards speak. There is also in a head which retains its soft parts, on account of the presence of this fold, a narrow membranous ca- nal, inclined from before backwards, which leads into the sinus. Its entrance is placed before the aperture which the bones present (348), and is commonly concealed by a small bony lamina equally invested by the olfactory membrane. Issuing from the middle meatus, the pituitary membrane extends over the convex surface of the ethmoidal turbinated bone, and form.s on its free edge a rather loose fold, which terminates posteri- orly in a point, but which does not sensibly increase the vertical extent of this bony plate. On arriving in the meatus superior, it dives into the posterior ethmoid cells, which it covers like the anterior; passes over the