ORGANS OF SECRETION. 780 dus of the gall-bladder, '^i'his part of the circumference of the li- ver is horizontal in the middle, but to the right and left is inclined downwards. Posteriorly, the circumference of the liver is shorter than before; but its thickness is considerable, especially to the right. It is rounded, and attached to the diaphragm, near its extremities, by two folds of the peritoneum, which are named the Lateral or Triangular Li- gaments of the liver. At the middle, it is united to the diaphrag- matic aponeurosis, in an intimate manner, by a dense and close cel- lular tissue. It also presents the end of the groove of the umbili- cal vein, and that of the vena cava, together with the trunks of the hepatic veins. To the right, the circumference of the liver is thin at its fore part, thick behind. It is in contact with the diaphragm. To the left, it presents a thin and convex edge, which is sometimes pro- longed as far as the spleen under the form of a pretty broad tongue. B. OllGANIZATION OF THE LIVEll. 2826. The structure of the liver is extremely complicated, and presents successively for examination envelopes, blood-vessels, lym- phatics, nerves, a peculiar parenchyma, and an excretory apparar- tus. a. ENVEI.OPES OF THE LIVED,. 2827- Serous or Peritoneal Enveloj)e. This a prolongation of the peritoneum, reflected from the lower surface of the diaphragm over the liver, which it does not surround in its whole extent. This envelope is transparent, smooth, polished, thin, and constant- ly bedewed with a serous fluid. Free on the side next the abdo- minal cavity, it adheres by its other surface to the second envelope, and does not cover the posterior part of the circumference of the organ, the two grooves of its inferior surface, that of the vena cai^a, and of the fossa destined to lodge the gall-bladder. It is equally wanting in the interval of the two laminas of the suspensory liga- ment, as it is of itself that this alleged ligament is formed. 2828. Cellular or Deep Envelope. It is much more extended than the superficial, for it covers all the parts of the liver upon which the peritoneum is not applied, and is prolonged into the sub- stance of that viscus, forming sheaths which accompany the branches and twigs of the vena portae and hepatic artery, as ivell as the roots of the hepatic duct. These sheaths commonly bear the name of Capsule of Glisso7i. 'lliey adhere to the parenchyma of the liver by numerous filaments, and do not present the least ap- pearance of the muscular structure which Glisson attributed to them. In general very thin, although pretty dense, this envelope