STIlUCTURE OF THE BRAIN. 425 slit is fotracd between the optic tlialami and tlic edges of the fornix above, between the optic thalami and the coi’pora fimbriata below. It commences on each side at the aperture of communication with the third ventricle, behind the anterior peduncles of the fornix, and terminates at the inferior surface of the brain, where it is closed by tlie arachnoid membrane, and where it receives prolongations of the pia mater and vessels. In its whole extent, it is strengthened by a fold of the inner arachnoid. 1480. Under the fornix, and between the two optic thalami, there exists another cavity which is named the third or middle ventricle. It is of much less extent than tlie preceding, is single, and placed in the median line. Its direction is horizontal, its greatest diame- ter from before backwards, and its form elliptical. Its upper wall, which is of less extent than the lower, is limited by the choroid web and the fornix (1474.) Its lower wall, which is very thin, forms part of the inferior surface of the brain. Posteriorly, it is formed by the medullary lamina which occupies the intervals of the two peduncles of the brain; more anteriorly, by the upper part of the pisiform tubercles ; and at its foremost part, by the gray substance which occurs behind the commissure of the optic nerves. It is to be remarked that this part of the ventricle is concave, and that on account of the smallness of its breadth, it seems to form a small slit, of which the deepest part corresponds to the pituitary shaft, and which is named the Infundibulum. This infundibulum is never prolonged into the pituitary shaft, as some authors have alleged. The lateral walls of the middle ventricle are limited by the optic thalami, which are contiguous in the greater part of their extent, and united in one point, by a grayish band. Anteriorly and below, this ventricle is closed by a membrane which rises from the commissure of the optic nerves (1436,) and presents at its level a kind of aperture which, since Colombo’s time, has been generally called the Vulva, and on the sides of which are two holes which communicate with the lateral ventricles (1474.) Anteriorly and above, it is limited by the Anterior Commissure, a sort of whitish, transverse, cylindrical cord, situated immediately behind the anterior curve of the fornix, and of the size of the optic nerve. It is naturally free and apparent over an extent of about six lines at its middle part. But, on each side, it sinks deeply in- to the substance of the hemispheres, curving backwards in a sensi- ble manner, and, according to Chaussier, reaches the corpus callo- sum and peduncles of the brain. These lateral portions are a little flattened, and more voluminous than the middle region. Posteriorly and above, the third ventricle is limited by the Pos- terior Commissure, which is thicker and shorter than it, but of the same cylindrical form and transverse direction. Its fibrous appear- ance is also more distinct. By its posterior edge it is contiguous to the tubercula quadrigemina. Beneath it, is the posterior aper- ture of the ventricle, named the Anus, a sort of small narrow slit, furnished on the edges with a very thin white band. It is the an-