PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 4 IGS all the moveable articulations, and which are yet sometimes absent, are very dense fibrous bundles, regular or irregular, round or flat, of a glistening white colour, varying much in form and size, some- times even membranous, but always interlaced with the periosteum at theu* two extremities, which peculiarly distinguishes them from the tendons.* Their use is to connect the bones and cartilages to- gether. The fibres of the ligaments are connected by a somewhat loose celkdar tissue, which frequently contains fatty flakes, especially in those whose form is irregular. These fibres are Avhite or greyish, hard, possessed of little elasticity, but very tenacious, and capable of bearing tlie greatest stress. Some blood vessels and lymphatics of a very small calibre traverse them, and penetrate into their in- tervals by narrow fissures filled with cellular tissue ; but no nerves have been discovered in them. 565. The tissue of the ligaments contains a large proportion of water. It becomes hard, transparent, elastic and brittle by desic- cation, which gives it moreover a reddish or yellowish colour. By maceration, it softens and becomes flocculent at the surface long be- fore resolving itself into mucous matter. 566. Fibrous Capsules. This name is given to a kind of cyhn- drical membranous bags, of a fibrous texture, more or less strong and thick, elastic, whitish, loose in proportion as the part is suscep- tible of more extensive motion, enveloped by a great quantity of cellular tissue, strengthened by tendinous fibres coming from the neighbouring muscles, and open at their t^^o extremities, which are interlaced with the periosteum around the circumference of the up^ per and lower articiilar surfaces, in the humero-scapular and dio- femoral articulations, the only ones in which true capsules are ob- served. They sometimes open to afford a passage to tendons which go to attach themselves to the bone, and are lined internally by the synovial membrane. After a fortunate injection, the surface of these capsules is seen covered with a very distinct net work of vessels, which subdivide more and more as they approach the circumference of the carti- lages, into which they send several small twigs. M. Hevligersj- has observed that they also receive nerves, which is especially ap- parent in the articulation of the thigh, as I have had occasion to see myself. 567- Like the tissue of the ligaments, that pf the capsules is with difficulty altered by maceration, retaining its appearance and structure for a long time, nor is it until after a considerable period has elapsed that its fibres separate from each other to be converted * According to this definition, it will be seen that many anatomists have errone- ously given the name of ligaments to parts which totally differ from them in form, structure, and composition. This appellation should not therefore be applied to the folds of the mucous membrane which exist beneath the tongue, the folds of the peritoneum which sustain the liver, &c. f Dissert. Plujs. Anat. ilc Fab. Int. A'rtkul. 8vo. Trajecti ad Rhenum. 1803, p. 15.