ORGANS OF DIGESTION. GIO observed on the large intestines. Its inner surface has the same appearance as the duodenum (209H). There are seen upon it nu- merous villosities, disposed in the form of more or less prominent fringes, and extremely large valvulae conniventes. But the latter are more numerous the nearer to the duodenum the intestine is examined, and diminish progressively towards the ccecum. h. ORGANIZATION OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 2109. Serous Membrane or Coat, and Mesentery.* The peri- toneum covers the entire surface of the small intestine, excepting at the level of the posterior edge, where it lies upon itself to be pro- longed backwards by two laminae which constitute the mesentery, and which leave between them and the intestine, at the moment of their coming together, a triangular space exactly similar to that which prevails along the curves of the stomach. In this space, the intestine does not adhere to the peritoneum, a circumstance which is singularly favourable to its dilatation. With respect to the mesentery itself, it may be considered as a fold of the peritoneum which suspends and keeps in position the small intestine. One of its laminae is continuous above with the transverse mesocolon; the other is attached below to the vertebral column, in the course of a line which descends from left to right, from the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. Narrow in the greater part of its extent, it is very broad anteriorly, near the intestine. It is evidently this inequahty in the dimensions of the mesentery that is the cause of the exist- ence of the circumvolutions of the small intestine; and it has been not inaptly compared to a semicircular piece of leather, having the larger edge drawn out and much elongated in opposite directions. This edge in fact corresponds to the whole length of the small in- testine, while the posterior has no greater extent than that of the lumbar portion of the vertebral column. The mesentery contains between the two laminae of which it is formed, a great quantity of lymphatic ganglia, larger in children than in adults, and very irregularly disposed in a very thick layer of cellular tissue always loaded with fat. There are moreover ob- served in it the trunks and branches of the mesenteric vessels and the nervous plexus which accompany them, together with a great number of lacteal and lymphatic vessels. 2110. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is not so thick as that of the duodenum, and its fibres are pale and not very apparent. The superficial fibres are longitudinal, very thin, not numerous, and collected especially along the convex edge of the intestine. They do not, however, by any means run along its whole extent, but arc interrupted from space to space, and seem composed of * jMio’*;, medius ; ivTigof, inietiinum.