OIIOAN8 OF ADSORPTION. 766 They then ascend along the fore and inner part of the arm, are joined by some trunks which arise from the surface of that region, collect, anastomose, become larger and less numerous, and dive in- to the axilla, where they terminate in the axillary and subclavian ganglia. 2772. Some vessels of this order separately follow the course of the cephalic vein, pass between the deltoides and pectoralis major muscles, divide into some ganglia, under the clavicle, form a small plexus there, and unite with the inferior cervical lymphatics. 4. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SUPEHIOR EXTREMITIES. 2773. They are collected into bundles around the arteries which are distributed to these parts, and have precisely the same disposi- tion as these vessels. These lymphatics also terminate in the axil- lary ganglia. 5. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE ANTERIOR WALL OF THE THORAX. 27741. They commence under the integuments of the abdomen and thorax, around the mammae, &c. direct themselves outwards and upwards, collect into trunks, gradually increasing in size, in consequence of their anastomoses and the addition of new roots, pass before the pectoralis major, plunge into the cellular tissue of the axilla, and terminate in the ganglia of that part. 2775. Some of these vessels come more deeply from the sub- stance of the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, and serratus mag- nus muscles. They have the same termination. 6. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE POSTERIOR REGION OF THE NECK. 2776- Lymphatics of the Neck. They commence under the skin, towards the occiput, and upon the spinous processes of the neck, whence they descend outwards following the direction of the fibres of the trapezius, to pass obliquely over the spine of the scapula, and over the deltoides muscle, and unite with the ante- rior thoracic and dorsal lymphatics in the axillary ganglia. 2777- Lymphatics of the Back. The superior, which arise from the integuments and trapezius muscle, descend outwards up- on the infraspinatus muscle, where they meet with some ganglia, then enter between the latissimus dorsi and teres major niuscles, and terminate, like the preceding, in the axilla. The inferior have their roots distributed over the whole surface of the latissimus dor-