OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. 4.55 1. OF THE OPIITUALMIC NEIIVE, OR FIRST BRANCH OF THE FIFTH FAIR. 1576. This is the smallest and highest of the three branches furnished by the trifiicial nerve. It is also that which deviates least from the original direction of the trunk which gave rise to it. It proceeds from behind forwards, from within outwards, and from jtbove downwards, under the dura mater, in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, from which it is separated, like the common mo- tor nerve of the eye and the pathetic nerve, by distinet laminae of Cellular tissue. From being at first plaeed beneath the common motor nerve, it becomes superior and internal with respect to it, as we have already said. So long as it is contained within the skull, it has a gi-ayish tint, a very deeided plexifurm appearance, and an uneven surface. Before arriving at the sphenoidal fissure, through which it passes to the orbit, it receives a filament from the superior cervical ganglion, and then divides into three twigs which perforate the dura mater separately. Of these twigs, one is exter- nal, lachrymal nerve; another'superior, the frontal Jierve; and the last internal, the nasal nerve. ' 1577- Of the lachrymal nerve. This is the smallest of the three. Separated from the ophthalmic nerve at the moment when it changes its direction to ascend above the motor nerve of the eye, it immediately enters a canal of a few lines long, and which is furnished to jt by the dura mater, to which it firmly adheres. It is directed outwards and forwards, enters the orbit, and proceeds along its outer wall, between the periosteum and the abductor oculi, as far as the lachrymal gland and the upper eyelid, 1570. In this course, it gives off a posterior or spheno-viaxillary filament, which anastomoses with a filament of the superior maxU- lary nerve towards the anterior extremity of the infra-orbitar fissure, and an anterior or malar filament, which enters a canal formed in the substance of the malar bone, and emerges upon the cheek, where it anastomoses with a filament of the facial nerve. The latter filament, and sometimes both, traverse the lachrymal gland before issuing from the orbit. 157^- When the lachrymal nerve has arrived at the gland of the same name, it is situated upon its internal surface, and fur- nishes it with three or four filaments which are distributed in its tissue, or emerge from it to pass into the tunica conjunctiva. 1.580. Lastly, the twig itself, on arriving beyond the gland, pro- ceeds inwards, behind the aponeurosis of the levator palpebrye su- perioris, and terminates by a great number of filaments in the up- per eyelid. 1581. Of the Frontal Nerve. Larger than the other two branches of the ophthalniic nerve, it separates from tlie comnioii trunk later than the preceding, introduees itself into the orbit be- tween the periosteum and the posterior extremity of the rectus 2 a