ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4S6 1G71- Srih-daviumlnt Twigs. "J'hey are deeply imbedded in cellular tissue, in the triangular space which exists between the clavicle and the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscles. Arrived beneath the clavicle, they distribute themselves to the sca- pular extremity of the omo-hyoideus muscle, and to the upper part of the subscapularis and serratus magnus, and lose themselves in the arm-pits. IG72. Dee]} Cervical Twigs. 'These descend backwards along with the spinal accessory nerve, with which they communicate more or less frequently, and are distributed to the trapezius, levator anguli scapulas and rhomboideus muscles, as well as to the neighbouring cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia. 1672. Mastoid Branch. This is one of the two ascending branches of the cervical plexus. It ascends along the posterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, between the integuments and the splenius muscle, and on arriving at the mastoid process, divides into several filaments which are distributed to the integuments of the posterior and lateral part of the head, to the inner surface of the pavilion of the ear, and to the occipitalis muscle. They anas- tomose with the auricular twig of the facial nerve (1G08), and w'ith the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve (IGCl.) 1G74. Auricular Branch. This is the second ascending branch of the plexus, and is nearly twice the size of the mastoid branch, before which it is situated. It is directed outwards at the moment when it arises from the plexus, is soon reflected over the posterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and, after forming a kind of arch, proceeds obliquely upwards and forw'ards between the outer surface of that muscle and the integuments. When it has ari'ived .upon its anterior edge opposite the angle of the jaw, it divides into several twigs whose number varies in different subjects. The an^- ferior, ascending upon the outer surface of the parotid gland, give it numerous filaments, among which there is one that goes to an- astomose deeply with the inferior branch of the facial nerve (1G18), and gain the lower part of the pavilion of the ear. There they expand and ramify upon its two surfaces, being especially distri- buted to the integuments. Some ■ of their filaments, v.diich are larger than the rest, follow the contour- of the helix, after tra- versing the substance of the pavilion from within outwards and from beneath upwards, between the lobule and the end of the fibro- cartilage. They anastomose with the superficial temporal nerve of the inferior maxillary (1599)- The 'posterior twigs, of which there ai-e one or two, run along the posterior edge of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, and divide upon the mastoid process into fila- ments which gain the inner surface of the pavilion of the car, the upper part of the external auditory canal, and the integuments of the lateral part of the head, where they anastomose with the ramifi- cations of the preceding branch. 1075. Superjiciol Cervical Branches. 'There are generally two, of which one is larger; but it is not uncommon to find only