678 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. the lower edge of that rib, it gives off two twigs, the one posterior the other eternal, and sometimes terminates there. But most commonly it passes before the neck of the second rib, and on arriv- ing at the second intercostal space, furnishes two other twigs. In some subjects it proceeds still lower. In the whole of this course, the superior intercostal artery is covered by the pleura. 2347. Before the first rib, it frequently sends a pretty large twig to the lower part of the scalenus anticus muscle. The pos- terior branch which it furnishes in the first intercostal space is very small; and, after throwing some small twigs over the spinal marrow, by the intervertebral foramen, it emerges posteriorly be- tween the transverse processes and goes to lose itself in the muscles of the back. The external branch, which comes off from it at the same point, is distributed to the two intercostal muscles, after fur- nishing some ramifications to the periosteum of the vertebrge, the oesophagus and bronchi. 2348. In the second intervertebral space, the artery terminates by giving two branches still, which follow precisely the same course as the preceding, and is itself lost in the muscles, or anastomoses widely with the first intercostal artery arising from the aorta. EXTERNAL BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 1. OF THE TRANSVERSE CERVICAL OR POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY. 2349. Next to the vertebral, inferior thyroid, and mammary ar- teries, this is the largest branch of the subclavian. It sometimes arises from the inferior thyroid. Directing itself transversely out- wards, it winds along the scaleni muscles above the nerves which form the brachial plexus, in the triangular space which exists be- tween the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and trapezius muscles and the clavicle, where it is covered by the first of these muscles. It then curves back and descends obliquely backwards, under the trape- zius and levator anguli scapulm muscles, changes its direction again, and descends vertically under the rhomboideus muscle, along the posterior edge of the scapula, to terminate by subdividing near its inferior angle. 2350. Near its origin, this artery gives off several branches which ascend vertically to lose themselves in the scaleni muscles, and another larger and more superficial branch. The Superjickil Cercical Artery, which proceeds in a tortuous manner from with- in backwards, and goes to be distributed to the splenius and tra- pezius muscles, the cellular tissue and skin of the inferior and late- ral region of the neck. In passing under the levator anguli sca- pula, it sends upwards a pretty large branch which descends un- der that muscle as far as the supra-spinatus, and is equally distri-