428 ORGANS OF SENSATION. the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, from the latter of whicli arises the basilar artery, whose branches form with those of the ca- rotid what anatomists have named the Arterial Circle of Willis. The spinal marrow receives its arteries from the vertebral, dor- sal, lumbar, and sacral arteries. The encephalic veins have very thin coats, and enter the sinuses which are formed in the substance of the dura mater, which empty their contents into the internal jugular veins. The sinuses of the spinal marrow terminate in the vertebral, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral veins. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in the tissue of the brain. 9- OF THE MEMBRANOUS ENVELOPES OF THE BRAIN. OF THE DURA MATER, OR MENINX EXTERIOR. i486. The Dura Mater is the outermost membranous envelope of the brain. It is destined partly to support it, partly to isolate its different portions. It is common to that organ and the bones of the cavity which contain it, to which it seems to perform the of- fice of an internal periosteum to a certain degree. It is a firm, thick, compact fibrous membrane, of a whitish pearly colour, se- mitransparent, and occupying the interior of the skull and verte- bral canal. 1487- Its Older surface, in the skull, is applied on all sides up- on the bones, which gives it an uneven and flocular appearance, from the great number of filaments and blood-vessels by which it communicates with them. 1488. It adheres but loosely to the broad and rather smooth hones of the vault of the skull, and is easily detached from the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones, as well as from the squamous portion of the temporal. At the sutures, however, its union is much more intimate, on account of the small filaments and nume- rous vessels which traverse them to join the pericranium, which is especially remarkable in the sagittal suture. On the vault of the skull, also, the dura mater sends a small fibrous canal through the parietal hole, which serves as an envelope to a small vein. 1489. At the base of the skull, the external surface of the dura mater is very complex in its disposition, on account of the great number of holes and inequalities which are observed in that region. It sinks into the foramen coecum, (153,) where it contracts pretty intimate adhesions by several prolongations. It embraces the sum- mit of the crista-galli of the ethmoid bone, Avhence it descends on each side into the ethmoid grooves. There, at each hole of tlm cribriform plate, (131,) it furnishes for each branch of the olfac- tory nerves a small fibrous canal, which terminates on the outer layer of the pituitary membrane. More laterally, similar canals pene- trate into the internal orbitar canals to accompany the nerves and