lOG PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tcllect is attributed to those which have a very distinct forehead, sucli as the elephant and owl, the latter of which the Greeks gave as a companion to the goddess of wisdom. In man, who has re- ceived the noble prerogative of intellect, who has to exercise his mental more than his physical faculties, the capacity of the skull is much greater than that of the face. In reptiles and many fishes, the mouth alone, with its two enor- mous jaws, constitutes almost the entire head; and they are the most voracious as well as the most ferocious of animals. They seem to live, as it were, only for the purpose of eating. Without going beyond our own species, we are led to consider as stupid and gluttonous, a mail who has the lower part of the face very promi- nent ; and artists, in their representations of heroes and gods, care- fully avoid this projection, and make the forehead advance, so as to give the eyes the expression of habitual meditation. 368. It has been attempted, from these data, to estimate the re- lative proportions of the face and skull. One of the simplest means that have been employed for this purpose, is the facial angle of Camper, formed by the meeting of two ideal lines, one of which passes from the most prominent parts of the forehead to the edge of the upper incisors, while the other extends from the meatus au- ditorius externus to the same point. The more this angle approaches a right angle the more does the skull project forwards, and conse- quently the greater is the size of the brain ; the more acute it be- comes, the more elongated is the face, and the more are the organs of taste and smell developed. By enabling us therefore to estimate, in a certain degree, the relative proportions of the skull and face, it is capable of indicating, in some measure, the development of intellect in the individual. In the heads of Europeans, this angle is generally 80 degrees. It is 75 in those of the Mongolian race, and only 'JO in negroes. The Grecian sculptors, it is observed, have given their divinities a facial angle of 100 degrees. It becomes more and more acute, on the other hand, as we deseend in the scale of animals, being larger in the mammifera than in birds, and in these latter than in reptiles and fishes. 369. But this means of estimating the relative dimensions of the skuU and face, is little to be depended upon, because, in many cases the frontal sinuses swell out the skull so much as to raise the facial angle a great deal beyond what the proportion of the skull would require. This inconvenience, however, may be obviated, by employing the method proposed by M. Cuvier, who advises to view the skull and face in a vertical and longitudinal section of the head, and to compare the areas which these two parts may present. Now, in the European, the area of the skidl is about four times that of the face; while in the negro, the latter increases about a fifth, and in the glires and solipeda, it becomes successively larger. It is easy in this manner to appreciate the individual dihcrenccs.