ORGANS OF DIGESTION. GIG lymphatic ganglia. Between them and the eoncave edge of tlie intestine, there is observed an empty triangular space, similar to those which we have already described in the stomach and small intestine. These two laminae, after uniting upon the colon, give rise to the anterior lamina of the great omentum. The Iliac Meaocolon varies mueh with respect to its extent, and is similar to the other folds of the same kind. It is broader at the middle than at its extremities. It is continuous above with the descending mesocolon, or terminates in a point behind the colon, and inferiorly it is united to the meso-rectum. It also contains vessels, nerves, and some lymphatic ganglia. 2129. The Muscular and Mucous Membranes are absolutely the same in the colon as in the coecum (2117). 2130. The arteries of the coecum, of the ascending colon, and of half of the arch of the colon are furnished by the superior me- senteric artery. Those of the other parts of the colon come from the inferior mesenteric. The veins of these two intestines form the two meseraic veins and open into the vena portae. The lacteals are less numerous on it than upon the small intestine. Its nerves are furnished by the two mesenteric plexus. 2131. The total length of the large intestine is about seven feet in a man of ordinary size. It forms about the fifth of that of the small intestine. The large intestine differs essentially from the small, in having a greater diameter, in having its longitudinal muscular fibres united into three bands, in the presence of a great number of adipose appendages, in its situation at the circumference and on the sides of the small intestine, in its mode of connection with the adjacent parts, and in the origin, number, and disposition of its vessels. III.—OF THE RECTUM, OR ORGAN OF DEFECATION. a. CONFORMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2132. The Rectum occupies the posterior part of the pelvis, and terminates the digestive canal. It succeeds the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and extends from the left side of the sacro-vertebral ar- ticulation to the summit of the coccyx, where it opens externally. It is a little inclined from left to right at its commencement; but afterwards it follows the median line of the body nearly in a verti- cal direction, accommodating itself to the curve of the sacrum, and thus describing a curve, of which the general concavity is anterior. Frequently also it presents lateral inflections more or less distinct. It is cylindrical in the greater part of its extent; but, near its in- ferior extremity, it commonly presents a more or less considerable expansion. Less voluminous than the coecum and colon, it is yet .susceptible of very great dilatation, and does not present at its surface either rounded prominences or muscular bands; only in the