ORGANS 01' SIlNSATION, 554 at the most. It is slightly viscous, like water holding a little gum in solution. Submitted to the action of caloric, it however leaves no residuum; it is not coagulated either by acids or by alcohol, only nitric acid renders it a little turbid. Its specific gravity, ac- cording to Chenevix, is 1.0003. The same chemist admits in it the presence of gelatin, albumen and hydrochlorate of deutoxide of sodium. M. Nicolas to these adds phosphate of lime. All these pinciples are suspended in an immense quantity of water. Left to itself, it quickly putrefies. During life, it is reproduced with the greatest facility, when its removal has been effected by any cause. In fetuses and newly-born children, this humour has a reddish tint, which is dissipated about a month after birth. In some old persons, it naturally loses a part of its transparency. 1904. The membrane of the aqueous humour is very thin, per- fectly translucid, and very difficult to be distinguished. It lines all the walls of the anterior chamber of the eye, and is perforated at the level of the pupil. In embryos, it forms a serous bag without aperture, on account of the existence of the membrana jmpillaris (1893). In no case does it penetrate into the posterior chamber. By ebullition it is easily separated from the posterior surface of the cornea (1886). It was discovered in the last century by Demours and Descemet, although Zinn would appear to have spoke of it be- fore them. 1905. Some authors assert that this membrane is not destined for the exhalation of the aqueous humour, alleging that it is brought into the chambers of the eye by particular ducts. This was the opinion of Nuck, Ruysch, and Santorini, which others have regard- ed as unfounded. 9. OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS AND ITS MEMBRANE. 1906. The Crystalline* Lens is a transparent body, of a lenti- cular form in the adult, nearly spherical in the fetus, placed be- tween the aqueous humour and the vitreous body, at the meeting of the two posterior thirds of the eye with its anterior third. Its axis, which corresponds to the centre of the pupil (1892), ap- proaches the nose a little. Its diameter is four lines, and its thickness about two. Its anterior surface, which is bathed by the aqueous humour of the posterior chamber of the eye, is convex and free in its whole extent, presenting a segment of a sphere of much smaller diameter than that which the vitreous body represents. It is separated from tlie iris and ciliary processes by the posterior chamber of the eye (1892). It' is always less convex than the posterior surface, which is received in a particular cavity of tlie vitreous humour. Kfv/JaAXoi, crystaUus.