ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. C40 after which it covers the whole ventricle, becoming excessively thin, introduces itself into the pulmonary artery, forms at its ori- gin the three semilunar valves, and is continued to the last ramifi- cations of that vessel. 2202. Membrane of the Left Cavities of the Heart. It forms part of that which lines the walls of the vessels that carry the red blood. It commences at the extremities of the pulmonary veins, invests them in their whole extent, covers the whole cavity of the auricle without presenting any fold, and penetrates into the ven- tricle. But, at the entrance of the latter, its thickness increases a little, and it is folded upon itself to form the mitral valves. In the ventricle it becomes very thick. It leaves that part to proceed into the aorta, and from thence into aU the arteries of the body. It is of it that the three semilunar valves are formed, which are found in that vessel near its origin. 2203. The arteries of the heart are two in number. They rise immediately from the aorta, and are called Coronary. Its veins, which are known under the same name, discharge themselves into the right auricle. Its lymphatics, which are very numerous, go to the ganglia situated before the arch of the aorta and left bron- chus. Its nerves, which are also very numerous, and which have already been described, come from the cardiac ganglion (1830). Lastly, we may consider a portion of the serous lamina of the peri- cardium as entering into the composition of the heart, the latter being invested by it in its whole extent. l\.~OF THE ABTERIES,* OR VESSELS WHICH CARRY T'HE BLOOD FROM THE HEART TO ALL FARTS OF THE BODY. a. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 2204. The Arteries are vessels which represent a kind of highly ramified tree, of which the common trunk, formed by the aorta, commences at the left ventricle of the heart, and of which the twigs end at the circumference of the body and organs. They are found in all parts of the animal economy in general, with the exception of the hairs, the epidermis, and a few other organs. From the aorta therefore arise secondary trunks, branches, twigs and ramuscules in great number. It is observed however that for each of the arteries which it furnishes, the number of points of di- vision does not exceed twenty or twenty-five, which is much less than has sometimes been asserted. In dividing, the branches of the arteries form very variable angles. Thus the superior intercostal arteries leave the aorta at an obtuse angle, the lumbar arteries at a right angle, the spermatic • ’A^rt)i>iai of the Greeks; from anj, acr aad Jore, because the aiicicuts supposed them to contain air.