30 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 89. The ribs arc firm, clastic, and very hard; their centre and head are formed of cellular tissue, but the compact tissue which covers them has this peculiarity, that it seems formed of small scales, laid over each other and placed in layers. 90. These bones are developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, another for the tuberosity, and the third for the head. The epiphysis which is destined to form the tuberosity, is of a lenticular form ; that of the dorsal extremity is a small angu- lar plate. Both are still isolated at the age of eighteen or twenty. C. OF SOME VAirriCULAR RIBS. 91. The first, second, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, present pecu- liar characters, and deserve a separate description. 1st. The First Rib is shorter, broader, and thicker than the rest, has a transverse position, and is a little curved from without inwards in the direction of its breadth. This rib presents on its upper surface, two furrows, which correspond to the sub-clavian artery and vein, and which are separated, near the inner edge, by an impression to which the scalenus anticus muscle is attached. Its lower surface, which inclines a little outwards, is slightly con- vex, smooth, and destitute of a groove. Its inner edge is concave, thin, and sharp. The outer, which inclines a bttle downwards, is convex, thicker, and rounder, and presents the tuberosity. This rib is destitute of the angle. It also touches, with its two extremities, the horizontal plane on which it is placed. Its head is round, and presents only one articulating surface. Its neck is very slender and elongated. Its anterior extremity, which is broader and thicker than in the other ribs, sometimes affords insertion above to the sub-clavius muscle. 2d. The Second Rib, although much longer than the first, has nearly the same direction. Its oztter surface, which is convex, and turned a little upwards, presents a tuberosity of which the uneven part is not very distinct, and a scabrous impression into which the serratus magnus is inserted. The angle scarcely exists. Its in- ner surface, which is smooth and concave, is turned downwards, and is only marked with a very short groove behind. Its inner edge is concave, thin, and sharp ; the outer convex, thicker, and rounded. The head has two articulating surfaces. 3d. The Eleventh Rib, is short and destitute of tuberosity : it therefore has no connection with the transverse apophysis of the cor- responding vertebra. Its angle is rather indistinct, and is placed far forwards. The head has only one articulating surface. The inner surface is destitute of a groove, and the anterioi* extremity is thin. 4th. Twelfth Rib. This rib is so short, that it seems to loose itself in the flesh, whence it has been called the floating rib. It is destitute of either tuberosity or groove, and has but one articu- lating surface. It therefore differs from the preceding, only in being