571 OF THE COCHLEA. ing liowcver somewhat to that of a spheroid. It is situated inter- nally of the tympanum, in which it forms a prominence which coij- tributes to the formation of the promontory (1938,2°), externally of the meatus auditorius internus, anteriorly of the semicircular canals, and posteriorly of the cochlea. Above and below it is covered by the compact tissue of the petrous process. It is divided into two unequal portions of different forms, by a bony crest which rises from its inner wall, directs itself outwards and a little forwards, and ter- minates above the fenestra ovalis by a very small pyramid with a flattened and wrinkled summit. In the vestibule the following apertures are observed : Is#, exter- nally, the inner orifice of the fenestra ovalis, closed by the base of the stapes, and shut moreover on this side by the proper membrane of the vestibule; 2d/y, above, the two anterior orifices of the superior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals ; 3dly, anteriorly and inferiorly, the orifice of the external scala of the cochlea ; ^thlyy posteriorly, the two separated apertures of the posterior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals, and an aperture qommon to the two vertical canals, the latter preceded by a groove, while the other ori- fices are formed in a mqre depression; Stkly, internally, several holes which give passage to blood-vessels and filaments of the acoustic nerve (1622), and which communicate in the internal auditory canal, 1961. Of the'Aqueduct of the Vestibule. This name is given to an extremely narrow canal, which forms a communication between this cavity and the base of the skull. It commences in the vesti- bule by an orifice which is frequently almost imperceptible, inter- nally of and very near the common orifice of the two vertical semi- circular canals. From thence it directs itself at first upwards, then backwards and downwards, and opens, becoming wider, on the pos- terior surface of the petrous process (177)5 ^ small cavity of the dura mater. 2. OF THE COCHLEA. 1962. This is a bony cavity, formed of two conical canals, spi- rally twisted like a univalve shell, from which circumstance it has obtained its name. It is formed in the anterior part of the petrous process, anteriorly and internally of the vestibule and internal au- ditory canal. Inclined from within outwards, from above down- wards, and from behind forwards, it describes two spirals running in inverse directions, according as they are examined in a left or in a right temporal bone. There are distinguished in the cochlea an axis or central nucleus, a lamina which forms its walls, and which is named the lamina of the Qircuniferenc§y a spiral septum, and an aqueduct. 196.3. The A.vis, Nucleus, or Modiolus, commences towards the bottom of the internal auditory canal, and is directed nearly horizontally forwards and outwards, towards the inner part of the carotid canal. It is conical. Its base, which is pretty broad, is