37'i ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. at its extremities, fleshy and simple above, and terminated by four tendons below. It arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from its upper oblique line to three fourths down, and from an aponeurotic partition which is common to it with the tibia- lis posticus and flexor longus pollicis. From thence it descends obliquely inwards, at first increasing a little in size, and then dimi- nishing. Its fleshy fibres arc all inserted in succession upon the sides of a tendon which prevails for some time internally and pos- teriorly, and which toward the lower part of the leg is abandoned by them. The tendon then passes behind the malleolus intemus, in a groove which is common to it and that of the tibialis posticus, from which it is however separated by a fibrous septum, and behind which it is placed. These two tendons are kept down in this place by a sort of ligamentous sheath, fixed to the groove of the tibia, the malleolus internus, the astragalus, and under the small tuber- osity of the calcaneum. Internally of this sheath, two distinct synovial capsules are met with, one for each tendon. The whole apparatus is continued under the arch of the calcaneum, where the tendon sinks to advance again obliquely from behind forwards and from within outwards, under the arch of the foot, crossing at first the direction of the flexor longus pollicis, under which it lies, and communicating with its tendon by a fibrous slip. There it begins to become broad, and to present traces of four divisions ; and there also it gives attachment to its accessory muscle. Farther on, it divides into four tendons, thin and slender compared with the size of the toes to which they belong, which separate from each other, give origin to the lumbricales muscles, issue from above the plantar aponeurosis opposite the articulations of the metatarsal bones and phalanges, enter beneath the toes into a fibrous sheath precisely similar to that of the fingers (1175), and which also receives the tendons of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, pass through these tendons in slits formed opposite the middle of the first phalanges, and are attached to the posterior and inferior parts of the third pha- langes of the last four toes. 1348. In the leg, the posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the soleus muscle, the tibial aponeurosis, and the posterior tibial artery. The anterior covers the tibia and the tibiaUs posticus muscle. Its outer edge is connected with that muscle, and with the flexor proprius pollicis. In the foot, it is in connection, by the inferior surface of its tendons, with the adductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti muscles, and with the plantar nerve; and by the tipper surface^ witli the deep-seated muscles of the sole of the foot. 1349. Its uses are to bend the three phalanges on each otljer, and the toes on the metatarsus, and to extend the foot on the leg. It acts much in standing.