OF THE SACllAL GANGLIA. .539 2. EXTEIINAL FILAMENTS. 1855. Each ganglion commonly gives oft two or three, either separately or by a common trunk. Pretty long and of great thick- ness, they cross the direction of the lumbar arteries before which they pass, or turn round tliem. Those belonging to the upper ganglia have a direction obliquely upwards,; those of the middle ganglia, a transverse direction ; and those from the lower ganglia pass obliquely downwards. They soon after pass between the slips by which the psoas muscle commences (809) to anastomose, oppo- site the intervertebral hole, with the anterior branches of the lum- bar nerves. Some more delicate filaments arise from these latter, or from the first, and lose themselves in the psoas magnus. 3. INTEBNAL FILAMENTS. 1856. These filaments are numerous and very slender. They interlace frequently with each other, and form a very complicated net-work before the abdominal aorta. They are often intermingled with small ganglia. This aortic plexus sends numerous filaments to the splenic, he- patic, renal, spermatic and mesenteric plexus, which we have al- ready seen. It also sends some upon the common iliac and hypo- gastric arteries. Lastly, it is continued into the hypogastric plexus, which we shall presently examine. Some of those of the right side anastomose with those of the left side, passing under the aorta. OF THE SACBAL GANGLIA. 1857- Of these there are three or four on each side. They lie upon the sides of the anterior surface of the sacrum, so much the nearer to the median line the lower they are, frequently occupying the orifice of the anterior sacral holes, covered by the peritoneum, and immersed in the adipose tissue of the pelvis. They vary in form and size. Their colour is pale, and their consistence soft. They all communicate together by filaments which are more or less long, and resemble those of the lumbar ganglia (1854).- Moreover, the first almost always communicates with the last lumbar ganglion, Their filaments are distinguished into external, internal, and ante- rior. The latter contribute especially to form the hypogastric plexus.