ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 238 pulae, in raising the posterior angle of the bone, depresses the an- terior angle. Other museles have derived their name from their pnaiti/m ; of whieh kind are the interspinales, interossei, palpebralis, labial, pecto- ral, subelavian, popliteal, ulnar, iliac, temporal, &c. But fre- quently there are several different muscles in each region. There are others whose names are indicative of their/orm, such as the trapezius, quadratus lumborum, serratus, digastricus, del- toid, scalenus, rhomboideus, pyramidalis, triangularis stemi, &c. Some again are named on account of their resemblance to some ob- ject : the splenius, which is supposed to resemble the spleen ; the lumbricales, which look like earthworms ; the solcus, in which there is recognised the appearance of a sole or flounder. Others bear a name which has reference to their dimensions, their extent, or vo- lume : the flexor longus digitorum, gracilis, vastus extemus, su- pinator brevis, pectoralis major, &c.; or to their direction : ob- liqui abdominis, recti capitis, orbicularis oris, &c.; or to their com- position : semitendinosus, semimembranosus, triceps, biceps, corn- plexus, &c. ; and even to their numerical order as the interossei which may be designated Jirst, second, third, &c.; or to their re- lative situation, which has caused them to be called anterior, superior, superficial, deep seated, &c. Many muscles have been designated according to the various points of the skeleton to which they are attached, as the stemo- cleido-mastoideus, occipito-frontalis, stylo-hyoideus, hyo-glossus, &c. It is on this circumstance that M. Chaussier’s nomenclature is founded. M. Dumas, on the other hand, has attempted to ren- der the names of the muscles descriptive of their nature and rela- tions, which renders them complicated in an extraordinary degree, without affording any great advantage. M. Dumeril, again, wish- ing to apply to anatomy the method followed in natural history and chemistry, has proposed an anatomical nomenclature, in which he has prodigiously reduced the number of words m the science, as he only admits the names of the bones and viscera, of which he has merely changed the termination to make known the other organs. Thus he proposes using the word sternal for the sternum, and em- ploys in succession the terms sternienne, sternien, sternique, sternaire, sternale, to designate the region, the muscle, the nerve, the artery, and the vein, which are connected with it. It will easily be conceived how such a nomenclature, were it adopted, would relieve the memory, and facilitate the study of anatomy, by enabling us to avoid all the whimsical denominations, and the odd mixture of Greek, Latin, Arabic, and other words, which form the ordinary language of anatomy. [As no scientific nomenclature however, has been generally adopted in this country, we prefer em- ploying the names in common use.—K.]