THE TEMPORAL BONE. 33 covered with numerous asperities, and destined to unite with the lower edge of the parietal bone. This surface is much broader in its middle part than behind, and especially than before, where it it confounded with the circumference of the bone. Under it there is observed a concave uneven space, marked with several arterial furrows, and covered with those eminences and impressions whicli we have already several times remarked on the inner surface of the bones of the skull. 177- A pyramidal, triangular process, having its summit di- rected forwards and inwards toward the sphenoid bone, and slight- ly inchned in that direction, rises from the middle of the cerebral surface of the temporal bone. It is the Petrous Process or Pyra~ mis, in which, on account of its form, there are distinguished: lst, An upper surface, which presents in its middle a small irregular aperture, named Hiatus Fallopii, through which a ner- vous filament from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and a small artery, are transmitted to the Fallopian tube. Anteriorly to this hole, there is observed a small single or double groove, which is straight and shallow, and lodges the nerve and artery just mentioned. Behind it is a very prominent protuberance which indicates the position of the superior semicircular canal. The whole surface, moreover, is covered with cerebral impressions. 2dly, A posterior surface, lined like the preceding, by the dura mater, and on which there is seen, at its upper and fore part, a wide oblique aperture, with rounded edges, which is the orifice of a canal named the internal auditory, (meatus auditorius internus.) This canal, which is the entrance of the Fallopian tube, has a direction forwards and outwards, passes through about two-thirds of the substance of the petrous process, and is abruptly terminated by a vertical bony plate, in which there is a small fissure for the passage of the facial nerve. Beneath this fissure is a sort of crest, which surmounts a number of pores, giving passage to the filaments of the acoustic nerve. Behind the aperture of the meatus auditorius internus, there is observed a' shallow irregular cavity, narrower in young persons, into which is fixed a prolongation of the dura mater. Behind this is seen a narrow, triangular, and very short slit, in which the canal of the vestibule terminates. A pretty distinct groove descends from this slit toward the jugular fossa, of which we shall presently speak. This surface is marked with impressions similar to those which we have observed on the upper, from which it is separated by a blunt edge, presenting internally a semilunar depression, on which rests the trifacial nerve, and marked in its whole length with a superficial channel, in which is lodged the su- perior petrous sinus of the dura mater. 3dly, A very complex iou ferior surface, placed on the outside of the cranium. Internally, it presents a very rough space into which are inserted the fibres of the inner peristaphyline and external muscles of the malleus, and which is bounded externally by the orifice of the carotid canal, and by a cavity which occurs behind it. This cavity is named the