744 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 2665. Vesical Veins. They are very numerous and of large size. Tliey exhibit differences according to the sex of the subject in which they are examined. In the male, they commence upon the glans by a great number of radicles which unite into two large trunks, the Dorsal Veins of the Penis, which run upon the back of tliat organ, accompanying the dorsal arteries (2500), and afterwards wind from above down- wards at the exterior of the corpus cavernosum. There, these two veins subdivide into several secondary trunks, and unite with other veins which come from the substance of the scrotum and'^dartos, and from the external surface of the tunica vaginalis. They then proceed together, mingling with several branches of the internal pudic vein, to the roots of the corpus cavernosum, enter by the arch of the pubes, and continue their course horizontally on the sides of the bladder. After this they unite with new branches ex- panded over the prostate gland and the walls of the bladder, form^ ing by their anastomoses a very extensive plexus with numerous meshes, and at length, collecting again into a few trunks, open into the internal ibac vein, near the obturator vein, receiving by the way some veins from the rectum and vesicidae seminales. In the female, the vesical veins commence by the Dorsal Veins of the Clitoris, and by a great number of roots spread out in the skin and cellular tissue of the labia. They unite around the vulva, and communicate with the internal and external pudic arteries. Several come from the constrictor vaginae muscle, and the whole together form on the sides of the vagina and bladder a very re- markable plexus, from which proceed the last trunks of these veins. They receive by the way a great number of twigs placed behind the rectum and vagina, and between the latter and the bladder. 2666. Sacro-Lateral Veins. They communicate in the sacral canal, anastomosing with the vertebral sinuses, issue by the ante- rior sacral foramina, and direct themselves transversely before the sacrum to join the hypogastric. The inferior are larger than the superior. C. OF THE COMMON ILIAC VEINS. 2667. They result from the union of the external iliac and hy- pogastric veins, and are of very large size. They arise opposite the sacro-Uiac symphysis, and ascend from thence converging ob- liquely inwards, to the articulation of the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, where they unite to give rise to the vena cava inferior. The left passes successively under the left common iliac artery, then before the last vertebra, and, lastly, behind the right common iliac artery.