206 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. cave and smooth, is in connection with the pyramidal bone. Its anterior and posterior edges are connected with the fibres of the radio-carpal articulation. Its base is inserted into the prominent edge which separates the carpal cavity of the lower extremity of the radius, from that which receives the ulna; or even sometimes it is only connected with it by means of the synovial membranes. Lastly, its summit is attached to the depression which separates the styloid process of the iilna from the articular surface of that bone. 673. Synovial Membrane, (Membrana capsularis sacciformis, Weit.) Its looseness is very remarkable anteriorly and posterior- ly, where it is covered by some oblique and irregular fibres. It passes from the ulna to the radius, forming between them a very loose cul-de-sac, and from the latter bone is reflected over the up- per surface of the preceding fibro-cartUage. The quantity of sy- novia which it contains is always very great. 6. EADIO-CAEPAL ARTICULATION, OR WRIST JOINT. 674. This articulation, which is formed by the junction of the hand and fore-arm, is an arthrodia. The inferior extremity of the radius enters peculiarly into the formation of tliis articulation, of which the ulna forms but a small part. This inferior extremity of the radius, separated into two surfaces, and the inferior surface of the triangular fibro-cartUage, constitute a transversely elliptical ca- vity, into which is received a convex surface, inclined backwards, formed by the scaphoid, semilunar and pyramidal bones. The two first of these, bones correspond to the radius, and the third to the fibro-cartilage, which separates it from the ulna. AU the bony sur- faces of this articulation are lined by pretty thick diarthrodial car- tilages, and a very distinct synovial membrane occurs in its inte- rior. It is strengthened by four ligaments. 675. External Lateral Ligament. It descends from the sum- mit of the styloid process of the radius to the outer part of the sca- phoid bone. Its fibres are divergent. The anterior, which are longer than the others, are continuous with the annular ligament of the carpus, and extend as far as the trapezium. It has a ra- ther irregular form, but it is very strong. 676. Internal Lateral Ligament. From the summit of the styloid process of the ulna, it passes obliquely inwards and forwards to the inner side of the pyramidal bone, where it is attached. It sends some of its most superficial fibres to the anterior annular li- gament of the carpus and to the pisiform bone. It is thicker and less broad than the preceding. 677- Anterior Ligament. It arises from the fore part of the lower extremity of the radius and of the styloid process of that bone, and descends inwards, to be attached to the fore part of the scaphoid, semilunar and pyramidal bones, but principally to the