192 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. form, thin, flat, narrower in the middle than at its extremities. It arises by a broad base from the posterior and inferior iliac spine, the sacro-spinal ligament, the last posterior tubercles of tiie sacrum, the lower part of the lateral surface of that bone, and the edge of the coccyx, and directs itself obliquely outwards, downwards, and a little forwards. As it advances, it loses much of its lireadth, but its thickness increases in the same proportion. It is at length at- tached to the sciatic tuberosity, becoming broader a second time and intermingling with tendinous fibres of the biceps femoris and semi-tendinosus. Here there is detached a small flbrous prolonga- tion, named by some anatomists the Falciform Ligament, which winds around the inner part of the tuberosity, attaches itself above it by its convex edge, and with its concave and floating edge covers the obturator internus muscle, for which it forms a sort of channel, as it ascends along the branch of the ischium (401). The posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament gives attachment in its whole extent to fibres of the gluta^us maximus ; the anterior is united internally to the small sacro-sciatic ligament, and is separated from it externally by a triangular interval which gives passage to the obturator internus, and to the pudic vessels and nerve. Its fibres, which converge from the sacrum toward the iliac bone, and are more oblique as they are higher, are so disposed that at the middle of their length the inner cross the outer. They form several planes, separated from each other by cellular tissue, and between which pass pretty considerable branches of the sciatic artery. 628. Anterior or Small Sacro-sciatic Ligament. It is smaller than the preceding, before which it is situated, and presents nearly the same form. Internally it is broad, partly confounded Avith the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, but fixed a little more anteriorly to the sides of the sacrum, and to a small portion of the edge of the coccyx. From this it proceeds outwards and forAvards oA-er the sciatic spine, to which it is attached, contracting and becoming thicker as it approaches its insertion. Its posterior surface covers the preceding ligament, and the pudic vessels and nerves ; the an- terior is connected with the ischio-coccygeus muscle. It is composed of fibres which are so much the more horizontal the lower they are ; and is divided into several distinct fasciculi which converge from the sacrum toward the sciatic spine. 629. The two sacro-sciatic ligaments separate the great sciatic notch into tAvo holes, of which the upper and larger is traversed by the pyramidal muscle, the glutaeal vessels and nerve, and the sci- atic vessels and nerves, Avhile the lower and smaller gives passage to the obturator internus, and the pudic vessels and nerve. These tAvo ligaments, AA’liile they serve to connect the sacrum and iliac bone, also contribute to the formation ot the AA’alls of the pelvis. Their inner edge sends toAvards the anus an aponeurotic expansion Avhich supports the levator ani muscle.