PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 132 surface, covered with cartilage, which articulates with the pisiform bone, and is limited externally by ligamentous impressions. The (>7iter surface, which is quadrilateral, convex, smooth, and inclined a little upwards, is articulated to the semilunar bone. The tinier is marked ivith an uneven depression for the insertion of ligaments. OF THE PISIFORM BONE. 466. This is the smallest bone of the carpus, of which it occu- pies the inner and upper part. It is of a rounded form, whence its name ; and is placed in a plane anterior to the other bones of the carpus. Posteriorly it presents a circular surface, which unites with the anterior surface of the pyramidal bone. All the rest of its surface is convex, rough, and uneven. It gives attachment above to the flexor carpi ulnaris, below to the abductor of the little finger ; anteriorly, to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. SECOND ROW. OF THE TRAPEZIUM. 467- The Trapezium is situated at the outer and lower parts of the carpus, a little before the other bones, and seems to have an oblique direction. Its upper surface is concave and cartilaginous, and articulates with the scaphoid bone. The lower surface, which is convex from behind forwards, and concave transversely, is con- nected with the first metacarpal bone; the posterior and outer present insertions of ligaments; the anterior, which is narrow and uneven, is marked above with a groove in which lies the tendon of theflexor carpi radialis, and of which the outer edge forms an eminence for the attachment of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The inner surface is inclined downward, and articulates with the os trapezoides by a broad and concave space, and with the second me- tacarpal bone by another narrow and plain surface, situated be- neath the preceding. OF THE os TRAPEZOIDES. 468. The Trapezoides is smaller than the trapezium, more ex- tended from behind forwards than in any other direction, and thicker behind than before. Its upper surface, which is concave, smooth, narrow and quadrilateral, is articulated with the scaphoid bone ; the lotoer is divided by a prominent line passing from before back- wards, into two parts, of which the inner is broader and somewhat concave, and unites with the second metacarpal bone. The poste- rior surface is convex and rough, for the attachment of ligaments ; the anterior is of a similar description, but is narrower; the outer is convex and articulates with the trapezium, the inner, which is