PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 44 small extent, and presents, in the middle, the anterior margin of the perpendicular plate, and on each side, to the outside of the anterior extremity of the ethmoid grooves, portions of cells cover- ed by the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone. 139. Two Orbital or Lateral Surfaces. These surfaces are quadrilateral, plane in the greater part of their extent, and cut obliquely at their anterior and posterior extremities. The latter presents several portions of ceUs which complete the sphenoidal turbinated bones and the palate bones ; the other leaves exposed the greater part of the anterior cells, which are overlapped by the lachrymal bone. At the middle part of each of these surfaces there is observed a square plate, the os idanum of the older writers, which forms a large portion of the inner waU of the orbit. It is smooth and pohshed, and is articulated above with the frontal bone, behind with the sphenoid, and before with the lachrymal bone. The up- per edge of this bony plate often presents small notches, which concur in forming the internal orbitary holes. 140. Structure. The ethmoid bone is almost entirely form- ed of compact tissue, presenting no appearance of cellular tissue, excepting in the turbinated bones, the crista-galli and the per- pendicular plate. 141. Articulations. It is articulated to the frontal and sphen- oid bones, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the upper maxillary bones, the palate bones, the lower turbinated bones of the nose, the vomer, and the nasal and lachrymal bones by the different points which have been successively described. 142. This bone contributes at once to form the base of the skull, the orbits and the nasal fossae. 143. Development. It presents three centres of ossification, one for its middle part, and two for the lateral regions, the latter appearing at an earlier period than the first. The cells form only at an advanced age, and in young subjects it is sofid, fuU, and entirely cartilaginous. The turbuiated bones do not make their appearance until about the age of seven years. OF THE sphenoidal TURBINATED BONES. 144. Form. The Turbinated Bones of the Sphenoid (Cor- nua Sphenoidalia of Soemmering, Cornets of Bertin) are two thin small bones, curved upon themselves. They have the form of a hollow pyramid, with its summit turned behind, and are situ- ated at the base of the skull, between the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, with which they become confounded in adults. From this latter circumstance they are not commonly described as distinct bones; but as they are developed by a particular point of ossi- fication, unite indifferently with the ethmoid or sphenoid bones, and as this union takes place only at an advanced age, like that