318 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. Arrived at the base of the thorax, the rectus abdominis divides into three portions, of which the inner, which is pretty thick, but having little breadth, is attached to the costo xiphoid ligament, and to the lower and fore part of the cartilage of the seventh rib, near the sternum ; the middle, which is broader and thinner, is at- tached to the lower edge and anterior surface of the cartilage of the sixth rib, near its middle; and the outer, which is broader and thinner, terminates at the lower edge of the cartilage of the fifth, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres. 1114. The anterior surfajce of this muscle is covered above by the aponeurosis of the pectoralis major, and in the rest of its ex- tent, by the anterior lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, except- ing at its lowest part, where the pyramidalis muscle is commonly met with. The posterior surface covers the cartilages of the last three true ribs, part of those of the first two false, the ensiform cartilage, the posterior lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, the internal mammary and epigastric arteries, and inferiorly, the peri- toneum. 1115. The rectus muscle bends the thorax upon the pelvis, or the pelvis upon the thorax. It compresses the abdomen from be- fore backwards, &c. OF THE PYRAMIDALIS. 1116. The Pyramidalis is a small elongated, rounded, triangu- lar bundle, which does not always exist, and which is placed in the median line of the body, at the lower and fore part of the rectus. Sometimes there are two pyramidal muscles on each side ; at other times this arrangement is met with only on one side. Frequently they are very short and indistinct; and sometimes they are of con- siderable dimensions. They also vary much in other respects. They arise from the symphysis of the pubes and from a little of the neighbouring part of the bone, by short aponeurotic fibres, which ascend converging toward each other, being only separated by the linea alba, in which they terminate by a slender and elongated ten- don. The inner fibres are vertical and shorter than the outer, which are oblique. 1117- The pyramidalis is applied posteriorly upon the rectus, and is covered anteriorly by the abdominal aponeurosis. 1118. It appears to assist the rectus in its action, by fixing its tendon. It stretches the linea alba and abdominal aponeurosis. 2. Lumbar Regio?t. OF THE QUADRATUS LUMBOKUM- 1119- This is a flat, pretty thick, irregularly quadrilateral mus- cle, situated in the loins, upon the sides of the vertebral column.