ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 592 b. OF THE LIPS, OB ANTEBIOB APEIITURK OF THE MOUTH. 2035. The Lips (Labia) arc two moveable veils, composed of various muscular bundles, interspersed with nerves and vessels, and covered by the skin and common mucous membrane of the mouth, which terminate that cavity anteriorly, and are subservient to the mastication of the food, and to the pronunciation of words. The lips, which are distinguished into upper and under, are placed before each of the maxillae, and have a thickness subject to numer- ous individual variations, but peculiarly great in the negro. Be- tween them is a transverse slit, which is the anterior aperture of the mouth. The upper lip, which is generally a little more advanced than the other, presents anteriorly and in the middle, a vertical groove, rather broad but shallow, which seems to be continuous with the septum of the nose (1986). Posteriorly, it is covered by the mu- cous membrane, which there forms a particular fold. Its free edge, which is cUrected downwards, is rounded and covered with a very thin red pellicle, on which are observed some wrinkles di- rected across the lips, and a very distinct epidermis. At the middle part of this edge there exists a small prominence, hmited laterally by two depressions which are more or less distinct according to the subject. The under lip presents, anteriorly and in the median line, a very slight vertical prominence, and a transverse depression of con- siderable extent, which separates it from the chin. Posteriorly, it is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, which forms a bridle for it much shorter than that of the upper. Its free edge is also larger than that of the upper lip ; it is directed upwards, depressed in the middle, somewhat prominent on either side, and in other respects precisely similar to the upper. The under lip has less vertical extent than the upper. Both are laterally united by means of two acute angles, which are called their commissures. These commissures, which are a little depressed, present no trace of fibrous tissue, and are entirely fleshy. 2036. Dermal layer of the lips. The skin which covers the lips differs in nothing from that which is met with in the other parts of the body ; only it is much thinner and more delicate. The cellular tissue which connects it with the subjacent parts contains no fat. In the adult male it is covered with a greater or less quan- tity of hair ; in the female it does not present the same disposition, excepting in some rare instances. On the upper lip, these hairs are very numerous, and form two oblique rows, meeting under the nose, and prolonged as far as the commissures. It is what is called the moustaches. On the under lip they are not so thick, and form part of the heard, properly so called. They are especially numer- ous in the depression which separates it from the chin.