716 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. vagina, and f3eparates, before the symphysis of the pubes, into two secondary branches, one of which penetrates into the corpus caver- nosum of the clitoris, while the other creeps upon the back of that organ. OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. (Portion iliaque de la crurede, Chauss.) 2532. Arising from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery, it extends to the crural arch, where it changes its name to assume that of femoral artery. It descends obliquely outwards, along the inner and fore part of the psoas muscle, applied posteriorly and internally upon the external iliac vein, and covered by the perito- neum. It is generally straight, but sometimes forms several curves of greater or less extent. 2533. In its course, it only gives off a few small twigs to the psoas muscle, the peritoneum, and the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia. But, before passing under the crural arch, it furnishes two considerable branches, which are named the Epigastric and Circumjlesc Iliac Arteries. a. OF THE EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. (Art. Sus-piibienne, Chauss.) 2534. It arises inferiorly and internally from the external iliac artery, opposite the superior extremity of the inguinal ring, a little above the crural arch, beneath the place where the peritoneum leaves the anterior wall of the abdomen to be reflected into the iliac fossa, and immediately directs itself inwards and a little for- wards, describing some flexuosities. It almost directly enters be- hind the spermatic cord, whose direction it crosses, and which con- ceals its origin, and ascends vertically to the inner side of it, be- hind the upper and outer part of the inguinal ring, between the peritoneum arid abdominal aponeurosis. It still follows a little the outer edge of the rectus muscle, and at the distance of about two inches above the pubes, passes upon its posterior surface, along which it proceeds as far as the umbilicus, where it terminates by several twigs. 2535. Near its origin, the epigastric sometimes furnishes the obturator artery, opposite the crural arch. But it always gives twigs to the peritoneum, the neighbouring cellular tissue, and the spermatic cord. One of these twigs issues through the inguinal ring, and is distributed, in the male, to the cremaster muscle, the tunica vaginalis, and the skin of the scrotum, anastomosing with the spermatic artery, and in the female, to the ligamentum teres, mons veneris, and upper parts of the vulva. 2536. Beyond the spermatic cord, the epigastric artery gives off numerous lateral branches -which arc distributed inwards to the rec-