537 RENAL PLEXUS. fciial and spermatic plexus. It then goes to the inferior mesente- ric artery, and forms around its origin a narrow sheath, much less complicated however than that of the superior mesenteric artery.^ It enters with it into the iliac mesocolon, and towards the edge of the pelvis divides into two portions. Of these portions, the mwer, which is smaller, surrounds the common iliac artery, sends some straight and but seldom anastomosing twigs along the external iliac artery, and descends into the pelvis along with the hypogas- tric artery, of which all th.e branches thus receive a small plexus. It is also to be remarked that a great number of filaments of this plexus separate much from the vessels, to go before the sacrum to the hypogastric plexus; and that those which are applied upon the ■walls of the external iliac artery may be traced as far as the upper part of the thigh. The other portion of the inferior mesenteric plexus, which is placed externally of the preceding, accompanies the mesenteric ar- tery and its branches into the meso-rectum. Its filaments are in- terlaced around that artery in a very loose manner, and many of them are seen to separate and follow a vague direction in the dif- ferent folds of the mesentery. Those which go to the sigmoid flexure of the colon are prolonged a little upon that intestine. The principal secondary plexus which may here be furnished is that of the left colic artery, which spreads out upon the correspond- ing portion of the colon, and goes to anastomose above with the su- perior mesenteric plexus. Few ganglia are met with in the course of the inferior mesente- ric plexus. When there are any, they are always situated nea^r the principal artery. 5. RENAL OB EMULGENT PLEXUS.. 1850. These are two in number, a right and a left. They come off* along with bundles of the solar and cccliac plexus, from the out- er part of the semilunar ganglia, and from the expansion of the small splanchnic nerves. 3. hey, moreover, join to themselves two other nerves of considerable size, one of which rises by two twigs from the eleventh and twelfth thoracic ganglia, and of which the other comes from the filament which connects tiie last thoracic ganglion with the first lumbar. Both pass through the diaphragm and anastomose together before losing themselves in the renal plexus. Frequently also the first two lumbar ganglia contribute to their formation. Each of these plexus commences by three or four ganglia placed upon the commencement of the renal artery, and furnishing by their circumference a great number of slender rectilinear filaments, which do not anastomo.sc with each other, Imt are interlaced in a decided manner, and join tlic diflerent filaments wliich we have just described, at the moment when the artery separates into twigs.