ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 382 accessorius muscle, the lumbricales, and the plantar aponeurosis. The innev side corresponds to the flexor brevis pollicis, the tendon of the peroneus longus, and the outer edge of the metatarsal bone. The outer edge is in connection with the interossei and external plantar artery. 1380. It carries the great toe outwards, and bends it a little. OF THE TKANSVEESUS PEDIS. 1381. This muscle is thin, long, and flat, and extends trans- versely beneath the heads of the first four metatarsal bones. It is about an inch in breadth, and arises, by distinct and fasciculated aponeurotic fibres, from the ligaments of the last foiH metatarso- phalangeal articulations. There result from this four small paral- lel slips, more distinct behind than before, which unite together, and are attached, along with the preceding muscle, to the outer edge of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Its inferior surface covers the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the lumbricales, and the collateral nerves and vessels of the toes. The upper surface corresponds to the interossei. This muscle carries the great toe outwards, and brings nearer to each other the heads of the metatarsal bones. 4. External Plantar Region. OF THE ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI. 1382. It lies beneath the outer edge of the foot, and is long, flat, and broader and thicker posteriorly than anteriorly. It arises from the inferior surface of the calcaneum, on the outside of the flexor brevis communis, by short aponeurotic fibres ; from a fi- brous partition which separates it from the flexor brevis di- gitorum ; from the plantar aponeurosis, and from the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, by a land of tendon, which is continuous with that aponeurosis. From thence, it advances beneath the inferior surface of that bone, dimi- nishing in size. Its fibres then terminate successively upon a tendon which they conceal posteriorly, which then extends over the upper and inner surface, separated from them towards the head of the fifth metartarsal bone, and is inserted into the outside of tlie corresponding extremity of the first phalanx of the little toe. 1383. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, to which it is strongly united behind. The upper is covered by the accessorius muscle, the inferior calcaneo-cuboidal ligament, the tendon of the peroneus longus, the posterior extremity of the fifth 3