438 ORGANS OF SENSATION. vascular cords, attached to the choroid Aveb by one of their edges, loose, floating and undulated at the other edge, and extending, in the lateral ventricles, along the sides of the fornix and fimbriated bodies. They are more voluminous in the lower part than in the upper part of the ventrieles, and altogether inferiorly and poste- riorly, they communicate directly with the external pia mater, which dives into the brain between the thalami of the optic nerves and the fimbriated bodies. They are especially formed by folds of the pia mater, in which there ramify a multitude of minute ar- teries and especially veins. There is frequently perceived in them a more or less considerable number of small rounded bodies, of the size of a millet seed, or even smaller. Many anatomists have con- sidered them as glands ; but, Chaussier asserts that they are mem- branous fringes, which may be unfolded by agitating them in wa- ter. There are also frequently found in them small serous cysts or vesicles. OF THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 1518. The Arachnoid* Membrane (Meninrc onedia, Soemm.) is situated between the dura mater and pia mater, and was long confounded with the latter. It belongs to the class of serous mem- branes. It is extremely thin, transparent, polished, and constant- ly moistened with a serous fluid. It scarcely contains any blood- vessels. It represents a kind of bag without aperture, covering the whole surface of the brain, and the walls of the cavity which the dura mater forms. It furnishes all the nerves, and all the vessels which enter or issue from the skull and vertebral canal, with a sheath or envelop which accompanies them, and is reflected over them, so that none of these organs is contained in its cavity, which is only filled with a serous vapour. Its thickness is a little greater in the places where it is free, at its two surfaces, and in the sheaths of which we have just spoken. 1519. Eccternal Arachnoid Membrane.—-On the convexity of the cerebrum, it invests the circumvolutions without penetrating into the anfractuosities by which they are separated, and gives to each vein a sheath which is reflected over the dura mater. De- scending on each side in the great longitudinal fissure, it lines the corpus callosum, passing over the arteries which cover it, and furnishes the veins of the inferior longitudinal sinus with en- velopes which are afterwards continued into the falx cerebri. Posteriorly, the arachnoid membrane is prolonged over the poste- rior lobes, envelopes some of the veins of the lateral sinuses, is re- flected over the upper surface of the cerebellum, surrounds the veins of the straight sinus, and part of those of the lateral sinuses, * resemblin'; n S2)iiler’> wnli