OllGANS OF CIRCULATION. 73^2 •pterygoUt, n'phe7io-palatine, alveolar, infra-orbitar, mental, in- ferior dentar and deep temporal veins, whose distribution is precisely the same as that of the arteries of the same name. By means of its spheno-palatine root, it communicates with the sinuses of the base of the skull. The small twigs which establish this communication pass through the foramina of that re- gion, and are called like all those of the same kind. Emissary Veins of Santorini. Moreover, upon the sides of the pharynx, there are observed frequent anastomoses between the roots of the internal maxillary vein and the facial and pharyngeal veins. This disposi- tion produces the Pharyngeal Venous Plewus. Thus formed, the trunk of the internal maxillary vein passes be- hind the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and there unites with that of the superficial temporal vein. 2615. Superficial Temporal Vein. This vein, which is very flexuous, takes its rise in all the places where the corresponding ar- tery is distributed, and its first radicles anastomose towards the top of the head with those of the opposite occipital, frontal, and tempo- ral veins. It is composed of the middle temporal vein, the anterior auricular veins, the transverse vein of the face, and of some small twigs which come from the eyelids, eyebrow, prominence of the cheek, external auditory canal, and temporo-maxillary articulation. Thus formed, it descends before the ear, and unites with the pre- ceding. 2616. The trunk which results from this union then dives into the parotid gland, which transmits some small twigs to it. It im- mediately furnishes a thick and short branch which passes deeply inwards, and opens into the internal jugular vein. The trunk then emerges inferiorly from the gland, and receives the following vein. 2617' Posterior Auricular Vein. It comes from the integu- ments of the mastoid region of the head, and from the inner sur- face of the concha of the auricle. One of its roots also is the stylo- mastoid vein, which issues from the aqueduct of Fallopius. 2618. This trunk then takes the name of External Jugidar Vem. It is less voluminous than the internal, descends nearly vertically along the lateral and anterior part of the neck, placed at first between the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and platysma myoides, the latter of which alone separates it from the integuments, cross- ing the direction of the first, and pretty accurately corresponding with those of the fibres of the second. It then passes under the omo-hyoideus muscle, and is separated from the platysma myoides by a pretty thick layer of fat, so that in descending it becomes less and less superficial. Lastly, near the outer edge of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscle, it opens into the upper part of the sub- clavian vein, a little externally of the internal jugular vein. Some- times it bifurcates at the moment of its termination; but always in its course along the neck it receives some veins, whicli are the fol- lowing. 2619. Cervical Cictaneoics and Trachelo-scapular Veins.