415 BRAIN IN GENERAL. Some consider it as medullary. Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, with M. Bauer and Sir Everard Home, adopt the opinion of those who, like Haller, Malacarne, Monro, Soemmering, Vicq d’Azyr, Meckel and Wenzel, thought it fibrous, and we consider it in the same light. 1454-. The idea most generally adopted with respect to these two substances, is that the first, which is of an almost entirely vas- cular nature, is a secreting organ, and that the other is a mass of excretory vessels, or at least of conducting filaments ; that the nerves are bundles of these vessels ; that the spinal marrow is it- self one of these bundles, only larger than the rest. Of late years many physiologists have, with more reason, considered the nervous system, in its collective capacity, as a net work of which all the portions participate of the organization and functions of the whole, and not as a tree divided into branches and twigs. This is Dr. GaU’s opinion; but he thinks moreover that the gray matter is the viatrix of the medullary Jilaments. Wherever it exists, it arises from these filaments. Whenever a medullary bundle traverses the cineritious matter, it is enlarged by the filaments which it gives it, and none of these bundles enlarges without the concurrence of that matter. He regards the spinal marrow, not as a bundle of nerves descending from the brain, but as a compound of cineritious sub- stance which b\ilges at the level of each pair of nerves, and gives rise to the white filaments which are to form it by their aggrega- tion. He also demonstrates that the brain and cerebellum are themselves only developments of bundles coming from the spinal marrow, to which are annexed other masses of white fibres proceed- ing from the gray layer which envelopes the hemispheres. Lastly, he compares this latter to the ganglia diffused through the whole body ; and, according to him, it forms in the brain several of these ganglia which we shall presently describe. 1455. I'hese two substances of the brain do not form a pulpy mass disposed at random. Besides the shades of colour which they present, they are seen in certain places to affect determinate forms, always the same in the different individuals, and very regular. They are seen to form eminences, cavities, lamina;, partitions, &c. all differing in their volume, position, tint, consistence, &c. Most commonly, for the purpose of studying these different parts, hori- zontal, oblique, or vertical sections are made of the brain and cere- bellum, which are repeated at different heights. But in this man- ner, the true relations which they have to each other, and their in- timate structure, escape us. In fact, with a little attention, we come to discover that aU of them direct themselves toward certain common points of origin, and that they are nowhere isolated from each other. "We shall therefore follow a particular method in the study of the brain considered as to its interior, and this method will be the result of the combination of the different modes hitherto employed in the dissection of that organ.