ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. Bcniilunar. Its fibres, wliich are scarcely apparent at the lower ])art, are tinited at the upper into narrow and parallel strings; they form a sort of membrane which presents small apertures for the passage of vessels, and is covered by the tendons of the flexor mus- cles of the fingers. 678. Posterior Ligament. It is narrower and less strong than the anterior ligament, but its fibres are whiter and more distinct. It arises from the lower extremity of the radius, and descends obUquely inwards to be attached to the posterior part of the semi- lunar and pyi-amidal bones. It is covered by the tendons of the extensors of the fingers, and, like the anterior, is applied upon the synovial membrane. 679. Sgnovial Membrane. This membrane, which is at first extended over the convex surface presented by the bones of the carpus, as well as over the peculiar substance which connects them together, leaves those parts to proceed to the inner surface of the ligaments just described. It is even seen at various points exposed between these fibres, and when the articulation is pressed, it pro- trudes under the form of small vesicles. It leaves the ligaments to be expanded over the articular part of the radius and over the inferior surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage. Towards its upper parts there occur some of those cellular knots of which we have se- veral times spoken, (571.) It always contains a considerable quan- tity of synovia. In this articulation there are observed numerous small cellular and vascular grains around the small head of the ulna. They re- ceive their vessels from the interosseous vessels. Some of them, although less developed, also occur on the contour of the cartilage of the radius. 7. auticulations of the caepal bones. a. ARTICULATIONS OF THE FIRST ROW OF CARPAL BONES. 680. We have already described the nearly plain surfaces by means of which the bones of the carpus are joined to each other. All their articulations are of the kind of arthrodiae, and all the points by which they are in contact are covered with cartilage. There remains only to speak of the ligaments which they present, and which are similar for the three first bones of the first row, and for all those of the second. A nearly continuous fibrous layer also surrounds these bones, and ensures the solidity of their articula- tions. 681. Interosseous Ligaments. They are two very narrow layers of an apparently fibro-cartilaginous substance, dense and compact, which occur at the upper part of the interval left between the sca- phoid and semilunar bones on the one hand, and between the latter and the pyramidal bone on the other. Their upper surface is