99 OF THE orbits; ly by the process of Ingrassias. Near its summit, and to the in- side, it presents the optic hole, which is directed obliquely back- wards and inwards,.so that were its axis prolonged it would inter- sect the one or the other side at the pituitary fossa. Before it, is a portion of the sphenoidal suture of the skull; and, altogether an- teriorly there arc observed, to the outside the small fossa which lodges the lachrymal gland, and internally the inequalities to which the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquus major of the eye is attached. 344. The Lower Wall or the Floor of the Orbit, is nearly plane, and inclined outwards and downwards. It is formed at its fore part, by the cheek bone; in the middle, by the orbitar sur- face of the upper maxillary bone ; posteriorly and inwards, by one of the small surfaces of the anterior process of the upper edge of the palate bone; and it is intersected, at the point where these bones meet, by two sutures whose denticulations are not very dis- tinct, and of v/hich the posterior is of very small extent. At its posterior and external part, is seen the infra-orbitar groove, to which succeeds the canal of the same name. 345. The Outer Wall is plane, and is formed, in three posterior fourths, by the sphenoid bone, and in the anterior fourth, by the malar. A vertical suture, with large serratures, marks the place where these two bones unite, and at its fore part are observed the internal orifices of the malar holes. 346. The Inner Wall is of much smaller extent than the others. It is smooth and perfectly plane. Three bones enter into its com- position : the lachrymal before, the ethmoid in the middle, and the sphenoid behind. Two vertical sutures result from the juxtapo.si- tion of these bones, and present themselves under the appearance of two slightly uneven and very narrow slits. 347. The Upper Wall in uniting with the inner and outer, forms two retiring angles. The first of these angles contains, anteriorly, the suture which results from the articulation of the frontal and lachrymal bones, and a little behind this, the ethmoidal suture of the skull, in which are seen the internal orbitar foramina, to the number of two or three. The second presents posteriorly the sphenoidal fissure of the skuU, and anteriorly the articulation of the frontal to the malar bone. 343. The Lower Wall also forms two retiring angles at the mo- ment when it joins the inner and outer walls. The first presents the suture which results from the articulation of the upper maxil- lary and palatal bones to the lachrymal and ethmoid. The second is perforated posteriorly by the Spheno-maxillary or Inferior Or- bitar Fissure. This fis.sure is formed at its upper part by the sphenoid bone, below by the upper maxillary bone, anteriorly by the malar bone, and posteriorly by the palate bone. It is less wide in the middle than at its extremities, is closed up by fat in the recent state, and gives passage merely to a few vascular and ner- vous ramifications.