ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 7^28 a line extended from the middle of the calf to the posterior part of the inner ankle. 2595. In its two upper thirds, it is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. In its lower third, it is placed along the inner side of the tendo Achillis, which at first covers it a little, hut which afterwards leaves it only in relation with the tibial apo- neurosis and the skin. Anteriorly, it corresponds to the interos- seous space and to the tibialis posticus muscle ; and at its lowest part rests upon the flexor longus communis digitorum, and corres- ponds to the posterior surface of the tibia. It is accompanied in its course by the internal popliteal nerve, which is placed at its outer side. 2596. In its course, the posterior tibial artery furnishes twigs of small size and indeterminate number. It sends very few to the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, frequently none at all. They are almost all distributed laterally to the tibialis posticus and flexor muscles, the skin and the periosteum of the tibia. One of the latter is the Nutritious Artery of the tibia, the largest of the ar- teries of that kind. It descends upon the posterior surface of the bone in a groove which is observed there, and penetrates into the medullary canal, where it ramifies to infinity. Sometimes it comes from the trunk of the popliteal artery itself. 2597- When the posterior tibial artery has arrived under the arch of the calcaneum, and before dividing, it furnishes pretty large twigs to the periosteum of that bone, the adductor muscle of the great toe, the flexor brevis digitorum, the cellular tissue and the skin. Some, which are of smaller size, ascend upon the inner edge of the foot, and anastomose with those of the tibial artery. OF THE INTEKNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. 2598. Concealed at its commencement by the internal annular ligament of the tarsus, and of much smaller size than the external plantar, it passes horizontally forwards, along the inner part of the sole of the foot, passes under the flexor brevis poUicis, and ends in anastomosing by several twigs with the first collateral arteries. 2599. At its commencement, this artery gives numerous twigs to the ankle joint, adductor muscle of the great toe, flexor brevis digitorum, cellular tissue and integuments. Some of them, which are of considerable size, ascend above the muscles of the sole of the foot, and lose themselves in the lower part of the articulations of the tarsus. 2600. More anteriorly, the internal plantar artery gives twigs to the same muscles and to the flexor brevis pollicis. One of them, larger than the others, perforates the aponeurosis and is distributed to the skin. Several creep upon the inner side of the foot and anastomose with those of the dorsal artery of the foot.