MUSCLES OF THE ARM. 327 ■which are directed obliquely outwards and inwards. All the fibres, moreover, are shorter in proportion to their depth. 3151. Its anterior surface is covered above by the brachial apo- neurosis and the skin, below and externally, by the supinator lon- gus, which is lodged in a depression which it presents ; at the mid- dle, by the biceps muscle and the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; in- ternally, by the brachial artery, the median nerve and the pronator teres. The 'posterior surface covers the lower part of the hume- rus, and its articulation with the bones of the fore-arm. Its tipper extremity presents a notch which embraces the tendon of the del- toid muscle. (1139.) 1152. This muscle bends the fore-arm upon the arm, or the lat- ter upon the former. 2. Posterior Brachial Region. OF THE TRICEPS EXTENSOR. 1153. This muscle, which occupies the posterior part of the arm, is elongated, flat, thicker in the middle than at its extremities, and divided at its upper part into three portions. Of these, the middle, which is longer and larger than the others, arises from the highest part of the outer edge of the scapula, over an extent of about an inch, immediately under the glenoid cavity, by a flat ten- don, which separates into two aponeuroses, an outer and shorter, and an inner, which extends much farther downwards. The fleshy fibres of this portion of the muscle, arising from the outer and back part of the tendon just mentioned, form a bundle, which, at first flat and thin, descends vertically between the teres major and teres minor, behind the shoulder joint, then increases in size, and is united to the outer portion about a third down the arm, and to the inner about its middle. The outer portion, which is not so long or so thick as the mid- dle, and is broader below than above, arises, by a pointed extremi- ty, from the upper part of the outer edge of the humerus, beneath the great tuberosity of that bone. Its fleshy fibres, which descend obliquely backwards and inwards, and are so much the shorter the lower they^are, come moreover from the outer edge of the humerus over a larger extent, and from an aponeurotic partition which is common to them with those of the deltoid muscle and brachialis internus. The inner portion, which is shorter than the outer, but of the same form, commences under the tendon of the teres major and la- tissiraus dorsi by a sharp and elongated extremity, which is attach- ed to the inner edge of the humerus, and receives additions in suc- ces.sion from an aponeurosis which covers it above, from the poste- rior surface of the humerus, and from a fibrous partition which se-