ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 272 cal ganglion, and the pliarynx. The posterior surface covers tlie longi colli and rectus capitis anticus minor, the articulations ol’ the occipital hone with the atlas, and of the atlas with the axis, and the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. Its inner edge is united to the longus colli by cellular tissue. The outer edge is free above. 904. This muscle bends the head upon the neck, directly, if it acts in conjunction with that of the opposite side, and laterally, if it acts by itself. It seldom has any influence upon the motions of the vertebral column, which however is the case in jugglers who balance the body upon the head. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR, OR TRACHELO-INFRA- OCCIPITALIS MINOR. 905. It is situated behind the preceding muscle, and has nearly the same form, but is much shorter and narrower. It arises below, froiH the fore part of the lateral mass and of tlic transverse pro- cess of the atlas, by aponeurotic fibres which are prolonged to a considerable distance upon the fleshy fibres. From thence it as- cends, becoming broader, to the anterior margin of the occipital hole and the cartilaginous substance which unites the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone with the basilar process. It terminates behind the rectus anticus major, and a little more externally, by thin aponeuroses. It is concealed by that muscle, and covers the atloido-occipital articulation. Its action is to bend the head shght- ly upon the neck. F. Posterior Occipito-certncul Region. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR. (Axoido-oecipital, Chauss.) 906. This muscle, which is elongated, flat, triangular, and much broader above than below, is situated behind the articulation of the head with the vertebral column. It is attached by short aponeu- roses, above the obliquus capitis inferior, to the tubercle of the spinous process of the axis, whence it ascends outwards and a little backwards, to terminate in a radiating manner, under the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, between the rectus minor and obliqiius superior. 907- Its posterior surface is covered by the complexus major and obliquus superior. The anterior corresponds to the occijiital bone, the posterior arch of the atlas, the posterior atloido-axoidal ligament, the rectus minor muscle, and the vertebral artery. 906, It extends the head, directly when it aets in conjunction