101 OF THE NASAL FOSSiE. inkklle line, concave transversely, straight from above downwards, marked with a furrow for the internal nasal nerve, and perforated with one or two small vascular apertures. It presents externally the suture which joins the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone to the nasal bone. At the union of the a4iterior with the middle portion, there is observed a somewhat indistinct suture, formed by the nasal notch of the frontal bone and the bones of the nose ; then a small con- cave longitudinal surfiice, marked on the sides by the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and applied posteriorly upon the cribriform plate, the holes and small fissures of which are perceived farther back. I’his part of the vault is very thin and narrow. Posteriorly, the cribriform plate forms a suture with the sphe- noid bone and its turbinated bone. It is there that the third por- tion commences, in which are observed the lower and inner surfaces of the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and the orifice of the sphenoidal sinuses, which they concur to form, and which is sometimes want- ing, as has been observed by Ingrassias, Reininger, Schneider, and some others. Very different from what it appears in a sphenoid hone separated from the others, here this aperture is narrow and regularly rounded, and it always occupies the upper region of the sinus. Lastly, beneath this latter, is the articulation of the vomer with the sphenoid bone. This region of the nasal fossae is extremely thick, and of much greater extent than it seems at first sight to be, on account of the existence of the sinus, which prolongs it behind, and thus augments its surface. 3.54. The Lower Wall or Floor of the nasal fossae is rectilinear, and does not yary its direction like the vault. It is concave trans- versely, and slightly inclined backwards. Before the superior ori- fice of the anterior palatal canal, it descends » httle forwards, after being raised for a moment, and anteriorly it is prolonged a little more on the inner side than on the outer, on account of the ante- rior nasal spine. There is observed upon it the orifice of which we have just marie mention ; and just at the point of junction of the vomer with the maxillary bone, is seen the entrance of the small canal for the naso-palatine nerve, which is pretty constantly preceded by an arterial groove. Toward the posterior third of this wall, there is a kind of squamous suture, formed by the pala- tal and upper maxillary bones, and which is here much less distinct than it is on the palatal arch. Posteriorly, it is terminated by a notched edge, which is somewhat raised, and by the posterior nasal spine. 35.5. The Inner Wall of the nasal fossae is the least complicat- ed, and is formed by one of the surfaces of the septum which sepa- rates these cavities. Sometimes, in consequence of an original hnv of the organization, this septum is defected sometimes to*^the one side, and sometimes to the other, but more commonly to the right, as Haller has ob.served. It is then observed that the inner wafl of one of the nasal fossaj is concave, and the other convex. In other