MUSCLES OF TJIK FORB-AIIM. 339 pretty far upon the outer edge of the muscle. 1 he fleshy fibres arise from this tendon, and follow different directions. The upper, which are very short, and continuous with those of the triceps, are nearly transverse, and terminate by short aponeuroses at the out- side of the olecranon. The others, which are longer and more oblique the lower their position is, arc inserted also by short apon- euroses into the upper fourth of the posterior edge of the uhia, and form pretty sharp points below. 1197. The posterior surface of the anconeus is merely covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, without adhering to it. The ajiterior is applied upon the articulation of the fore-arm, the an- nular ligament of the radius (G6B), the supinator brevis and the ulna. 1198. It contributes to the extension of the fore-arm upon the arm, or to that of the latter upon the former. 4. Posterior and Deep Region of the Fore-arm. OF THE EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI POLLICIS. 1199. This muscle lies obliquely at the back and outer part of the fore-arm. It is long, slender, and flat, broader in the middle than at its extremities. It arises by a pointed extremity from the posterior surface of the ulna, beneath the supinator brevis, with which it is almost always united; then by short aponeurotic fibres, from a longitudinal ridge which is observed upon the poste- rior surface of that bone ; and lastly, from a line directed obliquely downwards and outwards, which the posterior surface of the radius presents at its upper part, and from the interosseous ligament. Its fleshy fibres constitute a fusiform bundle which descends obliquely outwards behind the fore-arm, and terminate upon the posterior surface of a tendon which is at first concealed among them, and which they accompany to the inferior extremity of the radius. There, this tendon passes into a groove formed on the outer side of the extremity in question, and which is common to it and the ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis. It is kept down by the an- terior annular ligament of the wrist, and its motions are facilitated by a synovial membrane. This membrane commonly belongs also to the extensor primi internodii pollicis, but sometimes a fibrous partition separates the two tendons. On issuing from this groove, the tendon divides into two or three portions, and goes to be insert- ed into the outer part of the superior extremity of the first meta- carpal bone, occasionally sending a small prolongation to the ab- ductor pollicis. 1200. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the supinator brevis, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digitorum, and extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, to which latter it is united. At its lowest part, it is in con-