OF THE OPTIC NERVES. 44*9 1555. The olfactory nerves differ from all the other nerves in the following circumstances: Their trunk has three roots, which the two substances of the brain concur to form. It converges towards that of the opposite side as it advances. Its form is that of a triangular prism. It is lodged in a particular groove of the brain. The arachnoid membrane does not furnish it with a sheath, and only covers it on one of its surfaces. It is entirely soft <and pulpy. It has no neurilemma. Its filaments do not anastomose with those of any other nerve. They issue from the skull by a great number of holes. OF THE OPTIC NERVES, OR SECOND PAIR OF NERVES. ► 1556. More voluminous than the preceding, and than all the Other nerves which issue from the head, with the exception of the trifacial, and remarkable for the circumstance of their course being longer within than externally of the head, and for their not furnish- ing a single branch from their origin to their termination, the optic nerves do not come from the thalami of that name, as they are pretty generally described as doing, but evidently appear to issue from the tubercula quadrigemina. In fact, the anterior pair of these tubercles (the nates) furnish a white fibrous band, which turns over the outer edge of the optic thalami, and is reinforced by joining itself intimately to the corpus geniculatum ecctermim., (1463,) a kind of bulging formed of cineritious matter. Thus far the band adheres by the whole of one of its surfaces to the optic thalamus; but it now passes under the peduncle ■of the brain, to which it is here only attached by its outer and anterior edge. The posterior pair of the tubercula quadrigemina (the testes) also fur- nish a similar band, which passes under the corpus geniculatum internum, but cannot be followed farther, so that it is impossible to decide whether it really belongs to the optic nerves. 1557. Immediately after their origin, the optic nerves proceed forwards and inwards, leaving the fissure which separates the mid- dle lobes from the cerebral protuberance, and in which they were at first concealed. When they have arrived beyond the peduncles of the brain, they cease to be broad and flat; they contract and become rounded, are exposed under the floor of the third ventricle, and adhere to the layer of gray substance (the tuber cinereum) which chiefly forms it. This layer sends to the upper surface of the nerve several white filaments, which do not cross each other, but are united to each of its sides, following a straight line. 1558. At the fore part of the pituitary fossa, the two optic nerves are so near each other that they unite and are confounded.