OF THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. C25 2155. Fibro-carfUnymous Rings. There are from sixteen to twenty of these rings in the trachea. They are not complete, however, being interrupted in tlieir posterior third. They are placed horizontally above each other, and separated by narrow membranous intervals. Curved upon themselves, and flattened in the plane of their direction, they have all the same length, but they vary much as to breadth. Their form approaches that of a very elongated right-angled triangle, when they are stretched out. They are commonly thicker at their middle part than at the extre- mities, which are sometimes bifurcated, By their convex surface, they correspond to a fibrous membrane, and by the concave are in connection with a mucous membrane. Their rounded edges give attachment to the first of these membranes, and project a little more on the inner than on the outer surface of the canal. Sometimes also several of them are seen to unite and be confounded with each other. The first is commonly very broad, and sometimes joins the cricoid cartilage. The last is still broader, and is very different from the others. It is triangular, and its middle part is prolonged inferior- ly, bending a little backwards, to accommodate itself to the origin of the bronchi. In the first ramification of the bronchi, the fibro-cartilaginous rings are entirely similar to those of the trachea, only thinner, smaller, and sometimes formed of several pieces. But in the se- condary ramifications they are merely small irregular sheaths, varying in form, united or separate, which gradually diminish, so as to disappear entirely in the ultimate divisions of these canals. The colour and consistence of the fibro-cartilage of the trachea and bronchi are the same as in those of the ear, the apertures of the nose, &c. Their elasticity is very remarkable. They seldom ossify, even in the most advanced old age. 2156. Fibrous or Outer Membrane. It comes from the infe- rior circumference of the cricoid cartilage, and is prolonged to the last extremities of the bronchi, becoming gradually thinner to an excessive degree. It is formed of longitudinal and parallel fibres, of which the more superficial are reddish, the deeper white. This membrane alone forms posteriorly the solid portion of the trachea, which gives that canal a rounded form in this place. An- teriorly it is continually interrupted by the fibro-cartilaginous rings which appear developed in its substance, and it only sends before them a very small number of fibres. The outer surface of this membrane is sprinkled posteriorly with reddish, oval, or rounded granulations, varying in their figure. These are mucous follicles, the excretory ducts of which traverse the whole substance of the canal to open upon its inner surface. They are commonly named the Glands of the Trachea. They are wanting anteriorly. Its inner surface corresponds anteriorly, and, in the intervals of the fibro-cartilages, to the mucous membrane, from which it is se- parated by a multitude of other smaller granulations, varying in