INNER SURl'ACE OF THE SKULL. 0’5 zygomatic process, is circumscribed by a low ridge, which gives at- tachment in the greater part of its extent to the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. This line, which commences at the external or- bitar process, ascends backwards upon the frontal bone, and then descends on the parietal, to proceed forwards over the temporal bone to the base of the zygomatic process, and to be continued horizontally, on the one hand, into that apophysis, and on the other, into a prominence which extends over the sphenoid bone to its union with the cheek boiie. 220. The other portion of the lateral regions of the skull, which is the postsviov and smaller, presents at its back part the mastoid process, surmounted by the mastoid hole, and limited before by the meatus auditorius externus. It is limited behind by the mas- toidal suture. Inner Surface of the Skull. 221. This surface forms the boundary of a large cavity, of an oval form, with the small extremity turned forwards. Its transverse diameter is somewhat greater than the perpendicular. In general, it is symmetrical, unless in some rather rare cases, in which, with- out the existence of any morbid cause, one side is larger than the other, of which we have seen a very remarkable example in the sladl of the celebrated Bichat. This cavity is continued behind and below into the vertebral canal, and comprehends two very distinct regions, the va7xlt and the base, which are both lined by the dura mater. The surface of the bones which constitute them is very smooth, brittle and thin, and is named by most anatomists the Vitreous Table. 222. The Vault of the Skull, which is rounded and pretty re- gularly curved, is separated from the base by a circular line car- ried from the root of the nose to the occipital protuberance. Over its whole extent there are observed cerebral impressions and arte- rial furrows. A channel, narrower before than behind, passes over it in a longitudinal direction, from the frontal crest which is ob- served at the fore part, and which has frequently a small groove formed along its whole extent for the attachment of the falx cere- bri, to the internal occipital protuberance, where it terminates pos- teriorly. This channel, which lodges the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater, presents in its middle part the sagittal suture, the serratures of which are much less distinct than on the outer surface of the skull, as is indeed the case with all the su- tures. On its sides it presents many small irregular cavities, which lodge the granulations of the membranes of the brain, and the internal orifices of the parietal holes, when they exist. We also observe in the vault of the skull laterally, the coronal fossae, the fronto-parietal suture, and the parietal fossae, separated from the superior occipital by the lambdoid suture, and formed opposite the protuberances of the same name. 223. The Base of the Skull, which is flat and very uneven, is F