102 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. circumstances, on account of the vertical plate of the ethmoid hone being laterally united to the anterior edge of the vomer, there oc- curs on one side a prominent oblique line, and on the other a cor- responding groove; or there may also be observed an aperture of greater or less size. This septum is composed of tlie vomer, the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, a crest of the frontal bone, another of the nasal bones, and a third formed by the upper maxillary and palate bones. It is marked by numerous vascular and nervous furrows; pre- sents at its upper part the lower orifices of the internal olfactory canals; is cut anteriorly by a large triangular notch ; and is ter- minated behind by the guttural edge of the vomer. 356. The Outer Wall of the nasal fossae is that which presents the most important object of examination. At its upper and fore part, there is first observed the union of some transverse and irre- gvdar lamellae of the ethmoid bone with the frontal bone and the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, of which the internal surface is seen a little beneath, where it forms part of the middle meatus. A little farther back, is a rugose and quadrilateral sur- face of the ethmoid bone, perforated by a great number of olfac- tory canals, shaped like the point of a pen, more or less long and oblique. This surface becomes convex posteriorly, and directs it- self outwards to unite with the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and with the sphenoid bone itself. From this arrangement, there re- sults a vertical channel between the body of the sphenoid bone and the lateral masses of the ethmoid, which ends above at the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus, and below at the superior meatus. This saiue surface is prolonged forwards over the middle turbinated bone; but, posteriorly, it is suddenly limited by the superior turbinated hone, which is formed by a thin plate of the ethmoid bone, inclined downwards and backwards, convex internally, concave outwards, limited anteriorly by a cul-de-sac, gradually terminated behind by the vertical channel, and below determining the form and extent of the superior meatus. 357- This meatus is a kind of horizontal channel, occupying only the posterior part of the wall which we are describing, perfo- rated anteriorly by one or two apertures, which lead into the pos- terior cells of the ethmoid bone, and posteriorly by the s^pheno-pala- tal hole, which is formed by the palate bone, the sphenoid bone, and frequently by its turbinated bone, which is sometimes double, and which always perforates directly the outer wall of the nasal fossm from within outwards. This hole gives passage to the nerves and vessels of the same name, and opens into the spheno-maxUlary fossa. 358. Beneath the superior meatus, is the middle or ethmoidul turbinated hone, larger and more curved than the upper, thin above and thick below, convex inwards, and concave externally. Its surface is wrinkled, and sometimes the small olfactory channels