ORGANS OF SENSATION. 502 municates above with the anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve (1722), and below with the sacral plexus, by the anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve (lySl). It is terminated inferi- orly by three cords which are named the crural, obturator, and sa- cro-lumbar nerves, and it previously furnishes some branches which arc named musculo-cutaneous and genito-crural. OF THE MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS BRANCHES. 1733. They are commonly three in number; but they present a multitude of variations, whether in their disposition, or in their mode of origin. In general, they direct themselves outwards, un- der the peritoneum, towards the iliac crest, there penetrate into the muscles of the abdomen and become sub-cutaneous. 1734. Superior or Ilio-scrotal Branch. It evidently arises from the first lumbar nerve, traverses the upper part of the psoas magnus, and descends obliquely outwards upon the quadratus lum- borum, as far as the posterior part of the iliac crest. There it is lodged in a groove which the transversus abdominis forms at its at- tachment to the crest, and sends some twigs to that muscle and the iliacus internus. Towards the anterior third of the iliac crest, it perforates the transversus muscle, is placed between it and the ob- liquus internus, furnishes them with some filaments, and divides in- to two twigs. Of those the outer is distributed to the lower part of the three broad muscles of the abdomen and loses itself in the in- teguments. The inner continues the original course of the branch, descends between the transversus and obliquus internus, as far as the anterior and superior spine, follows the crural arch as far as the inguinal ring, perfoi*ates the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, and ramifies in the integuments of the fold of the groin, and of the pubic region, as well as in the scrotum in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female. 1735. Middle Branch. Arising equally from the first lumbar nerve, it traverses the psoas magnus, descends along its outer edge, directs itself outwards before the iliacus internus and under the pe- ritoneum, perforates the transversus abdominis close upon the iliac crest, is placed between it and the obliquus internus, then enters the latter muscle and the obliquus externus, gives a great number of filaments to all these muscles, furnishes some also to the integu- ments, and sends one in particular along the crural arch, to the upper and outer part of the scrotum. 1736. Inferior or Inguino-cutaneous Branch. It commonly arises by two roots from the second lumbar nerve, and under the two preceding branches. After perforating the ])soas magnus, it runs along its outer edge for some tune, passes obliquely before tie iliacus muscle, gains the superior and anterior s])inc of the iliac bone, and issues from the pelvis between it and the inferior. It