MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. 2(37 scnting the appearance of imhrlcfitbon, to use tlie language of bo- tanists. »81. The posterior surface is covered by the latissimus dorsi. I’hc nuterior rests upon the three last ribs, the corresponding ex- ternal intercostal muscles, and tlic posterior lamina of tlic aponeu- rosis of the transversalis abdominis, which separates it from the sacro-spinalcs. It lowers the ribs to which it is attached, and thus contri- butes to exspiration. It is in some measure an antagonist of the preceding muscle. OK THE VEIlTEnnAI. ArONEUKOSIS, 883. The two muscles of the vertebro-costal region arc united by an aponeurosis so thin as to be absolutely transparent, and al- most to disappear by desiccation in contact with the air. It is lixed to the upper edge of the one and to the lower edge of the other ; but it is also attached externally to the angles of the ribs, and internally to the spinous processes. Its form is consequently that of a very elongated quadrilateral plane. Its fibres are in ge- neral indistinct, and are interlaced with each other in the direc- tion of the aponeurosis. At the upper and lower parts, however, there are some transverse fibres which are more distinct, and which run in a direction parallel to those of the serrati postici superiores muscles. This aponeurosis keeps down the vertebral muscles be- hind, which are thus inclosed in a sort of sheath, bony before, and membranous in the other directions. 6. Posterior Thoracic Region. OF THE LATISSIMUS DORSI. (Lumho-humeral, Chauss.) 884. The latissimus dorsi is a broad, thin, flat muscle, very ir- regularly quadrilateral, situated upon the posterior, lateral, and in- ferior region of the trunk, extending from the lower part of the back to the arm, passing over the inferior angle of the scapula, and the posterior part of the axilla. The greater part of its fleshy fibres arc inserted along the outer edge of a strong aponeurosis which is contracted at its upper part, but is very broad below, where it is confounded in part with that of the serratus posticus inferior, and the obliquus internus abdominis. This aponeurosis, which is formed of fibres interlaced in all directions below and following the direction of the fleshy fibres above, arises itself from the last five, six, seven, or eight spinous processes of the back, from all those of the loins and sacrum, from the asperities of the sacral grooves, and from the posterior part of the iliac crest, where it is continuous with aponeurotic fibres of the glutaeus maximus and sacro-spinalis. The