529 OF THE MIDDLE CARDIAC NERVES. merit at tlie same point, wliich communicates with tlie plexus of the cervical branch of the great hypoglossal nerve (1652). Some others are distributed to the muscles of the inferior hyoid region, the thyroid body, and the trachea. The superior cardiac nerve then passes outwards, crosses pos- teriorly the direction of the middle cardiac nerve, penetrates into the thorax behind the subclavian vein, opposite the bifurcation of the brachio-cephalic artery, and presently divides into several twigs which associate themselves with filaments of the inferior cervical ganglion and corresponding recurrent nerve. Sometimes also, it unites in part with the middle cardiac nerve. 1824. The superior cardiac nerve of the left side has a similar origin to that of the right side, and presents the same disposition in the greater part of its extent. But it descends between the com- mon carotid and subclavian arteries, near the origin of which it se- parates into a great number of filaments, which pass over the aorta to unite with those of the inferior cardiac nerve, or of the cardiac filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve (1637). Some of them, slip- ping behind the aorta, join the cardiac ganglion. 2. OF THE MIDDLE CARDIAC NERVES. 1825. That of the right side is the largest of the three, which exist on that side. It arises internally and anteriorly from the middle cervical ganglion, by five or six filaments, at first united into two or three branches, and afterwards into a single trunk, which descends inwards near the common carotid artery, and passes before the subclavian, anastomosing with one or two filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Beneath this vessel, it is joined by a twig of the recurrent nerve, glides before the inferior cardiac nerve, receives there two considerable filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve, forms a kind of ganglion or bulging, and continues its course on the outer side of the brachio-cephalic artery. Lastly, between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the trachea, it terminates in the cardiac ganglion. Frequently the middle cardiac nerve divides in its course into two twigs, which again unite, and circumscribe a kind of island. 1826. The middle cardiac nerve of the left side receives its prin- cipal branch from the inferior cervical ganglion. It passes behind the subclavian artery, and directs itself obliquely forwards and downwards, running along its outer side. But towards the com- mencement of the inferior thyroid artery, a great number of twigs, which come from the middle cervical ganglion, and are repeateSy interlaced together, join this branch and form a second origin to the nerve, the latter then proceeds behind the arch of the aorta, receives several filaments from the pneumo-gastric nerve, and ter- minates in the cardiac ganglion without dividing, or by spreading out into several small twigs.