ORGANS OF SENSATION. 5^23 and which may be traced with some care to the upper part of the arm. Those of the internal mammary artery in particular may be very distinctly seen. Some others lose themselves in the fibres of the scalenus anticus muscle, near its inferior attachment. There are also external filaments which go to anastomose with the anterior branches of the cervical nerves, at the moment when they go to form the brachial plexus (1678), and with the first dor- sal pair. 5. or THE ANTERIOR FILAMENTS. 1821. They unite after a short course to form the inferior car- diac nerves. JU OF THE CARDIAC NERVES. 1822. These nerves, which are particularly destined for the heart, and of which there are three on each side, do not present the same disposition to the right and left, and unite with the cardiac ganglion, from which the cardiac plexus are derived. 1. OF THE SUPERIOR CARDIAC NERVES. 1823. That of the right side is formed by five or six filaments, which come from the anterior and inferior side of the first cervical ganglion. It is almost immediately strengthened by some small twigs, which detach themselves from the cord by which the ganghon communicates with the second (1806), and sends some filaments to the external carotid plexus. All these roots afterwards unite with a single very slender trunk, which descends vertically along the neck, by the side of the trachea and thyroid body, between the common carotid artery and the cord of communication of the cer- vical ganglia. This nerve sends some filaments to the lower part of the pharyn- geal plexus, and to the thyroid body. The latter anastomose Avith those of the recurrent nerve. It also communicates by one or two other filaments with the pneumo-gastric nerve. In general, all these ramifications have very little solidity, and some anatomists have given them the name of Soft Nerves. Opposite the middle cervical ganglion, it frequently presents a solution of continuity itself from the effect of a particular ganglion, which is by no means constant in its occurrence. There also, it furnishes internally a twig of remarkable size, Avhich passes behind the carotid _artery, and throws itself into the plexus of the inferior thyroid artery (I714), after anastomising upon the carotid Avith a filament of the pneumo-gastric nerve. There also comes off from it another fila-