96 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the same name, is of a parabolical form, and intersected longitudi- nally by a suture, formed by the union of the palatal and superior maxillary bones. This suture, which is destitute of indentations, is terminated posteriorly by the posterior naml spine, to which is attached the levator uvulae, and ends anteriorly at the lower orifice of the anterior palatal canal. This orifice, which is at first very wide, soon contracts, and then presents three apertures ; two smaller lateral, situated the one to the left and behind, the other to the right and before; and a larger, middle and posterior, which is the termination of the canal itself. The two smaller orifices give pas- sage to the naso-palatal nerves, while the canal contains a nervous ganglion of a peculiar structure, and bifurcates as it ascends, in such a manner as to open into each of the two nasal fossae separate- ly. On each side of the inferior orifice of the palatal canal, there are also seen the foramina incisiva, which are formed in the pos- terior lip of the anterior part of the alveolar margin, and are much more distinct in young subjects than in adults. A probe intro- duced at the aperture, penetrates into the alveoli of the incisors. 334. The longitudinal suture which we have just described is intersected posteriorly at right angles by another transverse suture, which is formed by the junction of the palatal and maxillary bones. It is bmited, on each side, by a very uneven and slightly concave surface, which presents posteriorly the small ridge to which the ex- ternal peristaphyline muscle is attached, and the orifice of the pos- terior palatal canal, which ascends between these two bones, and gives rise, in its course, to two or three small accessory palatal canals, which open upon the tuberosity of the palate bone. It transmits the vessels and nerves which bear its name. 335. The vertical portion of this palatal region presents the pos- terior surface of the two alveolar and dentary arches, separated by the aperture of the mouth ; the posterior part of the symphysis of the chin; the genial processes; the two internal oblique hues; the fossae, in which are contained the sublingual and submaxillary glands; the insertions of various muscles already mentioned, and the base of the jaw. 336. Lateral or Zygomatic Regions. Each of these regions is composed of two distinct parts, between which is observed the empty space which we have already pointed out in describing the guttural region. One of these portions, which is external, is form- ed by the branch of the lower jaw, which must be removed to see the other portion, which is internal, and limited anteriorly by the ridge which separates the canine fossa from the maxillary tuber- osity. This tuberosity, on which are observed the orifices of the posterior dentary canals, seems to form the greater part of this re- gion. Inferiorly, it is articulated to the palate bone by means of a small verticle suture, behind which there occurs an excessively narrow triangular surface, belonging to the palate bone, and arti- culating posteriorly to the pterygoid process. At its upper part, above the tuberosity, is a portion of the upper maxillary bone,