ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 3S0 OF THE LUMBUICAEES. 13G9- Similar in form, number, and disposition to tliose of the liand (1242), these four small muscles extend from the tendons of the flexor longus to the last four toes. The first, which is the longest and largest, arises from the inner edge and upper surface of the flexor tendon of the second toe; the other three, which di- minish successively in volume from within outwards, arise from the interval which the four tendons of the flexor longus leave between them at the moment of their separation. They all proceed hori- zontally forwards, diverging a little, and terminate each by a ten- don, appearing at first on one of their surfaces and afterwards be- coming isolated, which passes between the slips of the plantar aponeurosis, runs along the inner edge of the last four metatarso- phalangeal articulations, and is at length inserted into the inner and lower part of the base of the first phalanx of each of the last toes, sending a thin aponeurosis to their extensor tendon, in the same manner as in the hand (1242). 1370. Their inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis. The upper lies beneath the oblique and transverse abductors of the great toe, and the interossei plantares. 1371. They carry the toes a little inwards, and contribute to bend the first phalanges, and to extend the second and third. 3. Internal Plantar Region. OF THE ADDUCTOR POELTCIS PEDIS.* 1372. This muscle is situated at the inner part of the sole of the foot. It is long, flat, larger posteriorly than anteriorly, and arises from the posterior, internal, and inferior part of the calcaneum, by pretty distinct aponeuroses, especially above; from an aponeurotic partition which separates it from the flexor brevis digitorum ; from the internal annular ligament of the tarsus, and from the posterior part of the plantar aponeurosis. From these different origins, the fleshy fibres proceed forwards and a little inwards, and are inserted successively and very obliquely upon the upper surface of a tendon which they conceal for some time, which afterwards appears be- neath them, unites with the inner portion of the flexor brevis (I375), and, as it were, without having been isolated from them, is attached to the lower and inner part of the base of the first pha- lanx of the great toe, adhering strongly to the ligaments by which it is connected with the first metatarsal bone. 1373. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, to which it intimately adheres behind. The upper surface is covered by the accessorius and flexor brevis pollicis muscles, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, tibialis anticus, and tibialis posticus, and by the plantar vessels and nerves. 1374. It carries the great toe inwards, and bends it a little. Jbduclor of most British writers.