702 ORGANS Oh' CIRCULATION. 24G4. Inferior Right Colic Arferij CArta'c ccecale, ChausH.) It is a little larger than the preceding, which it is found to approach very near at its commencement. Directed transversely to the right in the mesocolon, it divides, near the ccecum, into three branches. The first bends from beneath upwards, and communicates with the descending branch of the middle right colic artery. The second descends in the mesentery, and unites with the extremity of the su- perior mesenteric artery itself (2460). The third is transverse, and arises from the angle of the other two. It gains the posterior part of the colon and coecum, at the moment when these two intes- tines communicate. From thence it sends a small twig into the peri- toneal fold of the vermiform appendage. This twig, ui descending, forms a small arch, from the convexity of which proceed parallel ramifications which go to lose themselves in the walls of the appen- dage. It then separates into two twigs, of which one ascends be- hind the colon, while the other descends behind the ccecum. Both divide into a multitude of small twigs which belong to the walls of these intestines. 2465. In anastomosing with each other, as we have pomted out, the right colic arteries form distinct arches, whose convexity is turned towards the intestine, and their concavity towards the meso- colon. These arches give off no twigs by their concavity, but by their convexity they send off a very great number. These, for the most part, on leaving the arches, direct themselves parallel to each other as far as the colon; but several of them, following an obhque direction, meet and anastomose so as to constitute areolae of various forms, whence arise other secondary twigs which go directly to the intestine. When they are all arrived there, they subdivide, upon its two surfaces, into slender twigs which dive beneath the serous coat, and form a very fine net-work in the other coats. Those which belong to the coecum are much closer and more numerous than those of the colon. BRANCHES WHICH ARISE FROM THE CONVEXITY OF THE SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 2466. Their number is very variable, but commonly extends from fifteen to twenty. Their volume and length diminish from the upper towards the lower, which are mere slender twigs. They . all direct themselves more or less obliquely downwards and to the left between the two laminae of the mesentery, approaching the small intestine, for which they are destined, as well as for the lower third of the duodenum. At the end of a rather short course, each of them divides into two twigs which separate from each other and unite by arches with those of the neighbouring branches. From the con- vexity of these primary arches, there arise other smaller twigs, which presently divide in the same manner, and constitute second- ary arches by new anastomoses similar to the first. These second