OF THE BONES OF THE CARPUS. 131 the side next the fore-ann, concave in the other direction, inclined downwards and outwards. Its upper surface, which is triangular, smooth, and cartilaginous, is articulated to the radius. The infe- rior surface, which is directed a little outwards and backwards, is also triangular and smooth, convex and covered with cartilage, and is articulated to the trapezium and trapezoides. The posterior surface, Avhich is very narrow, is marked in its whole length by a groove into which ligaments are inserted. The anterior, which is also narrow, is concave at the upper and outer part, and presents a pretty distinct eminence for the insertion of ligaments. The outer surface is narrow and tubercular, and receives the insertion of the external lateral ligament of the radio-carpal articulation. The in- ner presents two concave and cartilaginous spaces, of which the up- per is narrower, and is artieulated to the semilunar bone; the un- der, broader, inclined downwards, forwards, and inwards, and is united to the head of the os magnum. OF THE SEMILUNAR BONE.* 464. The Semilunar Bone (os Lunatum) is smaller and less elongated than the scaphoid. Its upper surface is convex and smooth, and is articulated to the radius. The lower, which is of greater extent from behind forwards than in the transverse direc- O tion, presents a concave space, which is connected with the head of the os magnum, and with the os unciforme. This articulating space is sometimes double. The anterior and posterior surfaces, which are uneven and rough, give attachment to ligaments. The former of these is the largest of all. The outer surface, which is a little concave, smooth, covered with cartilage, slightly inclined upwards, and of a semicircular form, is articulated to the scaphoid bone. The inner surface is directed a little downwards, and pre- sents a broader, somewhat convex and nearly quadrilateral space, which rests upon the pyramidal bone. OF THE PYRAMIDAL BONE. 465. The Pyramidal, Triquetrous, or Cuneiform Bone, is a little smaller than the semilunar, and is situated to the inside of that bone, and a little beneath it. Its form is that of a wedge, whose base is directed outwards and upwards, and the sum- mit downwards and inwards. Its upper surface is convex and smooth, and is contiguous to a triangular cartilage, which separates it from the head of the ulna. The inferior surface is inclined outwards, a little concave and smooth, and rests upon the unciform bone; the posterior surface is uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments. The anterior presents internally a plain and circular • So named becauae the surface by which it is articulated to the scaphoid bone is of the form of a crescent.