531 OF THE THORACIC GANGLIA. wards over tlie left pulmonary artery, where they be^ii to separate from each other. Several of tlicm tlien penetrate into the lung, are interlaced with the divisions of the corresponding pulmonary plexus, and accompany the branches of the pulmonary arteries and veins. Others descend again upon the trunk of the pulmonary artery, as far as the heart. But a much more remarkable twig than any of these, crosses ob- liquely from above downwards the left pulmonary artery, and gains the posterior part of the base of the heart, towards the origin of the posterior coronary artery. There it divides into a great number of very slender filaments which are interlaced around that artery, and form the posterior coronary pleams. These filaments, which are very numerous, give rise to as many secondary plexus as the ves- sel has branches. Thus one of these secondary plexus proceed from left to right over the base of the heart, and loses itself upon its plain surface. Another runs along the left edge of the heart, from the base of the pulmonary artery to the summit of the organ. A third, which is of smaller size, descends immediately behind the heart. Some of the filaments which constitute this plexus, sepa- rate and are distributed to the walls of the heart. 2. The filaments of the second class arise a little below the pre- ceding, between the aorta and pulmonary artery. Some of them pass behind the latter and gain the posterior coronary plexus, which also receives others that have descended between the two vessels. But there are some which turn over the aorta, go to the fore part of the base of the heart, and constitute the anterior co- ronary plexus which is destined to accompany the artery of the same name. This plexus, which is much smaller than the preceding, receives however the inferior carchac nerve which belongs entirely to it. It i.s distributed upon the right auricle and the whole convex surface of the heart, anastomosing with the posterior towards the left edge of that organ. OF THE THORACIC GANGLIA. 18.3.3. Much smaller and less distinct than the cervical ganglia, they are twelve in number on each side, disposed in one and the same line, beneath the pleura, anteriorly to the head of each rib, or in the intercostal spaces. Their number may vary, however, there being often only eleven, because the first is confounded with the inferior cervical ganglion, (BUG). The first ganglion, which is larger than the others, is placed at the outer side of the longus colli muscle. 3 hey arc all firm, and of an oblong form, resem- bling grains of barley. 3’hcy all communicate with each other by filaments which go from the lower part of the one to the up])cr part of the other, and moreover furnish external and internal fila- ments.