704 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 2473. Middle Left Colic Artery. It often arises from the pre- ceding, and is sometimes wanting. It directs itself towards the first curve of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and there divides into two branches, one of which ascends to form an arch with the descending branch of the superior left colic artery, while the other unites with one of the branches of the inferior left colic. 2474. Inferior Left Colic Artery (Petite Coliyve gauche, Chauss.) It directs itself towards the middle part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and also separates into two branches. The upper ascends to form an arch with the preceding. The lower de- scends to unite with one of the twigs furnished in the meso-rectum by the inferior mesenteric artery. 2475. These left colic arteries, on arriving at the intestine, ex- hibit precisely the same arrangement as those of the right side (2465) ; that is to say, after forming arches to which succeed some areolae, they send over the two surfaces of the colon twigs at first parallel, and afterwards divided a great number of times. 2476. After furnishing the three left colic arteries, the inferior mesenteric gives off some small, and in all respects very irregular arteries, and presently after divides into two branches, which de- scend along the posterior surface of the rectum, and which are called the Superior Hoemorrhoidal Arteries (Artere du rectum, Chauss.) These two arteries, from being at first superficial, soon after conceal themselves in the layer of longitudinal fleshy fibres of the intestine, progressively diminish in size, and end by very mi- nute twigs, after giving off laterally a great number which embrace from behind forwards the circumference of the rectum, and anas- tomose on its fore part with each other and with the middle and in- ferior hoemorrhoidal arteries. Some of them leave the rectum upon its sides, and go to communicate with the lateral sacral arteries. BRANCHES WHICH ARE GIVEN OFF LATERALLY BY THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. a OF THE MIDDLE CAPSULAR (Arteres surrenales, Chauss.) 2477- These arteries, which are two in number, one on each side, are called middle, to distinguish them from those which the diaphrag- matic above, and the renal below, send to the supra-renal capsules. Their size is very inconsiderable, and they come oft from the late- ral parts of the aorta a little above the renal arteries. Sometimes they are produced by the cceliac trunk. Directed transversely over the sides of the vertebral column, they gain the anterior edge of the capsules, and divide into several branches which spread out upon the two surfaces of these organs, and ramify in their substance. Before arriving at the supra-renal capsules, they frequently throw se- veral small twigs into the pillars of the diaphragm, and into the mass of adipose cellular tissue which envelopes the kichieys. The