OF THE PMEU.AIO-GASTJUC NERVES. 478 the internal carotid artery, and anastomose with filaments of the cervical ganglion upon the common carotid artery. 1635. Superior Laryngeal Twig. Separated from the trunk beneath the preceding, and at a greater or less distance from it, this twig, which is thicker, more rounded and whiter, slips in the same manner behind the carotid artery, descends externally of the supe- rior cervical ganglion, forms an arch around its inferior extremity, and divides into two secondary twigs, an outer and an inner, after anastomosing by some filaments with the superior cervical ganglion, and with the hypoglossal nerve, and after throwing some others in- to the pharyngeal plexus. The External Laryngeal Twig descends downwards and in- wards, arrives upon the sides of the larynx, gives off, to the sterno- thyroideus, hyo-thyroideus, constrictor pharyngis inferior and crico- thyroideus muscles, filaments some of which penetrate into the larynx between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Some of these ramifications are prolonged as far as the thyroid gland. The Internal Laryngeal Twig directs itself inwards behind the thyro-hyoideus muscle, between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartil- age, traverses the membrane which unites them and spreads out immediately into several radiating filaments which become thicker and softer in a very obvious manner as they separate from each other. The upper filaments ascend on the fore part of the epi- glottis and its gland, to which they are distributed, as well as to the membrane of the pharynx, sometimes anastomosing on the me- chan line with those of the opposite side. Several of them which creep at the surface of the epiglottis enter into the holes with which that fibro-cartilage is perforated, as Bichat has remarked; but they cannot be followed upon the opposite surface. The lower filaments, which are larger, are distributed in the mucous membranes of the larynx and pharynx, and to the arytenoid gland and muscle. One of them, which is less remarkable for its size than for its course, de- scends between the thyroid cartilage and the thyro-arytenoideus muscle, then between the cartilage and the crico-arytenoideus later- alis, to throw itself entirely into the crico-thyroideus muscle. Sometimes it is contained in a canal formed m the substance of the cartilage. These ramifications never extend to the other muscles of the larynx, for which is reserved the inferior laryn- geal nerve. Some of them anastomose, upon the mucous membrane with ascending filaments of the latter nerve. 1636. Beneath the laryngeal nerve, the pneumogastric nerves, descending along the neck, give off a filament wliich goes to unite with the cervical branch of the hypoglossal nerve, another which joins the first cervical pair, and two or three grayish and delicate filaments which go to the internal carotid artery, and lose them- selves in its walls at the moment when it separates from the exter- nal. 1637. Cardiac Twigs. The pneumogastric nerves constantly furnish twigs of a larger size, and didcrently distributed to the right and left, which seem destined to join the nervous plexus of the