801 OF THE VESICULiE SEMINALES. becomes more adherent, and changes its direction so as to proceed almost horizontally from behind forwards, and from without in- wards, along the inner edge of the vcsicuhe seminales. At the base of the prostate gland, it receives a canal coming from the ve- sicular seminales, and is continued into the ejaculatory duct. 2910. The vas deferens, from being rather slender near its ori- gin, and so long as it is contained in the spermatic cord, increases in size on passing through the inguinal I’ing, and becomes twice as large along tlie vesicular seminales. At its termination, it resumes its original size. With respect to its dimensions, no duct has so small an internal diameter. Its cavity is scarcely capable of admit- ting a hair from the epididymis to within the abdomen ; but near the vesiculos seminales it sensibly increases. Its walls, which are of a dull white colour, have an almost cartilaginous consistence, and are very thick. Although it is probable, from analogy, that they are lined by a mucous membrane, it has not been actually de- monstrated. II.—OjP the vesiculm seminales, prostate, and DUCTUS EJACULATOlill. 1. OF THE VESICULM SEMINALES. 2911. The VesiculcB Seminales are two small membranous bags which form a reservoir for the semen. Placed under the bladder, before the insertion of the ureters, above the rectum, behind the prostate gland, externally of the vasa deferentia, and internally of the levatores ani muscles, of an irregular conical form, flattened from above downwards, tubercular and bulged in the whole sur- face, immersed in a mass of adipose cellular tissue, traversed by a great number of arteries and veins, they have no communication with each other, and are directed obliquely from without inwards, and a little from above downwards. Widely separated behind, and only disjoined by the vasa deferentia before, they circumscribe between them a triangular space, in which the bladder is in contact with the rectum (2879). Their posterior extremity or fundus is a rounded cul-de-sac of considerable breau.h ; their anterior extre- mity or neck is elongated, narrow, and sometimes concealed by the base of the prostate. It terminates by a very short canal which opens into the vas deferens. 2912. The vcsiculse seminales have generally in the adult a length of two inches and a half, a breadth of six or seven lines to- wards their fundus, and a thickness of two or three lines. 2913. The interior of the vesicuhe seminales seems, at first sight, to form a cavity composed of numerous cellules, separated by pa.titions; but it in reality represents a flexuous canal, termin- ating above in a cul-de-sac, and info which there open laterally simple or compound appendages, to the number of six, eight, ten,