161 OF THE FOOT. it seems narrower than the interval left between the radius and ulna. The leg presents, at its lower part, the two malleoli or ankles. In all cases it forms an angle with the foot; but it is only when bent that it forms one with the thigh. 54-8. The Foot^ which is composed of twenty-six bones very closely connected, and articulated to each other by a multitude of surfaces, forms a solid whole, of which the axis intersects, nearly at a right angle, the line of direction of the total length of the i)ody. It is longer than broad, and is more prolonged anteriorly than posteriorly, the posterior portion of the calcaneum being in fact the only part of the foot that projects beyond the leg in the latter direction. It is at first narrow, so long as it is formed of the calcaneum alone, but quickly enlarges when that bone unites with the astra- galus, and continues so to the articulation of the phalanges with the metatarsus. It again contracts in the region of the toes. On the inner side, from the calcaneum to the phalanges, the foot presents a concavity in which are lodged muscles, nerves and vessels, and which prevents it from touching the ground in its whole extent. The Back of the foot, or its upper surface, is convex and in- clined outwards and forwards. Its outer edge is thinner than the other. Its posterior extremity is named the Heel, the anterior the Point o f the foot, and its under surface the Sole. 549. The Tarsus forms a kind of vault, the concavity of which is manifestly augmented by the groove of the inner surface of the calcaneum. The bones of which this part consists are disposed in two rows, although their arrangement is less regular than in the carpus. The astragalus and calcaneum form the posterior row; to the anterior belong the os scaphoides, os ciiboides, and the three cuneiform bones. The head of the astragalus is directed forwards ; the anterior extremity of the calcaneum is turned a little inwards ; the os cu- boides, os scaphoides, and the three cuneiform bones, which rest upon it, are situated transversely. 550. The Metatarsus is composed of five bones, which are not closely connected in their whole extent, but separate as they ad- vance toward the toes. That of the great toe is situated in a plane anterior to the others, while that of the fifth is far behind. These bones are strongly articulated to each other by their tarsal extre- mity ; but anteriorly they are widely separated, a pretty large in- terval existing, in particular, between the first and second. The portion of the vault or arch of the foot formed by the metotarsus differs from that formed by the tarsus, in being less thick, and in the circumstances that the pieces of which it is composed are longer and more slender, and leave between them distinct in- tervals. 551. In the most perfect natural state, and especially in women, the second toe is the longest and exceeds the level of the others ; the first is the next in these respects, and tire rest progressively tli- M