735 OF THE JUGULAR VEIN. the sphenoidal fissure, and discharges itself into the cavernous sinus (1432). 2628. The sinuses of the dura mater, charged with all the blood that returns from the brain, the eye, part of the nasal fossa?, &c. all terminate, as we have already said (1480), at the foramen lacerum posterius. There, the internal membrane of the veins ceases to be in immediate contact with the dura mater. There also commences the internal jugular vein, by a dilatation which is named the Sinus of the Jugular Vein. Commonly larger on the right side than on the left, and lodged in the jugular fossa, this dilatation is invested externally by the fibrous membrane of the veins (2582), and is se- parated from the vein properly so called by a contraction. The vein descends a little forwards, along with the internal carotid ar- tery (2254), covered by the styloid process of the temporal bone, and by the muscles which are attached to it. It communicates at first with the external jugular vein, by a branch of large size (2586), and, a little before arriving at the level of the upper part of the larynx, it receives the facial vein. 2629. Facial Vein (Veine 'palato-lahiale, Chauss.) This vein commences on the top of the head, and on the forehead, by a great number of roots which unite into a pretty large subcutaneous branch, having frequent anastomoses with that of the opposite side, descend- ing vertically upon the middle region of the forehead, and commonly named the Frontal Vein or Vena prejmrata. When this vein has arrived upon the sides of the root of the nose, it assumes the name of Angular Vein, receives anastomosing twigs from the ophthalmic, and is augmented by Palpebral and Superciliary veins. It is here that the Facial Vein properly so called commences. It descends under the integuments or levator labii superioris alseque nasi and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, bends outwards, passes beneath the zygomaticus major at a considerable distance fi’om the com- missure of the lips, receives the dorsal veins of the nose, the supe- rior and inferior coronary veins of the lips, and several buccal and maseteric veins, and Erects itself towards the base of the jaw, without forming flexuosities like the artery to which it corresponds. It then directs itself obliquely downwards, backwards and outwards, between the platysma myoides and submaxillary gland, and on ar- riving at the internal jugidar vein, after being augmented in the latter part of its course by the ranine, submental and inferior Palatine veins. I he first of these veins arises from the point of the tongue, de- scends along its inferior surface, follows the hypoglossal nerve be- tween the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus muscles, and discharges itself into the facial vein a little above the two following. The second commences in the tongue and sublingual gland, by a branch which accompanies the sublingual duct, and which is pre- sently augmented by other branches coming from the digastricus, platysma myoides and mylohyoideus muscles, and from the sub- maxillary gland. By their union, these branches constitute the