MUSCLES OF THE LEG. tJ 73 <r riiin and narrow tendon, which passes between the solcus and gas- trocnemii, and about the lower third of the leg, adheres to the inner side of the tendo Aehillis, which it accompanies to the calcaneum, where it is inserted by expanding. 1342. Its posteriar surface is covered by the gastrocnemii and the skin; the anterior is applied upon the knee-joint, its posterior ligament (719), the popliteal vessels, and the popliteus and solcus muscles. 1343. This muscle extends the foot on' the leg, or the leg on tlic foot. It may also contribute to bend the leg on the thigh. OF THE rorLITEUS. 1344. This muscle is situated at the upper and back part of the leg, and behind the knee-joint. It is short, flat, nearly triangular, and arises, by a thick and strong tendon, upwards of an inch in length, from a depression that is observed upon the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, beneath the attachment of the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. This tendon, which is embraced anteriorly by the synovial membrane of that articulation, adhering to the external semilunar cartilage, is converted into an aponeurosis which descends for some time on the fore part of the muscle, and is afterwards concealed among its fleshy fibres. The latter, which are so much the longer and more oblique the lower they are, and are directed downwards and inwards, terminate on the posterior and superior triangular surface of the tibia, and on the inner edge of that bone, as well as on a thin aponeurosis, detached from the tendon of the semi-membranosus (1297)? and which covers the popliteus itself posteriorly. 1345. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the gastrocnemii and plantaris muscles, the popliteal vessels, and the posterior tibial nerve. The anterior' is applied upon the articula- tion of the tibia and fibula, the tibialis posticus muscle, and the tibia. Its outer edge^ which is longer than the inner, is connected above by a thin membrane with the upper part of the fibula and the soleus. 1346. This muscle bends the thigh and the leg upon each other, and draws the point of the foot inwards, making the tibja turn upon its axis.* 3. Posterior and Peep Region of the Leg. OF THE FLEXOR COMMUEIS LOEGUS DIGITOIIUM PEDIS. 1347. This muscle, which is extended at the back part of the leg and beneath the foot, is long, fiat, broader in the middle than • Win.slow affirms tliat the popliteus does not assist in bending the knee-joint; of the correctness of this opinion every anatomist may judge, by comparing what 1 have said when describing tlie anatomy of the thigli-l)one, with the reasons assignefl by tlmt great analomi.st in his '• Anatomical E.xposition.”