ORGANS OF SENSATION. 558 ARTICLE SECOND. OF THE EAR AND ITS APPENDAGES, OR THE ORGAN OF HEARING. A. OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 1. Of the Amide. a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1919. The Auricle (Pinna Auriculce) occupies on either side tlie lateral part of the head, behind the cheeks, beneath the temple, and before the mastoid process. Its size varies in dilfcrent indivi- duals, as well as its form, which is very irregular, but which may yet be compared in a general manner to that of an oval having its greatest diameter vertical and its large extremity directed up- wards. Curved in various directions, and compressed from with- out inwards, it is free above, below and behind; but before and internally it is continuous with the neighbouring parts. 1920. The external surface of the auricle, which is commonly turned a little forwards, presents several remarkable prominences and depressions, wliich are from above downwards, as follows. 1. The Helix, a kind of replication or rim of a nearly se- micircidar form, which commences towards the middle of the auri- cle, above the meatus auditorius, and at the centre of the concha. It directs itself at first forwards, then upwards, and curves back- wards to descend at the back part of the circumference of the au- ricle, which is thus in a great measure surrounded by it. It is narrow and not very prominent at its extremities, but jiresents a remarkable breadth at its middle part. Its inferior extremity, which seems bifurcated, is continuous anteriorly with another emi- nence named the anti-helix, and posteriorly with the lobe of the ear, of which we shall presently speak. 2. The Groove of the Helix, more or less deep and narrow, which commences in the concha, follows the whole course of the helix within and beneath it, and terminates towards the anterior branch of its inferior bifurcation. 3. The Anti-helix, an eminence which commences in the groove of the helix, above the concha, by a bifurcated extremity, of which one of the branches is superior, broad, obtuse and oblique, and the other inferior, narrow, more prominent and horizontal. They af- terwards unite to form a single prominence, thicker but shorter than the helix, which describes a curve whose concavity is turned