ARTICULATIONS OF THE 1‘ELVIS. 191 over the corresponding surface of the coccyx. This membrane pretty frequently occurs placed in a triangular space, bordered to the right and left by two ligaments which proceed from the sacrum in a converging direction, and at length unite upon the coccyx. Their thickness is pretty considerable. The rectum rests upon this ligament. C23. Posterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament. This is the only one admitted by some anatomists. It is triangular, Hat, broader above than below', and of a pearly tint. It arises from the margin of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal, and descends over the whole posterior surface of the coccyx, into which it is inserted. Posteriorly, this ligament receives some aponeurotic fibres from the glutaeus maximus, and is covered by the integument; anteriorly, it covers the termination of the spinal portion of the arachnoid membrane, a portion of the sacrum, and almost the whole of the coccyx. From the above description it will be seen that this ligament not only serves to strengthen the articulation, but also completes the sacral canal behind. Its superficial fibres are much longer than the deep-seated, and do not intersect each other, like the lat- ter, which are very short and scarcely extend to the coccyx, to which the former only seem to be attached. 624. Fibro-cartilage. It differs from those placed between the bodies of the vertebrae only in being thinner, and in not having its centre so pulpy. Its laminae, which are as numerous behind as before, are less so on the sides. 625. The pieces of which the coccyx is composed are connected by a similar fibro-cartilage; but ossification soon obliterates them, especially in men, for in women, this phenomenon is not observed, until they have passed the period of conception. • 2. SACRO-ILIAC ARTICULATION. 626. This articulation, which is also named the Sacro-Iliac Symphysis, is a synarthrosis formed by the union of the semilunar, notched, slightly convex and uneven surfaces which we pointed out in describing the lateral surface of the sacrum (375), and the in- ternal surface of the iliac bones (394). They are each invested by a thin cartilaginous lamina, which is, however, a little thicker on the side next the sacrum. These lamime do not come into con- tact, there being placed between them a soft, yellowish substance of a nature little known, very different from synovia, and dissemi- nated in isolated flakes. Their surface is granulated and rough in the adult only, for in children it is smooth, and even seems covered by an indistinct synovial membrane. These two surfaces are kept together by four strong ligaments, together with several irregular fibres. 627. Posterior or Great San'o-sciatic Ligament. It is placed at the posterior and inferior part of the pelvis. It is of a triangular