PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCaMOTION. 98 sentccl l)y the mastoid processes of the temporal bone. This strik- ing analogy is further strengthened by a comparison of the muscles which serve to move the spine and the head, and by the examina- tion of tlie various modifications which these two parts present in the different classes of animals. It is, moreover, somewhat remark- able, that this analogy should be more especially evident in the part of the skull in which the commencement of the spinal marrow is lodged. 340. The head, when placed on a horizontal plane, rests upon the incisors and occipital condyles. The latter are so disposed as to be opposite the middle of a line drawn from the.se teeth to the. most prominent point uf the occiput. It is here, therefore, that the centre of gravity of the head is placed, and this is the reason why it is so well kept in equilibrium upon the spine. The plane of the occipital hole is also parallel to the plane of the palate, and it is for this reason that we have the mouth turned forwards. It is, however, in the European only that we find these disposi- tions exactly such as we have represented them. In the negro, the anterior portion of the line mentioned is longer than the posterior, on account of the protrusion of the jaws ; and in proportion as we descend toward the lower orders of vertebrate animals, we find this peculiarity more distinctly marked, as Daubenton has observed; for, in them not only are the jaws elongated, but the condyles are also removed backwards. 341. Although formed of the skull and face, which we have al- ready fuUy described, the head still presents to our observation se- veral circumstances resulting from the very union of these two parts. Thus, in the first place, four large cavities are formed in the head at the expense of the skull and face together. These are the Orbitar Fossce, which contain the organs of \dsion, and the Nasal Fossce, in which are placed the organs of smeU. There are also two cavities of the same description which occupy its late- ral regions, and which are named the Zygomatic Fossce. Lastly, the Temporal Fossa, which we have seen formed in a great mea- sure by the skull, is completed by the face. OF THE ORBITS. 342. The Orbits, which are situated on each side and in the upper part of the anterior region of the head, and are perfectly si- milar in all their parts, have the form of a pyramid with the base turned forwards, but whose axis, being directed obliquely inwards, Causes the summit to incline in that direction. Their walls repre- sent four triangular surfaces, which unite so as to form laterally re- tiring angles. ' 343. The upper wall or vaiilt is slightly inclined backwards. It is concave and formed, anteriorly by the frontal bone, posterior-