ACTIVE OUGANS Ol-' LOCOMOTION. a58 downwards, anrl carries the lower angle of the scapula backwards. It may act upon the ribs in the same manner as the pcctorali's major. OK THE 8UBCLAVXUS. (Costo-claviculaire, Chauss.) 846. The Suhclavius is a small round fusiform muscle, slightly compressed from before backwards, slender at its extremities, which are tendinous and bulging in the middle, which is fleshy. It is extended obliquely at the upper and fore part of the thorax, be- tween the cartilage of the first rib and the clavicle. It originates from the cartilage and sometimes even from the osseous part of the rib, before the costo-clavicular ligament, by a flat tendon, which, after being prolonged behind the fleshy body, loses itself in its in- terior. It then ascends obliquely outward and backwards, and is lodged in the groove which is observed at the lower surface of the clavicle. It then terminates by aponeurotic fibres, which proceed outwards to the coraco-clavicular ligament, and frequently to the coracoid process itself. 847- The anterior surface of the subclavius muscle is covered by the pectoralis major. Between them, however, there is seen a thin aponeurosis, of a variable and irregular form, which is only absolutely connected with the bony parts, and which descends from the clavicle and coracoid process towards the first ribs. Its •posterior surface is applied upon the axillary vessels and the nerves of the brachial plexus. It corresponds to a triangular space, cir- cumscribed by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and trapezius. Its lowei' edge is free, and separated from the first rib by the axillary vessels and brachial plexus ; the upper is fixed to the clavicle in its two lower thirds. 848. This muscle lowers and carries forward the clavicle, and consequently the tip of the shoulder. It can also, by an ojxposite action, raise the first rib. 2. Lateral Thoracic Region. OF THE SEERATUS MAGNUS. (Costo-scapulaire, Chauss.) 849. The Seirattis niagnus, which is situated on the sides of the thorax, partly concealed by the shoulder, is very broad, tliin, and flat, of an irregularly quadrilateral form. It is terminated an- teriorly by a curved and dentated edge, formed of fleshy digitations attached to the outer smface of'the first eight or nine ribs, by as many small tendinous or merely aponeurotic cords. These digitations Ere not all alike. The first, which is very short, broad, thick, and very distinctly separated from the others, is attacluxl to the lower part of the outer surface of the first rib, to the upper part of that of