ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 6i<i2 membranes is a eontinuation of that whieh lines the left cavities of the heart (2202). It is very thin, hne, transparent, absolutely destitute of fibres, smooth, and as if serous. It breaks and tears with the greatest facility. Externally, there occurs another dense and compact coat, which seems to be continuous with the surround- ing cellular tissue, and which is formed of laminae pressed against each other, and capable of being reduced to cellular tissue by ma- ceration. It is commonly named the Cellular Coat. But it is the coat which is placed between these two that proper- ly forms the arteries. It is dense, close, thick in proportion to the calibre of the trunks, yellov/ish, sometimes grayish, composed of very distinct fibres, adhering to each other, easdy separable, how- ever, disposed in concentric layers, nearly circular, and intimately uniting externally to the cellular coat, but having very little at- tachment to the internal membrane. None of these fibres follow a longitudinal direction. They are of a very peculiar nature, but do not at all appear to be muscular; and tlie name of Muscular Coat, which many anatomists have bestowed upon them, has been impro- perly applied to them. They are fiard, fragile, possessed of little extensibility, very elastic, and not filamentous, d'hoir interstices are not filled with cellular tissue. Putrefaction seizes them with great difficulty, and they are prodigiously hardened by the action of caloric. 2209- The walls of the arteries receive minute arteries which form very complicated net-works at their surface, and to which suc- ceed less apparent venules, which go to the neighbouring trunks. No lymphatics have yet been traced in them. Their nerves are pretty distinct, and come especially from the system of the ganglia. b. OF THE ARTERIES IN GENERAL. OF THE AORTA.* 2210. The Aorta arises from the base of the left ventricle (2197) i 1’^^% connected with the heart by the inner membrane of that ventricle, which prolongs itself into its interior, and there forms three semilunar valves. The proper membrane or coat of the artery is in no way continuous with the fleshy fibres of the heart; but it commences by three semicircular festoons, which correspond to each of the semilunar valves, and which leave between them and the muscular fibres an interval of two or three fines, so that they give rise to small triangular spaces in the places where their extremities approach each other. 2211. At the moment of its origin, the aorta is concealed by the pulmonary artery, which leaves it at the end of a few lines, because the aorta immediately after its origin directs itself upwards and to the right. It presently ascends before the vertebral column, de- scribing a curve, the convexity of which is to the right and for- * 'AufTM of the Greeks.