PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. minimi cligiti, which, conjointly with them, keep the pisiform bone in its place. 8. ARTICUI.ATIONS OF THE CARPAE WITH THE METACARPAL BONES. ARTICULATION OF THE TRAPEZIUM WMTH THE FIRST META- CARPAL BONE. 693. This articulation is an arthrodia. We have already de- scribed its surfaces, (467—472), which are covered with a cartila- ginous substance, and lined by a rather loose synovial membrane, which passes from the one to the other. 694. Capsular Ligament. This is the only ligament w^hich the articulation presents. It is formed of longitudinal fibres, more distinct externally and behind than in the other directions, and passes from the circumference of the upper extremity of the meta- carpal bone to that of the articular surface of the trapezium. They leave separations between them, through which the synovial cap- sule, which lines their inner surface, is perceived. This articula- tion is also much strengthened by the muscles of the thumb. h. ARTICULATIONS OP THE FOUR LAST METACARPAL BONES WITH THE CARPUS. 695. We have already described the surfaces which constitute these articulations, and the synovial membrane which invests their cartilages, (691.) They only present two kinds of ligaments, an- terior and posterior. 696. Dorsal or Posterior Ligaments. They descend from the posterior surface of the bones of the second carpal row to the four last metacarpal bones. The trapezium and trapezoides send each one to the second of these bones. The os magnum furnishes one to the third. The fourth has two, of which one comes from the os magnum, the other from the os unciforme. The latter bone gives rise to the single ligament which belongs to the fifth metacarpal bone. All these small fasmcidi are very short, flat, quadrilateral, thin and very compact. They leave between them spaces through which pass blood-vessels. 697- PaVmar or Antenor Ligaments. They are much less distinct than the posterior, but in other respects present exactly the same arrangement. The third metacarpal bone is the only one that exhibits any difference. It is connected with the trapezium by two superficial ligaments, situated above the sheath of the ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis, and by a deep ligament situated be- neath tliat sheath. It is also connected with the unciform bone by a particular fasciculus.