OUGANS OF CIIICULATION. GO-t arises from the aorta itself, or, which is more common, from the first intercostal artery. Sometimes it is the internal mammary artery that furnishes it. At the moment of its commencement, it throws some twhgs over the oesophagus. It then advances in a tortuous manner along the posterior part of the bronchus of its side, and sends some slight ramifications over the pleura, pericar- dium, and bronchial lymphatic ganglia. , 2424. The left bronchial artertj arises from the aorta, at the same level as the right, gives small twigs to the same parts, pro- ceeds behind the left bronchus, and arrives at the corresponding lung. 2425. Frequently the two bronchial arteries come from a com- mon trunk. Sometimes there are four of them, two for the right lung and two for the left. They present a multitude of variations; but in all cases where they have arrived at the entrance of the bronchi into the lungs, the right commonly separates into five twigs, and the left into four. These twigs plunge into the paren- chyma of the organ, along with those of the bronchi, and sub- divide precisely like them, in such a manner, however, that each bronchial twig is accompanied by two or three very flexuous arterial twigs, frequently anastomosing together. There results a very fine net-work, which is especially distributed to the bronchi, al- though some ramifications also go to the parenchyma of the lung and the walls of the pulmonary arteries and veins. The bronchial arteries communicate with the other vessels which enter into the composition of the lungs. h. OP THE (ESOPHAGEAL AR1T5RIES. 2426. Their number varies from two to five or six, and their size equals that of the bronchial. They arise from the fore part of the aorta, and give off at first some twigs to the pleurae, and to the cellular tissue of the posterior mediastinum. Almost immediately after their commencement, they bend to the right and downwai-d.s, and ramify in the substance of the w^alls of the oesophagus. The lowest anastomoses with branches of the coronary artery of the- sto- mach. C. OF THE POSTERIOR MEDIASTINAL ARTERIES. 2427. They are extremely numerous and very slender. Tliey come from the fore part of the aorta, and from the (esophageal and intercostal arteries, and arc distributed to the cellular tissue of the posterior mediastinum and to the walls of the aorta, where they form a very elegant net-work. Some of them anastomose by an arch with the thymic twigs of the internal mammary artery.