PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 48 bony points give rise to a suture, which, at an advanced age, is more frequently observable in women than in men. This assertion, however, is erroneous; for it is as frequently met with in adults in the one sex as in the other. The suture in question generally dis- appears a few years after birth, although not at any very regular period. OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE. Form. The Occipital Bone is flat, symmetrical, of a rhomboi- dal form, and curved upon itself It is situated at the posterior, middle, and inferior part of the skull, and is divided into the fol- lowing parts. 161. Occipital or Posterior Surface. This surface is convex. There are observed upon it, in the median line proceeding from below upwards : 1st, A rough surface, nearly horizontal, lined by the membrane of the pharynx, giving attachment to the large and small recti muscles of the head. It is called the Basilar Surface. 2dly, The Occipital Hole., which is of an elliptical form, with its greatest diameter placed from behind forwards, and gives passage to the spinal marrow, with the prolongation of the cerebral mem- branes by which it is enveloped, and the vertebral arteries and spinal nerves. 3dly, The Outer Occipital Bidge, into which is fixed the posterior cervical ligament. 4thly, Above the latter part, the Occipital Protuberance, situated nearly in the middle of the space which separates the occipital hole from the upper angle of the bone, and more or less prominent and uneven. Between this angle and the protuberance there is a convex surface, which is covered by the epicranial aponeurosis. 162. On either side, and in the same direction, there is observed the Condyle of the occipital bone, an articular convex eminence, of an oval form, elongated from behind forwards and from without inwards, covered with cartilage, uneven on the inner side for the attachment of a ligament which comes from the odontoid process, limited outwardly by a surface into which is inserted the rectus externis capitis, and marked behind and before with two cavities which are named the Fossae of the Condyles, and which are distin- guished into anterior and posterior. Both are perforated, at their bottom, with a hole which bears the same name. The first of these two holes gives exit to the hypoglossal nerve; the other is traversed by arteries and veins, and is sometimes wanting, a cir- cumstance never observed with respect to the first, which is even in many cases double. Beyond the condyle are impressions for the attachment of the great and small posterior recti and obliquus superior capitis, which arc situated under a curved line called the inferior, pretty distinct, and surmounted by other impressions, into which are fixed internally the complexus magnus, externally the splenius, and by a second curved line called the superior, which