ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. CG8 4. OF THE SUPEElOn PALPEUttAI. ARTERY. 2306. It arises beside and a little before the preceding, and even frequently by a trunk common to both. It sends at first a branch into the upper half of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and some small twigs to the lachrymal sac, the caruncula lachrymalis, and the tu- nica conjunctiva. It is not rare to see one of the anterior ciliary arteries also separating from it at the same point. It then passes between the fleshy fibres of the muscle, proceeds outwards along the superior tarsal cartilage, and terminates by anastomosing with one of the twigs of the lachrymal artery. In its course, it exhibits precisely the same circumstances as the preceding. BRANCHES WHICH TERMINATE THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 1. OP THE NASAL ARTERY. 2307. Its volume varies much and is sometimes very large. It issues from the orbit above the tendon of the orbicularis palpebra- rum, passes over the side of the root of the nose, and in descend- ing gives some twigs to the lachrymal sac and the neighbouring muscles. It anastomoses more or less low with the last extremity of the facial artery (2137), after forming by its numerous ramifi- cations a very apparent vascular net-work. 2. OF THE FRONTAL ARTERY. 2308. It is smaller than the nasal, and directs itself a little out- wards, to issue by the upper and inner part of the orbit. It as- cends upon the forehead, between the bone and the orbicvdaris pal- pebrarum muscle, and divides at once into two or three branches which become subcutaneous, and subdivide to infinity, and in all kinds of directions, in the orbicularis palpebrarum, frontalis and cor- rugator supercilii muscles. Its ramifications anastbmose with those of the opposite frontal artery and superficial temporal. 2309. After giving rise to the ophthalmic artery, the internal carotid still produces in the interior of the skull several twigs dis- tinguished into posterior and anterior. The first are the commu- nicating and choroidal arteries ; the others, the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. 1. OF THE COMMUNICATING ARTERY OF AVILLIS. 2310. It directs itself obliquely backwards and a little inwards, passes over the side of the pituitary shaft and mammillary emi- nences, above the arachnoid membrane, and internally of the thick-