403 OllGANS OF 3K^■^iATJO^^ or opaque. They vary much in size and number, and sometimes are entirely wanting. • • i 1430. The thyroid body receives four principal arteries turnish, ed by the external carotid and subclavian arteries, and frequently the arch of the aorta sends a separate branch to it. Its veins are very numerous, and accompany the arteries, or issue from its low-, er edge. Its nerves come from the pneumo-gastric nerves and cer- vical ganglia. Its lymphatics lose themselves in the jugular gan- glia. ^0 appearance of an excretory duct has ever been discover- ed in it. ARTICLE THIRD. ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1. Of the Encephalon (Brain and Spinal Marrow,) or Common Centre of Perceptions and Volitions. 1431. The Encephalon* is a soft pulpy organ, which is contained in the cavity of the skull, and in the vertebral canal (72,) and which is the centre of most of the nerves, of the sensa- tions and acts of volition. Symmetrical and regular, like the cavi- ties which contain it, proportionally larger in the child than in the adult, in man than in woman.-[* “ This organ is divided, accprdr ing to its length and in the direction of the median line of the trunk, into two equal portions, the one right and the other left. But these portions, which in part of their extent are distinct, and separated by a more or less deep slit or groove, are in several places brought together, and intimately united by laminae, forming reciprocal commissures.”It consists also of single parts placed along the median line, and of double parts which occupy the sides of that line. But, besides this longitudinal division, there are also observed fissures which divide the brain in the direction of its breadth, and which permit it to be considered, for the facility of study only, as formed of four parts, very different from each other in respect to size, situation, texture, and form. The first of these parts is the Brain proper, or Cerebrurn, which occupies the great- er part of the cavity of the skull; the second is the Cerebellum, • ’Evxi^oXof, iv placed within the head. t At the moment of birtli, the weight of the brain forms tiie sixtii or seventh part ot tiiat of the wltolo body. In tlie full-grown man it is not more tliaii about the tliirty.fifth part. J C'haussier, Expos. Soemm. de la Structure de I’Enceph, li?07.