169 OP THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. into a soft, whitisli and homogeneous pulp. Both are dissolved into jelly in boiling water, after having first curled, and that some- times with so much violence as to detach the surface of the bone to which they are fastened. They equally harden in the air, and ac- quire there the transparency of horn. Sulphuric acid reduces them to a blackish pulp, and nitric acid converts them into a yellow substance. Acetic acid swells them and reduces them to a gelati- nous mass. The alkalies swell and soften them. 5G8. Articular Fibrn-cartilages. Those bodies of a peculiar nature, which are stUl called Inter-articular Cartilaginous Liga- ments, and which are intermediate in form and properties between the hgaments and cartilages, were formerly considered as true hga- ments. They are in fact formed of a sort of hard, tenacious, dense and compact, fibrous base, in the meshes of which is deposited a true cartilaginous substance, to which are owing the white colour which characterizes them, the inorganic appearance which their section presents in several places, and the elasticity which they particularly possess. The resistance which they oppose to rup- tures, and their solidity, are on the other hand derived from the nature of their base. They are almost always met with in the interval of the surfaces of certain moveable articulations, as in the knee or jaw. There are also some of them between the bodies of the vertebrae, and these are true Amphiarthrodial Neuro-chondroids, according to Galen’s expression. Their form is singularly variable, They commonly represent a kind of plates, generally free at their two surfaces, and occasionally perforated in the centre. They are not covered by a perichondrium. But few blood-vessels are observed in them, and no nerves have yet been discovered. Their elasticity is very manifest. Desiccation renders them hard and brittle, without giving them a yellow tint. Reagents act upon them, as upon the two systems whose nature they seem equally to participate. 569. Articular Synovial Membranes or Capsules. These mem- branes, which have only been accurately described of late years, and in particular by Bichat, have the greatest resemblance to the serous membranes, with reference to their form, structure and functions. They occur in all the moveable articulations without exception, and form bags without apertures, transparent, and ap- phed over all the parts which enter into the composition of the joint, without containing any of them. Their internal surface is free, contiguous to itself, smooth, polished, often furnished with villosities and fimbriated prolongations, and continually lubricated by an albuminous fluid of an aspect almost similar to that of the cavity of the pleura or peritoneum. Their external surface is un- even, wrinkled, attached by cellular tissue to all the neighbouring organs, the ligaments, fibro-cartilages, diarthrodial cartilages, &c., and is often seen to form a kind of small hernise between the fibres of the capsules.