OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 763 which we have hitherto cxairined, as well as many others, com- mences upon the body of the third lumbar vertebra, by the suc- cessive union of five or six very large trunks, themselves resulting from the assemblage of all the absorbent plexus of the abdomen. At the union of all these trunks, near the aortic aperture of the diaphragm, the thoracic duct almost always presents a remarkable dilatation, which is called Receptaculum (Chyli, Reservoir of Pec- quet, or Cisterna Chyli), and which is placed behind the aorta, at the anterior and left part of the second lumbar vertebra. Above this enlargement the thoracic duct ascends into the chest, entering between the pillars of the diaphragm, with the aorta on its left side and the vena azygos to the right. It contracts as far as the sixth dorsal vertebra, after which it inclines to the left, be- comes sensibly dilated, and ascends behind the arch of the aorta to the left subclavian artery, on the inner side of which it is placed on the longus coUi muscle. It then arrives at the seventh cervical vertebra, bends inwards and downwards, passes behind the thyroid artery and the left internal jugular vein, and opens quite close to the latter, into the posterior part of the subclavian vein of the same side. Its aperture is furnished internally of the vein, with two valves which prevent the blood from passing fi’om the vein into the duct. Sometimes the thoracic duct is straight in its whole extent, but it is more frequently flexuous. In many subjects it divides into several branches, which afterwards unite, forming a kind of islands between them. It frequently separates into two or three trunks at its termination. I once saw it divide into two branches, one of which followed the ordinary course, while the other went to dis- charge itself into the right subclavian vein, close to the great lym- phatic vein of the same side. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH THE THOllACTC DUCT IlE- CEIVES IN ITS COURSE. 2761. Several lymphatics of the liver and ganglia surrounding the cceliac artery ascend into the thorax by the aortic aperture of the diaphragm, and empty themselves into the thoracic duct at a greater or less height. 2762. Intercostal Lymphatics. They arise in the external muscles of the thorax and intercostales, and at first pass through some ganglia lodged between the two planes of the latter. On the sides of the vertebral column, they unite with other vessels which come from the spinal canal and muscles of the back, spread out in the neighbouring ganglia, and then form some plexus before the ver- tebral column. From thence they descend, to open very obliquely into the thoracic duct. Those of the right side are a little longer than the left. 2703. The thoracic duct moreover receives a multitude of