PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. lOA OF THE SUTUllES FOKMEl) BY THE UNION OF THE SKULL ANU FACE. 363. Almost all the points at which these two parts come into contact present sutures with very distinct denticulations. I’hus there is one situated transversely above the nose, and formed by the meeting of the nasal and upper maxillary bones with the frontal bone. It is continued laterally into those of the internal orbitar processes and lachrymal bones. Then there is observed, to the outside of the orbit, the suture which the frontal and sphenoid bones form with the malar bone ; then that of the malar bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone; and lastly, the su- ture formed between the ascending portion of the palate bone and the pterygoid process. The latter is vertical, and very indistinctly marked. We ought also to include among the sutures of this class those which result from the articulation of the vomer with the sphenoid bone, of the inferior turbinated bones with the ethmoid, and of the latter bone with the palatal and upper maxillary bones, always observing that for the most part they present but very in- distinct serratures, and that some of them even are nothing more than mere juxtapositions of surfaces. OF THE TEMPORAL, ZYGOMATIC, AND SPHENO-MAXILLARY FOSS.E. 364. We have already, in part, described the temporal fossa. When the head is entire, it is bmited below by the zygomatic arch, a sort of bony projection formed by the temporal and malar bones. It is directed forwards, has a double curvature, so as to be at once convex above and concave below, and is separated from the rest of the bone by a large empty space, which is filled up by the tem- poral muscle. In its middle its presents a suture which results from the union of the two bones of which it is constituted, and which is so disposed that the temporal rests upon the malar, their edges being here oblique. This suture is very distinctly serrated. Before the zygomatic arch, the temporal fossa is completed by a portion of the posterior surface of the malar bone, in which are seen two or three small vascular apertures. Posteriorly, a trans- verse ridge, formed upon the sphenoid bone, separates this fossa from the zygomatic. 365. Zygomatic Fossa.—This name is given to the space com- prised between the posterior edge of the outer wing of the ptery- goid process and the ridge which descends from the malar tubero- sity. We have already pointed out most of the objects that are met Avith upon it. What we have noAv to say, is, that the ma5.ii- lary tuberosity is separated, above the pterygoid process, by a fis- sure which gives passage to the internal maxillary artery, and which Bichat has named the pterygo-maFiUary fissure. It is vertical,