BRANCHES OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 7‘23 posite the joint. It almost immediately passes horizontally, from behind forwards, through the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and divides into two branches, one of which descends behind the crucial ligaments, and loses itself in the neighbouring cellular tis- sue, while the other dives into the depression which separates the two condyles of the femur, and is distributed in the fat which oc- curs there, giving twigs to all the parts of the joint. BRANCHES WHICH THE POPLITEAL ARTERY GIVES TO THE UPPER PART OF THE LEG. 1. OF THE ARTERIES OF THE GASTROCNEMII MUSCLES. (Arth'ice Surales.) 2570. These arteries are two in number, and come off from the posterior and lateral parts of the popliteal artery, separated from each other at their commencement by the sciatic nerve. They di- rect themselves obliquely backwards, and gain the middle of the anterior surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. They then dive into its substance, and terminate towards the place where it is united to the soleus by an aponeurosis. Near their origin, they give off some twigs to the plantaris and popliteus. 2. OF THE INTERNAL INFERIOR ARTICULAR ARTERY. 2571. It arises from the popliteal artery above the popliteus muscle, descends obliquely inwards, under the sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle. It then winds over the corresponding tu- berosity of the tibia, between the bone and the internal lateral li- gament of the knee joint and the united tendons of the sartorius, gracilis and semitendinosus muscles. It then curves from be- neath upwards, and ascends along the inner edge of the ligament of the patella, as far as the lower part of that bone, where it anas- tomoses with a branch of the internal superior articular artery, and with twigs of the external inferior articular. 2572. It gives off some small twigs to the popliteus and gastroc- nemius internus. The others are spread out upon the inner side of the articulation, upon the periosteum of the tibia, and even in the integuments. 3, OF THE EXTERNAL INFERIOR ARTICULAR ARTERY. 2573. It arises externally from the popliteal artery, farther down than the preceding, concealed in its origin by the plantaris muscle, under the outer condyle of the femur. It descends obliquely outwards, above the soleus muscle, between the popliteus and gastrocnemius and enters beneath the tendon of the biceps fe-