725 OF THE DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. which ascends obliquely inwards in the substance of the upper ex- tremity of the tibialis anticiis, gives it many ramifications, traverses the tibial ap.oneurosis, and divides into several twigs which anasto- mose, around the knee joint and in the integuments, with the in- ferior articular arteries. 2579. In the rest of its extent, this artery gives off laterally a great number of twigs to the peronei, tibialis anticus and extensores muscles, to the periosteum of the tibia and to the integuments. These twigs anastomose internally with those of the posterior tibial artery, and externally with those of the fibular. It also furnishes several posteriorly, which pass through the interosseous ligament, and lose themselves in the posterior and deep muscles of the leg. 2580. Near the ankle, the anterior tibial artery gives off two branches of larger size, an inner and an outer. The inner, which is named the Internal Malleolar Artery^ passes transversely be- hind the tendon of the tibialis anticus, gains the inner malleolus, and descends upon the neighbouring part of the tibio-tarsal articu- lation and of the tarsus itself, where it divides into small twigs, which communicate wdth those of the posterior tibial artery. The outer branch, or External Malleolar Artery, glides behind the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles, descends along the outer malleolus, passes over the ankle- joint, and gives it some ramifications, as well as to the correspond- ing side of the tarsus. It communicates with the peroneal artery, the dorsal artery of the foot, and the external plantar. • OF THE DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. (Arth'e Pedieuse.) 2581. This is the direct continuation of the anterior tibial ar- tery, and extends from the ankle-joint to the posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone, where it enters beneath the first tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, to gain the sole of the foot by passing vertically through the adductor of the second toe (1387). Ill this course, the artery, which is slightly flexuous, and directed obliquely from without inwards, and from behind forwards, is successively covered by the skin, the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum, and the extensor brevis digitorum, and gives off* branches, which are distinguished into internal and external. 2582. Internal Branches. They are very numerous, but very slender, and are distributed upon the corresponding ege of the foot, where they anastomose with those of the internal plantar artery. 2583. External Branches. They are more numerous and of larger size. They ramify upon the back of the foot, and in the ex- tensor brevis digitorum muscle. Two of them have received par- ticular names. 2584. Tarsal Artery {Arth'e sus-tarsienne,C\iQ,\XHS.) It arises opposite the head of the scaphoid bone, and directs itself outwards