THE SrHENOID BONE. 37 115. The Upper or Cerebral Surface, which is very uneven, is in connection with the membranes of the brain, and presents the following peculiarities. On its middle part, and from behind forwards, there are observ- ed, Is/, A thin quadrilateral lamina, inclined forwards, superficially notched on the sides for the passage of the external motory nerves of the eye, forming part of the basilar canal, and presenting at its two upper angles, two processes of a somewhat variable form, named the Fonterior Clinoid Processes, which afford attachment to a replication of the tentorium cerebelli. 2d, The Pituitary Fossa or Sella Turcica, which is of a square form, deep, perfo- rated with a considerable number of holes, having a direction to- wards the guttural surface of the bone, and whose use is not well known. Vieussens, however, says, he has been convinced by a great number of observations, that they give passage to small veins, which go from the coronary sinus of the dura mater to the pituitary membrane. It lodges the pituitary body. 3dly, Ante- riorly to the sella turcica, a transverse groove, on which rests the junction of the optic nerves, and which ends at the optic holes, after curving a little forwards. Mhly, A smoothish surface, over which the olfactory nerves pass in two slight longitudinal depres- sions, separated from one another by a‘ very superficial projection. 116. Laterally, and from behind forwards, we observe. Is/, The small round foramen for the passage of the middle meningeal ar- tery. 2dly, In most cases, two or three small vascular apertures for the emissary veins of Santorini. 3dly, The foramen ovale or lower maxillary hole, for the passage of the third branch of the trifacial nerve. It perforates the bone directly from above down- wards, and is sometimes double. Mhly, The foramen rotundum, or upper maxillary hole, which is a true canal, having a direction forwards, and giving exit to the second branch of the same nerve. 5thly, On the outer side of the foramen rotundum, a large concave surface, irregularly quadrilateral, marked with arterial grooves and cerebral impressions. Qthly, On the inner side, a broad groove, which lodges the cavernous sinus and the inner carotid artery, to- gether with several important nerves. Anteriorly, this groove is terminated by a small prominence, to which is attached an aponeu- rosis, common-to the inferior, internal and external recti muscles of the eye. There is often observed in this groove, on the sides of the pituitary fossa, a considerable hole, which descends to the upper part of the pterygoid fossa, and which also gives passage to an emissary vein of Santorini. At the foremost part there occurs, ^thly. The orbital jjrocess or srnall icing of Ingrassias, a tri- angular, depressed, transverse eminence, smooth above, where it corresponds to the anterior lobes of the brain ; forming part of the orbit below; terminated before by an uneven edge, which unites with the lower margin of the coronal bone; behind, by a blunt free edge, which penetrates into a fissure of the brain ; outwardly, by a pointed summit; internally, by a thicker part, in which there