50(3 ORGANS OF SliNSATION. extremity ol tlic })i'occssiis coclilcariformis there opens a narrow and pretty long eanal, wliich obliquely traverses the substance of the bone, and, on the one hand, goes to gain the same groove of which we have just spoken, while, on the other, it degenerates itself into a groove which passes over the circumference of the fenestra ovalis, the promontory and the anterior edge of the fenestra rotunda in succession, to be finally converted into a canal which descends in the groove by which the carotid canal is separated from the sinus of the jugular vein, and terminates in a small fossa. This canal is traversed by a filament of the superficial petrous nerve, which ascends to anastomose on the promontory with a filament of the superior cervical ganglion, to go along with it, united into one, and accompanied by a small artery, to throw itself into the terminating fossa, and be confounded with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, after throwing some filaments into the membrana tympani and into the membrane of the fenestra ovalis. 1943. Of the Eustachian Tuhe. This name is given to a canal partly osseous, partly fibro-cartilaginous and membranous, wdiich extends from the cavity of the tympanum to the upper part of the pharynx. Inclined obliquely forwards, inwards and downwards, it is about two inches in length, and has consequently a greater ex- tent than the auditory canal. Its bony portion, which is from eight to nine lines in length, and is situated above the carotid canal, internally of the glenoid fissure and of the spine of the sphe- noid bone, commencing in the tympanum by a pretty wide orifice, is itself narrow and rounded in its middle part. Its fibro-cartUa- ginous portion increases progressively in diameter, and is compressed so as to present an elliptical section. It terminates near the inner wing of the pterygoid process, behind the posterior aperture of the corresponding nasal fossa, by a kind of wide, free, bulging pa- vilion, of which the edges are apphed upon each other so as to form only a fissure of no great width. This last portion of the Eustci- chian tube, which is placed under the base of the skull, is sur- rounded by the peristaphyline muscles and by cellular tissue. At its internal orifice, it is embraced by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. 1944. The Fihro-cartilage of this canal, placed internally, flat- tened in the greater part of its extent, irregularly quadrilateral, curved upon itself from beneath upwards and from within outw'ards, forms at first its whole inner wall, and afterwards constitutes the upper region of the outer wall. It seems to result from the angu- lar junction of two distinct lamina;, of which the outer is very nar- row, and even pretty frequently does not exist at all. Differing in this respect from the fihro-cartilage of the aiuhtoi’y canal, the cartilage of the Eustachian tube is not only connected with the bony portion by a kind of ligament, but is dove-tailed as it were into its inequalities. Near the foramen lacerum anterius, it is identified with the fibro-cartilaginous lamina which closes it, and adheres to the middle of the inner wing of the pterygoid process, as