736 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. trunk of the vein, which descends backwards between the body of the jaw and the anterior l)elly of the digastricus muscle, and opens into the facial vein or into the superior thyroid. The third arises chiefly from the tonsils and velum palati, ac- companies the inferior palatine artery, descends upon the sides of the pharynx, and receives some twigs which come from the ptery- goideus internus and stylo-glossus muscles. 2630. After receiving the facial vein, the internal jugular is augmented by the lingual and pharyngeal veins. 2631. Lingual Vein. It arises particularly from a very com- plicated net-work, which is placed towards the base of the tongue, beneath the mucous membrane, between the epiglottis and the fo- ramen coecum (1971)- It also receives many twigs from the tis- sue of the tongue, the sublingual gland, and the genio-glossus muscle. It anastomoses with the ranine vein, descends between the sublingual gland and the genio-glossus muscle, then enters the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles, and directs itself horizon- tally backwards and outwards before the latter, along the upper edge of the hyoid bone. It frequently unites with the pharyngeal before opening into the jugular. 2632. Pharyngeal Vein. It commences at the pharyngeal ve- nous plexus, of which we have already .spoken (2584), which is formed by the anastomoses of the two pharyngeal veins, of some emissary veins of Santorini, and of the internal maxiUary veins. Its size is considerable. It opens into the jugular vein separately or along with the preceding. 2633. At the level of the upper edge of the larynx, the inter- nal jugular vein receives the superior thyroid and occipital veins. 2634. Superior Thyroid Vein. It arises in the thyroid’body by a multitude of roots which anastomose upon the upper edge of that organ with those of the opposite side, and which unite into a single trunk which passes between the sterno-thyroidei and sterno- hyoidei muscles, frequently receive the ranine and lingual veins, and always the laryngeal vein, which comes from the interior of the larynx, divides into two branches, and thus opens into the ju- gular vein by different points. 2635. Occipital Vein. Its roots exactly follow the course of the twigs of the occipital artery (2221), and unite into a single trunk, which passes under the splenius muscle to open into the internal jugular vein, or into the external, but more rarely into the latter. 2636. Veins of the Diploe. They are situated in the substance of the diploe of the bones of the skull, and lodged in particular canals. They commence by very delicate and very numerous ca- pillary radicles, which form a kind of net-work upon the soft mem- brane which lines the areolae of the diploe. By their successive union, these original radicles form branches becoming larger and larger, in the interior of which arc observed small valves, and which direct themselves towards the base of the skull. The number and size of these principal branches vary much ; but