ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 59G ator, there also occurs a great quantity of soft and yellowish fat, contained in a very loose cellular tissue. 2051. Mucous Layers. Here the common membrane is thin- ner than in the other parts of the mouth. It covers a great num- ber of follicles, -which are commonly named Buccal Glands. ^I'hey have the greatest resemblance to those of the lips (2038). Their orifices are irregularly dispersed over the inner surface of the cheek, and are easily distinguished from that of the parotid duct, which is marked by a particular prominence at the middle of this region, near the third grinder of the upper jaw. At the back part, between the masseter and buccinator muscles, are two small bodies formed of the assemblage of several of these follicles. They are designated by the name of Molar Glands, because the orifice of their excretory duct is situated opposite the last molar tooth. 2052. The arteries of the cheeks come from the labial, trans- verse, buccal, upper alveolar, and infra-orbitar arteries. The veins correspond to them, and discharge themselves into the two jugular veins. Their lymphatic vessels go to the ganglions of the neck. Their nerves are supplied by the infra-orbitar, facial, buc- cal, and masseteric nerves. Some of them come also from the cer- vical plexus. f. OF THE PALATE. 2053. The Palate (Palatum Fornix Palati) is the upper wall of the mouth, limited anteriorly by the adhering edge of the upper lip, posteriorly by the base of the velum palati, and laterally by the cheeks. It represents a kind of parabolic arch, a little longer than broad, horizontal, but slightly hollowed, and perfectly fixed. A white line, slightly depressed, traverses the palate from before backwards, and in the course of the median line of the body. At the anterior extremity of this line, between the two middle incisiors of the up- per jaw, is a small tubercle which corresponds to the inferior orifice of the anterior palatine canal (328). 2054. Bony Portion of the Palate. It is formed by the upper alveolar arch, the inferior surface of the palatal processes of the superior maxillary bones, and the horizontal portions of the palate bones; and has already been fully described (332). 2055. Palatine Membrane and Gums. On the vault of the palate, the common mucous membrane is denser, thicker, and less red than in the other parts of the mouth. At its anterior part, it presents transverse rugosities, varying in number and extent, and at this place it is thicker than behind. In the rest of its extent, it is smooth and interspersed with numerous holes, which are the orifices of mucous follicles situated between it and the bony arch of the palate. These follicles become more numerous as we ap- proach the velum. In their intervals, very distinct prolongations