538 ORGANS OF SENSATION. There are then formed some small ganglia, particularly behind the renal artery or vein. Then also they all penetrate together into the substance of the kidney. 1851. Just at the commencement of the capsular arteries, there is detached from the renal plexus a small secondary plexus, {Pleaius Surrenal, Chaussier,) which accompanies them, sends, some filaments over the sides of the diaphragm, and joins itself to certain twigs of the semilunar ganglion. 6. SPERMATIC PLEXUS. 1852. These are also two, and are derived especially from the renal plexus. Formed by a small number of twigs, they follow the course of the spermatic arteries to the testicle in the male, and to the ovarium and Fallopian tube in the female; but it is impossi- ble to say with certainty whether they penetrate the tissue of these organs. Two or three ganglia are observed in their course, and some filaments separate from them for the ureter. OF THE LUMBAR GANGLIA. 1853. The Lumbar Ganglia, of which there are commonly five on each side, although sometimes only two or three, are of an ob- long form and variable size. They occupy the space comprised between the twelfth rib and the articulation of the last vertebra with the sacrum, situated on the lateral and anterior parts of the body of the vertebrae, near the psoas magnus, behind the vena cava to the right, and the aorta to the left, and are more distinct from each other than the thoracic ganglia, and frequently larger on one side than on the other. Their twigs, which are very white, are naturally distinguished into twigs communicating between the different ganglia, and into external and internal filaments. 1. COMMUNICATING TWIGS. 1854. They go from one ganglion to the other. Their form is often fasciculate, or they are united three or four together. Some- times one or two are wanting, so that the communication is inter- rupted ; or the two neighbouring ganglia are confounded and di- rectly connected without their assistance. They are always very slender and of variable length, the ganglia themselves not occupy- ing a very determinate place. The first connects the last thoracic ganglion with the first lumbar.