59 THE SKULL IN GENERAL. junction of tlic bones of the cranium may be observed, where they form lines, more or less irregular, to which the name of sitUvren is given. These lines are in fact much less distinct on the inside of the skull, where they merely pesent the form of superficial marks without indentations, at least in adults. When they exist between bones of no great thickness, they penetrate directly into the skdl; but when the contrary is the case, they follow an oblique direction, the edges of the bones being there shaped in such a manner as to overlap each other. All these sutures seem to proceed from va- rious points of the circumference of the sphenoid bone. 197. Thus, from the anterior surface of that bone, there is seen proceeding to the right and to the left a curved line, concave an- teriorly, which results internally from the junction of the sphenoid bone with the ethmoid and with the sphenoidal turbinated bones, and externally from the articulation of the first of these bones with the frontal. It traverses the upper wall of the orbit, and when it has arrived at the external orbital process of the frontal bone, it directs itself backwards, toward the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone. It then presents two more distinct dentations, and a greater thickness than in the rest of its extent, where the edges of the bones of which it is formed are extremely thin, and are merely placed together without interlocking by means of denti- culations. This is the Sphenoidal suture. 198. Behind the sphenoid bone there is seen a second trans- verse short suture, which disappears with age, and is formed by that bone itself and the basUar process of the occipital bone. It is named the Basilar suture. So long as it exists, it is filled up by a cartilaginous plate lying between the bones. 199- On its lateral parts, the sphenoid bone is limited by a curved line, concave posteriorly, and arising from the junction of that bone with the squamous portion of the temporal. This is the Spheno-temporal suture. It presents denticulations, although the surfaces of which it is formed are cut very obliquely. It termi- nates below toward the glenoid fissure, by forming an acute angle with another suture named the Petro-sphenoidal, produced by the anterior edge of the petrous process and the posterior edge of the sphenoid bone; and it unites above with the sphenoidal suture by a short longitudinal line, slightly curved, which results from the junction of the extremity of the great wings of the sphenoid bone with the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone, and which may be named the Spheno-parietal suture. 200. From the anterior angle of the latter suture proceeds the Fronto-parietal or Coronal suture, which cuts the upper part of the cranium almost vertically, and terminates at the corresponding point of the other side. It points out the separation of the frontal and two parietal bones, and is so disposed that the former of these bones rests above each parietal bone which supports it below. It presents denticulations at its upper part, which however arc not