ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 590 issue, moreover, the radicles of the veins of the skin, which are less known than its arteries, and probably also lympliatic vessels. All these vessels, therefore, form above the dermis a layer of which we have spoken, and in which their tenuity is so great that several may be injured at once by the point of a needle. 2028. The nerves of the skin are very numerous and very slen- der, and cannot be traced beyond the dermis. It is not known how they terminate, although they are supposed to constitute the papilla?. 2029- In the whole extent of the skin, excepting on the palms and soles, there occur a multitude of sebaceous foUicles which pour upon its surface an unctuous fluid which keeps up its flexibility, and protects it against the action of external bodies. Their ex- istence is always connected with that of the hairs, so that the places which present most of the latter, such as the skull, the.pubes, the axillae, &c. are also those in which there occurs the greatest quan- tity of those follicles, of which some are isolated, more voluminous, utricular, and have a very short excretory duct, while the others are much smaller and agglomerated into a ryown in the capsule in which the root of each hair is con tamed.* CLASS SECOND. ARTICLE FIRST. ORGANS OF DIGESTION. I < I. PF THE MOUTH, PHARYNX, AND OESOPHAGUS, OR OF THE ORGANS OF MASTICATION AND DEGLUTITION. I. Of the Mouth.^ 2030. By the Mouth {Os) is meant a nearly oval cavity, com- prised between the two jaws, intercepted laterally by the cheeks, circumscribed anteriorly by the lips, posteriorly by the velum palati, above by the arch of the palate, and below- by the tongue. Its vertical diameter is liable to the greatest variations, on account of the motions of the lower jaw ; the antero-posterior is more fixed, and only varies through the motions of the lips; the transverse is in the same condition, being limited by the cheeks. All these dia- * For most of the facts here delivered with respect to the history of the skin, we arc indebted to tlie researches of the late Uf. (hiultier, who published them ip a thesis sustained before the Medical Faculty of Faris hi Idl}- f of the Greeks.