313 ]^IUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. of that name. It is ratlier triangular than elliptical, sometimes oval, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, situated above the pubes, broader above than below, where it terminates in a point. The size of the inguinal ring varies in different individuals; but it is always more dilated, situated less laterally, and more cle-. vated in man than in woman. In the former, it gives passage to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle; in the latter, to the round ligament of the uterus. Lastly, The aponeurotic lamina of the obliqnus externus abdo- minis terminates, at the lowest part, by a very thick, large and strono- fold, fixed on the one hand to the anterior and superior iliac spine, and on the other to the angle, crest, and spine of the pubes. It is to the second of these latter insertions, which takes place by a fiilciform aponeurotic expansion, that the name of Ghn- i)cr7iafs Ligament is now commonly given. The fold in question is much more distinct internally than externally, and is longer in the female than in the- male. It is commonly designated by the names of Pouparfs Ligament, Fallopius's Ugament, and Crm-al Arch. It converts into a true hole the great notch which the ante- rior edge of the os innominatum presents, and thus forms the anterior side of an aperture which appears triangular when it is examined behind, after the peritoneum has been removed, and of which the inner side is formed by the horizontal branch of the pubes, and the outer by the tendon of the united iliacus and psoas muscles, 'rhis aperture, which is closed anteriorly by Poupart’s Ligament, is traversed by the tendon just mentioned, the femoral vessels, and the crural nerve. It is larger in the female. Lastly, this same fold or crural arch, contains in its substance, but only in a part of its length, the inguinal canal, and is continued in the inguinal re- gion, inferiorly and internally into the fascia lata, by a superficial filmous lamina. In its whole extent, this lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis presents quadrilateral apertures of variable diameter, through which vascular and nervous branches pass from the fleshy layer of the abdomen to the integuments. 1102. ITie deep lamina which separates from the edge of the linea alba-, passes before the peritoneum and behind the rectus muscle, but only in the three upper fourths of its extent, and is also divided into two laminae opposite its outer edge. One of these laminae, the more superficial, which is almost immediately united to the posterior division of the preceding lamina, forms a thin aponeurosis, much broader above than below, on the outside of which are inserted the fleshy fibres of the obliquus internus. 7’he other joins by its outer edge a small separate lamina, which prevails before the lower fourth of the rectus muscle (1100), and thus constitutes a semicircular aponeurosis, of which the convex edge, which is directed outwards, gives attachment to the fleshy body of the transversus muscle, and whose anterior surface is, for a considerable length, confounded with the lamina of the obliquu.s internus.