17s ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. anfCnor surface is covered, in the neck, by tlie pliarynx and oeso- phagus ; in the back, by tlie oesophagus, the aorta, the vena azygos, and"tlie thoracic canal; in the loins, by the aorta, the vena cava inferior, the reservoir of the chyle, and a great number of lympha- tic ganglions and trunks. All these parts are connected by loose cellular tissue. In the lumbar region, its fibres are strengthened by those of the pillars of the diaphragm, with which they are inter- laced. Its posterior surface is applied against the bodies of the vertebrae and the fibro-cartilages which separate themf. It is ob- served to contract a firmer adhesion to the latter than to the for- mer, and that it is much more solidly fixed to the projecting edges of the body of each vertebra than to the transverse groove which the body presents. The lateral edges of the anterior vertebral li- gament are much thinner than its middle part; they correspond, in the cervical region, to the recti capitis anteriores majores and longi coUi muscles, and in the lumbar region to the psoae muscles. On the sides of this ligament and under the longi colli muscles, there occur, in the cervical region only, and for each vertebral ar- ticulation, two small fibrous fasciculi, which are directed obliquely, from above downwards and from within outwards, from the upper vertebra to that beneath it. Their fibres are short and thin, and are frequently in a great part confounded with the fibro-cartilage over which they are applied. ' The fibres which constitute this ligament do not occupy its whole length; they even have not aU the same dimensions. Some of them, the superficial, cover the body of four or five vertebrae; others, which are intermediate, are lost beyond the third vertebra under those from which they have risen ; the deepest are stiU short- er, and only go from one vertebra to that which is immediately be- low it. It is also to be observed that in general these fibres arise in much greater numbers from the fibro-cartilages than fi'om the vertebrae themselves. 575. Ligamentum commune posterius. (Fascia longitudina- lis postica, Weit.) This ligament seems to arise from another ligament with which it interlaces its fibres, and which is nam- ed the occipito-axoid ligament. It extends at the back part of the bodies of the vertebrae, from that of the axis to the sacrum. It is broader in the neck and back than in the lum- bar region, where it even becomes so narro\Y as not to have more than two lines of transverse extent. In all parts of its course, it is broader opposite each intervertebral substance, than on the bodies of the vertehrm themselves, which gives it the form of a long band contracted at intervals. It is smooth and polished, and of a very shining pearly white. It does not present distinct bundles of fibres like the former, or intervals for the passage of vessels. It is in ge- neral denser and more compact than the anterior ligament. It is rather thin in the lumbar and cervical regions, and is thickest in the back. Its posterior surface is in contact with the dura mater which envelopes the spinal marrow, and is connected with it by an extremely loose filamentous cellular tissue, of a reddish colour.