517 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. The lower bundle, which is situated without and beneath the optic nerve, and at a little distance from it, contains six, eight or ten nerves, or even a greater number, which arc united into six small branches at their origin. They wind round the optic nerve. Some of them even pass beneath it to gain its inner side. Another separates from the bundle, proceeds outwards, frequently anas- tomoses with one of the filaments of the nasal nerve, and gains the sclerotic membrane by itself under the rectus externus oculi muscle. 1793. These nerves, w^hich are in all from twelve to sixteen on arriving at the posterior part of the ball of the eye, pass sepa- rately and obliquely through the sclerotic membrane, at a greater or less distance from the optic nerve. They are previously inter- laced with the ciliary arteries, but do not anastomose with each other or form a plexus. On entering the eye, they become a little flattened, and are converted into a kind of small bands, which ad- vance forwards between the sclerotic and choroid membranes, but without giving off filaments to either, and are lodged in narrow grooves formed upon the inner surface of the sclerotica. They are then parallel to each other, and frequently send oft' communicating filaments. 1794. They thus arrive at the ciliary circle, subdivide each in- to two, sometimes into three filaments, which enter into that circle, and seem to lose themselves there. Some of these filaments, ar- riving at the fore part of the eye, perforate the choroid membrane, penetrate into the ciliary processes, all bend backwards, and lose themselves in the place where the retina joins the ciliary circle. On the other hand, the ciliary circle sends to the iris a multitude of other filaments which do not appear to be continuations of the first, arr arrangement which has induced several anatomists to consider the ciliary circle as a true ganglion ; and it cannot be de- nied that its colour and texture give additional weight to this opi- nion. The ciliary filaments which are expanded upon the iris form white lines which gain its small circumference. 1795. If the ciliary circle be considered as a ganglion, the com- munication of the ophthalmic ganglion with it is evident. The latter has also connections with the superior cervical ganglion or with the cavernous ganglion, by a filament which they send to the nasal nerve (1582), and which appears to adhere to it, and to form es- pecially that which goes to the superior and posterior angle of the ganglion. OF THE SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION, OR GANGLION OF MECKEL. 1796. This is a small reddish body, somewhat liard, triangular or cordiform, of variable, but always inconsiderable size, convex in its outer surface, flattened on the inner side, and placed exter- nally of the spheno-palatine foramen. Immersed in the adipose