OF THE PANCREAS. Ill often named the Tail of the Pancreus. 1 lie r ight extreMitg,, which is also frequently named the Head, is thicker, broader, irregularly rounded, immersed in a mass of adipose tissue, and applied against the second portion of the duodenum, over which it commonly ad- vances a httle. There almost always occurs beneath it a small de- tached glandular mass, which is named the Small Pancreas. 2818. The pancreas bears the greatest resemblance to the sali- vary glands in its structure. It is of a grayish white colour, in- clining a little to red ; and its parenchyma, which is firm and te- nacious, appears composed of lobes and granular lobules, which are distinct and connected by a dense cellular tissue. It is from each of these granulations and lobules that the radicles of its excretory duct arise, which are very slender, and unite in the manner of veins. The duct itself is almost always single. Sometimes however there are two or even three. Placed in the substance of the organ, a little nearer its lower than its upper edge, directed from left to right, and progressively increasing in size from the numerous branches which it receives in its coiu'se, this canal proceeds in a serpentine manner towards the duodenum, disengages itself from the granulations of the gland, becomes free behind the second por- tion of the above-mentioned intestine, and is then of the size of a crow-quill. Near its extremity it receives an excretory duct which comes singly from the httle pancreas, and, after a very short pas- sage, it opens at an acute angle, into the ductus communis chole- dochus, or merely adheres to it to enter the duodenum by itself. The walls of this duct are whitish, and thicker than those of the submaxillary ducts, but they are far from being so dense as those of the parotid ducts. 2819. Besides resembling the sahvary glands in its tissue, it bears an affinity to these organs in several other points. Like them, it is placed in the midst of parts of great mobihty. It has no distinct outer envelope, being in fact only covered in an indirect manner, and in a portion of its extent only, by the peritoneum, which does not adhere to it, as happens in the case of the liver, the spleen, &c. Like them also, it is penetrated on all sides by a multitude of vas- cular ramifications; but there is no artery which peculiarly belongs to itself. There is this remarkable difference between them how- ever, that while the salivary ducts have a pretty long course after leaving the glands, the pancreatic duct is free and isolated only for a very short space. 2820. The arteries of the pancreas are very numerous, but their size is very small. They come from the coeliac, splenic, upper mesenteric, right gastro-cpiploic, coronary, and left capsular arteries. Its veins pour their contents into the roots of the vena portm, and in particular into the small mesaraic and splenic veins. Its nerves are supplied by the solar plexus; and its lymphatics go to be di- vided in ganglions to which it gives its name (2709).