ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. 752 out our being able to say precisely in what manner, and there are seen issuing from the opposite side, other lymphatic vessels, wllich are termed ejferentia, to distinguish them from the first, which are designated by the name of deferentia or afferentia. There result numerous subdivisions of both kinds of vessels around the gang- lion, forming a true circular plexus, which embraces it on all sides. The lymphatic ganglia vary in diameter from the twentieth part of an inch to a whole inch. Their colour is in general reddish, sometimes, however, gray or blackish. Those which are situated at the exterior have a more solid and denser tissue than those which are met with in the splanchnic cavities. They are all enve- loped by a compact membrane, externally glistening, and furnished with some blood-vessels. They receive numerous small arteries. These issue from their corresponding veins; and these vessels throw ramifications upon the walls of the neighbouring lymphatic vessels themselves. They appear chiefly formed by an inextricable interlacement of these lymphatic vessels. 2699- AU the absorbent vessels of the body discharge them- selves, by some trunks, into the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Two of these trunks are much larger than the others, and are designated by the names of Thoracic Duct and Great Right Lymphatic Vein. The former receives ['the lymphatics of the ab- domen, the inferior extremities, the left side of the thorax, the left superior extremity, and the corresponding side of the head and neck. The other receives those of the right arm, and of the right side of the head, neck, and thorax. 2700. With reference to their structure, the lymphatic vessels appear formed of a cellular external membrane, and an internal mem- brane similar to that of the veins. The latter, by being folded upon itself, produces at intervals valves which are generally disposed in pairs. II.—OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA IN PARTICULAR. 1. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2701. Anterior Tihial Ganglion. It is the only one that occurs along the leg. It is placed between the tibia and fibula, on the lower extremity of the interosseous ligament. 2702. Popliteal Ganglia. They are of small size, and are si- tuated in the ham, to the number of three or four. They are concealed by the aponeurosis, and surrounded by the popliteal artery. 2703. Inguinal Ganglia. They occupy the anterior and su- perior part of the thigh near the groin, and are distinguished into superficial and deep. The former are placed between the skin and aponeurosis, and surround the internal saphena vein, near its ter-