OF Tllli ULNAU ^'KRV1•.. also tlie first filaments which escape from it to be distributed among the muscles of the ball of the thumb, form an entirely distinct twig. 10*98. Second Diijital Twi(j. It follows at first the direction of tlie preceding twig; but separates from it as it descends, to pro- ceed over die ulnar edge of the first bone of the metacarpus and of the thumb, giving a filament to the flexor brevis, and several other ramifications to the integuments of that finger. 16*99. Third Digital Tu itj. Placed upon the first of the lum- bricales muscles, it furnishes it at first with a filament, then des- cends along the radial edge of the second metacarpal bone and fore-finger to the extremity of the latter, where, after giving off* one or two posterior filaments, it expands and anastomoses with one of the branches of the. next twig. 1700. Fourth Diyital Twig. Descending between the second and third metacarpal bones, it gives a filament to the second of tlie lurabricales muscles, and bifurcates opposite the separation of the inner aud middle finger, and sometimes sooner. One of these se- condary twigs follows the ulnar edge of the first, the other the ra- dial edge of the second of these fingers. They both furnish fila- ments posteriorly to the integuments, opposite the first phalanges, and are expanded upon the summits of the fingers. 1701. Fifth Digital Twig. It follows the original direction of the median nerve, in the interval of the third and fourth metacar- pal bones. After giving a filament to the third lumbricalis, it di- vides into two secondary twigs which descend upon the ulnar edge of the middle finger and radial edge of the ring finger. The latter receives a filament of the uhiar nerve ; but both send posterior fila- ments into the integuments of these fingers, and terminate by anastomosing in their pulp., 1702. All the digital twigs furnished by the median nerve ac- company the collateral arteries of the fingers, and give off* on all sides very slender filaments to the cellular tissue and skin. OF THE ULNAR OR CUBITAL NERVE. 1703. Arising from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, and in particular from the last two branches which enter into its formation, this nerve descends almost vertically, only inclining a little backwards, along the inner edge of the triceps extensor muscle, to which it is pretty closely attached by cellular tissue. Not far from the elbow, it gives off some long and slender fila- ments which go to the integuments of the upper and back part of the fore-arm. It then passes between the inner condyle and ole- cranon, traverses the upper extremity of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, and directs itself obliquely downwards and forwards, along the anterior and inner part of tlie fore-arm, between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum profundus, and internally of tlie ulnar