OF THE BONES OF THE FINGERS. 137 quadrilateral form with rounded angles, presents a transversely oval cavity, which is articulated with the head of the corresponding me- tacarpal bone, and whose sides have inequalities for the attachment of the lateral ligaments. That of the first phalanx of the thumb receives the insertions of the abductor, flexor brevis, and ad- ductor pollicis. Their lower extremity is surmounted by two small condyles separated by a groove, more prolonged before than behind, and articulated with the next phalanx. OF THE Second or middle phalanges. 481. In the thumb the middle phalanx is wanting. That of the middle finger is the longest, while the one belonging to the little finger is the shortest and smallest. They have a great resem- blance to the first phalanges, only that there are observed at their middle and fore part two impressions, to which the terminations of the tendons of the flexor sublimis are attached, and that their ttp- per extremity presents two concave surfaces separated from before backwards by a prominent line, for its articulation with the con- dyles of the metacarpal phalanges, and inequalities, at its posterior part, for the attachment of a portion of the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum. OF the third or extreme phalanges. 482. Each of the fingers, including the thumb, has one. That of the thumb is the largest; the smallest is that of the little finger. They are destitute of a body, and have the form of a truncated and compressed pyramid. Their posterior surface is convex and covered by the nails ; the anterior is concave at its middle part, and gives insertion to the tendon of the flexor profundus. The base is marked with two cavities similar to those of the upper ex- tremities of the middle phalanges, and articulated with the con- dyles of their lower extremity. On the sides are seen the impres- sions of the lateral ligaments, and posteriorly the attachment of the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. The summit is rounded, compressed, very uneven, tubercular, broader than the body, and connected with the pulp of the fingers. 483. Structure, Articulations, and Development. The first and second phalanges are similar to the metacarpal bones in respect to structure, and are equally furnished with a medullary canal; the last phalanges are entirely formed of cellular tissue, covered with a slight layer of compact tissue. The first phalanges are articulated with the metacarpal bones, and with the second or middle ; the second phalanges, with the first and last; the latter, with the se- cond, excepting that of the thumb, which is immediately connected with tlie first. They arc developed by two points of ossification, one for the body, the other for the upper extremity. Their infe- rior extremity is not furnished with a centre of its own.