466 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1613. Temporal Twigs. Thcf3e are two or three in number. They are rather small, and direct themselves obliquely upwards and forwards toward the temple, crossing the direction of the zy- gomatic arch. They give at hrst some fdaments to the parotid gland, which covers them at their origin. Above the zygomatic arch, they subdivide into a considerable number of filaments, which spread over the forehead and temple, as far as the summit of the head, between the integuments and the temporal aponeurosis. These filaments ramify in the anterior part of the pavilion of the ear, in the prior auriculas, attollens auriculam, frontalis, tempo- ralis and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, and in the integuments. They anastomose with the filaments of the superficial temporal (1600), posterior auricular (1608), deep temporal (1502), and fron- tal (1581) nerves, the orbital twig of the superior maxillary nerve (1586), the lachrymal nerve (1577)» and those of the cervical plexus. There are also frequent communications established be- tween them and the following twigs, so that they truly present a very complicated net-work beneath the skin of the temples. 1614. Malar Twigs. Two or three in number, they ascend for- wards towards the malar bone, where they spread out into a great number of filaments. The superior twig, united by an arch with the last of the temporal twigs, directs itself towards the inner angle of the eye, and terminates there by anastomosing with one of the filaments of the external nasal nerve (1584). Conjointly with the other two, it forms a very apparent plexus on the cheek, more su- perficial behind than before, which sends numerous filaments into the zygomatic muscles, the orbicularis palpebrarum, levator angnli oris and levator labii superioris, and into the skin of the lower eye- lid and upper part of the cheek. These filaments, besides their mutual communications, unite also with those of the lachrymal 0577), infra-orbitar (1580), internal frontal (1581), and external nasal (1584) nerves, and accompany all the divisions of the facial vein, forming around it a more or less prolonged nervous net-work. 1615. Buccal Twigs. These are three or four in number. They emerge from beneath the parotid gland towards the middle of the masseter muscle, communicate with the preceding twigs, and witli the cervico-facial branch, and follow a nearly horizontal di- rection. The tipper gains the sides of the nose, and supplies the zygomatic, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, and leva- tor labii superioris alaeque nasi muscles. The middle twig is the largest of those of the temporo-facial branch. It frequently arises by a common trunk with the upper, proceeds beneath Steno’s duct, whose direction it follows, passes transversely over the buccinator muscle, arrives at the commissure of the lips, and gives filaments to the upper lip, as well as to the muscles and skin of the neigli- bouring parts. The lower twig follows nearly the same direction, and gains the under lip. All the filaments which proceed from these different twigs form a plexus similar to those which we have just pointed out, and communicate with theirs, or with those of