ORGANS OF GENERATION. 830 2985. In the middle of the areola rises the Nipple (Papilla), a conical eminence, of a rosy tint, susceptible of a kind of erection during life, and at the surface of which there open the galactopho- rous vessels. The skin which covers this nipple is wrinkled, reti- culated, and furnished with a great number of very fine papillae. The orifices of the galactophorous ducts, which are observed at its surface, are surrounded by excessively minute hairs. b. ORGANIZATION OF THE MAMM/E. 2986. Besides the skin which covers them, the mammas are composed of a layer of more or less thick adipose tissue, a large gland, vessels of different kinds and nerves. 2987. Adipose Layer. It is chiefly to this that the organ owes its size and form, and the cellular tissue here appears so much the more impregnated with fat, the larger and softer the mammae are, for in young girls, where it is firm, little fat is generally found. 2988. Mammary Gland. It is placed beneath the adipose layer, before the pectoralis major muscle, and represents a kind of convex cake, with an uneven surface, and an irregularly circum- scribed base, especially in women who have suckled several times, and which is prolonged to a greater distance upwards and outwards than downwards and inwards. The anterior surface of this gland is very uneven. There are observed upon it prominences in the form of ridges and more or less voluminous, and depressions in which are lodged pellets of adipose cellular tissue. The tissue of the mammary gland results from the assemblage of several lobes of different sizes, and closely connected with each other by dense cellular tissue not containing fat. These lobes are near each other, and more numerous towards the centre than at its circumference. Each of them is composed of several lobules, themselves formed of rounded granulations of a rosy white colour, and of the size of a poppy seed. It is asserted that by means of the microscope, it has been discovered that these grams, themselves so small, are formed by the union of a number of small vesicles. 2989. Galactophorus or Lactiferous Ducts. The glandular grains just mentioned give rise to the radicles of these canals, which unite into ramuscules, twigs and trunks becoming gradually larger. The latter collect towards the centre of the gland. They are flexuous, very extensile and semitransparent. Those of the different lobes do not communicate with each other, so that there are as many series of vessels as lobes in the gland. They all ter- minate in sinuses placed near the base of the nipple, and which are commonly from fifteen to twenty-eight in number. These sinuses have not all the same capacity. The largest are two or three lines in breadth, while others are not much larger than the trunks which form them. They are very short, of a conical form, and connected