PASSIVE OUUANS OF LOCO.^lO'l'IOX. 160 544). Sesamoid bones also make their appearance in other parts of the body. Thus there is pretty frequently one at the posterior part of each condyle of the femur. In old people, another very frequently occurs beneath the os cuboides, in the tendon of the peroneus longus. Lastly, the tendon of the tibialis anticus also contains one, near its insertion into the scaphoid bone. OF THE INFKEIOR EXTREMITIES CONSIDERED IN GENERAL WITH REFERENCE TO THEIR BONES. 545. The inferior extremities are formed of a series of bones which represents a sort of column resting .upon a broad basis to which it transmits the whole weight of the body. This column is as it were broken in its middle part. It in fact approaches that of the opposite side as far as the knee, after which it descends ver- tically, and parallel to the other. In women, however, there is al- ways a slight inclination inwards, in the whole extent of the ex- tremity. In general also the lower extremity presents a curva- ture outwards ; because the outer part of the upper extremity of the tibia is never sufficiently raised to compensate the deficiency in the length of the corresponding condyle, and because the upper ex- tremity of the tibia itself is also a little curved. In the thigh, the column is solid and formed by a single bone. At the knee, it is of larger size. In the leg, it contracts a little, and results from the junction of two bones which are separated by an interval. 546. In describing the femur, we pointed out nearly all the cir- cumstances which the Thigh presents with reference to the skele- ton. Its axis is not parallel to that of the extremity in general. At the union of its body with its upper extremity it is angularly bent, and approaches the integuments at its upper and outer part, leaving internally a large space for the muscles. We observe, however, that the two femurs are by no means parallel, being se- parated above by the whole distance from one cotyloid cavity to the other, and coming very near each other at their lower extremi- ty ; whence it results that in their natural position, the condyles are placed at the same level, although the inner is a little longer than the outer. We also observe, with reference to the theory of fractures and dislocations, that the great trochanter, the outer con- dyle and the malleolus of the fibula are situated nearly in the same line in the natural position of the limb. 547-. The Leg gradually diminishes in thickness from above downwards. It is flattened from before backwards, and from without inwards, and it is thicker internally than externally on ac- count of the unequal size of the two bones of which it consists. The space by which the latter are separated is filled by a membra- nous ligament, and is very narrow below. In its whole length also