ORGANS OF SENSATION. 522 lengtli, SO that its volume is very subject to variation. It pretty freciuently experiences a contraction in its middle part, so as to a])pear double. Sometimes it is cylindrical. Its colour is of a grayish red, its consistence soft. Its posterior side lies upon the rectus capitis anticus major. The ariteHor is covered by the in- ternal carotid artery. The internal is intimately united to the pncumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves. It receives a pretty con- siderable number of small blood vessels, and sends from its peri- phery a great quantity of filaments, which are distinguished into superior, inferior, external, and anterior. 1. OF THE SUPEllIOU OR ASCENDING FILAMENTS. 1805. They are commonly two in number. Their great size, softness and reddish colour, make them look precisely like true prolongations of the ganghon. They embrace the internal carotid artery, and enter along with it into the carotid canal, where they separate from each other, dividing into many small twigs, come to- gether, unite a great many times, and in a word form a true plexus around the walls of the vessel. From this plexus there issue seve- ral secondary filaments. One of these, the Pterygoid Filament of Chaussier, glides un- der the artery, anastomoses with the inferior filament of the Vidian nerve (1802), and in uniting with it gives off two or three small twigs which are distributed to the upper part of the pharynx. I’wo or three others, which are soft, transparent, of a gray co- lour, and pretty tough, ascend into the cavernous sinus, form a sort of isolated plexus by sending off some filaments, and unite with the external motor nerve of the eye (1600). When the cavernous ganglion exists, one or two of them unite with it, and the others go directly to the nerve (1803). Occasionally some of these filaments come from the union of that of the superior cervical ganglion with the inferior twig of the Vidian nerve. Several filaments, the supra-spheno'idal of Chaussier, go to the pituitary shaft (1435). A very slender filament dives into a small aperture formed in the walls of the aqueduct of Fallopius (180), runs along a groove on a small canal formed on the promontory of the tympanum, and anas- tomoses there with a filament of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve which has entered towards the stylo-mastoid hole, and with another fila- ment which separates in this place from the upper twig of the A i- dian nerve (1802). Another filament traverses the cavernous sinu.s and goes to join the ophthalmic nerve, or the nasal nerve. Sometimes it bi- fiu*catcs and goes to both at once. It is by means of it that the superior cervical and ophthalmic ganglia communicate. '^riic other filaments of this plejais, which are very numerous, re-