69 DIMENSIONS OF THE SKULL. thickness of the bones themselves, which is sometimes such that a person whose head appears very large may yet have a small brain. Facts like these are well adapted to fortify the young anatomist against the enthusiasm which might be inspired by systems purely hypothetical. It is by measuring in the inside of the skull only that we can de- termine its diameters, of which there are three more important than the others. The first or longitudinal diameter extends' from the foramen coecum to the internal occipital protuberance. It is the largest, and measures about five inches. The second or transverse diameter passes from the base of one petrous process to that of the other. It is about four inches and a half. The third or vertical diameter, which is comprised between the anterior extremity of the occipital hole^and the middle of the sa- gittal suture, is a few lines less than the transverse. These diameters must be measured in adult heads, and from the points mentioned, for the lines that are drawn parallel to them cbminish in length in proportion as they recede from them, in what- ever direction. 233. The dimensions of the skull, which are always much greater than those of the face, vary considerably in different individuals, and we only give them here as something about the medium ; for each of the three diameters may predominate over the others, al- ways, however, by gaining at their expense, which gives rise to many varieties in the form of different heads, although the general capacity of the cavity remains alwa,ys pretty much the same. Thus we see broad heads, flattened before and behind; high heads, in the form of a sugar loaf; long heads, compressed laterally ; ac- corchng as the transverse, vertical or longitudinal diameter is largest. The seat of these differences is always in the arch of the skull, for the base remains constantly the same. 234. The different regions of the skull vary with respect to their thickness, which is pretty uniform over the vault, of whieh, how- ever, the upper part is one of the places in which it is most dis- tinct, and is much diminished in the temporal and orbital regions, as well as in the lower part of the occiput. The base of the skull,^ which is ve^ thick at the place of the petrous process, the body of the sphenoid bone, the basilar process, and the ridges and protu- berances of the occipital bone, is generally very thin in the cere- bellar fossae, the bottom of the grooves of the cribriform plate, the part which corresponds to the orbits, in all which places there is ob- served very little spongy tissue. The skull is commonly thinner in children and young people than in adults and aged persons, in whom it generally becomes thicker and more spongy, although it also frequently becomes thinner, either over its whole extent, or only in certain pai'ts. It would also appear that it is harder and thicker in persons affected