■1<95 OF THE RADIAL NERVE. digiti and the integuments, and loses itself on the dorsal surface of the little Huger. The outer passes between the fourth and Hfth metacarpal bones, and divides at a greater or less height into two filaments, one of which descends backwards over the outer side of the little finger and the inner side of the ring finger, while the other is distributed on the outer side of the latter and the inner side of the middle finger. These ramifications distribute a great number of filaments to the skin of the back of the fingers, and anastomose at their ex- tremities with themselves, or, on that of the middle finger with the radial nerve. OF THE RADIAL NERVE. 1707- It arises from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, where it is especially formed by the fifth, sixth and seventh cervical nerves, and first dorsal. Its volume equals that of the median nerve, and even sometimes exceeds it. It descends at first obliquely from before backwards between the two portions of the triceps extensor and the inner part of the humerus. It then turns from within outwards, and from above downwards in the groove which the outer surface of that bone presents (433) ; and lastly, on arriving at'the anterior, external and inferior part of the arm, between the brachialis internus and supinator longus, it pro- ceeds over the elbow-joint, and there divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. 1708. But, before dividing, this nerve gives off a considerable number of twigs. Thus it gives two or three which separate from it opposite the tendon of the united latissimus dorsi and teres ma- jor, and which go to the triceps extensor muscle. Farther down, it sends several twigs into the same muscle. One of them traverses its inferior and external portion, and looses itself in the brachialis internus. Another descends under its large portion, ramifies there, and transmits a very long and very remarkable filament to the anconeus muscle. Still lower, the radial nerve gives off a pretty large branch to the integuments of the fore-arm. Sometimes it is double. It perforates the brachialis internus, emerges betweeen it and the supinator longus, and descends along the outer and back part of the fore-arm and hand as far as the thumb, giving a great number of filaments to the skin and cellular tissue. Lastly, as it passes between the brachialis internus and supinator longus, the radial nerve sends some filaments still to the latter and to the ex- tensor carpi radialis longior. 1709. /Interior Branch. Smaller than the other, it descends along the anterior and outer part of the fore-arm, between the two supinator muscles, and externally of the radial artery. Towards the lower third of the fore-arm, it winds a little outwards, passes under the tendons of the supinator longus and extensor carpi ra- 3