rOSTERIOR AND ANTERIOR ETHMOIDAL ARTERIES. 667 BRANCHES WHICH THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY GIVES OFF IN ITS COURSE ALONG THE INNER SIDE OF THE OPTIC NERVE. 1. OF THE POSTERIOR ETHMOIDAL ARTERY. 2303. This artery is of small size, docs not always exist, and occasionally comes from the lachrymal or infra-orbitar. It directs itself towards the inner wall of the orbit, between the obliquus oculi superior and adductor oculi; and enters into the posterior internal orbitar canal. It passes through its whole extent, furnish- ing very slender twigs to the membrane of the posterior ethmoid cells. It then enters into the skull, and loses itself by subdividing in the portion of the dura mater which lines the anterior middle fossa of the base of that cavity. Some of these twigs communicate with those of the anterior ethmoidal; others penetrate into the nasal fossae along with the olfactory nerves by the holes of the ethmoid grooves. 2. OF THE ANTERIOR ETHMOIDAL ARTERY. 2304. It separates fi-om the ophthalmic opposite the anterior in- ternal orbitar foramen, into which it penetrates along with the in- ternal nasal nerve (1581). Before entering into the skull, it throws several twigs into the membrane of the frontal sinus and anterior ethmoid cells; and when it has arrived there, it divides into a great number of twigs, of which some ascend upon the falx cerebri, whilst the greater part enter into the nasal fossae by the holes of the ethmoid bone, and are spread out to a greater or Jess distance upon the pituitary membrane. 3. OF THE INFERIOR PALPEBRAL ARTERY. 2305. It arises from the ophthalmic a little beyond the cartila- ginous pulley of the obliquus oculi superior muscle, and is even ■sometimes given off by the nasal Artery. It descends nearly ver- frcally behind the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and fur- nishes at first some twigs to that muscle, the lachrymal sac and •the caruncula lachrymalis. It then bifurcates. One of its branches loses itself in the inferior half of the orbicularis palpebrarum, the other directs itself outwards, along the attached edge of the inferior tarsal filiro-cartilagc, and is distributed to tliat cartilage, the Mei- bomian glands, the tunica conjunctiva and the skin.