OF THE INFEIUOll CERVICAL GANGLION. .527 bral artery, between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. Sometimes it occurs be- tween the concave edge of that rib and the body of tlie first dorsal vertebra; but it generally extends as far as the first intercostal space. Its filaments are superior, inferior, internal, external and anterior. 1. OK THE SUl’ERIOn FILAMENTS. 1817- Some of them communicate with the middle cervical ganglion. Of these we have already spoken (1812). Another bundle of filaments throws itself outwards behind the vertebral artery, ascends in its canal forming around it a very dis- tinct plexus, as far as the third or second vertebra. There, the filaments become less numerous and less apparent. One or two of them however are still seen to anastomose with a descending fila- ment of the anterior branch of the sub-occipital nerve (1655). Some others enter into the skull and lose themselves on the basilar artery. In its course, this Vertebral Plexus sends a great number of small twigs to the inter-transversales muscles, near the body of the vertebrae, and anastomoses by a particular filament with each of the cervical nerves, at the moment when they leave the interverte- bral holes. Another ascending filament forms a kind of arch of which the convexity is below, and ascends outwards between the rectus capi- tis anticus major and longus colli muscles to which it gives ramifi- cations. 2. OF THE INFERIOIl FILAMENT. 1818. It communicates with the first thoracic ganglion, and is sometimes double. In the latter case, it commonly embraces the subclavian artery^ between its two branches. 3. OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1819. Few in number, slender, and irregular in their disposi- tion, these filaments take different directions. Some of them lose themselves in the longus colli muscle; the others go to the pul- monary plexus or to the arch of the aorta of the left side. There are some also which associate themselves with the recurrent and diaphragmatic nerves. 4. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1820. I’liey are numerous and very slender. Collected into fas- ciculi, they embrace the subclavian artery, around which they form a plexus whicli accompanies its branches, subdividing like them, 3