PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 222 Its fibres arc very short and adhere strongly to the bones. It seems to be continuous above with the superior interosseous liga- ment (730), and it can only be weU seen on separating the two bones by force, beginning with the upper region. 4. AUTICULATION OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA WITH THE TAESUS Oil ANKLE JOINT. 736. This articulation is a perfect angular ginglymus, for which the fibula and tibia form together a cavity which receives the astra- galus, and whose depth is increased by the two malleoli, as well as the different ligaments of the prece^ng articulation. The tibia and fibula have each their articular cartilage, which is prolonged over their malleolus and the surface by which they touch each other. The articular pulley of the upper surface of the astragalus, and its lateral articular surfaces, are invested by the same cartilage. A synovial membrane is extended over aU the parts of this articula- tion, to which belong two lateral ligaments, two anterior, and a posterior. 737. Internal Lateral Ligament. This is a broad quadrilate- ral band, composed of numerous longitudinal fibres, longer before than behind, and superficially than deeply, which, from the summit of the malleolus internus and its depression, descends ob- liquely backwards to the inner part of the astragalus and calcaneum, sending also some fibres to the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. Its inner surface is covered by the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The outer is invested by the synovial membrane. 738. External Lateral Ligament^ {Ligam. jibulce medium, Weit.) This ligament is a rounded, narrow fasciculus, very strong, of great length, and having a tendinous appearance, which, arising from the summit of the malleolus externus, descends vertically to be inserted into the upper and middle part of the outer surface of the calcaneum. It is covered by the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, and covers part of the synovial mem- brane. 739. Anterior peroneo-tarsal ligament, {Ligamentzim Jihulce anterius, Weit.) Attached to the fore part, and near the summit of the malleolus externus, smaller than the preceding, sometimes divided into two fasciculi, but always regular and quadrilateral, with close and very strong fibres, this hgament passes obliquely forwards to be inserted into the anterior edge of the extermd ar- ticular surface of the astragalus. 740. Posterior peroneo-tarsal ligament, (^Ligam. fihnlcp pos- terius, Weit.) From the depression Avhich exists behind the ex- ternal malleolus, it passes obliquely downAvards and imvards to the posterior part of the astragalus, toAvards the outer edge of the