MUSCLES OK THE I-ARYNX. m OF THE CRICO-AIIYXKNOIOEI POSTICI- 1413. These are also two in number, and arcsituated at the back part of the larynx. Each of them is thin, flat and triangular, and arises from the longitudinal depression which is observed on either side of the posterior prominent line of the cricoid cartilage. Their fibres, which are shorter and nearly transverse above, and so much the longer, and directed more obliquely outwards the lower they are examined, terminate behind the base of the arytenoid cartilage, between the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and arytenoideus muscles. Their posterior surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The anterior lies upon the cricoid cartilage. OF THE CKICO-ARYTENOIDKI l.ATERALES. 1414. Each of these muscles occupies the side of the larynx. It is thin, flat, and of a trapezoidal figure. Arising from the side of the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage, it proceeds ob- hquely upwards and backwards, to be attached by short aponeu- roses, to the outer and forepart of the base of the arytenoid carti- lage, where it is confounded with the crico-arytenoideus. Its outer surface is separated from the thyroid cartilage by cellular tissue. The inner is lined by the membrane of the larynx. OF THE THYRO-ARYTENOIDEI. 1415. These muscles are very thin, transversely flattened, broader before than behind, and of an irregular form. They arise from the middle and lower part of the posterior surface of the thy- roid cartilage, whence they proceed backwards and outwards, to be attached to the outer part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, immediately above the preceding muscles. Their outer surface is covered by the thyroid cartilage and the membrane of the pharynx. Their inner surface is lined by the membrane of the larynx. OF THE ARYTENOIDEUS. 1416. This is a single muscle, situated at the posterior and upper part of the larynx, behind the two arytenoid cartilages. It is form- ed of several planes of fibres having different directions, which has caused it to be divided by many anatomists into several distinct rhuscles. Of these fibres, some ascend obliquely from the base of the right arytenoid cartilage towards the summit of the left; dthers follow the rever.se direction; and some, which are more superficial.