a09 MUSCLES or THE PELVIS. anus. It is attached to the tip of the coccyx by a sort of cellular tendon, from which arise two fleshy bundles, which, passing oyer the sides of the anus, unite again before it to form a fleshy point which is partly confounded with the accelerator urimxj, and is partly expanded in the cellular tissue. The fibres of this muscle are con- centric and seini-clliptical, and are interlaced with each other in the median line, forming acute angles. In the female, its anterior portion is much more rounded than in the male. 108(1. Its inferior surface is covered by the skin. The upper corresponds to the levator ani, from which it is almost every where separated by cellular tissue, but yith which it is intimately con- founded near the rectum. Anteriorly, it also unites in part with the accelerator urinse and transversus perinaci. IO87. This muscle closes the anus and wrinkles the surrounding skin. In the male, it draws the bulb of the urethra backwards. 2. Genital Region. a. IN MAN. OF THE ERECTOR PENIS, I9CHI0-CAVERNOSUS. (M. Ischio-Urethral, Chauss.) 1088. This is a small elongated flat muscle, broader in the mid- dle than at its extremities, and which surrounds the origin of the corpus cavernosum. Fixed to the inner side of the sciatic tubero- sity, it ascends forwards and inwards, and degenerates into a white and strong aponeurosis, which is identified, beyond the level of the bulb of the urethra, with the fibrous membrane of the corpus ca- vernosum, over which it is applied by its outer surface, which moreover corresponds to the ramus of the ischium, while its outer surface is in connection with the transversus perinaei and accelera- tor urinm, from which it is separated by much adipose cellular tis- .sue, together with vessels and nerves. It draws the root of the penis downwards and backwards. OF THE ACCELERATOR URIN.E, RULBO-CAVERNOSUS. {M. Bulho-Urethral, 1089. This muscle is long, flat, broader behind than before, and situated in the perineum, beneath the bulb of the urethra and the root of the penis. It arises between these parts and the anus, where it is confounded with the transversus perinmi, sphincter ani and levator ani. It is then separated from its fellow only by a ten- dinous line, but separates from it before, proceeding outwards, and leaving an interval in whicli arc seen the canal of the urethra and