ORGANS OF SENSATION. 5M. the outer runs along the outer edge of the foot and little toe, and distributes there a certain number of filaments. 17113. In the hollow of the ham itself, the internal popliteal nerve sends one or two very distinct twigs to the upper part of each head of the gastrocnemius muscle. It gives off another, which divides in the soleus muscle after a considerable course. It also furnishes some to the popliteus and plantaris muscles, and to the knee joint; while a last twig winds under the lower edge of the popliteus muscle, sends off a long filament which follows the course of the posterior tibial artery, gives some others to the tibialis posticus muscle, passes through the superior aperture of the interosseous ligament, and is expanded in the upper part of the anterior muscles of the leg, an- astomosing with the filaments of the anterior tibial nerve. 1734^. After passing through the arch of the soleus muscle, the internal popliteal nerve furnishes several long and slender filaments which descend surrounding the posterior tibial artery, and anasto- mose frequently with each other. They then lose themselves in the lower part of the soleus and of the muscles which occupy the pos- terior and deep region of the leg. Farther down, there are detach- ed some other filaments which go to the integuments. But towards the inner ankle, there arises another, which, uniting with one of the preceding, goes to the integuments of the sole of the foot. 1735. Of the Internal Plantar Nerve. Thicker than the out- er, which forms ^n acute angle with it at its separation, it proceeds directly and horizontally forwards above the abductor polhcis, be- side the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, to the posterior extre- mity of the first metatarsal bone, and in its passage gives ramifica- tions to the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and acces- sorius muscles. But there, it separates in a variable manner into four twigs, which may be designated by their numerical names, counting from within outwards. The first, which is smaller than the others, follows the inferior surface of the flexor brevis poUicis, which receives some filaments from it, proceeds along the lower and inner part of the great toe, and loses itself upon it, sending at the same time some filaments upwards. The second, which is directed horizontally forwards, between the first two metatarsal bones, at first above, then below the flexor brevis digitorum, which receives several filaments from it, as does also the first lumbriealis muscle, separates opposite the first metatarso-phalangeal articulation, into two secondary twigs, one of which is distributed on the outer side of the first toe, while the other is spread out upon the inner side of the second, sending upwards some filaments which anastomose with those of the internal and deep nerve of the back of the foot (I779), and which themselves anastomose by arches in the pulp of the toes. The third, which is placed between the second and third metatarsal bones, gives filaments to the second lumbriealis muscle, and is distributed upon the second and third toes j)rcciscly in the same manner as the preceding twig. Tastly, the /ourfh.