ORGANS OF SENSATION. 500 muscles, gives them some filaments, and loses itself in the rectus and pyramidalis of the lower belly. OF THK LUMBAR NERVES, OR THOSE WHICH ISSUE BY THE INTER- VERTEBRAL FORAMINA OF THE LUMBAR PORTION OF THE VER- TEBRAL COLUMN. 1723. Of these nerves there are five pairs. They are designat- ed by their numerical names, counting from above downwards. The first issues between the first two vertebra? of the loins, and the fifth between the last vertebra and the sacrum. These nerves arise, very near each other, from the inferior bulging of the spinal marrow (1449). Like those of all the other vertebral nerves, their roots are formed of two bundles of filaments ; but here these bun- dles are very broad, especially for the last three pairs. The fila- ments which constitute them are immediately enveloped by a neu- rilemma, and, although very near eaeh other, they do not commu- nicate together. They may therefore be traced separately for a long time, and they thus contribute to form a kind of cord expand- ed into many filaments, and which the older writers named the Cauda equina. These roots descend very obliquely in the verte- bral canal, and this disposition is much more decided in the inferior pairs than in the superior. There results from it that the place of their exit is very distant from that of their origin. The posterior root of each of them bulges in the manner of a ganglion in the in- tervertebral foramen, and then unites with the anterior, to form a common trunk placed between the notches of the vertebrae, and presently divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. OF THE FIRST LUMBAR NERVE. 1724. Posterior Branch. Larger than those of the other lum- bar nerves, it is directed backwards between the transverse processes of the first two vertebriE of that region, gives some filaments in- ternally to the multifidus spinae muscle, perforates the inferior fleshy mass of the sacro-spinalis muscle (804), leaves several twigs for it, creeps under the united aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi, obliquus abdominis internus and serratus posticus inferior, traverses these aponeuroses towards the iliac crest, and finally ramifies in the integuments of the upper part of the hip. 1725. Anterior Branch. It receives a communicating filament from the lumbar ganglia, and another lilamcnt from the twelfth dor- sal pair (I722). It then proceeds forwards and inwards under the origins of the psoas magnus (809), sends a twig to the anterior branch of the second lumbar nerve (1727), and throws itself into the lumbar plexus.