789 ORGANIZATION OF THE KIDNEYS. Other glands. It appears composed of two distinct substances, an external or cortical, and an internal, named tubular or mam- miUary. 286G. The cortical substance of the kidneys forms around these organs an external layer, one or two lines thick, of a dark or red- dish bay colour, and adhering to their capsular membrane. Inter- nally, it furnishes several prolongations in the form of septa, be- tween which are placed the eonical bundles of the tubular substance, and which diminish in thickness towards the pelvis, from which they are separated by fat. This substance tears with great ease, under the microscope, it appears composed of solid granulations of a very small size, formed by the capillary extremities of the renal arteries and veins. 28G7. The tubular substance represents a number of conical, truncated bundles, of unequal size, enveloped on all sides, excepting towards their summits, by the cortical substance. The base of all these cones is rounded and directed towards the circumference of the kidney; their summit, on the contrary, is directed towards the pelvis or fissure of the kidney. The colour of this substance is pale red, especially at the centre of each of the cones. Its tissue is dense, firm and tenacious. It is formed of a great number of delicate convergent canals, very close upon each other towards the summit of the cones, and direct- ly continuous with the vessels of the cortical substance, from which they derive their origin. They are as it were expanded at the sur- face of each cone, while towards its summit they open at the inte- rior of the infundibula by orifices extremely close upon each other. The summits of the cones represent so many mammillas at the sur- face of which the urine thus oozes out. Some anatomists have made of the mammillae a third substance, which they have designated by the name of the mammillary sub- stance ; but their structure is absolutely the same as that of the cones which they terminate. They differ only in being a little paler in their colour. Their number, which is generally equal to that of the cones, varies from twelve to eighteen ; but, in some sub- jects, two cones are seen ending in a single mammilla, or two mam- millae terminating a single cone. They are separated from each other by a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue. They are of- ten short and blunt, but they are also seen to prolong themselves into a more or less distinct prominence of a cylindrical or pointed form. The orifices of the canals of the tubular substance which are perceived at their surface are much less numerous than the ca- nals themselves, on which account it is to be presumed that several of the latter unite before terminating. 2860. Membranous Envelope 0/ the Kidneys. It covers the whole surface of these organs, and dips into their fissure, where it is traversed by the divisions of the renal vessels, and is reflected upon the free surface of the pelvis. It may be detached with much more ease from the cortical substance, with which it is con-