ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. C52 POSTERIOR RRANCIIES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. a. OF THE OCCIPITAL ARTERY. 2251. It arises from the posterior part of the external carotid, under the parotid gland, and opposite the lingual artery, and ex- tends as far as the occiput. It ascends at first obliquely back- wards, beneath the sterno-cleido mastoideus muscle, along the pos- terior belly of the digastricus muscle and the hypo-glossal nerve. It then passes horizontally between the transverse process of the atlas and the mastoid process, after crossing the direction of the in- ternal jugular vein and pneumo-gastric nerve, above which it is si- tuated. It then bends back upon the occipital bone, covered by the splenius muscle, under the inner edge of which it emerges to become subcutaneous, and ascend in a tortuous manner upon the back part of the head where it terminates. 2252. Branches of the Deep Portion. Some of these, which are superior, and of small size, are distributed to the digastricus, sterno-cleido-mastoideus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and communi- cate with the twigs of the deep cervical branch. One of them, which is larger and more constant than the others, bearing the name of Posterior Mastoid Artery, introduces itself into the skull by the mastoid foramen, and loses itself in the portion of the dura mater which lines the posterior and lateral fossas of the skull. The others, which are inferior, descend in the substance of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, splenius and complexus minor muscles, where they anastomose with the ramifications of the deep cervical and vertebral arteries. 2253. Branches of the Subcutaneous Portion. They are very numerous. The inferior lose themselves in the muscles of the posterior region of the neck, and occasionally extend as far as the back. The superior ascend in a tortous manner along the course of the lambdoid suture, and ramify in the integuments and occipi- talis muscle, anastomosing with the divisions of the opposite occipi- tal artery, or with those of the temporal and posterior auricular ar- teries of the same side. Frequently one of their twigs passes through the parietal hole, and loses itself in the dura mater. h. OF THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. 2254. This is one of the smallest branches of the external caro- tid artery, from which it separates in the substance of the parotid gland, above the digastricus muscle, to extend to tlie inner surface tlie auricle and over the side of the head. It ascends at first back- wards, covered by the gland, between the mastoid process and au- ditory canal. On arriving at the lower part of the auricle, it bi- furcates. One of its branches, placed before the other, expands