340 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ncction with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its anterior surface covers a small portion of the ulna above ; the interosseous ligament and the posterior surface of the radius, in the middle; the outer surftice of that bone, the tendons of the radial extensors, the radial artery, and the wrist joint below. 1201. It carries the thumb outwards and backwards, and has the same action upon the hand. It may also contribute to supina- tion. OF THE EXTENSOR PRIMI INTERNODII POLLICIS MANUS. 1202. Much shorter and thinner than the preceding, hut of a similar form, this muscle arises beneath it, from a small portion of the ulna, from the interosseous ligament, and more especially from the posterior surface of the radius. Following the same direction, it degenerates, on the outer side of the fore-arm, into a slender ten- don, more apparent externally than internally, and which passes into a groove of the radius (1199) already described. On issuing from this groove, it separates fr'om the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, descends behind the first metacarpal bone, becomes flat- tened, and is inserted at the upper and back part of the first pha- lanx of the thumb. 1203. Its posterior szirface is covered by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor communis di- gitorum. At its lower part, it is in connection with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Itsante^'ior surface has the same connections as those of the preceding muscle (1200), excepting below, where it is appli- ed upon the first metacarpal bone and its articulation with the thumb. 1204. It extends the first phalanx of the thumb upon the first metacarpal bone, and may afterwards draw the latter backwards and outwards. It also contributes to the supination of the hand. or THE EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTERNODII POLLICIS MANUS. 1205. This muscle is elongated, flat, fusiform, longer and larger than the preceding, and situated beneath it. It arises from about the middle third of the posterior surface of the ulna, and from a small portion of the interosseous ligament. It descends outwards, and terminates in a tendon which first appears behind, and which is isolated near the lower extremity of the radius, where it passes un- der the annular ligament, in a groove directed obliquely like itself, and lined by a synovial membrane. When it has arrived at the back of the hand, it becomes a little broader, passes under the ten- dons of the radial extensors, crosses their direction, descends at the posterior and inner part of the first metacarpal bone, joins the tendon of the extensor primi internodii pollicis near the articulation of that bone with the first phalanx, receives in the same place two apo- neurotic expansions from the abductor and flc.xor brevis pollicis,