400 ORGAN’S OF THE VOICF,. Of the Larynx considered in General. 1421. This organ, considered in its collective capacity, has in some measure the form of a reversed cone, of which the base is di- rected upwards towards the tongue, and the summit downwards towards the trachea. Two surfaces and two extremities are distin- gished in it. 1422. External surface of the Larynx.—It presents anteriorly the middle prominence of the thyroid cartilage, which is larger in -4he male than in the female; the two oblique surfaces placed on its sides ; the ridge which traverses them behind; a triangular surface which is covered by the constrictor pharyngis inferior; the small horns of the thyroid cartilage and their articulation with the cri- coid ; the crico-thyroid membrane; the two muscles of the same name, and a part of the cricoid cartilage. Posteriorly, there are observed on the outside of the larynx the arytenoid muscle; the middle and posterior line of the cricoid cartilage, the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles; a vacant space placed on each side be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, broad above, narrow below, of greater extent in man than in woman, filled by adipose cellular tissue, and limited externally by the posterior edge of the th3rroid cartilage, which is more prominent than the other parts of the larynx. 1423. Internal Surface of the Larynx.—It is lined in its whole extent by the mucous membrane. At its lower part, it is formed by the cricoid cartilage, and presents nothing remarkable. Towards the middle, on either side, it presents the Vocal Cords, or the Infe- rior Ligaments of the Glottis, which are formed by the thyro-aryte- noid ligaments invested by the mucous membrane (1410). Above the vocal cords, are two elongated depressions, of a variable depth, extended from the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilages. Their aper- ture, which is always open and of an elliptical form, is larger than their bottom, and directed inwards and a little upwards. Then- bottom is covered by the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. They are named the Ventricles or Sinuses of the larynx. In man they are mofe deeply situated and more distant from the external aperture than in woman, because in him the arytenoid cartilages are longer and more elevated. They are themselves surmounted by a fold of the mucous membrane (1410) ; which anatomists have named the Superior Ligament of the Glottis, and which is parallel to the vocal cords. The interval comprised between the superior ligament and the inferior ligament of one side and those of the other, and by which the air enters into the respiratory passages, or issues from them, is the Glottis.* This aperture, which is of an oblong form, its greatest diameter being from behind forwards, is about ten or eleven rxu%f, of the Greek'.