585 ORGANIZATION OF THE TONGUE. and another plane lying above the latter, with transverse fibres, formed by the genio-glossi, and surrounded by the proper tissue of the tongue, 2007. At the centre of this fleshy tissue, and in the direction of the median line, there occurs aJihro-cartilag'mous lamina or se'p-; turn, of a whitish colour, stronger behind than before, having its tipper edge concealed in the substance of the organ, at a consider- able distance from the mucous membrane, and the lower free in the interval of the genio-glossi muscles. This septum is continu- ed posteriorly as far as the body of the hyoid bone, and by its two lateral surfaces gives attachment to a great number of muscular fibres. 2008. Mucous Membrane. After leaving the posterior part of the lower alveolar arch, and after covering the sublingual glands, the mucous membrane which lines the whole interior of the mouth goes to the under surface of the tongue, forming opposite the sym- physis of the jaw (281), a fold of greater or less extent, which covers the origin of the genio-glossi muscles, and which is named the Frenum Linguae. It prolongs itself nearly to the point of the tongue, and allows the ranine veins to be seen on its sides. This fold is accompanied on either side with two denticulated fringes, similar to many other membranous fringes which occur in different parts of the body, and on which my friend M. Bedard proposed, a short time before his death, to pubhsh an interesting work. The mucous membrane then extends on each side beneath the tongue, and ascends upon its edges to pass over its upper sur- face as far as the epiglottis, where it forms three new folds of which we have already spoken (1390). 2009- So long as it occupies the under surface of the tongue the mucous membrane presents nothing remarkable in its organiza- tion. It is very different, however, on the dorsal surface of the organ. There it presents a thin and very distinct epidermis, under which is a layer formed by the intertexture of thousands of vessels, which surround like a net-work the extremities of the nerves and the mucous follicles, and which give the tongue the red colour peculiar to it. Below this vascular layer is the chorion of the membrane, remarkable for its thickness and its adhesion to the muscular body, with which it seems to be incorporated, and to which it affords a great many points of attachment. 2010. At the upper surface of the tongue, the mucous mem- brane appears moreover rendered rough and uneven by the exis- tence of a great number of eminences differing in their form and nature. These are the Papillae, and are distinguished into three kinds. 1. Lenticular Papilla. Their number varies from nine to fif. teen. They are disposed, only at the base of the tongue, in two oblique lines in the form of the letter V, and meeting under an angle at the foramen ccecum (1974). They always project con* siderably, and are of a very irregular form, generally spherical or oval. They are nothing else than mucous follicles like those of