504 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1740. Superficial Twigs. Less voluminous than the others, they vary in number from two to six ; but the distribution of tlieir filaments is constant and uniform. They creep for some time under the crural aponeurosis, and perforate it more or less high, to become subcutaneous. The holes through which they pass are very distinct. Presently after, they separate into a multitude of filaments, which expand upon the inner and fore part of the thigh, and are distributed to the integuments, and of which several de- scend as far as the upper part of the leg, accompanying the vena saphena. 1741. External Deep Twigs. They vary much in number and form; but, in general, they are always larger than the pre- ceding. They descend outwards between the iliacus, sartorius and rectus femoris, and separate into filaments, which are distributed to the neighbouring muscles. Thus the inferior extremity of the iliacus muscle receives some of them ; the sartorius is traversed by three ot four, which, after giving off ramifications to it, lose them- selves in the integuments; a thick twig penetrates into the rec- tus femoris, and before entering it separates into two filaments, an upper and a lower; three or four others throw themselves into the outer portion of the triceps extensor; a like number are dis- tributed in its middle portion, and the tensor vaginae femoris com- monly receives another. 1742. Internal Deep Twigs. They are less numerous than the external, and are especially distributed to the inner portion of the triceps extensor and to the pectineus and sartorius muscles. One of them accompanies the crural artery, placed at first before it, and afterwards on its inner side. It separates from it below, to glide under the inner edge of the sartorius, to which it gives some fila- ments, and then descends to the knee, where it is expanded. But the largest of all these twigs is the one which is called the Internal saphenus or Tihio-cutaneoiis Nerve, which accompanies the vena saphena. It descends at first internally of the crural artery, re- ceives a twig of the obturator nerve, passes under the sartorius muscle in the channel which the adductor magnus forms (1316,) gives several filaments to these muscles, emerges internally of the knee between the tendons of the adductor magnus and triceps ex- tensor, sends small twigs to the integuments, then united to the inner vena saphena, ramifies like it, accompanying it in all its sub- divisions, and descends as far the first toe, after furnishing many cutaneous filaments. OF THE ORTURATOn NERVE. 1743. It comes principally from the second and third lumbar nerves, and sometimes from the fourth. Smaller than the crural nerve, it descends at first almost vertically between the inner edge of the psoas magnus and the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra. It