ORGAN’S OF THH VOICK. S9l tcnoid cartilage is very thin and sharp. I'he mucous membrane envelopes it, and it is generally surmounted by a small cartilagin- ous body, the Corniculum laryngis of Soemmering, which is iso- lated and moveable, and is of a very irregular and variable form. 1405. Tl’ho different cartilages of the larynx are precisely simi- lar in their structure. They are solid and thick, of a greyish co- lour, and of a perfectly homogeneous tissue. They are invested by a kind of fibrous perichondrium. They have a very great ten- dency to become ossified, and when this is the case, they present small cellules in their interior like the bones of the skull. The arytenoid cartilages ossify more rarely than the others, and are on- ly observed in that state in very advanced old age. When ossification of the cartilages of the larynx takes place, it commences in the cricoid cartilage, by two germs, one on each side; in the thyroid cartilage, by each its posterior edges, and frequently .also by its superior processes j in the arytenoid cartilages by the base. OF THE El’IGLOTTIS.* 1406. The Epiglottis is a fibro-cartUage, situated at the upper part of the larynx, behind the base of the tongue. Its form is oval, its colour a pale yellow, its tissue very elastic, its thickness greater below than above, at the middle than below. Its large ex- tremity is free. It is broad, and eurved a little upwards on the side next the tongue. The small extremity is contracted and di- rected downwards, and is connected with the notch in the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage by a dense bundle of ligamentous fibres, embraced anteriorly by the gland of the epiglottis. Some- times it is divided into three distinct portions. The lingual sur- face of the epiglottis, which is inclined upwards, concave from above downwards, and convex transversely, is covered above by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Inferiorly, it is connected with the hyoid bone and the base of the tongue. A longitudinal and rather indistinct line seems to divide it into two equal parts. Its laryngeal surface, which is directed downwards, is concave and convex in the opposite direction of the preceding, and is cov- ered by the membrane of the larynx. These two surfaces, the lat- ter especially, are covered with a great number of depressions like pin holes, which contain mucous follicles. Some of these depres- sions are true holes, which vary in size, but have very regular and rounded margins, and pass through the epiglottis directly, and ne- ver obliquely. They are observed towards the lower part. Seve- ral of these apertures also transmit nervous filaments. The direction of the epiglottis is liable to vary in the different circumstances of life. It is vertical in the most common state, but *■ upon ; I’AwTc';. the ffloftit-.