ORGANS OF SECRETION. 6 78i It is, however, eovered with a great number of fungoid pauillm very close to each other. 21140. No traces of Heshy fibres are discovered in the walls of the gall-bladder. Its arteries are furnished by the cystic twig of the hepatic artery. Its veins go to the vena porta*. Its nerves come from the hepatic plexus, and its lymphatics join those of the liver. CYSTIC DUCT. * 2841. Placed, like the hepatic duct, in the substance of the gastro-hepatic omentum, it is a little smaller than it, but has near- ly the same length. Directed inwards, backwards, and a little up- wards, it meets it under an acute angle, runs along it for some time, and at length unites with it. Its left side is in connection with the trunk of the cystic artery, and behind it is the orifice of the posterior cavity of the omenta. DUCTUS COMMUNIS CHOLEDOCHUS.*f- 2842. The Ductus communis choledochus results from the union of the cystic and hepatic ducts; but it appears to be the continuation of the latter. From three to three and a half inches long, and equally lodged between the laminae of the gastro-hepatic omentum, before the vena portae and above the hepatic artery, surro’jnded with cel- lular tissue, ganglions and lymphatic vessels, it descends behind the right extremity of the pancreas, and the second portion of the duodenum, inosculates with the pancreatic duct, or merely runs along side of it, enters' obliquely between the fleshy and mucous coats of the intestine, and opens, an inch lower, in the duodenum, near its last curve. Its mouth is placed upon a small mammillary eminence, and is furnished with a membranous fold. 2843. The different excretory ducts of the bile are formed by two distinct membranous laminae, an inner and an outer. The outer appears composed of white and longitudinal fibres; the inner^ is mucous, very thin, and furnished with a small number of pa- pillae. It is continuous with the internal membranes of the gall- bladder and duodenum. 3. Of the Spleen.X GENEIIAL CONFORMATION. 2844. The Spleen (Lien) whose uses, although entirely un- • Ki/V7if, Tcsica* f bilis, accipio, recipio. + ia-Xsir.