ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Hfcix\os of the Greeks. 613 2136. I’he upper extremity of the rectum communicates with the end of tlie sigmoid flexure of the colon. The lower, which is very contracted, is terminated by a rounded and plicate orifice, to which the name of Anus* is given. The anus is situated at about an inch before the coccyx. On its edges, the inner membrane of the intes- tine is continuous with the skin, which, there, is very delicate, fur- nished with radiating plicae, and shaded with a greater or less quantity of hair which exists only in the adult male. This extre- mity is embraced by the sphincter ani (1092), and by the two le- vatores ani (1085). h. OKOANIZATION OF THE IlECTUM. 2137- Serous Membrane or Coat. The rectum is entirely des- titute of this coat in its lower part, as we have just said. The case is very difterent with respect to its upper region, behind which the peritoneum even forms the fold named Meso-rectum (2133). W'^hen the uterus is greatly distended during gestation the peritoneum is raised up by that organ, and almost entirely leaves the rectum. In the male, the distention of the bladder causes the .same pheno- menon, but in a less degree. 2138. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is thicker than in the other intestines, and has a great resemblance to that of the oeso- phagus. Its outer surface is separated above from the peritoneum by a layer of adipose cellular tissue. The inner is connected with the mucous membrane by a loose cellular tissue which is not adi- pose. It is composed of two planes of fibres, the one superficial, the other deep. The superficial fibres, which are longitudinal, predo- minate in a decided manner in the two upper thirds of the rectum ; the others, which are circular, exist in its upper third and near the anus. The former also have a white tint; the others acquire a reddish hue, which is so much the deeper the lower they are. This circumstance has induced many anatomists to describe around the lower part of the rectum a fleshy ring under the name of Inner Sphincter of the Anus. 2139- Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is similar to that of the rest of the digestive canal, only thicker, redder, more spongy, and covered with a thicker and more abundant mucosity. It presents the rugae, lacunae, and orifices of follicles of which we have already spoken. Its villosities are not numerous, nor has it any vulvulse conniventes. 2140. No intestine receives so many blood-vessels as the rectum in proportion to its volume. Its arteries come from the inferior mesenteric, hypogastric and internal pudic arteries. They are col- lectively designated by the name of Hcsmorrhoidal Arteries, and are distinguished into stiperior, middle, and inferior. Its veins