PASSIVE OIIGANS OP LOCOMOTION. 18G fcrcncc of the occipital hole, between the condyles, separating as they descend, and of which the anterior, thick and present- ing very distinct vertical fibres, is interlaced with the dura mater j)f the vertebral canal; while the other, which is of a looser and a]>parently cellular tissue, is attached to the great arch of the atlas. Between these two laminae there is a slight layer of cellular tissue, traversed by a great number of nervous filaments and vascular twigs, which pass through small holes formed in the midst of the fibres. The anterior sicrface of this ligament corresponds to the dura-mater; the posterior to the recti capitis postici majores and minores, and the obliquus superior. Its eoctremities form with the upper notches of the vertebra two apertures, through which pass the vertebral arteries and sub-occipital nerves. ARTICULATION OF THE OCCIPUT WITH THE AXIS. 607. Here we find neither diarthrodial cartilages, nor synovial capsules to describe, on account of there not being bony surfaces adapted for sliding on each other. The connections are formed by means of a very strong ligamentous apparatus. 608. Odontoid Ligaments, (Ligamenta vertebrae colli secmrir- dae alaria, Soemm.) These are two short, thick, round, and very strong fasciculi, with parallel and close fibres, longer be- low than above, which represent each a sort of cone, whose trun- cated summits embrace the sides and apex of the odontoid process, while their bases are inserted in small uneven fossae, formed on the inside of each condyle of the occipital bone.* Their direction is obliquely outwards and slightly upwards. They correspond ante- riorly to a mass of cellular tissue and to the anterior occipito-at- loidal ligament, and posteriorly to the occipito-axoidal ligament. There is observed, moreover, a third ligamentous fasciculus of great firmness, which passes horizontally from one condyle to the other, forming some attachment by its middle to the summit of the odontoid process, and intermingling part of its fibres with the pre- ceding ligament. 609. Occipito-axoidal Ligament. This ligament is not admit- ted by many authors, who speak of it as a prolongation of the com- mon posterior vertebral ligament. We agree with Bichat in think- ing that it has a separate existence, distinct from that of the fibrous organs in its vicinity. It is a kind of membrane, thicker laterally than at its middle part, which is attached superiorly in front of the occipital hole to the basilar groove, and descends within the verte- bral canal, as far as the level of the body of the axis, passing be- hind the odontoid process. Its fibres are vertical, parallel, close, and of unequal length. The deeper fibres are attached to the up- per edge of the transverse ligament; the middle ones descend as far as the posterior surface of the axis; while the more superficial Soemmering gives these cones an inverse disjwsition.