AETICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. SOS vascular cellular tissue, which has been considered as a synovial gland, and which fills up the coronoid cavity. 664. Posterior Ligament. This ligament can only be well seen when the fore-arm is bent upon the arm, and is much smaller than the anterior. It is formed of two separate fasciculi. One of these, which is internal, is nearly parallel to the posterior fasciculus of the internal lateral ligament, and ascending from the summit of the olecranon, is inserted into the inside of the pulley or trochlea of the humerus and the edge of its olecranal cavity. The other fas- ciculus, which is external, is a sort of fibrous band, extended be- tween the two tuberosities of this bone, immediately behind the olecranal cavity. This ligament is covered by the tendon of the triceps extensor and by the anconeus, and is applied over the sy- novial membrane and a mass of cellular tissue, which occupies the olecranal fossa at its upper part. 665. Synovial Membrane. It is common to the humero-cubi- tal articulation, and that of the two bones of the fore-arm with each other at their upper part. Apphed behind the anterior ligament of the articulation, from which it is separated by a great quantity of cellular tissue, this membrane descends towards the neck of the radius, around which it forms a sort of cul^e-sac, directing itself to the inner surface of its annular ligament.' It then ascends in- to the cavity of the head of the radius, is prolonged between it and the ulna, invests the two sigmoid cavities of the latter, gains the internal surface of the tendon of the triceps extensor, of the late- ral ligaments, and of the posterior ligament, to arrive at the ole- cranal cavity, whence it proceeds to the different articular surfaces of the inferior extremity of the humerus, which it lines, and then arrives at the coronoid cavity, whence it finally proceeds to the point from which we have imagined it to set out. Its external surface is in connection with the brachialis internus, anteriorly; with the ulnar nerve, and the triceps and anconeus, posteriorly; with the internal lateral ligament and the common tendon of the ante- rior muscles of the fore-arm, internally ; and with the external lar- teral ligament, and the common tendon of the posterior muscles of the fore-arm, externally. This membrane is raised up by small adipose synovial masses, opposite the depressions which surmount the puUey and condyle of the humerus, as well as at the summit of the olecranon, around the sigmoid cavities of the ulna. 5. ARTICULATIONS OP THE ULNA WITH THE RADIUS. 666. These articulations constitute collectively a double lateral ginglymus, and are formed, above and below, by an immediate contact of the two bones of the fore-arm, which are separated in the middle, (487,) connected solely by a fibrous membrane pass- ing from the one to the other.