MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. S6? the crural arteries and vein, and wiiich represents a sort of entirely fibrous canal. Lastly, the inner fibres, whicli are very long and nearly vertical, are inserted into a tendon which commences very high upon the inner edge of the muscle, sends a fibrous prolonga- tion before the crural artery, unites with the aponeurosis of the ad- ductor longus, and is attached to the tuberosity of the internal condyle of the femur, where it is confounded with the inner edge of the triceps extensor cruris. 1317- The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the two preceding, by the sartorius, and by the crural artery. The posterior covers the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, biceps and glutaeus maximus muscles, and the sciatic nerve. The inner edge, which is much thicker above than below, is in connection with the fascia lata and the gracilis and sartorius muscles. 1318. This muscle brings the thigh powerfully toward that of the opposite side, keeps the pelvis in its natural position, and has the same uses as the other adductors. 7. External Femoral Region. OF THE TENSOR VAGIN.E FEMORIS, TENSOR EASCI.'E LAT.E. (Ilio-aponeurosi-femoral, Chauss.) 1319. This muscle, which is situated at the upper and outer part of the thigh, is elongated, flattened, broader and thinner be- low than above, and arises externally from the anterior and supe- rior iliac spine, between the sartorius and glutasus medius, by a very short tendon, more prolonged before than behind. The fleshy fibres descend nearly vertically, diverging as they proceed, and about three inches above the great trochanter terminate in a sepa- ration of the two laminae of the crural aponeurosis or fascia lata. 1320. Its outer surface is covered by a thin lamina of the fascia lata. The inner is separated by another from the rectus fern oris and triceps extensor cruris. It also covers a little the glutaeus medius and glutaeus minimus. Its anterior edge is parallel above to the sartorius, and separates from it below. The posterior is united above to the glutaeus medius. 1321. This muscle rotates the thigh inwards. It also carries it outwards, separating it from the other. Its principal action, how- ever, is to stretch the aponeurosis by which the muscles of the thigh are enveloped- B. MUSCLES OF THE LEG. 1. Anterior Region of the Leg. OF THE TIBIALIS ANTICUS. 1.322. The tibialis anticus is a long, thick, fleshy muscle, of the form of a triangular prism above, slender and tendinous below.