l^ASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 176 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LAMINAE OF THE VERTEUR.E. 578. Ligamenta Flava. These ligaments, ■which occupy the interlaminar Spaces of the vertebrae, from that which exists be- tween the second and third, to that which separates the last from the sacrum, and which complete the vertebral canal behind, are formed of a peculiar tissue, very strong and firm, elastic, of a yel- lowish colour, and composed of vertical fibres. They are more ap- parent iit the interior than at the exterior of the vertebral canal, and each of them is divided into two portions, the one right, the other left, angularly united toward the base of the spinous process, but in such a manner as to leave between them a small fissure which is closed by cellular tissue. At the upper part of the neck, they are thin and narrow. They become thicker and broader in proportion as they descend, and in the loins acquire very considerable dimen- sions. Each portion of these ligaments has a quadrilateral form, and is transversely elongated. Their anterior surface is connected with the dura mater of the spinal marrow, from which it is separated by a cellular tissue of which we have already had occasion to speak, (575.) It has a smooth and polished appearance, which seems to be owing to the existence of a peculiar membrane of an extremely delicate nature. The posterior surface, which is rough and un- even, is with difficulty perceived, especially in the dorsal region. It is partly covered by the superior vertebral lamina, and partly by the multifidus spinae. Their tipper edge is attached to the inner surface of the laminae of the vertebra which is situated above ; the lower edge is fixed to the very margin of the vertebral lamina placed beneath. Externally, these ligaments are in contact with the sy- novial membrane of the articular processes, while internally, toward the angle which they form at their union, they are continuous, in the back and loins, with the interspinal ligaments. They are composed of very numerous parallel fibres, closely com- pacted, longer on the side next the canal than on that of the ver- tebral grooves. Their elasticity and resistance are prodigious. Professor Dumeril considers them as being of the same nature with the posterior cervical ligament, which serves to support the head in quadrupeds, and which for this purpose requires a very great de- gree of strength. It is easy to separate their fibres and tear them asunder with the fingers, provided this be tried in the longitudinal direction. They contain very little cellular tissue, and are not dis- solved by boiling without extreme difficulty. ARTICULATIONS OF THE SPINOUS PROCESSES. 579. Interspinal Ligaments. These ligaments occupy the in- tervals of the spinous processes in the back and loins, but arc want-