ORGANS OF SENSATION. of distinct and parallel fdaments, enveloped each with a neurilemma which gives them more solidity and density. 157i2- On examining all these small nervous filaments with great care, it is seen that those which occupy the centre of the cord receive the neurilemma later tlian those which are situated at the circumference. There results from this that they must break at unequal distances, and this is the reason why on detaching the trunk of the trifacial nerve from the place where it becomes free, there occurs on the surface of the brain, at the very point which it occupied, a sort of whitish mammilla, which seemed to be con- cealed in the interior of the nerve, but which is nothing else than the solution of continuity of the filaments which compose it, and not, as Bichat thinks, a particular tubercle. 1573. Be this as it may, these filaments, of which the number varies from seventy to eighty or a hundred, are evidently separat- ed into two parcels by cellular laminae or by blood vessels. The anterior and inner is formed of five or six larger, softer and whiter filaments, placed beneath the others, and not contributing by their rupture, to the formation of the mammilla mentioned above (I57I.) 'I'he other bundle, which is situated posteriorly and externally, contains the rest of the filaments, and advances outwards as far as the extremity of the upper edge of the petrous bone, where it en- ters a canal furnished by the dura mater (1491,) about five hnes long anteriorly and only three behind, and in which the arachnoid membrane soon leaves it forming a cul-de-sac. It thus arrives in the internal temporal fossa, after being much flattened and broad- ened in passing over the upper edge of the petrous process, which presents a depression for lodging it. Its filaments then cease to be parallel; they separate from each other without interlacing or anastomosing with each other, as happens in the course of other nerves, and all terminate in a depressed, semilunar gangliform or plexiform bulging, of a grayish colour, concave behind for receiving them, flat beneath, where it rests upon the base of the skull, and a little concave above. This sort of ganglion adheres intimately to the dura mater, without its being certain that it furnishes filaments to it. Its tissue seems formed of a net-work of inextricable fibres, and does not permit its original filaments to be followed, they being intimately confounded together. 1574. The anterior edge of this gangliform body or plexus is con- vex. There successively arise from it, from befoi’e backwards, three nervous trunks, viz. : 1st, the ophthalmic nerve, less voluminous, and lodged in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; 2dl}', the su- perior maxillary nerve, larger and issuing by the great round fo- ramen of the sphenoid bone; 3dly, the inferior maxillary nerve, larger still and escaping by the foramen ovale of the same bone. 1575 The first bundle, which is formed by the five or six white filaments, and does not enter into the ganglion, passes in an isolat- ed manner beneath it, and joins the inferior maxillary nerve.