ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 3S8 anterior surface is applied upon the supinator brevis, extensores pollicis, and extensor indicis. Its outer edge is united above to the extensor di^torum communis; the inner to the extensor carpi ulnaris. 1192. Conjointly with the fourth portion of the preceding mus- cle, this extends the little finger, and even the hand upon the fore-arm. OF THE EXTENSOE CAEPI ULNAEIS, OE ULNAEIS EXTERNUS. 1193. The extensor carpi ulnaris is a long fusiform muscle, situ- ated internally of the back part of the fore-arm. It arises from the outer condyle by the common tendon, which sends a very long pro- longation over its anterior surface, from the aponeurotic septum placed externally between it and the extensor minimi digiti, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and from about the middle third of the posterior edge of the ulna, below the anconeus muscle. From thence it descends at first a little obliquely inwards, and then ver- tically behind the ulna, and presently degenerates into a tendon sooner apparent behind than before, and concealed for some time in the fleshy fibres, which terminate upon it in the order of their origin, and accompany it to near the lower extremity of the bone, where it is engaged in a particular groove, under the posterior an- nular ligament. It passes behind the pyramidal bone, in a sort of fibrous canal, attached to that bone, the pisiform bone, the os un- ciforme, and the styloid process of the ulna, and lined by a syno- vial membrane scantily moistened. It passes under the abductor minimi digiti, enlarges a little, and terminates at the inner and back part of the upper extremity of the fifth metacarpal bone, whence it sends some aponeurotic fibres over the opponens minimi digiti. 1194. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, to which it adheres above. The ante- rior is applied upon the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and extensor proprius in- dicis muscles, and upon the ulna. Its outei’ edge is united above to the extensor proprius minimi digiti; the inner is contiguous at its upper part to the anconeus. 11^. This muscle extends the hand upon the fore-arm, inclin- ing it a little upon the ulna. OF THE ANCONEUS.* 1196. This a short, rather thick, triangular muscle, frequently confounded with the triceps extensor (1155), and placed behind the elbow joint. It arises from the outer condyle by a distinct tendon, broader and thinner below than above, and descending * A’yx4(», cuhitut, the elbow.