128 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The anterior is less prominent. It is rounded, especially at its lower part, sometimes presents the aperture for tlie vessels of tlie bone, and at its upper part affords insertion to the flexor sublimis, flexor longus proprius pollicis, and supinator brevis; while at its lower part, it receives first the pronator quadratus, and afterwards the supinator longus. 454. Upper or Humeral Extremity. It presents at its upper part a superficial circular cavity, covered with cartilage, into which is received the small head of the humerus. The circumference of this cavity, which is also smooth, and covered with a cartilaginous layer, is broader internally, where it is articulated with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. In the rest of its extent, it is connect- ed with the annular ligament. This articular part of the radius is supported by a round contracted Neck, about a finger’s breadth in length, and inclined a little outwards. This neck terminates down- wards and inwards at the bicipital tuberosity, an eminence which is smooth and contiguous externally with the tendon of the biceps flexor, to which it affords attachment internally by a rough sur- face. 455. Lower or Carpal Extremity. It is nearly square and larger than the upper. There is observed at its lower part an ar- ticular surface, which is traversed from before backwards by a somewhat indistinct line, and is connected externally with the os scaphoides, and internally with the semilunar bone, for which pur- pose it presents two surfaces, of which the outer is triangidar, and of greater extent, the inner square, and less elongated. Anterior- ly, this extremity of the bone gives attachment to the anterior li- gament of the wrist joint. Posteriorly, it presents two vertical grooves, of which the outer is narrow, passes a little obliquely out- wards, and contains the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis, while the inner, which is broader and superficial, affords a passage to the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and extensor indicis. Internally, it presents an oblong cartilaginous cavity, which is articulated to the lower extremity of the ulna; and on the outside is marked with two other grooves, the anterior for the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primr internodii pollicis, the posterior for the tendons of the radial exten- sor muscles. The edge by which these grooves are separated ter- minates below in a pyramidal eminence, named the styloid process of the radius, which is itself terminated by a blunt summit, into which the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint is inserted. 456. Structure, Articulations and Development. The radius presents exactly the same structure as the humerus and all the long bones. It contains a medullary canal, which is more distinct and wider above than below. It is articulated with the humerus and ulna, and the scaphoid and semilunar bones. It is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each of the extremities. 4-