ORGANS OF SENSATION. 51.G which fills up all the vacuities of the orbit. Superiorly and exter- nally, the lachrymal gland rests upon it; inferiorly and internally, the caruncula lachrymalis is placed in its neighbourhood. The ball of the eye is moved by six muscles which we have al- ready described (932). K. OF THE PARTS WHICH ENTER INTO THE COMPOSITION OF THE RALL OF THE EYE. 1822. The parts which enter into the composition of the ball of the eye are membranes, as the sclerotica, cornea, choroides, retina, iris, hyaloid membrane, &c.; or fluids, as the aqueous and vitre- • ous humours ; or, lastly, bodies of a peculiar nature, as the crys- talline lens and the ciliary circle. Nerves and vessels are also met within it. We proceed to examine these different constituent parts in succession. 1. OF THE SCLEROTICA. 1883. The Sclerotica* (Cornea Opaca J, is a hard, opaque, tough substance, of a pearly white eolour, occupying about four-fifths of the ball of the eye, and having the form of a sphere truncated an- teriorly. It is of a fibrous structure, and is the strongest and most external of the membranes of the eye. Its thickness becomes less the more anteriorly it is examined. Near the entrance of the optic nerve it is a line, whereas in the vicinity of the cornea it is no more than the third of a line, but here it is strengthened by the expansion of the aponeuroses of the recti and obliqui muscles which seem to be identified with it, and which some authors have designated vuider the name of Tunica albuginea. 1884. The outer surface of the sclerotica has the same rela- tions as the ball of the eye itself; the mner is lined by the choroid membrane, with which it is freely connected by nervous filaments, vessels, and a very delicate lamellar tissue of a peculiar nature. These too surfaces present, in various points of their extent, prin- cipally at the back part, small holes for the passage of the ciliary vessels and nerves. These holes are the orifices of canals running obliquely in the substance of the membrane, and continuing ante- riorly upon its inner surface in the form of slight grooves. Behind and a little inwards, the sclerotica is perforated with a rounded aperture for the passage of the optic nerve (1561.) Some- times, in place of a single aperture, there is a multitude of small holes, among which are observed one or two larger than the rest, which belong to the central artery and vein of the retina. It is there that the continuity of the membrane with the sheath which XxXwaof, durus, craseiis.