MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 3S5 OJF THE ENVELOPING APONEUROSIS OF THE INFERIOR EXTRE- MITIES. 1392. The inferior extremities, like the superior (1250,) are en- veloped in their vhole extent, by a very distinct fibrous sheath, placed between the muscles and the integuments. This aponeu- rotic sheath changes its name according to the region in which it is examined. In the thigh it is called the Crural Aponeurosis or Fascia lata; in the leg, the Tihial Aponeurosis, or Aponeurosis of the Leg. 1393. Crural Aponeurosis. This is the strongest aponeurosis in the body. It is very thick at the outside of the thigh, but is less so anteriorly and posteriorly, and is stiU thinner at the inner side. It is formed of fibres crossing each other in different directions, and is perforated by a great number of holes for the passage of nerves and vessels. There is observed among others a very considerable one, situated before the pectineus muscle, under the crural arch, and which transmits the vena saphena. This hole is not a mere aperture, for its circumference is prolonged around the vein in the form of a very delicate fibrous sheath, which loses itself in the cel- lidar tissue after proceeding to some distance. This aponeurosis seems to arise, at its upper and fore part, from the abdominal aponeurosis (1101), and to contribute to the forma- tion of the crural arch. It in fact commences by a very thin la- mina which extends towards the flank, above that arch, to which it strongly adheres, as well as to the contour of the inguinal ring, sending off a transparent prolongation, which accompanies the cre- master muscle as far as the scrotum, where it loses itself in the cel- lular tissue of the dartos. Posteriorly, it has indistinct origins from the sacrum and coccyx, from whence it is expanded over the glutaeus maximus and in the perineum, having the appearance of a very fine cellular web. Externally, it is attached to the outer lip of the iliac crest, then descends upon the glutaeus medius, to which it affords points of attachment. It is here much more dis- tinct. Internally, and still above, it is continuous with the liga- ment of the symphysis pubis, and with the periosteum of the scia- tic tuberosity and the osseous branch which connects that eminence with the symphysis of the pubes. In the rest of its course, the crural aponeurosis is inserted into the whole length of the outer lip of the linea aspera of the femur, by a lamina firmly united to the triceps cruralis, and ascending between it and the short portion of the biceps. This lamina also receives, in a distinct manner, a very great number of fibres from the tendon of the glutaeus maxi- mus. After being thus fixed, the aponeurosis in question envelopes the muscles of the thigh, and separates externally into two distinct laminae, of which the outer and thinner covers the tensor muscle, 2 G