muscles of the abdomen. 310 <ind in the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is attaclicd below, by aponeurotic fibres, and over an extent of about an inch, to the mid- dle and posterior part of the iliac crest, as well as to the ilio-lumbar ligament, and by some transverse fibres, to the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The fleshy fibres which come from the iliac bone ascend to the last rib and terminate in nearly the whole length of its inferior edge. Those which arise from the liga- ment, and which are so much the longer the more external they are, proceed upwards and inwards, and terminate in four aponeu- rotic slips, continuous at their edges, and attached to the fore part of the base of the first four transverse processes of the loins. Frequently the aponeuroses at the commencement of the muscle are kept down inferiorly by other fibres arising from the fifth of these processes and directed transversely outwards. Frequently also, a distinct fleshy plane proceeds from the third or fourth of them, ascends outwards, and loses itself in the rest of the muscle. 1120. The anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum is co- vered above by the diaphragm, and, in the rest of its extent, by the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis and by the psoas magnus. It corresponds to the kidney and colon by the intervention of other parts. Its posterior surface is separated from the sacro-spinahs by the middle lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis. 1121. This muscle inclines the loins to one side; it lowers the last rib, and is subservient to exspiration, being an antagonist (of the scaleni muscles in this respect. It can also raise the haunch. MUSCLES OF THE EXTREMITIES. I. MUSCLES OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. A, MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 1. Posterior Scapular Region. OF THE SUPRA-SPINATUB. 1122. The supra-spinatus is situated at the posterior and up- per part of the shoulder. It is long, thick, triangular, pyramidal, broader within than without; and is kept in position by a very thin aponeurosis, which arising on the one hand from the whole length of the upper lip of the spine of the scapida, is attached on the other behind the upper edge of that bone and to the upper part of its inner edge. The fleshy fibres arise from the posterior part of this aponeurosis, and from the two inner thirds of the fossa supra-spinata by short aponeuroses. They proceed outwards, con- verge toward each other, and are inserted obliquely round a broad aponeurosis, which, after being long concealed among them, con- tracts, becomes thicker, and entirely emerges from them, passing un-