OllGANS OF CIRCULATION. 738 name of Cephalic Vein of the Thumb, and bends inwards upon the muscles of the first interosseal space. This trunk ascends along the anterior and external part of the fore-arm, 'f/hexc\i^ovmH the Superficial Radial Vein. It receives on all hands numerous subcutaneous twigs, and on arriving at the bend of the arm, unites with the median-cephalic vein, which ascends outwards in the triangular space formed in that place by the ante- rior muscles of the fore-arm, is larger than the superficial radial vein, and communicates with the median-basilic. Ihesetwo veins, thus united, form the trunk of the cephalic, which ascends vertically at the outer and fore part of the arm, along the external edge of the biceps muscle, at first under the skin, and afterwards under the cellular interval which separates the pectoralis major and deltoides. Then, bending inwards, under or above the clavicle, it opens singly, or divides into several branches, into the axillary vein, frequently communicating by a twig with the external jugular vein. In all this course it only re- ceives a very small number of secondary veins. 2641. Basilic Vein (Veine cuhitale cutanee, Chauss.) This vein, which is hxrger than the cephalic, is formed by three branches, which are named the Posterior Ulnar, Anterior Ulnar, and Me- dian-basilic Veins. I'he Posterior Ulnar, which is larger than the anterior, com- mences on the inner part of the back of the hand, and on the posterior surface of the fingers, by a net-work formed by a great number of radicles frequently anastomosing together, and with those of the cephalic veins of the thumb and superficial radial vein, and unites internally' of the hand into a single trunk, named the Vena salvatella. This vein, ascending upon-the inner part of the fore-arm, assumes the name of posterior ulnar. It receives in this course a great number of subcutaneous secondary veins, passes behind the inner condyle, and unites with the anterior ulnar vein. The Anterior Ulnar Vein, commences in the inferior region of the internal and anterior part of the fore-arm, and ascends before the inner condyle. It communicates with the preceding by a great number of anastomosing twigs. The Median-basilic Vein descends obliquely outwards along the tendon of the biceps muscle, and unites with the median-cephalic, sometimes at an acute angle, sometimes by a transverse branch. At the middle of this anastomosis two veins open. One of them is deep, and is formed by detached twigs of the deep radial and ul- nar veins. The other is subcutaneous, and is called the Common Median Vein. The latter comes from a great number of roots ex- panded over the whole anterior surface of the fore-arm. Thus formed by these different branches, the basilic vein as- cends along the inner part of the arm, before the ulnar nerve, re- ceiving but a small number of twigs, and anastomosing pretty fre- 2