35 BONES OF THE SKULL. THE SPHENOID BONE. festly distinct in their uses, their mode of development, and their mechanism. These parts are the Skull and the Face. 1. OF THE SKULL. 110. The Skull or Cranium* is a large ovoidal cavity, with its narrow end before, occupying the upper and posterior parts of the head, of a rather irregular although symmetrical form, which con- tains and protects the brain, and is formed of several flat bones, the edges of which are commonly marked with eminences. These bones are :—anteriorly, the Frontal; posteriorly, the Occipital; on the sides and above, tlie two Parietal Bones ; la- terally and below, the two Temporal; below and in the middle, the Sphenoid, anteriorly to which is the Ethmoid, separated from it by the Sphenoidal Turbinated Bones. Each of the temporal bones, moreover, contains four small bones: the Malleus, the Incus, the Lenticular Bone, and the Stapes. Very frequently, also, there are observed between the principal bones of the skull, other bones, which are very irregular in every respect, and which are known by the name of Ossa Wor~ mii, or Triquetral Bones. 111. Four of the bones of the skull, the Frontal, Occipital, Sphenoid, and Ethmoid, are situated in the median line; the others are lateral. The former are symmetrical, that is to say ca- pable of being divided into two perfectly similar parts, a character common to them with all the organs by the agency of which we become acquainted with external objects. These four bones, it is also to be remarked, are single, while the rest are hr pairs. All the bones of the skull do not belong to it so essentially as not to contribute also to the formation of the face; and for this reason they were divided by the older anatomists into common and proper bones. The latter belonged exclusively to the skull, and tlie frontal, occipital, parietal, and temporal bones were regarded as such; but this division is far from being correct, and we shall see, as we proceed, that several of these bones contribute as much to tlie formation of the face as the sphenoid or ethmoid. 112. The anterior region of the skull is named the Forehead or Synciput; the posterior, the Occiput; the upper part, the Top or Bregma; the lateral parts, the Tenvples; and the lower region, the Base of the Skull. a. OF THE PARTICULAR RONES OF WHICH THE SKULL IS * COMPOSED. OF THE SPHENOID RONE. 113. General Form.—The Sphenoid Bone is articulated with * Kjav/av of the Greeks ; calvaria of the Latins.