PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. G8 takes place, although rarely ; and sometimes their diameters arc equal. 230. A channel which lodges the lateral siftus of the dura ma^ ter arises from the foramen lacerum posterius behind, and pro- ceeds to the inner occipital protuberance. Descending slightly at first, it mounts behind the base of the petrous process, and then proceeds in a horizontal direction to the point where it terminates. It is formed above by the occipital and parietal bones, in the middle by the temporal, and below by the occipital again. The posterior condyloid foramen, which presents many variations as to number, size, and direction, opens upon it near the jugular fossa, and the mastoid hole perforates it behind the petrous process. The latter hole is frequently nothing but the orifice of a canal which passes in a very obhque manner through the substance of the temporal bone, and is wider on the inside of the skuU than on the outside. It is also frequently more distinct on the one side than on the other, or is even entirely wanting; nor is it rare to find it in the lambdoid suture. The channel of which we speak is commonly larger on the right side, which is the cause of the variations which we have pointed out in the size of the posterior lacerated holes. It circumscribes the lower occipital fossae, which receive the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and is surmounted at its origin by the internal auditory canal and the orifice of the aqueduct of the vestibule.* 231. It is only in man that the direction of the occipital hole is horizontal, and that it is situated nearly in the middle of the base of the skull. In all other animals, it is oblique, and situated behind. Sometimes it is even vertical. We shall presently see what influence this circumstance has upon the position of the centre of gravity of the head, and upon the general attitude. 2. DIMENSIONS or THE SKULL. 232. The slightest inspection of a skull that has been sawn ho- rizontally is sufficient to show that the part of it which has received the greatest development is situated at the level of the occipital hole and basilar groove, the place where the brain, the cerebellum, and the medulla elongata unite. But if it be desired to determine the dimensions of this cavity in a rigorous manner, the measure- ments must not be made on the external surface, because very fre- quently it does not correspond with the internal, either in form or extent, on account of the variations that occur in the development of the different sinuses existing on the bones, as well as in the • Most anatoinistP divide each of the planes above described into three, which makes the number of foss® in the base of the skull nine, three middle and si.\ late- ' ral, or rather three anterior, three middle, and three posterior. The suprasphe- noidal fossa is the one which in all cases occuiiics the centre.