H7 OF THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. which is seen the upper part of the sacro-iliac articulation ; ante- riorly, the anterior iliac spines, the channel which lodges the united mass of the iliacus and psoas muscles, the ilio-pectineal eminence, the spine of the pubes, the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and lastly, the great notch of which we have already spoken, and which is formed by the anterior edges of the ossa ilii. LOWER CIRCUMFERENCE, OR LOWER STRAIT OF THE PELVIS. 409. This strait, which is also named the perineal, is circum- scribed anteriorly by the junction of the pubes, on the sides by the branches which proceed from thence to the sciatic tuberosity, and behind by the extremity of the sacrum and coccyx. It is directed downwards and a little backwards. Its form is irregular and diffi- cult to be determined, because its edges are notched and inclined in two different directions. It seems, in fact, to result from the union of three large eminences, separated by an equal number of deep notches. The sciatic tuberosities form the two anterior emi- nences, which are placed wider asunder in the female than in the male, and which descend lower than the posterior and middle emi- nence, which is represented by the coccyx. One of the notches is placed before, and is named the Puhic Arch, or Arch of the Pubes. It is formed on each side by the bony plate which occurs beneath the sub-pubic hole, and terminated above by an angle, nearly acute in the male, but very rounded in the female, which is occupied by the genital organs in both sexes ; and is surmounted by the junc- tion of the pubes. The two other notches are situated behind, be- tween the sciatic tuberosity and the sacrum. They are named the Sciatic Notches, and are each divided, in the recent state, into three portions by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and traversed by the pyramidalis, the sciatic, glutmal and pudic vessels and nerves, the tendon of the obturator internus, &c. 410. Here, as in the abdominal strait, there are observed four diameters. The antero-posterioi', or coccy-puhic, which is the largest, is measured from the summit of the coccyx to the symphy- sis of the pubes. The transverse, is smaller, and extends from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. The oblique diame- ters, are hmited by the tuberosity of the ischium on the one hand, and on the other by the middle of the opposite posterior sacro- sciatic ligament; on which account, these oblique diameters can- not be measured on an artificial skeleton. 2. OF THE DIRECTION OF THE PELVIS. 411. The pelvis is not placed in a horizontJil plane, but repre- sents a conoid compressed before and behind, and having its two extremities cut obliquely, so as to be always more or less inclined