OllGANS OF CIRCULATION. 674^ nrc distributed to the protuberance, the cerebellum, the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia, and the acoustic, facial and trifacial nerves. But there also separate from it two somewhat more remarkable branches, which are the superior cerebellar. 2327- Superior CereheLiar Artery. Arising from the basilar artery, near its termination, it directs itself outwards and back- wards under the protuberance and peduncle of the brain, around which it turns to ascend upon the upper surface of the cerebellum, oj^posite the tubercula quadrigemina, and after sending a great number of twigs over the protuberance, the tubercula quadrige- mina, and into the conarium, the choroid plexus and the valvula Vieussenii. It then divides into a great number of more or less considerable branches, some of which ascend in a very flexuous man- ner upon the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, whilst others descend upon the upper surface of the cerebellum, where tliey are dis- tributed like those of the inferior cerebellar artery (2321!). 2328. The basilar artery terminates by separating into two branches, which are the posterior cerebral arteries. 3. OF THE POSTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY- 2329. The Posteo'ior Cerebral Artery( Art. lobaire posterieure du cerveau, Chauss.) is much larger than the superior cerebellar, from which it is separated at its commencement by the common motor nerve of the eye (1562). It proceeds at first forwards and outwards, then presently directs itself backwards, turning over the corres- ponding peduncle of the brain, whence it gains the lower part of the posterior lobe of that organ. Immediately after its commence- ment, it furnishes several small twigs to the mammillary tubercles, and to the peduncles of the brain. It sends a pretty large one in- to the third ventricle for the thalamus of the optic nerve, the tuber cinereum, and the anterior pillars of the fornix. Precisely in the place where it is in contact with the common motor ner^^e of the eye, it receives the communicating artery of Willis, which comes from the internal carotid (2310). Afterwards there still proceed from it a considerable number of twigs for the cerebral protuber- ance,, the peduncle of the brain, the choroid plexus, the thalamus of the optic nei’ve, the cornu Ammonis, tJie corpus canahculatum, the pineal gland and the tubercula quadrigemina. 2330. The branches which this artery sends over the brain dive into the anfractuosities of its posterior lobe, and subdivide in the pia mater like those of the other cerebral arteries, with which be- sides their ramifications anastomose. 2331. The posterior cerebral arteries, the communicating arte- ries of Willis, the anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicat- ing artery, form a sort of polygon, in the arch of which are situated the mammillary eminences, the tuber cinereum, the pituitary body, ami the shaft of the same name. 2332. It is also to be observed, that the principal trunks of tlic