715 OF THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. numerous twigs to the anterior half of the sphincter ani muscle, and to the transversalis perinmi, ischio-cavernosus and bulbo-caver- nosus muscles, as well as to the integuments. Some of them ascend towards the rectum under the name of Inferior Hcemorrknidal Ar- teries, and anastomose with the middle hasmorrhoidal and with the termination of the inferior mesenteric. Then the branch itself passes over the bulbo-cavernosus muscle, thves into the septum of the dartos, assumes the name of Artery of the Septum, and is distributed to the scrotum, the dartos, and the skin of the penis. 2526. Superior Branch (Artcre ischio-penienne, Chauss.) It traverses the transversus perinsei muscle and then ascends above it, along the ascending branch of the ischium. Concealed by the ischio-cavernosus muscle, it arrives at the triangular cellular inter- val Avhich separates the two roots of the corpus cavernosum, before the symphysis pubis, where it divides into two twigs which are called the Dorsal Artery of the Penis, and the Artery of the Cor- pus cacernosiim. 2527. Transverse Artery of the perinceum. (Artere urethro- hulbaire, Chauss.) It comes off from the superior branch of the internal pudic, near the origin of the latter, varying much in size. It directs itself inwards and forwards, above the transversus perinaei muscle, as far as the btdb of the urethra, into which it dives, sub- dividing into several twigs. One of them penetrates into the cor- pus cavernosum, and there anastomoses with the cavernous artery. 2528. Before its division, and after giving off the transverse artery of the perinaeum, the superior branch of the pudic throws small twigs into the obturator internus, ischio-cavernosus, and transversus perinaei muscles, and into Cowper’s glands. 2529. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum, (Artere profonde du Penis, Chauss.) It penetrates into the corresponchng side of the corpus cavernosum, and presently divides into several secondary twigs, which run along its v/hole length, and distribute in all di- rections a great number of ramifications in the midst of the spongy tissue. Some of them perforate the fibrous membrane, and intro- duce themselves into the walls of the urethra. 2530. Dorsal Artery of the Penis. (Art. Superjicielle du Penis, Chauss.) It passes through the suspensory ligament of the penis, running along the dorsal surface of the latter, parallel to that of the opposite side. Its course is very flexuous, and it gives numerous small twigs to the fibrous membrane of the corpus 'ca- vernosum and to the skin. Near the glans, it subdivides and loses itself in the tissue of that part. 2531. In the female, the inferior branch of the internal pudic artery, after sending twigs to the transversus perina3i, sphincter ani and constrictor vaginm muscles, terminates in the substance of the labium. The superior branch, (Artere du clitoris, Chauss.), ascends along the ischium and pubis, as far as the interval between the roots of the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris, throws a twig into the kind of retiform plexus which surrounds the orifice of the