ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 250 spinal ligament, under the form of small short flat fasciculi, which extend from one spinous process to the other, being inserted by short aponeuroses. 816. These muscles, by bringing nearer to each other the spinous processes to which they are attached, contribute to extend the ver- tebral column, and sometimes to incline it a little to either side, when only one series acts. OF THE SEMISPINALIS DOESI AND MULTIFIDUS SPIN^. (Portion Lomho-cervicale du Sacrospinal, Chauss.) 817- These muscles consist of a number of small fleshy fasci- culi, situated at the inner part of each vertebral groove, from the axis to the posterior surface of the sacrum, extended deeply from the transverse processes to the spinous processes of aU the vertebrae, frequently confounded with each other, and contracting more or less intimate unions with the interspinales dorsi et lumborum and lon- gissimus dorsi. Of these muscular fasciculi, some are superficial, the others deep and covered by the former. 818. The superficial arise from the posterior and superior part of the summit of the transverse processes of the eleventh, tenth, ninth, eighth, seventh, and sometimes the sixth dorsal vertebrae, by five or six tendons, shorter and thicker in the lower, longer and inore slender in the upper muscles. Each of them receives fleshy fibres which constitute a conical bundle, at first round and thick, then thin and narrow, and which are terminated by other tendons, flat, and larger than those of the origin, to the number of five, six, seven, or eight, which attach themselves to the lower and lateral part of the spinous processes of the three, fovrr, or five first dorsal vertebrae, and of the two last cervical. Some of them have the superior tendons bifurcated or even divided into three or four branches, and attaching themselves to several spinous processes at once, intermingling with those of the neighbouring fasciculi. 819. The deep portion or multifidus spinas consists of from twenty- five to twenty-seven bundles. They arise separately from three or four tubercles of the sacrum which correspond to the articular pro- cesses, from the sacro-iliac ligament, from the most remote part of the crista ilii, the articular processes of the lumbar vertebne, tlic transverse processes of the dorsal, and the articular processes of the four last cervical vertebrae, by conical tendons, whose diver- gent fibres, after a short course, furnish the fleshy body, which ascends obliquely inwards, widening and becoming thicker, and is in a gi’eat measure confounded witli the neighbouring bundles. Tlicse muscular fasciculi arc much more distinct in the loins and neck, than in the back and behind the sacrum. Other tendons proceed internally from these fleshy bodies, and attach themselves to the lower edge of the spinous processes of the sacrum, of all the lumbar and dorsal vertebnc, and of the six last cervical, in such a manner that each of them is disposed over several vertebrm by