ORGANS OF SENSATION. 41G 0. 8TIUTCTUUE OF THE SPINAL MARROW IN PARTICULAR, 145G. The consistence of the substance which forms the spinal marrow varies much, according to age and some particular circum- stances. In the adult it is generally less firm than the tissue of the cerebral protuberance, but denser than the cerebrum and cere- bellum, although after death it alters much more promptly, and seems to liquefy almost at the moment. This organ ought, there- fore to be dissected in very fresh subjects, or in children, in which its consistence is greater than in advanced age. M. Chaussier has also observed, that in women its softness is greater. 1457- At the exterior, the spinal marrow presents a layer of white substance, more or less pulpy, half a line thick, which seems excavated for the purpose of containing the cineritious matter, which is so much the more abundant the younger the subject is. This cineritious matter may be divided into three portions, a mid- dle and two lateral. The first is transverse, thicker and broader in the neck, thinner and narrower in the back, and again more volu- minous, but not broader, in the lumbar region. The two lateral portions are curved in such a manner as to be opposed by their convexity, while their concavity is directed outwards. The pos- terior edge is prolonged as far as the posterior collateral grooves, (I447 ;) the anterior is rounded and thicker. These two portions are more developed in the upper part of the neck ; they then dimi- nish as far as the lower part of the dorsal region, where they are manifestly enlarged, 1458. The olivary eminences (1446) are enveloped, like the rest of the spinal marrow, with a white external layer. If it be remov- ed, a firm and dense oblong nucleus is found, which may be sepa- rated from the neighbouring parts, and which is surroimded, in its whole circumference, by a yellowish flexuous line. On making a transverse section of the olivary eminences in the plane of their thickness, there is obtained in the centre of each of them a kind of dendritic figure (corpus dentatum,) terminated by a foot or stalk at the anterior median groove, and formed by these nuclei of gray matter. 1459. Several anatomists assert their having found in the centre of the spinal marrow a central canal, which descends more or less, and is the continuation of the calamus scriptorius. M. Chaussier considers its existence as owing to the means employed for demonstrating it. But recently, Drs. Gall and Spurzheim have met with a canal in each of the lateral halves of the spinal marrow, especially in new-born infants. These canals commence in the lumbar regions, and are continued into the cerebral protu- berance, under the tuliercula quadrigemina, into the j^duncles of the brain, and as far as the optic thalami, in the interior of which they form a cavity, which,onbeingblowninto, is large enough to hold an almond. I have traced them in two subjects with much success.