OF THE FIBULA. 147 lar surface, rough above where a ligament is attached to it, broad, smooth, and pohslied below, to be connected with a similar surface of the lower extremity of the fibula. It is at the summit of this surface that the outer edge of the body of the tibia terminates. Internally there is seen a thick triangular process, directed down- wards, and flattened from within outwards. This is the Malleolm Internus or inner ankle. It is not placed in the same plane with the internal tuberosities of the tibia, but is a little anterior to it, which appears to depend upon the twisting of the body of the bone. This process is convex and subcutaneous internally. Externally it presents a small triangular surface, which unites nearly at a right angle with the lower articular surface of this extremity of the tibia, and is connected with the astragalus. Anteriorly and posteriorly, it is terminated by two thick edges, of which the anterior is convex and gives attachment to ligaments, the posterior marked with one or sometimes two su- perficial grooves, directed downwards and inwards, in which slide the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum. The summit of the malleolus internus is broader and descends less behind than before. It gives attachment to the internal lateral li- gament of the ankle joint. Inferiorly, the tarsal extremity of the tibia is terminated by a concave quadrilateral surface, broader ex- ternally than inwards, separated into two parts by a very superficial prominence which traverses it from before backwards. This sur- face which is limited internally by the external surface of the mal- leolus internus, and externally by the notch which receives the lower extremity of the fibula, is articulated to the upper surface of the astragalus. 512. Structure. The tibia presents the structure common to all the long bones, its body being formed of compact tissue, and its extremities of cellular tissue covered with a layer of compact tissue. Its medullary canal is the most distinct of any in the body. 513. Articulations and Development. This bone is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body and one for each extremity. The spine which terminates its crest above is some- times formed by a small lenticular epiphysis which does not long remain distinct. The malleolus internus is also sometimes developed by itself. The tibia is articulated to the femur, the fibula and the astragalus. OF THE FIBULA.* 514. Form. The Fibula or Perone is nearly of equal length with the tibia, but much more slender, and occupies the outer part of the leg. It has a slightly oblique direction, which is such that its lower extremity is more forward than the upper. The following parts arc observed upon it. of the Greeks j Fibula among the Latins.