74.2 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. then descends, directing itself sliglitly forwards and to the left, upon the fore part of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, alongside of the aorta and before the right intercostal arteries. It then pe- netrates into the abdomen, passing through the pillars of the diaphragm along with the aorta and thoracic duct, or sometimes to the outside of the right pillar. In the abdomen, it opens into the vena cava inferior or into one of the lumbar veins. Sometimes, at the moment of its termination, it bifurcates. 2657. Near its origin, the vena azygos receives, by the convex- ity of its curve, the Right Bronchial Vein, of which the roots ex- tend into the lung and over the O3sophagus, and some small twigs which come from the trachea, bronchial lymphatic ganglia, pericar- dium and walls of the aorta and pulmonary vein. 2658. In its course, along the dorsal vertebrae, the vena azygos receives anteriorly several twigs which come from the aorta and oesophagus. Some of the latter are very large, especially below'. To the right, it receives the corresponding intercostal veins, which have the same distribution as the arteries of that name. To the left, towards the seventh rib, it receives the Vena semi-azygos, ( Verne, petite prelombo-thoracique, Chauss.), a considerable branch commences, by anastomosing with the right renal vein or with the first lumbar vein, enters into the thorax by a particular aper- ture of the diaphragm, ascends parallel to the vena azygos on the left side of the vertebrae, and passes behind the aorta and oesophagus, receiving the inferior intercostal vems of the left side. 3. Of the Veins which unite to form the Vena Cava Inferior. a. OF THE VEINS WHICH, BY THEIR UNION, FORM THE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 2659. Popliteal Vein. It commences deeply by three secondary veins, which have precisely the same course as the anterior and posterior tibial and fibular arteries. It is itself exactly similar to the artery whose name it bears, at the outer part of which it is si- tuated, and which it afterwards covers posteriorly. It receives moreover a subcutaneous vein, which is the foUow'ing. 2660. External Vena Saphima (Veine peronco-malleolairc, Chauss.) It commences by several roots expanded on the one hand, upon the back of the foot, and upon its outer side, and on the other, embracing the external malleolus, behind which they unite into a single trunk, wdiich ascends obliquely, approaching the tendo Achillis, and afterw'ards directs itself vertically between the integuments and the union of the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, to place itself in the hollow’ of the ham, beside the internal popliteal nerve, and to open into the popliteal vein.