AHTICULATIONS OF THE THUNK. 183 tenth inclusive, and is wanting in the rest. It is a small fibrous fasciculus, slightly tinged with yellow, of a very close texture, more or less thick, flattened from above downwards, short, fixed on the one hand to the prominent line which separates the two articu- lar surfaces of the posterior extremity of the rib, and on the other to the angle of the cavity which receives it, where it is continuous with the intervertebral fibro-cai*tilage. It divides the articulation into two parts which have no communication with each other. 598. Synovial Membranes. It will readily be perceived that there must be two in the articulations in which the last mentioned ligament occurs, which naturally separates them from each other, and only permits them to be expanded over the upper or lower half of the articular surfaces; while in the other articulations these membranes are simple, and cover the whole extent of the articular surfaces, being reflected from the one to the other. These capsules are always indistinct, and contain but a very small quantity of synovia; in some cases they even seem to be wanting, on account of the great thickness of the inter-articular ligaments. 3. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS WITH THE TRANSVERSE PRO- CESSES. 599. These articulations are formed between the tuberosity of the ribs and the summit of the transverse process of the correspond- ing vertebrae. All the ribs are thus articulated excepting the two last. Each of the parts mentioned presents a surface covered with a thin cartilage, and invested with a small synovial bursa, looser and more distinct than that of the preceding articulation. The presence of the synovia is also more manifest in it. The ligaments which concur to keep the parts in their respective situations are named as follows. 600. Posterior Transv&'se Ligament^ (Ligamentum transver- sarium externum., Weit.) This ligament is of a quadrilateral form and flat, about two lines broad, with close and parallel fibres, which are a little longer below than above. It arises from the summit of each of the transverse processes of the dorsal ver- tebras, and proceeds nearly transversely outwards towards the por- tion of the tuberosity of the corresponding rib which does not enter into the articulation. Its deep-seated fibres are shorter than the others, and it is shorter and more oblique in the upper ribs than in the lower. In fact, the last descends a little forwards; that which precedes it is horizontal, and the rest are ascending. It corresponds anterioi’ly to the articulation, and posteriorly to the muscles of the vertebral grooves. 601. Middle Transverse Ligament. This ligament is only seen when the rib is forcibly separated from the transverse process and its fibres torn asunder, or when a horizontal section of these two parts is made while they are still in their natural place. It seems