OUGANS OF SENSATION. 41.6 C(1 the Kubjcct of a long scries of discussions, and it is only by the labours of the more recent anatomists that we have been apprised of their true structure and precise distribution. 1540. Tlie origin of the olfactory nerves takes place by three lilaments which are named their roots, and which have been fol- lowed beyond the surface of the brain, and far into the substance of that organ. Two of these roots are formed by the white substance, and arc distinguished into outer and inner ; the third is gray. 1541. The outer white root, wliich is the longest, is directed outwards, backwards, and upwards, concealed in a great measure by the fissura Sylvii, and placed above the contorted branches of the internal carotid artery. It arises from the outer region of the cor- pus striatum (1464,) and becomes apparent externally at the most remote part of the anterior lobe of the brain, in its point of union with the middle lobe, upon the gray substance of its last circumvo- lution, in the midst of very distinct apertures which give passage to as many large vascular trunks that penetrate into the brain. It also frequently receives in this region one or two small medullary filaments which make it appear palmated. 1542. The inner white root, which is shorter and broader, pre- sents a silvery colour, like the preceding. It appears to be con- founded posteriorly and internally with the white substance which occupies the inner part of the fissura Sylvii, and is prolonged as far as the anterior part of the corpus callosum, being sometimes bifurcated; but, like the other, it always seems incrusted in the gray substance, and appears only traced upon the inferior surface of the brain. 1543. Frequently the mode of origin of these two roots is not tbe same to the right and left; frequently also, in the angle which results from their union, there are observed some white filaments which join them, and which proceed from the nearest cerebral cir- cumvolution. Sometimes, one or other of them divides, in the middle of its course, into two branches which soon unite, so as to circumscribe a kind of island of gray substance. 1544. The gray root has the form of a pyramidal body laid over the point of junction of the preceding two, and united to them by its summit, which is directed forwards. After this junction, it be- comes a thin cord, always retaining its grayish colour, which pre- vails upon the middle of the upper surface of the nerve. On slit- ting it in the direction of its length, its centre is found occupied by white substance, and at the distance of three or four lines beyond its union, the gray matter is gradually seen to become thinner and at length to disappear altogether, so as to leave this central me- dullary part exposed. 1545. There is observed between the three roots of the olfactory nerve a portion of the white substance of the brain, entirely laid bare at tlie inferior surface of the cerebrum, and perforated with a great number of more or less vertical holes for the passage of small arteries, so that these foots arc in a manner svirrounded and pene- trated by vessels.