92 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. arches. These arches, which are unequal, form together an oval, wliose large extremity is repesented by the upper arch, and the smaller by the lower. Their free edge in both is thin and simple anteriorly, thick and double on the sides. D. OF THE HYOID BONE.* 316. The name of Hyoid Bone (os Hyoides ossa Lingualia, Soemm. J is given to a bony arch, of a parabolical form, convex an- teriorly, suspended horizontally in the midst of the soft parts of the neek, between the base of the tongue and the larynx, entirely sepa- rated from the rest of the skeleton, and composed of five distinct bones, capable of moving on each other, and connected by ligaments. 317- The piece which occupies the centre of the arch is named the Body of the bone. It is the largest and broadest. It is flat- tened from before backwards, and is of a quadrilateral form. Its anterior surface is uneven and convex in the middle. It is divided by a prominent horizontal line, rather indistinct on the lateral parts, into two portions, which are themselves divided into two small ca- vities by a ridge cutting the horizontal line at right angles. This surface gives attachment, from below upwards, to the digastric, stylo-hyoidei, mylo-hyoidei, genio-hyoidei, and hyoglossi muscles. The posterior surface of the body is concave and smooth; and is filled by a yellowish cellular tissue which separates it from the epi- glottis. Its lower edge is longer and more unequal than the upper. It gives attachment externally to the sterno-hyoidei, omo-hyoidei, and thyro-hyoidei muscles, and at the middle to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The upper edge gives insertion to the fibres of the hyo-glossus. On each of the lateral edges, which are less sharp than the upper and lower, there is placed a slightly convex cartila- ginous facet which is joined to the lateral pieces. The body of the hyoid bone, such as we have described it above, has been called the Middle Hyoid Bone by the anatomists of the German school. 318. The two lateral pieces, which are also known under the names of Cornua, Branches or Inferior Hyoid Bo7ies,-f are longer but much narrower than the body. They are broader and stronger before than behind, contract in the middle, and terminate poste- riorly in a small rounded head, covered in the recent state, by a cartilaginous substance. Anteriorly, they present a plane surface which corresponds to that of the lateral edges of the body of the bone. At the upper part they are limited by a smooth and sharp falciform edge, into which are inserted the hyoglossus and constric- tor pharyngis medius. Below, they give insertion to the thjTo- hyoid membrane. To their outer surface are attached the digas- • 'T and iiie;, forma, it being supposed to resemble the Greek letter Upsilon. I They are also by some named greater or laryngeal horns of the hyoid. K.