OF THE SUPERIOR CERVlCylL GANGLION. 521 sinus, and sends oft’ very slender filaments which proceed towards the external motor and ophthalmic nerves. It frequently sends one to the nasal nerve, to communicate with the ophthalmic gan- glion. 1 have also seen it furnish a filament to the pituitary shaft. By its lower part, it communicates with the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganglion. 2. The Naso-palatine Ganylion. 1 discovered this in the an- terior palatine foramen,* at the point of union of the two branches of which, it is situated. It is a small reddish spongy mass, some- what hard and as if fibro-cartilaginous, and immersed in an adipose cellular tissue. Its more ordinary form is that of an ovoid, of which the large extremity, directed upwards, receives the two naso-palatine twigs, (1797)5 while the small extremity sends olfin- feriorly one or two filaments which enter into small bony canals of their own, and arrive at the palatal arch, where they ramify in the membrane of the palate, anastomosing with filaments of the great palatine nerve, (1799). 3. The Snb-Maccillary Ganylion. It occurs at the level of the submaxillary gland, and seems formed by the upper twig of the vidian nerve. It has also some filaments of communication with the lingual nerve of the inferior maxillary (1597) 5 the greater number of its filaments form a small plexus the twigs of which pe- netrate the gland. 4. Another ganglion is mentioned as occurring in the head, along the course of the superficial temporal nerve ; but it is mere- ly an enlargement of that nerve at the moment when it it is cover- ed by the parotid gland (IGOO)."!* 2. OF THE GANGLIA OF THE NECK, OK CERVICAL GANGLIA. OF THE SUPEKIOK CERVICAL GANGLION. 1804. This ganglion, which is remarkable for its size and the regularity of its occurrence, is situated under the base of the skull, deeply concealed in a depression which is observed above the angle of the lower jaw and behind it. It commonly corresponds in ex- tent to the transverse processes of the first three vertebrm ; but it is frequently prolonged to the fourth, and even much lower. It is of an olive tint, ovoidal or fusiform, broader at the middle than at the extremities. Its thickness is always in the inverse ratio of its • See my Dissertation sur Ics Odours, sur le sens ct les organcs de rolfaction, &c. Paris, 1815, 4to. f There is commonly designated by the name of Great Sympathetic Nerve, the aggregate of all the ganglia that are met with from the upper part of the neck to the lower part of tlie sacrum, together with the filaments which issue from them. Rut acconling to the idea which ought to be ^formed of the system of,ganglia, it is in> . possible to see here only a single nerve.