C4 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, 4 at the bottom of wlfich are found the olfiictory foramina, and the Binall slit which gives passage to the internal nasal nerve. Ante- riorly, is the point of contact of this plate with the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and the nasal notch of the same bone, which is continuous laterally with the orbitary arches, interrupted by the superciliary hole, which is generally but a superficial notch, and which is sometimes double. These arches terminate at the union of the frontal with the malar bone. 215. Between them and the pterygoid processes, are the two orbitar vaults of the frontal bone, concave, triangular surfaces, having their base forwards, and in which there are seen, posteri- orly, the sphenoidal fissure, the foramen opticum, the lower sur- face of the process of Ingrassias, the sphenoidal suture, the exter- nal orbitar holes, consisting of small apertures most commonly formed in a portion of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and the internal orbitar holes, which are directed obliquely from below upwards, and from behind forwards; on the outside and anteriorly, the small fossa of the lachrymal gland; and on the inside, the at- tachment of the pulley of the obliquus major muscle of the eye. Ex- ternally the cavity of the orbit is limited by an uneven line,, where the frontal and sphenoid bones unite with the cheek bone, and on the inside by the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, which form a considerable projection on each side of the median line, and at the lower part of which are seen the ethmoidal turbinated bone, a por- tion of the middle meatus of the nasal fossae, the infundibulum, and some papyraceous laminae which articulate with the upper maxil- lary bone, while above, by uniting with the frontal bone, they form the ethmoidal suture. 216. It is observed that most of the eminences of the free por- tion of the lower surface of the skull, such as the mastoid, jugular, styloid, vaginal, and pterygoid processes, are intended for the in- sertion of parts. 217. Lateral Regions. Each of the lateral regions is of an ir- regular elliptical form, and extends horizontally from the external orbitar process to the lambdoidal suture, and vertically from the elevated curved line on the parietal bone to the base of the zygo- matic process. They are divided into two portions. 218. Of these, the upper, which is of great extent, has received the name of Temporal Fossa, although it merits this appellation only at its fore parts, where it is concave, for behind it is plane and even convex. It is filled by the temporal muscle, and is form- ed by the temporal and sphenoid bones below, and by the parietal and frontal above. It is traversed by various sutures, the fronto- parietal or coronal, the sphenoidal, the spheno-temporal, the spheno-parietal, and the temporo-parietal or squamous, a small portion only of the two first appearing upon it. It also presents a considerable number of furrows for the deep-seated temporal arte- ries. 219. This temporal fossa, at the lower part of which is seen the