^>0 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. * Loc. cit. vol. i. p. 97. formed by three planes placed successively the one above the other from the posterior to the anterior part, and representing by their union a sort of inclined surface, much lowered behind and ex- tremely uneven. The upper edges of the processes of Ingrassias and the upper edges of the petrous processes constitute the respec- tive limits of these three planes, and allow each of them to be ex- amined separately. 224. The first plane presents, immediately before and in the middle line, the foramen coecum or spinale. This hole which ex- ists at the lower part of the frontal crest, is narrow, not very deep, and appears to have but doubtful communications with the out- side. Bertin* says he has frequently seen its bottom perforated by another long canal which penetrated into the anterior cells of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, and I have made the same observation ; which would seem to demonstrate that this hole penetrates into the cavity of the nostrils. Petit, of the Academic des Sciences, asserts that it gives passage to a small vein, which comes from the nose into the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. This much is certain, that a bristle or stylet cannot be passed through it, and that it is frequently formed at the ex- pense of the frontal and ethmoid bones. 225. Behind the fronto-ethmoidal or spinous hole, are observed the mark of the union of the frontal and ethmoid bones, the pro- cess of the crista-galli, the olfactory grooves with the holes and fis- sure which they present, a suture which limits them posteriorly, which results from the junction of the sphenoid with the ethmoid bone, is continued laterally into that formed by the frontal bone and the apophyses of Ingrassias, and is intersected at right angles by two other sutures formed by the junction of the ethmoid bone with the frontal, and presenting in their course two or three aper- tures, which are the cranial orifices of the internal orbitar foramina. 226. This first plane, which is limited posteriorly by the surface on which the olfactory nerves rest, and by the transverse channel which corresponds to the junction of the optic nerves, presents in the same direction the two optic holes and the anterior clinoid pro- cesses, which are continuous with the posterior edge of the smaU- wings of the sphenoid bone. Anteriorly to this edge is a convex uneven surface, presenting numerous cerebral impressions, formed by the frontal bone and the sphenoid, and supporthig on each side the anterior lobe of the brain. 227. The second plane is occupied in its centre by the pitui- tary fossa, in which several small apertures are remarked. This fossa, which corresponds to the sphenoidal smuses, presents poste- riorly a square plate, the angles of which form the posterior clinoid processes, and on its sides, the cavernous sinuses, together with the cranial orifices of the two small canals formed in the outer wall of the sphenoidal sinuses.