OF THE VERTEBRAL VENOUS SINUSES. 74*7 quontly open into the renal veins, and in other respects have pre- cisely the same disposition as the arteries to winch they correspond. 2677- Hepatic Veins. They have their roots in the substance of the liver, where they are enveloped by a prolongation of the fi- brous capsule of that organ. Some of them of small size and irre- gular, enter the vena cava separately. Others, the Middle Hepor- tic Veins, to the number of two or three, come from the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, and open into the vena cava between the right and left hepatic veins. The Left Hepatic Veins come from the left lobe of the liver, where they are ramified to infinity, and issue near its free edge and not far from its left lateral ligament. They enter into the vena cava before and opposite the aperture of the diaphragm, through which it passes. The Right Hepatic Veins issue from the right lobe of the liver about the middle of its inferior surface, direct themselves trans- versely to the left, and open into the vena cava much below the preceebng. 2678. Inferior Diaphragniatic Vehis. They are two in num- ber, and are precisely similar to the arteries of the same name (2416). OF THE VEKTEBRAL VENOUS SINUSES, AND VEINS OF THE SPINAL MARROW. 2679. In the whole length of the vetebral canal, from the great occipital foramen to the extremity of the sacrum, behind the bodies of the vertebrae, before the dura mater, and on the sides of the pos- terior common vertebral ligament, there prevail two great venous canals entirely different from the sinuses of the dura mater, and wliich are named Vertebral Sinuses. At the level of the anterior condyloid foramina, these sinuses communicate each by a twig with the corresponding internal jugu- lar vein, without having any kind of connection with the sinuses of the dura mater. Their caliber is always in the inverse ratio of the greater or less development of the posterior vertebral ligament. Thus, in the neck, where it is broad, they are narrow, and in the back they increase in capacity because it contracts. They are in general more developed upon the bodies of the vertebras than oppo- site their fibro-cartilages, which is especially observable in the lum- bar region, where they present very distinct successive contractions. Considered with reference to their interior, these sinuses have the same disposition as those of the dura mater; in other words, they are traversed in various directions by irregularly distributed mem- branous bridles. By their inner side, they communicate with each other by means of prolongations which form true transverse sinuses, constantly oc- cupying the middle of the body of each vertebra, passing under the