OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 459 the spheno-palatal ganglion, and proceed, in the midst of the adi- pose cellular tissue, from above downwards, from within outwards, and from behind forwards, following a course the reverse of that of the nervous trunk. It furnishes, in the same place, the pos^e~ rior and superior dentar branches, of a pretty considerable size, to the number of throe or four, and descending upon the maxillary tuberosity, where, after several Hexuosities,. they enter into aper- tures which it furnishes for them (245). These apertures trans- mit them (107), hi to the canals formed in the substance of the bone, where they divide into several filaments which descend forwards to gain the roots of the last three or four molar teeth. One of these filaments penetrates into the maxillary sinus by a particular orifice, follows its outer wall, and anastomoses with a twig of the anterior dentar nerve. Another of them does not enter the canals of the tuberosities, but turns over the alveolar margin, and is distributed to the gums and the buccinator and pterygoideus internus mus- cles. 1588. In the interior of the infra-orbitar canal, the nerve of which we speak furnishes no decided branch, but seems divided in- to several fasciculi which remain connected together and proceed parallel to each other. At its foremost part, however, there is de- tached inferiorly a pretty considerable twig. This is the anterior dentar nerve, which descends in the canal of the same name (239), furnishes to the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus a filament which anastomoses with one of the posterior dentar nerves, (1587) divides into several others, which have each their par- ticular canal, and which are distributed to the roots of the incisores, caninus, and first two molares of the corresponding side. Some- times these nerves creep exposed beneath the membrane of the si- nus, and furnish it with some very slender filaments. They also give some ramifications to the pituitary membrane which covers the inferior turbinated bone, and which have particular canals. 1589- Infra-orbitar Twigs. They issue from the infra-orbitar canal by the hole of the same name, behind the levator labii supe- rioris, to which they give some very delicate ramifications. They result from the expansion of the superior maxillary trunk itself. Their number is indeterminate, but always considerable. They separate from each other in a radiating manner, and, by their anas- tomoses with one another and with the facial and buccal nerves, constitute a kind of plexus between the prominence of the cheek and the nose. Of these twigs, some, the superior or palpehralf which are few in number, are ebstributed to the lower eyelid, the orbicularis palpebrarum and pyramidalis nasi muscles, the integu- ments of the cheek, the caruncula lachrymalis and the lachrymal sac, anastomosing with the filaments of the external nasal nerve, (1584) the facial nerve, and sometimes those of the lachrymal nerve which have traversed the cheek bone ; others, the inferior or labial, which are more numerous and larger, furnish ramilications to the levator labii, levator anguli oris, and orbicularis oris muscles.