476 ORGANS OF SENSATION. pulmonary plexus. It proceeds upon the anterior side of the oeso- phagus. The two oesophageal cords frequently communicate together by several filaments, which descend from the right to the left, passing before the oesophagus, and by other more numerous filaments, which descend from the left to the right, proceeding behind that canal. Moreover, both of them give numerous ramifications to its walls, and send filaments over the aorta. Inferiorly, they issue from the thorax by the oesophageal aperture of the diaphragm (872.) 1642. On entering the abdomen, the right oesophageal cord, which is larger than the left, and closely attached to the straight and posterior part of the oesophagus, divides and subdivides so as to form around the cardia a very complicated plexus, the filaments of which are expanded over the stomach and neighbouring organs. The Stomachic Filaments belong to the posterior surface of the stomach, and direct themselves from the small to the great curve, sinking into the substance of its walls, and becoming in conse- quence less and less superficial. Some of them run along the small curve, behind the coronary artery of the stomach, communicate with the filaments of the left side, and lose themselves beyond the pylorus. The other filaments throw themselves into the hepatic, splenic, coeliac, and right gastro-epiploic plexus, and are interlaced with the numerous radiations of the solar plexus. Several expand upon the vena portae, or go to the pancreas, duodenum, and gall-bladder. 1643. The left cesophageal cord divides into several longitudin- al filaments, which proceed from the cardia to the pylorus along the small curve of the stomach, and send ramifications over the an- terior surface of that organ. These, like the ramifications of the posterior surface, are at first superficial, and afterwards dive into the substance of the muscular coat. The original filaments, on ar- riving at the pylorus, communicate with those of the right side, or follow the pyloric artery, to cast themselves into the hepatic plexus. 1644. The pneumo-gastric nerve, on account of its very exten- sive distribution and numerous communications, is by many au- tjiors called the Middle Sympathetic Nerve. It presents a multi- tude of variation in its secondary divisions, insomuch that it is rare to find it alike in two subjects. OF THF- SPINAL NERVES, OR ACCESSORY NERVES OF W'lLLIS. 1645. The Spinal or Accessory Nerves arise from the spinal marrow in the interior of the vertebral canal, at a more or less con- siderable distance from the skull, and at a height which is not al- ways the same on both sides in the same subject. Their first point of origin generally occurs at the lateral and posterior part of the spinal marrow, above the posterior root of the fourth cervical nerve. Sometimes it is met with lower, that is to say, opposite the sixth or seventh vertebra of the same region, rarely higher towards