PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 26 wide in the neck and in the upper part of the back, it afterwards contracts, to be again enlarged in the loins. It is triangular above and below, and rounded in the middle. Anteriorly, it is formed by the posterior part of the body of the vertebrae, which is covered by the posterior vertebral ligament. Posteriorly, the vertebral laminae, and the holes that occur between them, and on the sides, the inner part of the transverse apophyses and the holes of conjunction, are the objects which it presents. 73. Uses. The spine, which combines lightness with solidity and flexibility, serves to support the head and chest. It is the seat of all the motions of the trunk, of which it transmits the weight to the pelvis. It lodges and protects the spinal marrow and the membranes which envelope it. It gives passage to the spinal nerves and to many vessels. It affords insertion to a multi- tude of muscles and ligaments, both before and behind, such as the diaphragm, the latissimus dorsi, the sacro-lumbalis, the in- terspinales cervicis, &c. the ligaments which connect the two first vertebi’Ee with the head, the last vertebrae with the pelvis. Sic. 2. OF THE CHEST. 74. The Chest, (Thorax, Pectus,) is a large cavity of a coni- cal form, somewhat flattened anteriorly, placed before the dorsal region of the vertebral column, composed of bones and cartilages connected by ligaments, and containing the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is formed anteriorly by the ster- num ; on either side by twelve ribs; posteriorly by the dorsal vertebrae already described, which follow the median line behind between the heads of the ribs, as the sternum follows it before, between the two clavicles and the cartilages of the seven pairs of true ribs. a. OF THE STEKNUM, Oil BREAST-BONE. OSSA STEU^JI. 75. The Sternum is a symmetrical, elongated, flattened bone, undulated on its edges, thicker and broader above than below, and receiving the cartilages of the true ribs. Its direction is from above downwards, and it is inclined forwards, so that its lower ex- tremity is anterior to the upper. 76. Its anterior or outer surface, which is covered by the in- teguments, and more immediately by the aponeuroses of the large pectoral and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, is marked with four more or less prominent transverse lines, which indicate the limits of the different pieces of which this bone is formed in early age. The two upper lines are more distinctly marked than the others. It is slightly rounded. Frequently also this surface presents a hole, passing through the substance of the bone, which is the result of its mode of ossifi- cation, and whicli is in most cases closed up by a cartilaginous membrane, without its giving passage to nerves or vessels, although