OF THE CRURAL NERVE. 503 then becomes a little thicker, is flattened, and divides into two twigs behind the crural aponeurosis. Of these twigs the one is ex- ternal and smaller than the other. It immediately directs itself outwards toward the posterior and upper part of the thigh, in the integuments of which it spreads out a great number of filaments. '^I’he other is internal, and seems to be the continuation of the branch. After a short course, it perforates the crural aponeurosis, becomes subcutaneous, descends upon the fore and outer part of the thigh as far as the knee, and gives off many filaments to the integuments and cellular tissue. OF THE GENITO-enURAL BRANCH. 1737- It comes from the first lumbar nerve, descends at first vertically in the substance of the psoas magnus, receives from the second lumbar nerve a filament which increases its size, then issues from the psoas muscle, follows its anterior surface for some time, covered by the peritoneum, and, near the crural arch, divides into two twigs, an inner and an outer. The inner^ which is larger, ac- companies the spermatic cord, passes with it through the inguinal ring, and ramifies in the integuments of the scrotum, and upper and inner part of the thigh, the tissue of the dartos, and the en- velopes of the testicle. The outer descends along with the crural vessels behind the crural arch, in the midst of the lymphatic gang- lia and cellular tissue of the groin ; and there expands into a great number of filaments, which become cutaneous, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh, where they sometimes anastomose with those of the crural nerve. OF THE CRURAL NERVE. 1738. The Crural Nerve arises from the anterior branches of the first four lumbar nerves, and forms the outermost of three cords which terminate the plexus. At first situated under the psoas muscle, it separates from it opposite the fourth lumbar ver- tebra, proceeds outwards along its outer edge, before the iliacus muscle, gives them some filaments, which, before penetrating them, form a sort of net-work at their surface, and issues from the abdo- men behind the crural arch, along with the crural artery, exter- nally and inferiorly of which it is situated, and which it surrounds with a kind of plexus, more or less complex, and sometimes want- ing. 1739. Immediately after issuing from the abdomen, the crural nerve divides into a variable number of twigs, but always of con- siderable size. Sometimes this division takes place before its en- tering under the crural arch ; but they may always be distin- guished into superficial and deep.