733 OF THE JUGULAR VEIN. T hey are few in number above, and come from the muscles and in- teguments of the posterior region of the neck. But inferiorly and externally, the external jugular vein is augmented by several pretty large branches which arise from the muscles of the shoulder, follow the tlivisions of the superior and posterior scapular arteries, and traverse the triangular space which exists between the trapezius and sterno- cleido-miistoideus muscles. At the same point, that is to say, near the termination of the external jugular vein, and internally, there are seen opening other veins which follow the course of the clavicle, and whose roots, anastomosing with each other and with those of the opposite side, form between the skin and the sterno- hyoidei muscles above the superior extremity of the sternum, a ve- nous plexus remarkable for the irregularity and number of its twigs. This plexus is farther augmented by four or five pretty large veins, which commence anastomosing with the facial veins, in the muscles of the superior hyoid region, descend vertically to the anterior and middle part of the neck, upon the sterno-hyoidei muscles, communicate freqnently together, and receive branches whicli come from the lateral and superficial regions of the neck. OF THE VEINS WHICH GIVE RISE TO THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. (Veine cephalique, Chauss.) 2620. Superior Cerebral Veins. They are disseminated over the convex surface of the two hemispheres of the brain, from the substance of which they appear to issue by a multitude of very minute radicles placed towards the internal temporal fossae. They have a very flexuous course in the anfractuosities, and direct them- selves towards the great tissue of the hemisphere, uniting into trunks becoming successively larger, and no longer exclusively oc- cupying the anfractuosities. Several of them, indeed, are seen pass- ing transversely over the circumvolutions. The largest and most numerous are behind, and there are but very few before. These trunks are joined near the median line, by similar trunks arising from the plain surface of the hemispheres, and after this union, they leave the brain, are enveloped by particular sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, and by bending gain the lateral and in- ferior parts of the superior longitudinal sinus (14<75), into which they open obliquely, as we have said. 2621. Vein of the Corpus Striatum. Its roots are extended at the surface of the corpus striatum. It commences near the an- terior extremity of the fornix, and turns obliquely outwards and backwards, in the groove which separates the optic thalamus from the corpus striatum, exactly following the course of the taenia semi- circularis (1441) which covers it. It unites with the following. 2622. Vein of the Choroid Plexus. Its roots are found in the choroid plexus and tela choroides (1489). It winds over the optic thalamus, where it receives branches which descend from the for-