MUSCLES OF THE FOllE-AlIM. 337 aponeurosis which covers the whole posterior surface of the fingers. Towards tlicir extremity, they divide into three portions, of whicli the middle passes behind the articulation of the first and second phalanges to be inserted into the posterior surface of the latter, while the two lateral pass over the sides of the same articulation, contracting and separating from each other. They then approach each other and unite, forming a flat tendon which is attached to the posterior and upper part of the last phalanx. 1187. The 'posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, with which it is intimately united. The anterior covers the supinator brevis, extensores poUicis, extensor incheis, the wrist joint, the posterior surface of the carpus, meta- carpus and fingers, and the interossei dorsales. Between its outer edge and the extensor carpi radialis brevior, is an interval in which are seen the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis. 1188. Synovial Bursa. As they pass under the annular liga- ment, the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum are embrac- ed by a synovial membrane, but sparingly moistened, which sends several prolongations between them. 1189. This muscle extends the phalanges of the last four fingers upon each other, and upon the metacarpal bones, the hand upon the fore-arm, or the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE EXTENSOR PROPRIUS MINIMI DIGITI. 1190. This muscle is situated to the outside of the preceding, and is as long as it, but extremely slender. It arises from the outer condyle by the common tendon (1186), from the aponeuro- tic septum which separates it from the preceding muscle, from that which is placed between it and the extensor carpi ulnaris, and from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its fleshy fibres constitute a’Small fusiform bundle which descends from without inwards, and pass very obliquely to within a short distance of the carpus to the ante- rior surface of a tendon at first concealed in their substance, and entirely free near the posterior annular ligament, which presents a fibrous canal for it, opposite the lower articulation of the radius and ulna, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, lined by a syno- vial capsule, and about two inches in length. Before passing into this canal, the tendon of the muscle divides into two portions, which remain contiguous and connected by cellular tissue; but towards the upper part of the metacarpus, it becomes single again and en- larges. It then arrives at the little finger, to the phalanges of wliich it is attached precisely in the same manner as those of the extensor communis, and is even united to the fourth tendon of that muscle by its outer edge. 1191. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and is firmly attached to it above. At the back of the hand, it lies immediately under the skin. The z