ACTIVE OIIOANS OF LOCOMOTION. 312 sis placed between it and the latter muscles, also furnishes it \vith some fibres. From thence it descends vertically, at first increases a little in thickness, then becomes considerably thinner, and termi- nates by a flat tendon, which, at first lying upon its anterior sur- face, becomes free about the middle of the fore-arm. This tendon, which is thin and rather broad above, becomes thicker and narrower as it descends, runs along the outer edge of the radius, and is in- serted near the base of the styloid process of that bone, sending olf a fibrous elongation, which lines the groove in which the exten- sor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi internotUi poUicis crlide (1199.) 1212. The anterior side of this muscle is covered by the skin, and by the aponeurosis of the form-arm. The posterior covers the supinator brevis, extensor carpi radialis longior, pronator longus, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus polli- cis, and the radial artery and nerve. The imier side is applied upon the brachialis internus, and the radial nerve. 1213. When the palm of the hand is chrected backwards, this muscle turns it forwards. It also assists in bending tlie fore-arm upon the arm, or the latter upon the former. OF THE SUPINATOR BREVIS. 1214. This muscle is broad, thin, and triangular. It embraces the head of the radius. It arises from the outer condyle by a broad and thick tendon, firmly united to the common tendon, of which we have spoken (1186), from the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint, from the annular ligament of the radius, and by pretty distinct aponeurotic fibres, from a longitudinal ridge which is observed upon the posterior surface of the ulna. Its commenc- ing tendon expands over the outer surface of the fleshy fibres, which are shorter and nearly vertical before, longer and more ob- lique the more posterior they are, and are all twisted round the ra- dius, to the fore, outer, and back part of which they are attached by very distinct aponeuroses, deeply concealed in their substance. 1215. Its outer surface, which is convex, is covered anteriorly by the pronator longus and supinator longus muscles, and by the radial nerve and vessels; in the middle, by the radial extensors; posteriorly, by the extensor muscles of the fingers, extensor pro- prius minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris and anconeus. Its in- ner surface is applied upon the outer part of the elbow joint, and of the upper articulation of the radius and ulna, upon the ulna, the interosseous ligament, and the radius. Its posterior edge covers the upper part of the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor sc- cundi internodii pollicis. The anterior is notched above for the pas- sage of the tendon of the biceps flexor, and is covered below by the I pronator teres. These two edges unite, forming an acute .angle, I which is attached to the outer side of the radius, above the inser- I tion of the latter mu-sclc.