140 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. is composed, and which, with the exception of the first, are in con- tact at the upper extremities. The space which occurs between the first and second is also much larger than the others. It is in these intervals that the interosseous muscles are lodged. 492. The Fingers* arc five in number, and are designated by their numerical name, counting from the radius towards the ulna. The first is named the Thumb or Polleac; the second the Fore- jinger or Indeoa, the latter name being applied to it from its being used to point out a distant object; the third is named the Middle Finger, on account of its position; the fourth, the Ring Finger, because it is on it that rings are usually worn ; lastly, the fifth is named the Little Finger, from its inferior size, and occasionally the Auricular, from its being the only one that can easily be intro- duced into the external auditory canal. The fingers vary much in their dimensions. The middle finger is the longest; the index and ring-fingers foUow next; the thumb and little finger are the last in this respect. But with respect to thickness the following is the order which they follow:—first the thumb, then the middle finger, the fore-finger, the ring-finger, and lastly the little-finger. In general the dorsal surface of the fingers is convex in the longitudinal, and more especially in the transverse direction. Their palmar surface presents a corresponding conca- vity. The thumb is straighter than the others. OF THE INFERIOR OR ABDOMINAL EXTREMITIES. 1. OF THE THIGH. OF THE FEMUR. 493. Form. The Femur (Femoral Bone, Os Fe?noris) is the longest, largest, and heaviest, of all the bones of the body. It is of a cylindrical form, somewhat curved anteriorly, directed ob- liquely downwards and inwards, and slightly twisted upon itself, so that in the skeleton it is much nearer the corresponding bone of the opposite side at its lower extremity, than at the upper, where it is separated to a considerable distance. Being a double bone, it is consequently unsymmetrical, which is equally the case with all the other bones of the lower extremity. The Femur rests upon the leg, and transmits to it the weight of the pelvis, with which it is articulated at its upper part. The following parts are observed in it. 494. The Body, which is pretty thick above, contracted in the middle,* and greatly enlarged below. It is slightly twisted upon itself, and presents a very distinct curvature of which the convexi- ty is anterior. It is somewhat triangular for three-fourths of its AxKTDXti among tlic (ireeks ; Digiti among tlic Latins.