ARTERIES OF THE AORTA, 645 thick edge of the heart, subdividing into several twigs wliich anas^ tomose witli one of the branches of tlie preceding artery, l^e- quently also on the same place tliere arises a third branch which penetrates vertically into the septum of the ventricles. 2219. In the anterior groove of the heart, the artery of which we speak sends off laterally several more or less oblique branches, which subdivide in the anterior wall of the two ventricles, particu- larly of the left, and which, towards the summit of the heart, inos- culate with those of the right coronary artery. Others, unim- portant as to size and of an indeterminate number, separate from it posteriorly to lose themselves in the septum of the ventricles. 2. OF THE ABTEUIES WHICH AEISE FROM THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. 2220. The convexity of the arch of the aorta produces three arterial trunks, destined for the head and superior extremities, and which are designated, proceeding from right to left, by the names of Brachio-cephalic or Arteria innominata^ Left Carotid^ and Left Subclavian arteries. These three arteries arise in the course of a line inclined from before backwards and from right to left, so that the brachio-ce- phalic is anterior and the left subclavian posterior to the others. The first two, which are very close to each other, include between them the trachea. Frequently the left vertebral artery comes directly from the arch of the aorta, and forms a fourth trunk. It is also not uncommon to see a small artery issuing between the brachio-cephalic and left carotid, and descending upon the trachea as far as the thyroid body. 2221. The Brachio-Cephalic Artery, which is also named the Arteria innominata, ascends obliquely to the right, on the side of the trachea, and after a course of an inch, divides into two trunks, of which one is the right carotid, the other the subclavian of the same side. It is covered by the left subclavian vein, the sternum, and the sterno-thyroidei muscles, and corresponds posteriorly to the trachea and longus colli muscle of the right side. 2222. The left carotid artery forms a right angle with the aorta at its origin, and the subclavian of the same side comes off oblique- ly, as does the brachio-cephalic. OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. 2223. We are already acquainted with their difference of origin, which makes the left longer than the right by the whole extent of the brachio-cephalic trunk. Their volume is precisely the same. They ascend a little obliquely outwards on each side of the neck.