PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 126 wliere the triceps extensor is attached to it. The coraco-brachi- alis is inserted into its middle part; and the triceps and brachialis intenuis, together with an intermuscular aponeurosis are attached to it below. 447- The anterior line approaches very near the preceding at its upper part, and there forms the anterior edge of the bicipital groove, to which the tendon of the pectoralis major is attached. In the middle it is interrupted by the impression of the deltoid muscle, and becomes rounded and broadened below, to give inser- tion to the brachialis internus. 448. U'pper or Scapular Extremity. This is the largest part of the bone, and is formed by three eminences. The upper, which is inclined inwards and backwards, of a nearly hemispherical form, smooth, and covered with cartilage, is named the Head of the Humerus, and is articulated with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. It is supported by a Neck, or contracted part, a little longer and more distinct forwards, downwards, and inwards, than at its upper and outer part, where it resembles a mere groove. The axis of this neck is placed obliquely to that of the bone, and forms an ob- tuse angle with it. The other two eminences are named the Greater and Smaller Tuberosities. The first, which is situated posteriorly, is rounded, and presents three plane surfaces, of which the anterior receives the tendon of the supra-spinatus muscle, the middle that of the infra-spinatus, and the posterior that of the teres major. The other, which is much narrower, but a little more pro- minent, gives attachment to the tendon of the sub-scapularis. These two tuberosities are separated from each other by the com- mencement of the bicipital groove, which is directed downwards and inwards. 449. Lower or Anti-brachial Extremity. This end of the bone is flattened and curved forwards. Its transverse diameter is the greatest. At the outside, it presents an eminence, named the External Condyle, into which is inserted the external ligament of the elbow joint, together with the extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor proprius minimi digiti, ex- tensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis. Internally, there is observed another eminence or tuberosity, the Internal Condyle, more prominent and higher than the preceding, which is turned a little backwards, and receives a tendon common to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and superficial flexor muscles, together with the internal lateral ligament of the joint. Between these two emi- nences is an articular surface, turned forwards, descending be- neath them, and formed from without iiiAvards, 1st, by the Small Head of the Humerics, a rounded eminence, which is received into the cavity of the upper extremity of the radius; 2dly, by a gi'oove which corresponds to the margin of that cavity ; 3dly, by a semicircular sharp crest, which is lodged between the cubitus and radius ; 4thly, by a pulley situated beneath the level of the small liead, and articulating with the large sigmoid cavity of the cubitus.