INNER SURFACE OF THE SKULL. 57 228. Laterally, there is observed to the riglit and left, a large fossa, wide externally, narrow within, of the form of a curvilinear triangle, extended from the sphenoidal hssure to the upper edge of the petrous process. In this fossa are remarked the spheno-tem- poral, squamous, spheno-parietal and petro-sphenoidal sutures, to- gether with the sphenoidal lissurc, the superior and inferior maxil- lary holes, the spheno-spinous hole, and the hiatus of Fallopius. There are also observed in it several pretty distinct mamillary eminences, the anterior lacerated hole, in the margin of which is the opening of the carotid canal, and which pretty frequently even seems to be distinguished from it by a small projecting lamina of the sphenoid bond, two arterial furrows, which arise from the spheno-spinous hole, and of which the largest, forming occasionally a canal at its commencement, goes to the lower and anterior angle of the parietal bone; the channel which lodges the superior pe- trous sinus; the depression corresponding to the trunk of the tri- facial nerve; and, lastly, an indistinct hole, sometimes wanting in adult age, frequently occurring only on one side, and situated be- tween the two maxillary holes of the sphenoid bone. It gives pas- sage to an emissary vein of Santorini, and has been particularly pointed out by Vesalius, on wliich account it is named by some anatomists the Foramen Vesalii. 229. The third plane is perforated in its middle part by the occipital hole, w'hose orifice is wider here than on the outside of the skull. Before it are observed the basilar channel, formed by the occipital and sphenoid bones, and the basilar suture, which sepa- rates it transversely into two portions. This channel has on its sides two longitudinal depressions which lodge the inferior petrous sinuses. It corresponds to the annular protuberance of the brain and the transverse sinuses of the dura mater. It is terminated above by the quadrilateral plane which limits the pituitary fossa, and presents, before terminating, and on each side, a small notch for the passage of the external motory nerve of the eye. Behind the occipital hole is the internal occipital ridge, bifurcated at its lower part. On its sides, are observed the anterior condyloid foramina, the inner orifice of which is less raised than the outer, and which are perforated in their course by several small canals which transmit ves- sels to the diploe of the occipital bone, and surmounted by a lo^ bony arch ; and two very deep fossae, formed by a l^ge portion of the .sphenoid bone, the posterior surface of the petrous process, and the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone. In the bottom of these fossae, is seen the mark of the mastoideal and petro-occipital sutures, which would be continued in the same direction, were they not separated on each side by the foramen lacerum posterius. This hole is smaller on the inside of the skull than on the outside, and presents at its upper part the triangular orifiee of the aqueduct of the cochlea, which is closed by the dura mater in the recent state. It is pretty frequently observed, that on the right side the posterior lacerated hole is much larger than on the left, ddie reverse also