ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 282 OF THE LEVATOK ANGUH OUIS. 9G0. Tliiu is a small elongated flat muscle, broadet and thinner above than below, attached, beneath the infra-orbitar hole, by short aponeuroses, to the fossa canina, from which it descends obliquely outwards to the commissure of the lips, where it seems to be con- tinuous with the triangularis, although some of its fibres are inter- laced with those of the orbicularis oris, zygomaticus major, and buccinator muscles. 961. Its anterior surface is covered above by the preceding muscle, and the infra-orbitar vessels and nerves, and below by the zygomaticus minor and the skin. The posterior surface covers the fossa canina, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the buccinator. 962. It raises the commissure of the lips and carries it inwards. OF THE ZYGOMATICUS MAJOR. 963. This muscle is situated obliquely at the fore part and on the sides of the face. It is elongated, slender, and rounded, and is inserted by aponeuroses, below the outer surface of the malar bone, near its posterior angle ; whence, becoming a little broader, it descends inwards and forwards, and terminates at the commis- sure of the lips, where it is continuous with the levator anguli oris, triangularis, buccinator and orbicularis, sometimes bifurcating. 964*. Its anteriw surface is concealed above by the orbicularis palpebrarum, and farther down by the skin, from which it is often separated by an enormous quantity of fat. The posterior surfai^ covers the malar bone, the masseter and buccinator muscles, the labial vein, and a more or less considerable mass of adipose tissue. 965. It raises the commissure of the lips, which it carries back- wards and outwards. It acts principally in laugliing. OF THE ZYGOMATICUS MINOR. 966. This muscle does not occur in aU subjects. It is situated internally of the preceding and above it, and is flat, elongated, and very thin. It arises from the outer surface of the malar bone, and sometimes even seems to be detached from the orbicularis pjilpe- brarum, and descends more or less obliquely inwards, terminating in the levator labii superioris, or in the orbicularis oris. 967. Its anterior surface is covered by the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum. The posterior covers the mtilar bone, the levator anguli oris, and the labial vein. 968. It raises the upper lip and ebraws it outwards.