249 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. sides contract at once. When one only acts, it is oblique. It is also one of the muscles that perform a principal part in walking. 2. Posterior Vertehral Region. OF THE IHTEllSPINALES CEKVICIS. (M. Inter-vervicaiu%\Gha\xss.-, M. Interspinales Cerwieis, Soemm.) 813. The Interspinales cervicis are twelve in number, and oc- cupy, in two parallel rows, close to each other, the intervals be- tween the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae, from that of the atlas and axis, to that which exists between the last vertebra of the neck and the first of the back. Each space contains two. They are so many thin, flat, elongated, quadrilateral fasciculi, arising, by short aponeuroses, from the sides of the lower edge of the spmous process of the vertebra above, and terminating in the same manner at the upper edge of the vertebra below. T\\eix outer s^irface is covered by the semispinalis colli; the inner-is sepa- rated by cellular tissue from that of the opposite muscle. 814. The interspinales cervicis bring the spinous processes near each other, and thus contribute to the extension of the neck, and consequently to the projection of the head backwards. • OF THE INTERSPINALES DORSI ET LUMBORUM. CPortion du M. Transversaire epineuw, Boyer, Bich., &c. du M. Sacrospinal, Chauss.) 815. These muscles are of two kinds. Some of them represent fleshy fasciculi of various length, which are applied upon the late- ral surfaces of the spinous processes, from the third or fourth dorsal vertebra, to the first or second lumbar, and which present a multitude of variations, whether in their number, or in the manner in which they intersect each other. They arise by three, four, five, six, seven, or eight tendons, sometimes split, so much the longer and stronger the higher they are, from the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from the second to the ninth, or from the third to the fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth. From these tendons arise the fleshy fibres, which form thin narrow fasciculi, broader in the middle than at the extremities, convex externally, concave in- wards. After intermingling in various ways, and even sometimes after being almost entirely confounded, they terminate by four or five tendons, of which the lowest is the longest and strongest, and which arc attached to the two or three last dorsal and the two first lumbar vertebrae. They frequently receive accessory fleshy fibres, which come to them from the longissimus dorsi. The inter-spinalcs dorsi ct luml)orum of the second kind, are co- vered liy the preceding. They arc placed on each side of the inter-