PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 14-8 515. The Body, which is slender, rounded at the upper part, prismatic and triangular in the rest of its extent, is twisted upon itself, and slightly curved outwards. Its inner surface looks a little backwards at its upperpart, and is afterwards twisted so as to become anterior. It is divided by a longitudinal ridge, to which the interosseous ligament is attached, into two portions, of which the anterior and smaller gives attachment to the extensor longus pollicis pedis, extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius; while the posterior, which is larger, and a little concave in the longitudinal direction, represents a sort of groove which gives at- tachment to the tibialis posticus. Its outer surface, which looks a little forwards at its upper part, and backwards at the lower, gives attachment above to the peroneus longus, and in the middle to the peroneus brevis, which almost entirely cover it. The posterior surface looks a little outwards above, and is afterwards turned to be directed inwards at its lower part. Superiorly, it gives attachment to the soleus, and below to the flexor longus pollicis pedis. In its middle part is seen the orifice of the canal for the vessels of the bone, which is directed forwards and downwards. At its lower part, this surface, which has become broader, presents a triangular, convex, rough space, which is articulated with the tibia. 516. The surfaces of the fibula are separated by three edges. The anterior is directed outwards at its lower part, and gives at- tachment internally to the extensor communis digitorum pedis and peroneus tertius, and externally receives the insertions of the la- teral peronei. At the lower part it bifurcates, and the branches of this bifurcation are separated by a triangular surface, somewhat concave, and covered by the integuments. The internal edge is turned forwards at its lower part, and is much more prominent in the middle than at its extremities. Above, it gives attachment to the tibialis posticus, and flexor longus pollicis pedis, and at the lower part receives the insertion of the interosseous ligament. The eooternal edge is turned backwards at its lower part, and gives at- tachment posteriorly to the soleus and flexor longus pollicis pedis, and anteriorly to the two lateral peronei. 517- The Upper, or Tibial Extremity, is rounded, and is ge- nerally known by the name of the Head of the Fibula. It pre- sents a somewhat concave surface, inclined inwards and forwards, which is articulated with the external tuberosity of the tibia. It is terminated posteriorly by a pyramidal process, which is directed upwards. Its whole circumference presents inequalities which give attachment to ligaments, and especially to the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and the tendon of the biceps flexor muscle. 518. The Lower, or Tarsal Extremity, is elongated, flattened from within outwards, terminated inferiorly by a pointed projection, and forms the Malleolus Externus or Outer Ankle, which is larger, and descends lower than the internal. Its outer surface is convex, 4