ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 722 indeterminate, and their disposition far from regular. Some of them however, wliich are larger than the rest, merit a separate de- scription. BRANCHES WHICH THE POPLITEAL ARTERY GIVES OFF IN THE HAM. 2566. They are three in number, and are designated by the name of Superior Articular Arteries (Art. articulaires poplitees, Chauss.) They are distinguished into internal, external, and middle. 1. OF THE INTERNAL SUPERIOR ARTICULAR ARTERY. 2567- Its size is always considerable, and it varies much as to its origin. It is seldom single, there being generally two or three. When it exists single, it may arise from the popliteal artery, at the moment when the latter passes through the adductor magnus, or from any other part of its extent down to the level of the condyles. In all cases, it descends inwards, passes under the tendon of the adductor magnus, turns forwards over the inner part of the femur, above the corresponding condyle, and, after throwing some ramifi- cations into the periosteum of that bone, divides into two branches. One of them descends obliquely outwards, between the femur and the triceps muscle, to which it is distributed, as well as to the neighbouring cellular tissue, or is entirely expanded in the muscles, and anastomoses with the twigs of the external circumflex artery. The other branch reaches along with the tendon of the adductor magnus as far as the inner condyle, and there separates into a great number of twigs, which proceed transversely inwards upon the femur, and are distributed to the triceps muscle, or sink into the knee joint, and anastomose with those of the external superior articular artery. 2. OF THE EXTERNAL SUPERIOR ARTICULAR ARTERY. 2568. It arises externally from the politeal artery, immediately above the outer condyle of the femur, and directs itself transverse- ly outwards under the biceps muscle, winding over the femur. It also divides into two branches, of which the upper loses itself en- tirely in the triceps extensor muscle, while the inner descends ob- liquely forwards upon the condyle of the femur, under the apo- neurosis, as far as the patella, on which it anastomoses with tlie internal superior articular artery. 3. OF THE MIDDLE SUPERIOR ARTICULAR ARTERY. 2569. Much smaller than the preceduig two, it arises from the fore part of the popliteal artery, sometimes above, sometimes op-