626 ORGANS OF RlCSriRATION. colour, M'liich jiIko appear to be follicleK. But poiitcriorly, it is immediately applied upon a layer of transverse fibres, very close and dense, attached to the extremities of the rings, and of a mus- cular nature. These fibres are disposed in small bundles, and form a perfectly distinct plane. 2157. Mucoits or Inner Membrane. I'his is a continuation of the membrane of the larynx (140b), and extends to the termina- tion of the bronchi. Thin, reddish, and plicate in the direction of its length, especially at the back part, where it is applied against the fibres of muscular appearance of which we have just made men- tion, it corresponds in the rest of its extent, to the inner surface of the fibro-cartilaginous rings, and, between them, to the fibrous membrane. It has in general little adhesion to these different parts. Its inner surface is perforated by the excretory orifices of its mucous follicles, which constantly pour out a rather thick and not very plentifid fluid. Its organization presents nothing re- markable. 2158. The vessels of the trachea come from the superior and in- ferior thyroid. Its nerves are furnished by the pneumo-gastric nerve, (1638, 1639) and cervical ganglia (1815, 1824). The bronchi have arteries which bear their name, and which arise im- mediately from the aorta. They are commonly two in number, a right and a left. They have corresponding veins, which empty their contents, to the right into the vena azygos, and to the left into the superior intercostal vein. Their nerves are supplied by the two pulmonary plexus (1640, 1830, 1837). 2159. Lymphatic Ganglia of the Bronchi or Bronchial Glands. They are very numerous, and are situated before the bifurcation of the trachea, around the bronchi, and even in tfie interior of the • lungs, where they are irregularly disseminated. Their form presents numerous variations, being sometimes oval, or rounded, sometimes lobular, &c. They also vary much as to size. The larger are lodged above the trachea, the smaller in the inter- vals of the bronchi. Their colour is black, or of a dark brown in the adult, reddish in children. Their tissue has in general little consistence. They are crushed under the fingers, to which they communicate their colour. I have never been able to discov- er the excretory ducts w-hich some anatomists give them, and by which they are supposed to pour out a peculiar fluid into the bronchi, but I have distinctly seen several times, as Haller states, lymphatic vessels going to them, or issuing from them to throw themselves into the thoracic duct. Fourcroy thought their black colour owing to the accumulation of the charcoal which he suppos- ed to be separated from the blood during the act of respiration. 3. OF THE PROrER TISSUE OF THE I.UKGS. 2160. VVe have already, to a certain degree, an idea of the in-