ORGANS OF SENSATION. 484 third pairs of cervical nerves, after receiving a filament from the superior cervical ganglion, bifurcates and unites with the following and the preceding by two twigs, forming an arch from the convex- ity of which proceeds others which again unite more externally. It is of these anastomoses, which vary greatly in different subjects, that the Cervical Plexus is formed. It lies upon the scalenus posticus muscle, externally of the pneumo-gastric nerve, carotid artery, and jugular vein, under the posterior edge of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, opposite the second, third, and fourth vertebrae. Immersed in a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, intermin- gled with vessels, containing in its meshes many lymphatic ganglia, it communicates above with the sub-occipital nerve, below with the brachial plexus, and internally with the superior and middle cervical ganglia by several filaments. It also sends one or two filaments to the spinal accessory nerve (1649), furnishes some to the muscles on which it is applied, and gives oft‘ various branches which are distin- guished into internal and external, ascending and superficial cervical. 1666. Internal Descending Branch. It is formed by two dis- tinct filaments, manifestly supplied by the anterior branches of the first two cervical nerves, which unite into a single cord. It descends inwards under the sterno-cleido-inastoideus, and at the middle of the neck anastomoses, by a reversed arch, with the cer- vical branch of the hypoglossal nerve (1652). 1667. Phrenic or Diaphragmatic Branch. It terminates the cervical plexus inferiorly, and receives its principal filament from the anterior branch of the third cervical nerve. Most commonly these are joined with a very slender branch which comes from the second, and two or three which escape fi-om the brachial plexus and only joins it at the lower part of the neck or even in the thorax. Sometimes its volume is augmented by a twig of the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve or of the plexus which terminates it, and by a filament of the superior cervical ganglion.. Thus formed in a more or less variable manner, which it is diffi- cult to describe with precision in the inextricable interlacement which the plexus forms, the diaphragmatic nerve descends along the fore and lateral part of the neck, between the rectus capitis an- ticus major and scalenus anticus, then over the anterior edge of the latter, giving off some delicate filaments to them. At the lower part of the neck, it communicates with the inferior cervical gan- glion by one or two other filaments, then penetrates into the thorax between the subclavian artery which is behind, and the subcla- vian vein which is before, and proceeding inwards, forwards and downwards, crosses the internal mammary artery and enters the anterior mediastinum. There it sends ivimiflcations to the thymus. It then passes over the trunks of the pulmonary vessels, and glid- ing before the root of the lung, descends as far as the diaphragm between the pleura and the lateral parts of the pericardium, to which it is closely attached, without however supplying any fil.v ment cither to it or to the lung.