MUSCLES OF THE LEG. 371 12. Posterior and Superjicial Region of the Leg. OF TUK xmCEl’S EXTENSOR PEDIS. 1334. The Trireps Extensor pedis is an extremely large and strong muscle, of which the calf of the leg is principally formed. It is simple below, where it presents the strongest tendon in the body; but, at its upper part, is formed of three fleshy bellies. Of these, the two posterior are called Gastrocnemii or Gemelli by most anatomists ; the anterior or deep- seated is their Soleus. 1335. Of the Gastrocnemii * or Gemelli. These are two fleshy masses resembling each other in form, separated above, and united below by means of a common aponeurosis. Their direction is nearly vertical, and their form approaching to elliptical. They are convex behind, flat before. The inner is always larger, and descends lower than the outer. The latter, which bears the name of Gastrocnemius externus arises from the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, by a pretty strong tendon which descends on the outer edge of the muscle over an extent of about two inches, and then degenerates into an aponeurosis which descends very low upon its posterior surface. The inner or Gas- trocnemius internus arises from the back and upper part of the inner condyle of the femur, by a broader and thicker tendon, which descends upon its inner edge, and becomes, in like manner, con- verted into an aponeurosis. The fleshy fibres arise from these two tendons and their aponeuroses. They are rather short, pass ob- liquely downwards and forwards, and terminate successively on the posterior surface of a broad aponeurosis, which is at first divided so as to correspond to each bundle, and then becomes simple, and unites them with each other and with the soleus, but much sooner externally than internally. 1336. By their separation, the two gastrocnemii contribute to the formation of the hollow of the ham. The inner is covered above by the semi-membranosus, and in the rest of its extent by the aponeurosis of the leg, which entirely covers the outer. Their anterior surface is apphed above upon the condyles of the femur, and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, which lines their ten- dons a little. The outer is in connection at this place with the pop- liteus, and the inner with the semi-membranosus, from which it is separated by a small synovial bag of an oval form, and plentifully supplied with moisture, the popliteal artery, and the popliteus and plantaris muscles. In the rest of its extent, the anterior surface of the gastrocnemii lies upon the soleus. 1337- Of the Soleus.-^- It is broad and thick in the middle, * Fw/Jiif, venter ; Kvhfiti, cnis. t S’ulcu, sole, a !>2)eL-icb of liouiider.