143 OF THE FEMUR. 498. The Small Trochanter,* ( Trochanter Minor,) is situated beneath and behind the base of tlie neck of the femur, and much lower than the great trochanter. Its form is pyramidal, and its direction obliquely inwards and backwards. Its summit gives at- tachment to the united tendon of the psoas magnus and iliacus in- ternus. From its base, which is triangular, there proceed three prominent lines ; two superior, of which the one ascends obliquely outwards to the great trochanter, while the other proceeds obliquely inwards, to be continued into the lower part of the neck; and one inferior, which directs itself toward the linea aspera, and forms the inner branch of its superior bifurcation. 499. The Lower, or Tihial Eevtremity, which is larger than the upper, is a little flattened from before backwards, and is thinner in its middle part than on the sides, which are formed of two consider- able eminences, known by the name of Condyles of the Os Femo- ris. These condyles articulate with the tibia, and are distinguish- ed into internal and external. The Internal Condyle is narrower, less prominent anteriorly, more oblique, more prolonged backwards than the other, and also descends lower when the femur is placed in a vertical direction, but remains on the same level with it when the bone is restored to its natural obliquity. These two condyles present a greater convexity behind than before. They are separat- ed posteriorly by a large notch, very uneven in its bottom, which is prolonged between them, and which is destitute of articular car- tilage, and lodges the crucial ligaments of the knee-joint. Ante- riorly, they come close together, their surfaces seeming to be con- tinued into each other, and unite by means of a sort of pulley or surface, which is convex from above downwards, concave trans- versely, more prominent and higher externally than internally, and formed especially at the expense of the outer condyle, of which it occupies all the fore part, and articulated with the patella. The inner condyle presents internally an uneven projecting eminence, named the Internal Tuberosity of the femur, which gives attach- ment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joiiit, and to the tendon of the adductor magnus. Externally, it gives insertion to the fibres of the posterior crucial ligament by an uneven and rough surface. The outer condyle presents externally the Eocternal Tu- berosity of the femur, which is less prominent than the internal, uneven, rough, convex, and gives attachment to the external late- ral ligament of the knee-joint. Beneath this tuberosity there is observed a pretty wide groove, which receives the tendon of the popliteus muscle.*f- Internally, this condyle presents an uneven ru- • Tfoxaurnf n'lKfo; of the Greeks. t The groove described in the text receives tile tendon of the popliteus muscle only during the flexion of the knee joint, the tendon being inserted into one extre- mity of it. The osseous surfaces of the groove are encrusted with cartilage, and with the synovial membrane, thus forming a part of the articulation of the knee. So long as the limb is extended, the tendon of the popliteus is not in the groove ; but as the knee bends, the tendon slides over the smooth lip of it, and should the flexion continue to a considerable degree, the tendon at last slips into the groove ;