ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. second, lliird, foui’th, fifth, and sixth ribs. It arises from the edge of the ensiform cartilage and Bternum, up to the articulation of that bone with the fourth cartilage, by means of aponeurotic fibres wliich are prolonged a great way among the fleshy filires. b'rom thence it ascends outwards, to be attached by so many distinct digitations to the cartilages of the ribs mentioned, as well to their edges as to their inner surface. These digitations arc so much the larger and less ascending, the lower they are observed. The varia- tions which this muscle presents are extremely numerous. fJ()5. Its anterior surface is covered by the cartilages of the four last true ribs, the inner intercostal muscles, and the internal mam- mary vessels. The posterior surface rests upon the pleura, and in a small part of its extent upon the diaphragm. Its inferior edge or base is contiguous to the transvcrsalis abdominis. 8CG. It draws the cartilages of the ribs, to which it is attached, backwards, inwards, and downwards, and is consequently subser- vient to exspiration. 4. Region of the Diaphragm. OF THE DIAPHEAGM,* OB SEPTUM TRANSVERSUM. 867- The diaphragm is a single, very broad, and membranous muscle, unequally curved in its different parts, situated obliquely between the thorax and abdomen, which it separates from each other. Its figure is nearly circular, although it is a little more ex- tended in the lateral directions than from before backwards. It is fleshy at its circumference, aponeurotic in the middle, and forms a kind of elliptical arch, mobile and flexible, but not symmetrical, although it is placed in the median line of the body, which is a singular case in the system of the muscles subjected to the influ- ence of the cerebral nerves. 868. We have said that the centre of the diaphragm was occu- pied by an aponeurosis, to which the fleshy fibres are attached, and which has been designated by the names of Phrenic Centre., Tendinous Centre, Nervous Centre, or Cordiform Ten- don. Its breadth is considerable. It is distinctly notched behind towards the vertebral column, and anteriorly is three lobed, on which account it has been compared to a trefoil leaf. Of the three lobes of this aponeurosis, the middle is the largest, the right is a little less, and the left is the smallest. Some variations, however, arc observable in this respect. 869- The fibres of the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, which arc larger in men than in women, and more distinct in old than in young persons, are all of different lengths and directions. In their general disposition, however, they arc radiated, proceeding from the posterior notch to the circumference of the lobes ; but they are septum, a pmtition ; ha. inter; f^arru, claudo.