ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 656 nosum of the sphenoid bone, by -which it penetrates into the skull. But before this there separates from it a pretty large branch, wliich glides forwards and inwards, between the superior wall of the zygomatic fossa and the origin of the deep temporal nerves (1590), and afterwards descends vertically between the peristaphylinus ex- ternus and pterygoideus internus muscles, in the substance of which it separates into a great number of twigs. 2267. Having entered the skull, under the dura mater, the me- ningeal artery furnishes twigs to the portion of that meml)rane which covers the middle lateral fossa of the base of the skull and to the trifacial nerve. One or two of them direct themselves for- wards, penetrate into the orbit between the sphenoid bone and the malar bone, and terminate at the lachrymal gland, in the pa- renchyma of which they communicate with the lachrymal artery. Another enters into the aqueduct of Fallopius by the hiatus of the same name, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid artery (2255), after sending some ramifications over the trunk of the fa- cial nerve. The canal of the internal muscle of the malleus also contains one which is distributed to that muscle, and to the mu- cous membrane of the walls of the tympanum. This cavity itself receives several other smaller ramifications, which penetrate into it by narrow fissures, which are observed at the place where the pe- trous process unites with the rest of the temporal bone. 2268. After giving off' these diff’erent twigs, the artery itself di- vides into two principal branches of unequal size. The anterior^ which is larger, uscends from behind forwards, towards the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it is lodged in a deep groove, and frequently even in a true canal formed at the inner surface of that bone (189). It gives off' some twigs, which anas- tomose with the lachrymal artery, issues from its groove and sub- divides into a great number of twigs, which are expanded over the whole internal surface of the parietal bone, which receives them in grooves, disposed so as to resemble the nerves of a leaf, and ex- tending as far as the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater (188). All these twigs have the appearance of small tubes formed in the substance of the dura mater. They belong entirely to that membrane, and only send off opposite to the sutures some small twigs, which anastomose with similar twigs of the arteries of the pericranium. The jmsterior branch, which is smaller, ascends, bending from before backwards, upon the inner surface of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and upon that of the pa- rietal bone. It divides in the same manner into a great number of twigs, which expand over the lateral and posterior part of the dura mater. Like those of the anterior branch, they anastomose frequently together, and correspond to grooves formed upon the bones. The last ramifications of the middle meningeal artery communi- cate with those of the opposite artery, of the ethmoidal arteries, and of the other small branches which pass over the dura mater. 5