549 OF THE CILIARY CIRCLE AND IRIS. Structure, and although his son gave the name of Mcwhmna Rui/schiana to the internal lamina. The most carefully made preparations do not disclose either glands or follicles in the choroid membrane ; but M. Bauer has discovered lymphatics in it, which accompany the principal arteries. 4. OF THE CILIARY CIRCLE OR LIGAMENT. 1891. The Ciliary Circle or Ligament (OrUculus ciliarin. Hall, Ligamentmn ciliare) is a kind of grayish ring, pretty thick, particularly at its large circumference, about a line or two broad, situated between the choroid membrane, the iris, and the sclerotica, and adliering more to the first of these membranes than to the others. Its consistence is pulpy, and its tissue moistened by a whitish mucosity. It receives the last ramifications of the ciliary uerves, and sends others behind the iris, so that although its inti- mate structure is stiU unknown, it may to a certain degree be com- pared to a nervous ganglion* (1794). The iris is as it were encas- ed in its small circumference, which forms a slight projection be- fore it. Its great circumference is connected with the choroid membrane, and its posterior surface rests upon the ciliary processes. 4’he cihary circle is traversed by the long and anterior ciliary ar- teries, and receives some ramifications from them. 5. OF THE IRIS.*f- 1892. This membrane is a kind of septum placed vertically in the anterior part of the ball of the eye, in the midst of the aqueous humour. Circular and flat, it separates the Anterior Chamber of the eye (1886) from the Posterior Chamber, which is limited be- hind by the crystalline lens, and yet allows a free communication between them, because it presents an aperture at its middle part which is always free. This aperture of the iris is called the Pupil (Pupilla), and has its centre nearer the inner than the outer ex., tremity of the transverse diameter of the eye. During life, and from the effect of the alternate contraction and expansion of the iris, this aperture is continually varying in its dimensions. Its mean diameter is about a line. Of the two chambers of the eye, the posterior is much narrower than the anterior; but it very certainly exists, although the con- trary has been asserted. It is not more than a fourth of a line in depth, whereafi the other is a line and a half at least; and it is on- ly truly apparent toward the circumference of the crystalline hu- • The dissections of Zinn and Wrisberg, often repeated by myself, seem altoj'e- tJier to disprove this idea. K. f This name is imposed upon it on account of the variety of colours whicli its anterior surface prijsents.