POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE SCIATIC PLEXUS. 50Q dalis muscle. It then almost immediately divides into a great num- ber of twigs which are distinguished as follows : l6‘^, Glutceal Twigs properly so called. (Nervi glutcei medius et mfenor, Soemm.) Existing in small number, slender and rather short, they generally separate from the nerve by a common trunk, of which the ascending twigs, winding over the inferior edge of the pyramidalis muscle, lose themselves by numerous filaments at the upper part of the anterior surface of the glutmus maximus, while the desvendbig twigs, which are less numerous, are all at once distributed into its substance. One of the ascending twigs, which is larger than the rest, directs itself from within outwards, pro- ceeding as far as the outer edge of that muscle. 2. Sciatic Twig. (N. pudendaUs longus inferior, Soemm.) It curves inwards and upwards, forming a kind of reversed arch under the tuber ischii. At the end of a short course, it expands into a great number of filaments, some of which penetrate into the inner and lower part of the glutaeus maximus, while the others are distribut- ed to the integuments of the inner and upper part of the thigh, the perineum and penis, to the middle region of which they extend. 3. Crural Twig. It is larger than the others, and is placed at their outer part. It passes before the glutaeus maximus, over the lower edge of which some filaments curve upwards to be expanded upon its posterior surface. It then becomes subcutaneous, conti- nues to descend at the back part of the thigh beneath the crural aponeurosis, through which it successively sends to the integuments a great number of filaments which run a longer or shorter course. When it has arrived at the ham, it divides into two dr three fila- ments which descend behind the leg superficially, and lose them- selves in its integuments by a great number of subdivisions. They sometimes extend as far as the heel. 1765- Pudic Nerve. (Nervus piidendalis.siiper-ior, ^oemm.') Arising principally from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and sometimes from the fifth, it sends a commencing twig to the preced- ing (1,764), issues from the pelvis along with it under the pyrami- dalis muscle, enters between the two sacro-sciatic ligaments along with the internal pudic artery, and separates into two twigs, a supe- rior and an inferior. 1766. Inferior Twig in the Male. At first parallel to the superior for some time, and ascending along the inner part of the sciatic tuberosity, it sends some filaments to the levator and sphinc- ter ani muscles, and to the neighbouring adipose tissue and inte- guments. It then proceeds from behind forwards and from below upwards, along the perineum, between the bulbo-caverr.osus and ischio-cavernosus muscles, and gains the scrotum, where it loses it- self chiefly irLthc dartos l)y a great number of filaments. But pre- viously, it gives off filaments to the transversus pcriinei, bulbo-ca- vernosus and iscliio-cavernosus muscles, as well as to the integu- ments. Some of the.se filaments, traversing the walls of the ure- thra, expand upon the inner surface of that canal.