PASSIVE OIIGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 164 sions, always of irregular size and form, which arc mutually re- ceived, and are exactly fitted to each other, as is observed in the skull. This mode of union is only presented by the circumference of the flat bones, in which, on account of the narrowness of the surfaces, it is necessary that the points of contact should be multi- plied. 3dly, They sometimes constitute a kind of real implanta- tion, of which an evident example is presented by the reception of the teeth into their alveoli. 556. The articulations which allow the bones to move, also pre- sent two great subdivisions. In fact, their surfaces are kept in a sort of continuity by the disposition of some particular organ interposed between them, as is the case with respect to the bodies of the ver- tebrae ; or they are merely contiguous, as in the articulations of the limbs. 557. The latter articulations do not all permit motions of an equal extent, or of the same nature. It is from this circumstance that a physiological classification of these articulations has lately been given, which differs entirely fr*om that adopted by most ana- tomists,* but which I shall attempt to offer in the following table, in which I hope to be able to represent, in a complete and accurate manner, all that belongs to the division and differences of the arti- culations of bones, as well as their nomenclature. A. Moveahle Articulatmis, or Diarthroses.^ a. Surfaces intimately united by an intervening body, which constitutes Amphiarthkosis.J Ex. The junction of the bodies of the vertebra; with each other ; that o f the. ossa pubis ; the articulation of the upper part of the sternum. b. Surfaces not united as in the preceding case,§ 1. And permitting motions of circumduction, or in all possible directions. This is the orbicular, vague or hinged Diarthrosis, which is divided into Enahthrosis,!) in which the motions are performed by means of a head received into a cavity; Ex. Articulation of the iliac bone and femur ; Or by means of a cavity which revolves on a head ; Ex. Articulation of the first phalanges of the fingers with the metacarpal bo7ies. , , • Akthrodia,^ wliicli is fornied by tlio contact of plnin, or iicRTly plain surfaces, whose motions are very manifest; Ex. Articulation of the lower jaw ; ' See Bichat, Anat. gener. tom. iii. p. 49. ^ f A/a per ; agS^ov, urliciilus. V i ^ 'A/ip, uti hiquc ; artlculvs, mixed articulation ; it is also called coglniwus Diurtlirosis. § This is what is also called Conttguous Diarihrosls. II ’El/, in ; af/'juv, articnlus ; the preposition indicates a deep reception. ^ Af9-(cjiia, Galen, lih. dc Ossihus.