231 OF THE MUSCLES I.V GENERAL. ganization of a muscle, is deposited in the parenchyma of that Or- gan, much in the same manner as the phosphate of lime is in that of bone. Kvery muscle therefore seems to be a sort of reservoir of fibrin. 780. The muscular or fleshy flbre is flat, soft, downy, linear, possessed of little elasticity, more or less red, bent in a zigzag man^- ner in its longitudinal direction, varying extremely as to length, firmer in adults than in children and old people, of the same size in small as in large muscles, and passing through its course with- out bifurcating or ramifying. It possesses little tenacity in the dead body, and is easily torn asunder; but, during life, it sustains very great efforts without breaking. It is itself composed of a great number of fibrils similar to each other, subdividing to infinity with- out the possibility of discovering their first elements, forming se-, condary, ternary fasciculi, &c., by these successive divisions ac- quiring such a degree of tenuity as to elude even the microscope, collected into larger fasciculi, and almost entirely formed of fibrin. The last of these filaments that can be perceived, do not appear to be hoUow, as some anatomists have alleged. They have in gene- ral a prismatic or flattened, pentagonal or hexagonal form, but are never cylindrical. Their diameter varies little, and their length equals the entire interval between their two insertions. On exam- ining them with the microscope, as was formerly done by Hooke, Leeuwenhoeck and Muys, and recently by Prochaska, the brothers Wenzell, Autem-ieth, Sprengel, Sir Everard Home, Bauer, Prevost, Dumas, and Bedard, it is found, and I have satisfied myself of the fact by my own observations, that the finest muscular fibres are iden- tical with the particles of the blood deprived of theh colouring mat- ter, and whose central globules are united mto filaments, by a sort of jelly or mucus, the essential nature of which is not yet understood. Their colour is accidental, and does not exist in aU red-blooded animals, some of which have the muscles white; but in the greater number their tint is very decided, and becomes deeper and deeper with age. 781. A variable number of muscular fibres, therefore, united into approximated fasciculi, and forming a distinct mass, varying much as to size and form, having its extremities attached to the bones by means of tendons or aponeuroses, constitutes a muscle, in which there is also distinguished a downy cellular tissue as the ba- sis, together with ramifications of nerves, arteries, veins, and lym- phatics. It is in fact from the union of all these different organic systems, that the muscular system really results, which of itself forms the greater part of the volume and a great part of the weight of the body. 782. The Cellular Tissue is an important element of the mus- cular system. It connects the fleshy fibres. It is not very visible between the smaller fibres, but becomes more so in proportion as they unite into larger fasciculi, and forms for each of the latter a sheath in which they are inclosed. After uniting several of these