526 OKGANS OF SENSATION. artery. Its colour is grayish. It is rounded or lenticular, but never fusiform, and dill'ers much as U) figure in different subjects. Its tissue is firmer than that of the preceding plexus. The o?/,ter side corresponds to the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumo-gastric nerve. The posterior is applied upon the longus colli muscle. Its filaments are distingui.shed into inferior, external, internal, and anterior. 1. OF THE INFEUlOIl FILAMENTS. 1812. Their number is irregular and indeterminate. Most com- monly there arc five or six. They are thin and slender. Some of them descend before the subclavian artery, others behind it, send- ing some ramifications into the plexus which cover it; and all, af- ter approaching each other, terminate in the inferior cervical gang- lion. 2. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1813. Frequently there is only one, which perforates transverse- ly the scalenus muscle, and goes to anastomose with the sixth cer- vical nerve. In other circumstances, the fifth and fourth also each receive one. 3. OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1814. Some of them pass behind the carotid artery, and go to form a nervous plexus around the inferior thyroid artery and its divisions. Others cast themselves separately upon the thyroid body, oesophagus and trachea, where they anastomose with ramifications of the recurrent nerve ; some of them even gain the trunk of the recurrent nerve, and increase its volume considerably ; others unite with the common carotid plexus, and one of them joins the dia- phragmatic nerve. 4. OF THE ANTERIOR FILAMENTS. 1815. They vary from one to three, and constitute the middle cai’diac nerves, of which we shall afterwards speak. OF THE INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. 1810. It is sometimes double, and is pretty frequently continu- ous with the middle cervical ganglion or with the first tlioracic gang- lion. Its figure is extremely variable and irregular, although it is frequently semilunar or rounded. It is situated behind the verte-