OUOANS OF GENERATION. 802 fifteen, or even twenty. These appendages give rise to the promi- nenees observed at the external surfaee. They are very close to each other, and connected together by a dense cellular tissue. They may be separated by careful dissection, especially if the parts have been previously macerated. 2914. The vesicuLm seminales are commonly filled with a thick, yellowish, opaque fluid, of a peculiar smell, and of an aspect very different from that of the semen which is ejaculated during life. 2915. The walls of the vesiculm seminales are evidently formed of two membranes. The external, which is rather dense and whitish, appears to have some resemblance to the substance which forms the vas deferens, only it is thinner. The internal, which belongs to the order of mucous membranes, is very fine and almost white. It is a little wrinkled, and is similar to that which lines the gall-bladder. The vesiculae seminales are entirely destitute of muscular fibres. 2. OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 2916. The Prostate Gland (ProstataJ is a body of considerable size, formed by an assemblage of mucous follicles, and surrounding the commencement of the urethra in the male. It has the form of a truncated cone, flattened fi:om above downwards, and superficially notched at its base, which is directed backwards. Its axis is near- ly horizontal, but inclined a little forwards and downwards. It is much thicker behind, and on the sides than before. Its upper surface is immediately covered by the inferior liga- ment of the bladder. The lower surface rests upon the rectum, to which it adheres by a pretty dense cellular tissue. It is smooth and plain. Each of its surfaces is traversed longitudinally by a superficial groove. Its sides are rounded and correspond to the levatores ani muscles. Its base embraces the neck of the bladder, and forms around it a rather remarkable prominence, especially on the sides. Its summit terminates upon the membranous portion of the urethra by gradually becoming thinner. 2917- The prostate gland is traversed longitudinally, and nearer its upper than its under surface, by a canal wider in the middle than at its extremities, and which lodges the commencement of the urethra, or surrounds at least the upper three fourths of the cir- cumference of that canal. In its lower part, it is also traversed by the two ejaculatory ducts, which are lodged in a conical canal of which the summit is directed forwards. 29I8. The prostate gland is of a grayish white colour. Its tis- sue, which is very dense and firm, is of a nature very difficult to be well described. It is filled internally with a great number of small follicles containing a viscid, ^lopy fluid of a whitish colour. From these follicles arise excretory ducts which collect to the number of ten or fifteen, and open into the urethra, on the sides and at the sur- 2