OF THE CEllVICAL NERVES. 48o The phreiiic nerve of the right side, which is more vertical, and placed more anteriorly than the left, divides before entering the diaphragm, into six or seven filaments which separate from each other and communicate frequently together. They first spread out ramifications upon the upper surface of the muscle ; then the in- ner filaments, closely connected with the vena cava inferior, arrive by the aperture which gives passage to that vessel, at its inferior sur- face, to which they are partly distributed, partly also losing them- selves in the cceliac plexus. The other filaments, which are longer and directed forwards, backwards and inwards, perforate the apo- neurosis of the diaphragm, accompanying the diaphragmatic arte- ries and veins, and send several filaments to anastomose with the cceliac plexus and the stomachic filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve. The left phrenic nerve, which is posterior to the preceding, turn- ing over the apex of the heart, and consequently longer also than it, furnishes ramifications to the convex surface of the dia- phragm, perforates it, after being divided into several filaments, is partly expanded over its concave surface, partly over the oesopha- gus, and gives anastomosing filaments to the solar and cceliac plexus. It also furnishes filaments to the crura of the diaphragm and to the renal capsules, and sends some to anastomose with those of the opposite nerve. It is not imcommon to see the terminating twigs of the diaphrag- matic nerves presenting more or less numerous enlargements re- sembling ganglia. 1668. External descending branches. These are four or five in munber, sometimes only two, but always furnishing to the same parts an equal quantity of twigs. They arise principally from the third cervical nerve, and but slightly from the second. Their course is very short, and they divide almost directly, and with nu- merous variations, into a great number of twigs, which are distin- guished according to their position. 1669. Supra-clavicular Twigs. They descend along the la- teral part of the neck, under the platysma myoides, and divide im- to a great number of very long filaments, some of which pass be- fore the middle part of the clavicle and inferior extremity of the stemo-cleido-mastoideus, to be distributed upon the pectoralis ma- jor, in the integuments of the thorax and to the mammae, while the others, directing themselves more outwards and backwards, arc placed between the deltoides and pectoralis major muscles, and ramify in the skin of the top of the shoulder and outer and upper part of the arm. I67O Supra-acromian Twigs. They proceed along the ujiper edge of the trapezius muscle, send to it some filaments which anasto- mose in its substance with those of the termination of the spinal nerve (1649,) then, on arriving at the acromion, subdivide, and cover the outer and back part of the deltoid muscle with a great quantity of ramifications