MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 303 the neck. It is divided by a cellular line into two portions which have been considered as distinct muscles. Of these the upper is smaller, the lower larger. It arises by aponeurotic fibres, longer below than above, from the lower part of the suprficial cervical bo’ament, the spinous process of the last vertebra of the neck, those of the first four or five dorsal vertebrae, and from the correspond- ing interspinal ligaments. The fleshy fibres, which are all parallel, descend a little outwards, to the spinal edge of the scapula, where they are attached; but in the middle, they are inserted along a sort of aponeurotic arch, vertical and parallel to the edge i of the scapula, with which it is only connected by its two extremities, being separated from it in the rest of its extent by cellular tissue which is traversed by vessels. 1060. The postenor surface of the rhomboideus is in a great part covered by the trapezius. At its lower part, it is covered by the latissimus dorsi, and between these two muscles, is in contact with the skin. The anterior surface covers the serratus posticus superior, the splenius, sacro^spinalis, and part of the intercostales extern!. It is also applied over some of the ribs. Its upper edge is covered, in nearly its whole extent, by the levator anguli sca- pulae. 1061. The principal action of the rhomboideus is to bring the scapula toward the trunk. It also lowers the tip of the shoulder, by bringing the lower angle of the scapula toward the vertebral column. OF THE SPLENIUS. (M. Cervicn-Mastoidien et Dorso-Trachelien, Chauss.; M^isculi Spleyiius Capitis et Splenius Cervicis, Soemm.) 1062. The splenius is an elongated, flat, although pretty thick muscle, much broader above than below, situated obliquely at the back of the neck and upper part of the back. It arises by aponeu- rotic fibres, which are longer below than above, from the spinous processes of the first five or six dorsal vertebrae, from their inter- spinal ligaments, from the spinous process of the last cervical ver- tebra and from the lower part of the superficial cervical ligament, as far as tlie third vertebra. From these different points of attach- ment, arise the fleshy fibres, which form a bundle whose thickness and breadth continue to increase as it recedes from them. It as- cends outwards, leaving between it and its fellow a triangular in- terval, in which is seen the complexus major. On arriving at the middle part of the neck, it separates into two portions. The lower and outer of these, which bears the name of splenius cervicis, is narrower, and is itself divided into three small bundles, which are attached by an equal number of thin and slender tendons, longer internally than externally, to the transverse processes of the first two or three cerrical vertebrae, where they are often confounded with the tendons of the transversus cervicis, levator anguli scapulae.