ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 352 and scaphoides, and furnislics insertions to the abductor, opponens and flexor brevis of the thumb. Internally, it is attached to the pisiform bone, the process of the os unciforme, and a ligament which descends from the one to the other (692). It affords some points of origin to the opponens minimi digiti, and receives a pro- longation of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Its upper edge is continuous with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm ; the lower is con- founded with the palmar aponeurosis. Its anterior surface is co- vered by the tendon of the palmaris longus, which is intimately united to it by the cutaneous palmar muscle, the skin, and the ul- nar nerve and vessels. The posterior surface contributes to the formation of a canal, in which pass the tendons of the two common flexors and the median nerve. It also covers the flexor carpi radiahs and flexor longus pollicis. The fibres of this tendinous band are very numerous, transverse, and very close upon each other. 1254i. Posterior Annular Ligament. This is placed behind the wrist-joint, where it is extended transversely over the fibrous sheaths of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi inter- noclii pollicis, the radial extensors, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor communis digitorum, extensor proprius indicis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. It belongs much more than the preceding to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and must not be confounded with these sheaths, which it only serves to cover. Its fibres are transverse, parallel, and very white. They are tra- versed by blood-vessels. They are attached on the one hand to the outer and lower part of the radius, and terminate on the other, at the lower part of the ulna, and at the internal region of the os pisiform e. This ligament is much weaker than the anterior. O OF THE PALMAR APONEUROSIS. 1255. This aponeuro.sis, which is extremely dense and strong, covers the fore-part of the hand. It is of a triangular form, broader above than below. It seems to arise above from the expansion of the tendon of the palmaris longus, but it also receives fibres from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, (1253,) and four or five oblique bundles detached from the lower part of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The fibres of which it is composed descend, be- coming smaller and diverging, to the lower part of the metacarpus. There they separate, and form four isolated slips, connected by new transverse and bifurcated fibres, towards the articulations of the metacarpal bones and phalanges, for the passage of the flexor tendons. Each of the branches of their bifurcation twists back- wards, and loses itself in the transverse and inferior metacarpal ligament, forming with it and the connecting ti-ansverse fibres, holes which are traversed by the lumbricalcs. The two lateral edges of this aponeurosis give attachment to two very thin and transparent prolongations which cover externally and internally the