510 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1707- Superior Twig in the Male.—It ascends along the ra- mus of the ischium and that of the pubes, and gains the symphysis pubis. It then glides between it and the corresponding root of the corpus cavernosum, arrives at the upper surface of the penis, runs along it as far as the corona glandis, and terminates in that part as well as in the prepuce by a great number of ramifications. But in this course, it furnishes filaments to the obturator internus and bulbo-cavernosus muscles, the mucous membrane of the urethra, the skin of the back of the penis, and the cellular tissue of the groove of the corpus cavernosum, 1768. Of the Pudic Nerve in the Female.—The inferior twig, which is proportionally much larger than in the male, gives off se- veral divisions along the perineum, penetrates into the labium ex- ternum of its side, distributes some filaments to it as well as to the constrictor vagince and ischio-cavernosus muscles, and, directing it- self over the sides of the clitoris, arrives at the mens veneris, where it is lost. The upper twig, which is very slender, ascends along the ramus of the pubes, before the obturator internus muscle, gives off filaments to the latter, and gains the back and summit of the clitoris, where it ramifies- OF THE SCIATIC NEJftVE. 1769. The Sciatic Nerve (Nervus ischiadicus, Soemm.) is the thickest and longest of aU the nerves of the body, and terminates the plexus of the same name, aU the roots of which contribute to form it. It descends at first before the pyramidalis muscle, gives it some filaments, issues from the pelvis between it and the gemel- lus superior by the sciatic notch, and enters between the great tro- chanter and the tuber ischii. It then descends a little obliquely outwards, along the posterior part of the thigh as far as the ham, where it divides into two principal trunks, of which one is the ex- ternal, the other the internal popliteal nerve, and which are some- times distinct from the upper part of the limb. 1770- By its anterior side, the sciatic nerve is successively ap plied, from above downwards, upon the two gemeUi muscles, the tendon of the obturator iniernus, and the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus. Its posterior side is covered above by the glu- taaus maximus, inferiorly by the long portion of the biceps flexor, and a little by the semi-tendinosus. Lastly, altogether inferiorly, it is placed in the ham in the midst of fat, under the crural apo- neurosis and skin, and between the biceps and semi-membranosus (1298.) ■ 1771- On emerging, from the pelvis, the sciatic nerve gives off some twigs to the gemelli, obturator internus and quadratus mus- cles. The glutiEus maximus also generally receives several, unless when the twigs qf the inferior glutscal nerve (1764) are very large, in which case, the sciatic nerve sends none to it. I’wo or three