82 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, ment to the temporal aponeurosis ; the Umer^ thick, especially at its fore part, uneven, nearly straight, and affords insertion to the masseter muscle. 286. These four edges forni' an equal number of angles by their junction. The upjjer angle is very prominent, thick, and denti- culate, and joins the external orbitar process of the frontal bone. The lower angle, which is much shorter, is articulated to the malar tuberosity of the upper maxillary bone. The anterior angle, which is very thin and sloped, forms the same connection on the edge of the orbit; and the posterior, which is longer and more acute than the others, supports the summit of the zygomatic pro- cess of the temporal bone, with which it forms the zygomatic arch. 287- Structure, Development, and Articulations. The malar bone is in general thick and cellular ; its development commences by a single centre of ossification ; and it is articulated to the fron- tal, temporal, sphenoid, and upper maxillary bones. B. OF THE BONE WHICH FORMS THE LOWER JAW, OR THE LOAVER MAXILLARY BONE. 288. The Lower Maxillary Bone (Mandihula) is beyond doubt the largest of those which enter into the constitution of the face, of which it occupies the lower part before, while behind it ascends into the middle and posterior region. It is symmetrical, and of a para- bohcal form ; but the extremities of the curve which it describes are raised at a right angle to the rest of the bone. The middle and horizontal portion is named the Body, and the parts which are vertical and situated behind are termed Branches. The lower jawbone may be divided into the following parts. 289. Outer or Cutaneous Surface. This surface is placed al- most immediately under the skin at the fore part, but is more deeply seated behind. It is convex, and presents, in the median hne, the symphysis of the chin, a sort of vertical line w'hich indi- cates the point of union of the two pieces of which the bone con- sists in childhood, and which surmounts a projecting surface, more or less distinct in different subjects, rugose, and of a triangidar form, with the summit turned upwards. This prominence is term- ed the Mental Process. Above it, on each side, there is observed a superficial cavity, into which is inserted the levator menti, and more outwardly, im- mediately beneath the second small grinder, or the first, the exter- nal orifice of the lower dentary canal, which is named the Mental Hole, and which gives passage to the vessels and nerves of the same name. It is oval and oblique. From the two inferior angles of the mental process, there arises, on either side, a shghtly prominent line, which at first follows a horizontal direction, and afterwards rises obliquely backwards, to be continued into the anterior edge of the coronoid process. 1 his