OF THE CENTRAL ARTERY OF THE RETINA. 6(33 far as the internal angle of the orbit, where it ends by dividing in- to two branches. BRANCHES WHICH THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY GIVES OFF BEFORE ASCENDING UPON THE OPTIC NERVE. 1. OF THE LACHRYMAL ARTERY. 2289. It is one of the larger branches of the ophthalmic artery, from which it separates immediately after its entrance into the or- bit, to glide, between the outer wall of that cavity and abductor oculi muscle, as far as the lachrymal gland, into which it enters. At its commencement, it throws some ramifications into the abduc- tor oculi, attoUens oculum and depressor oculi muscles, the levator palpebras superioris, the periosteum of the orbit and the envelopes of the optic nerve. Sometimes it also gives rise to the posterior ethmoidal artery. Close to the lachrymal gland, it furnishes some small twigs to the periosteum and abductor oculi muscle, and gives off a small branch which descends backwards and outwards, and presently bifurcates, so that one of its twigs loses itself in the peri- osteum of the orbit, while the other passes through the malar bone, arrives in the temporal fossa, and anastomoses with the an- terior deep temporal artery (2277)- 2290. Arrived at the lachrymal gland, the artery passes above it, or surrounds it with a vascular net-work. In all cases, it sends a great number of twigs into its parenchyma. At the same time there arise from it two twigs, the External Palpebral, one of which, the inferior, passes under the gland to gain the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, where it anastomoses by an arch, upon the lower edge of the corresponding tarsal fibro-cartilage, with ramifi- cations of the inferior palpebral and superficial temporal arteries ; while the other, or superior, passes over the gland, and is distribut- ed in the same manner in the upper eyelid. 2291. Beyond the gland, the lachrymal artery loses itself in mi- nute twigs in the two eyelids and in the tunica conjunctiva. 2292. Sometimes the lachrymal artery comes off from the mid- dle meningeal. In that case, after giving a twig to the dura mater, it enters into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. 2. OF THE CENTRAL ARTERY OF THE RETINA 2293. Excessively slender, it comes off from the ophthalmic ar- tery, a little after the preceding, or sometimes comes from one of the ciliary arteries. It perforates obliquely, and at a greater or less distance from the ball of the eye, the envelopes of the optic nerve places itself in its centre, and accompanies it into the eye, where it penetrates sometimes single, sometimes divided into two 2 X