OF THE METATARSAL BONES. 15.5 rounded, and slightly concave; the third is inferior, more promi- nent than the precccUng, and turned a little outwards. Its poste- rior or tarsal extremity presents a slightly concave, oval surface, corresponding to the one which the first cuneiform bone presents at its fore part. Its circumference is bulged and uneven, and at the lower part is furnished with a tubercle, into which is inserted the tendon of the peroneus longus. Its anterior or phalangeal extremity is called the head. It is rounded, convex, smooth, and more prolonged downwards than upwards. In the former direction, it presents two depressions in the form of channels, which arc sepa.- rated by an intervening prominence, and which lodge the sesamoid bones. It is articulated to the first phalanx of the great toe. On the sides of this extremity are seen impressions for the lateral liga- ments of the articulation. OF THE SECOND METATARSAL BONE. 530. This is the longest of all the bones of this region. Its Body., which is elongated, narrower before than behind, presents in gene- ral a form which varies in different individuals. Its upper surface, is slightly convex, and is divided by a blunt edge into two parts, of which the inner gives attachment to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and the outer to the second. Its lower surface, which is very narrow, concave, and connected with the abductor pollicis pedis, is covered by the two first plantar interosseous muscles. The inner surface is also narrow and rounded ; the outer has nearly the same form, and like it, corresponds to an interosseous muscle. The postenor or tarsal extremity of the second metatarsal bone, which has the form of a wedge, and is jammed in, as it were, between the three cuneiform bones, presents posteriorly a triangular concave surface, which articulates with the second of these bones; inter- nally, a flattened rough surface, on which there is observed, at the upper part, another articulating surface for the first cuneiform bone; externally, two small flat articular surfaces, surmounting impressions of ligaments, meeting at an angle, and of which''the anterior is ar- ticulated with the third metatarsal bone, and the posterior with tlie third cuneiform. At the upper part, this extremity is terminated by a rough flattened surface, which forms its base; at the lower part, by a narrow uneven edge, which represents its summit. The anterior or phalangeal extremity of this bone, which is also named the head, is convex, transversely compressed, more extended above than below, and articulates with the first phalanx of the second toe. It is marked internally and externally by depressions, which give .attachment to the lateral ligaments of this articulation. There i.s also observed upon it, at its upper part, a superficial groove, which separates the head from the rest of the bone.