THE LOWER MAXILLARY BONE. 83 is tlic external oblique line, into wliich are inserted the depressor labii infcrioris, depressor anguli oris, and platysma myoides, and which is somewhat eftaced at the middle. Along this prominent line, by the side of the alveoli, there runs a channel, which terminates at the inner side of the coronoid process, and gives attachment in its posterior half to the buccinator muscle. Lastly, at the back part, is the external surface of the ramus or branch, which is quadrila- teral, somewhat uneven, and covered with the masseter muscle, which is attached to it. 290. Inner or Lingual Surface. This surface is concave, di- rected towards the cavity of the mouth, invested at its upper part by the mucous membrane of that cavity, furrowed in the middle by the symphysis of the chin, beneath which are observed four emi- nences named the Genial Processes.* They are placed in pairs above each other, the two upper giving attachment to the genio- glossi muscles, the two lower to the genio-hyoidei. These tuber- cles are often spinous ; sometimes there are only two that are dis- tinct. Above the genial processes, are two cavities, which lodge the sublingual gland, and under them two rough depressions for the insertion of the digastric muscles; while just at their level arise the internal oblique lines, which are more prominent than the outer, especially at the back part, where they form a sort of round- ed prominence. They ascend toward the coronoid processes, and give insertion anteriorly to the mylo-hyoidei muscles, and poste- riorly to the superior constrictors of the pharynx. Beneath the inner obUque line, and posteriorly, there is observ- ed an oblong superficial cavity, in which is placed the submaxillary gland. In this cavity is also seen a furrow which ascends towards a pretty large irregular hole, which forms the entrance of the Ma.xitlary or Inferior Dentary Canal. This hole presents a very distinct spine above, and in the rest of its circumference several inequalities for the insertion of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. It gives passage to the vessels and nerve of the same name, of which a branch runs along the furrow situated under it. This orifice occupies the centre of the inner surface of the branches of the jaw;, which is marked at its lowest part with inequalities, to which are attached the fibres of the pterygoideus internus. 291. The Lower Edge, which is also named the base of the jaw, is horizontal, rounded, obtuse before, contracted behind, and traversed at the distance of two-thirds of its length from the chin, and opposite the second large molar tooth, by an ascending channel, which corresponds to the facial artery. It presents a remarkable bulging in the middle of its course, and gives attachment to the platysma myoides. 292. The Upyer or Alveolar Edge is of considerable breadth, more so, however, behind, where it is a little deflected inwards. • r»>.')oy, mnitnm.