PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 134 age of twelve. In describing each of the carpal bones, we have al- ready sufficiently pointed out their articulations to render it unne- cessary to recur to them here. V—OF THE METACARPAL BONES.* OF THE FIRST METACARPAL RONE. 472. This bone, like all those of the metacarpus, belongs to the class of long bones; it is shorter and thicker than the four others. Its body is a little curved from behind forwards. It is convex and covered by the tendons of the extensors of the thumb at its back part, and presents anteriorly, in the middle, a longitudinal ridge which gives attachment to the antagonist muscle and flexor brevis pollicis. Internally and at the upper part, where it is very narrow, the first interosseous muscle is in- serted. Its upper, or carpal extremity, supports a smooth articu- lar surface, concave from behind forwards, and convex transverse- ly, which is connected with the trapezium. Externally, this ex tremity gives attachment to the tendon of the extensor ossis me- tacarpi poUicis. To the rest of its circumference a fibrous capsule is attached. Its lower extremity, or head, is convex and smooth, more prolonged and broader before than behind, and covered with a cartilage for the purpose of being articulated to the first phalanx of the thumb. There are observed at its anterior part two depressions which correspond to the sesamoid bones, and, on each side, a depression which receives the insertion of the lateral ligament. OF THE SECOND METACARPAL BONE. 473. This is one of the longest and largest bones of the hand. Its body, which is curved like that of the preceding bone, is of a prismatic and trigonal form. Posteriorly, it presents a prominent longitudinal line, which bifurcates below, to form the sides of a triangular surface, of which the summit is turned upwards, and into which are inserted, externally, the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and, internally, the second. At its fore part it is sur- mounted by a blunt and founded edge, which corresponds to the tendons of the flexors, and is more prominent below than above. Externally, it gives attachment to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and, internally, and somewhat anteriorly, to the first of the palmar interossei. Its uppier extremity is marked in the middle with a concave surface, which articulates with the os tra- pezoides. Plxternally, it presents a plain surface, inclined for- wards, which unites with the trapezium; and, internally, a double articulating surface, of which the upper part is connected with the os magnum, and the lower with the third metacarpal bone. Poste- • Mira, yost ; xa^Ta;, carpus.