OIIGANS or CIUCULATION. 688 2392. AntcvioT Svanches. Their number is as uncertain as their disposition. 1 hey pass tlirough the aponeurosis and are dis- tributed to the integuments of the fore-arm. 2393. Posterior Branches. They are very slender, and de- scend obliquely towards the flexor longus pollicis and pronator quadratus, in which they are lost. 2394. Eaiternal Branehes. . The largest of these branches se- parates from the radial artery at the moment of its commencement. It is named the liadial Recurrent (Rccurrente de Pepieondyle, Chauss.) Directing itself at first transversely towards the supina- tor longus, it presently bends to ascend between it, the supinator brevis and brachialis internus muscles, to the neighbourhood of the olecranon. It thus forms a kind of arch, from the convexity of which proceed several twigs which descend between the two su- pinator muscles, to which they are distributed, as well as to the two extensores carpi radiales, the extensor digitorum communis, and the extensor muscles of the thumb. In terminating, this artery divides into several other twigs which anastomose with those of the deep hvimeral artery (2383). The other external branches are numerous, but their occurrence is not always regular. They descend obliquely in the supinator longus and extensores carpi radiales, as well as in the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. 2395. Internal Branches. Very numerous, but very irregu- lar, they are distributed in the muscles of the anterior and super- ficial layer of the fore-arm. Two of them however are constant, and arise from the radial artery, close to the wrist. The first, which is very small and very deep, directs itself transversely in- wards, along the inferior edge of the pronator quadratus muscle, and anastomoses with a similar branch of the ulnar artery, forming an arch which furnishes twigs above for the pronator quadratus, and below for the ligaments of the wrist. 2396. The second branch which is called superficialis volae, (Artere radio-palmaire, Chauss.) is superficial. It vinies much as to size. It descends obliquely before the anterior annular h- gament of the wrist, and gains the palm of the hand, after pass- ing through the upper extremity of the abductor brevis poUicis. It anastomoses with the extremity of the superficial pahnar arch, formed by the ulnar artery, and sends a great number of twigs to the muscles and integuments of the external palmar region. 2. OF THE RADIAL ARTERY BEHIND THE WRIST. 2397. It is only covered, in this region, by the tendons of the abductor longus and extensores pollicis, and by the integuments. It is applied upon the ligaments of tlie carpus, and upon the upper part of the first metacarpal bone. The branches which here come off from it arc distinguished into internal and oxternal.