OIIGANS OF CIIlCULATIOy. GSO noid membrane and the pleurae. Applied below, directly and in a very close manner, upon the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, it ascends forwards along the fibrous membrane to the place where the latter is prolonged upon the great vessels of the base of the heart. There, it is reflected at the middle upon the aorta, above its first curve; to the left upon the pulmonary artery, before its bifurcation, to the right upon the vena cava superior, about an inch above its entrance into the auricle, and on the right pulmonary veins, immediately after their issuing from the lung. It covers the anterior surface of all these vessels, penetrates into their intervals to a greater or less distance, and invests the aorta and pulmonary artery in their whole circumference, excepting in the place where they are in immediate contact. It also covers, between them, the ductus arteriosus, or the ligament by which it is substituted. In the place where this membrane is reflected, the separation of the two laminae of the pericardium may be very distinctly seen, a very per- ceptible triangular space existing between them. Having thus arived at the base of the heart, the serous mem- brane of the pericardium proceeds directly from the pulmonary artery over the ventricles, and from the vena cava over the right auricle. On leaving the aorta, it is prolonged into a depression which exists between that artery and the right auricle, whence it also directs itself towards the ventricles. From the summit and edges of the heart, it goes to the posterior surface of that organ, covers it, ascends again to its base, embraces to the right and be- low the vena cava inferior, to the left and above the left pulmonary veins, and is reflected over the posterior part of the fibrous mem- brane. This membrane dives into aU the irregularities which the heart presents at its surface, where it is so thin and transparent, especi- ally upon the ventricles, that it becomes very difficult to demon- strate its existence, excepting in the places where it is separated from the fleshy fibres by adipose cellular tissue. It adheres inti- mately to the fibrous membrane, and can only be detached from it in points of small extent, or at the place of its reflection. It has very little attachment to the vessels, and can easily be raised from their surface. 2171- The inner surface of this membrane, which is everywhere in contact with itself, is continually moistened by a serous fluid. It is smooth and polished. 2172. The arteries of the pericardium are very small, and arise from the thymic, phrenic, bronchial, and oesophageal arteries, the coronary arteries of the heart, the internal mammary arteries and the aorta itself. Its veins correspond to the arteries, and partly terminate in the vena azygos. Its lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia which surround the vena cava sujierior and the origin of the aorta. Nervous filaments have not yet been traced mto the substance of its laminae.