OF THE GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 433 each of which furnishes internally a long white twig, the successive union of which produces two cylindrical cords which pass through the diaphragm and penetrate into the abdomen. 1. OF THE GREAT SPLANCHNIC NERVE. 1838. Its roots, to the number of four or five, and very distinct, come from the inner part of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and sometimes tenth thoracic ganglia. They all descend very oblique- ly inwards on the sides of the vertebral column and below the pleura, and unite into a single white and cylindrical trunk, oppo- site the eleventh dorsal vertebra. This trunk descends in the same direction, enters into the abdomen through a separation of the muscular fibres of the crura of the diaphragm, applied upon the ver-, tebral column ; passes behind the stomach, a little above the renal capsule, divides into several slightly divergent twigs, and almost immediately after terminates in the semilunar ganglion. 2. OF THE SMALL SPLANCHNIC NERVE. 1839. It is composed of two distinct twigs, coming from the tenth and eleventh thoracic ganglia, which directing themselves oblique- ly downwards and inwards, unite on the twelfth dorsal vertebra, into a small cord which perforates the diaphragm separately, pene- trates into the abdomen, and divides into two twigs, one of which ascends to anastomose with the trunk of the great splanchnic nerve, while the other throws itself into the renal plexus and part- ly into the solar. 4. OF THE GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. OF THE SEMILUNAR GANGLIA AND SOLAR PLEXUS. 1840. The Semilunar Ganglia, of which there are two, one to the right and the other to the left, and which are of a much greater size than any that we have hitherto described, are oblong, sigmoid, concave above, convex below, and lie partly upon the crura of the diaphragm, partly upon the aorta, opposite the cceliac trunk, above the renal capsule and a little more backwards. By their upper and outer extremity, these ganglia manifestly receive the great splanchnic nerves, while by the lower, which is turned inwards, they communicate with each other, whether directly, which frequently happens, so that they form a single ganglion, or, by a short twig of greater or less size, or a bundle of filaments. I'hat of the right side is generally larger than the other, and fre([uently appears contracted in the middle. It is situated between the right