560 ORGANS OF SENSATION. we hare described above arc seen upon it, with this difference, that they are much more distinct than when it is covered by the skin. It presents, moreover, a sliglit prominence on the helix, above the trails, and, between these two parts, it is intersected by a fissure which is filled up by a ligament, so that the portion which belong.? to the tragus is separated from the rest. It experiences a similar interruption, or presents a similar fissure, between the anti-tragus and the united extremities of the helix and anti-helix, which is in like manner filled with a fibrous substance. Inferiorly, this fibro- cartilage is not prolonged in any shape into the lobe; but internal- ly it is continuous with the auditory canal, as we shall afterwards describe. This fibro-cartilage, which is analogous to those of the wings of the nose, the trachea, &c. has a very delicate tissue, a yellowish white colour, and a great degree of flexibility. It is covered by a perichondrium, and perforated by several apertures for the passage of blood-vessels. 1924. O f the Ligaments of the Auricle. These ligaments, which serve to fix the fibro-cartilage to the lateral part of the head, are three in number, a superior, an anterior, and a posterior. The superior ligament, which is attached behind the concha, to the up- per part of the convexity which it presents in that direction, termi- nates by expanding in the epicranial aponeurosis. The anterior proceeds from the base of the tragus, and from the neighbouring region of the helix, to be inserted into the zygomatic process, above the temporo-maxillary articulation. The posterior goes from the convexity of the concha to be inserted at the base of the mastoid process. They are all rather cellular than fibrous, and are a little intermingled with the fleshy fibres of the auricular region (900). 1925. Of the Muscles of the Auricle. They are of two kinds. Some, which have already been described, are subservient to the general motions of the part. The others, of which we proceed to speak, are placed in different points of the auricle, upon its fibro- cartilage. They are always of small size; one or more of them are sometimes wanting'; and sometimes, none at all are met with. They determine the partial motions of approximation and separa- tion between the different regions of the organ. They are com- monly five in number, and are designated as follows. 1. Muscle of the Tragus, or Tragicus. Pretty broad, very apparent, more constant than the others, and of a triangular form, it almost entirely covers the outer surface of the tragus, arising from the base and terminating at the summit of that eminence. 2. Muscle of the Anti-tragus, or Anti-tragicus. Less broad, but thicker than the preceding, and of as constant occurrence, it occupies the interval which separates the anti-tragus from the an- ti-helix. Its fibres are obbque. Anteriorly, it is covered by the fibrous layer of which we have spoken (1923), and posteriorly cor- responds to the skin. 3. Large Muscle of the Helix-. Long and slender, it covers