ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 201 prismatic and triangular form. Its thickest portion is fixed upon the contour of the cavity ; its free edge is thin and sharp. The synovial membrane covers this ligament. 657. Synoirial ^lembrane. After lining the glenoid cavity and the ligamentous rim which surrounds it, this membrane is reflected backwards over the neck of the scapula to reach the inner surface of the capsular ligament, which is entirely covered by it. At the place of separation of the fibres of this ligament, it is applied im- mediately upon the side of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle; and after arriving at the neck of the humerus, is reflected to pro- ceed over the cartilage of the head of that bone. At the moment when this reflexion takes place, it leaves between the capsular liga- ment and the bone a circular empty space, and furnishes a pro- longation which descends for about an inch along the bicipital groove, ascenchng again upon the tendon of the biceps muscle, en- veloping it on all sides, to the glenoid cavity, and forming inferior- ly a cul-de-sac, which prevents the synovia from flowing oflT. By this arrangement, the tendon of the biceps traverses the articula- tion freely, hut is not contained in the interior of the synovial membrane. 658. At the upper part of this same articulation, there exists another synovial membrane, which extends from the capsular liga- ment to the vault formed by the acromion and coracoid processes, and by the acromio-coracoid ligament. It always contains a great quantity of synovia, and appears to belong as much to the supra- spinatus muscle as to the articulation itself. 659. This articulation also contains small granulated, reddish, and very vascular masses of cellular tissue. They are observed collected in greater or less number at the inner part of the upper and lower attachments of the capsular ligament. The arteries and veins of such of these bodies as are situated upon the humerus come from the anterior circumflex vessels, which also diffiase over the cap- sule a great number of branches. The cellular grains placed on the neck of the scapula receive branches which proceed from the su- perior scapular vessels. Some of these latter are distributed to the capsule. 4. HUMERO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION,* OR ELBOW JOINT. 660. This articulation constitutes a perfect angular ginglimus, formed by the meeting of the superior extremities of the ulna and radius with the inferior extremity of the humerus. These differ- ent parts present in their aggregate two transverse rows of emi- nences and cavities, which are jammed into each other in a very close manner, and of which all the surfaces are invested with carti- * This articulation, which is commonly called the Elbow, is so designated be- cause it is formed ciiiefly by the humerus and cubitus, or ulna, although the radius also enters into its composition.