ORGANS OF SENSATION. 530 nish all the nerves of the liver. The convex part of the right se- milunar ganglion in fact sends directly to that viscus several fila- ments which pass under its small lobe, and form a plexus of them- selves. 134<7. Splenic Plexus. This is a compound of only a very small number of filaments, and is disproportionate to the size of the ar- tery which it embraces. At its origin, it presents two or three pretty large ganglia, from which proceed filaments which run alongside of each other, without being interrupted by new ganglia, and anastomosing but very rarely with each other. Several of these filaments penetrate into the pancreas along with arterial twigs. The others wind round the splenic artery and enter with it into the spleen. But before this there are also given off by it some filaments which follow the course of the left gastro-epiploic artery, and are in part separately lost in the great epiploon. There are also observed some which accompany the vasa brevia. 3. SUPEEIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS. 1848. After forming the coeliac plexus, the solar plexus is still prolonged downwards over the aorta, until the moment when the superior mesenteric artery separates from it, and there forms a new network of very considerable size and interspersed with a few ganglia. This plexus descends along with the superior mesenteric artery between the pancreas and the transverse portion of the duo- denum which receives filaments from it. It immediately expands and passes between the two laminae of the mesentery, there form- ing a kind of web of very great extent, the meshes of which em- brace the lymphatic ganglia of that region, and follow at the same time the twigs of the artery, so as to cover the whole surface of the small intestine. It also constantly sends off an isolated bundle of filaments which follow the right extremity of the pancreas, and are distributed to the duodenum along with two or three small ar- teries. The superior mesenteric plexus, with the aid of the secondary plexus which it sends ovei\ the middle colic and ileo-cohe arteries, ascends into the mesocolon, and gives filaments to the ascending colon and coecum. All the filaments of tliis plexus are very flexuous, and frequent- ly interrupted by gangha. The latter are especially observed up- on the edge of the intestine. 4. INFERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS. 1849. It is continuous above and before the abdominal aorta with the preceding, and receives at its commencement a great number of isolated twigs from the lumbar ganglia, and from the