ORGANS OF SECRETION. 770 The caruncula lachrymalis is nothing else tlian a mass of small mucous crypts whose number is very uncertain, and which are in- vested by the conjunctiva, which forms anteriorly and externally of them a semilunar foklTnown by the name Meinbrana riyctitans and much more apparent in certain classes of animals than in mam Each of the orifices of these small crypts is furnished with hairs of excessive delicacy, and visible only with a lens. The caruncula lachrymalis receives some filaments of the nasal nerve, and some vascular ramifications. Its use appears to be to retain the tears in the inner angle of the eye, and furnish a pecu- liar sebaceous fluid. 2. OF THE PtTNCTA LACHllYMALIA AND LACHRYMAL DUCTS. 2790. The Puncta lachrymalia are two in number, one for each eyelid. They are very small apertures, more or less apparent in different individuals, commonly of a blackish colour, and occupying the centre of a small tubercle, slightly inclined backwards, and si- tuated at the distance of about a line and a half from the internal commissure of the eyelids, at the place where their edge changes its direction. These orifices are always open. A small mucous rim, of a white tint, margins their circumference. They are placed opposite each other, but that of the lower eyelid is directed upwards, outwards and backwards, and that of the upper downwards, and also out- wards and backwards, so that when the eyelids are closed, they only touch each other on the side next the skin. 2791. The puncta lachrymalia are the external orifices of the lachrymal ducts which carry the tears into the lachrymal sac, through the eyelids, and whose diameter is a little longer than the circumference of the puncta lachrymalia themselves, which makes these canals appear slightly contracted at their origin. The la- chrymal ducts are distinguished into superior and inferior, according to the eyelid to which they belong. 2792. The Superior lachrymal duct, which is a little longer than the inferior, ascends at first vertically for the space of about a line, then bends nearly at a right angle, and proceeds inwards and downwards along the inner part of the free edge of the eyelid, immediately beneath the conjunctiva. The inferior lachrymal duct also at first descends nearly vertically, then directs itself in wards in the same znanner, ascending a little to place itself beside the superior. Both in fact, opposite the commissure of the eye- lids, proceed alongside of each other, without uniting, and separat- ed by a very thin partition, behind the teudoiz of the orbicularis palpebrarum, as far as the lachrymal sac, into the middle part of the outer side of which they open separately. In some cases, al- though rarely, they are seen to unite before entering the sac. 2793. The lachrymtd ducts seem to be formed merely of a very