112 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. pel- part, tfie mtijlmd cavUy, * or acetabulum, which is nearly hemispherical, inclines obliquely outwards, forwards, and down- wards, and is covered with cartilage, excepting in its bottom, where a rough impression is seen, which is filled by the synovial fringes in the recent state. This cavity has a diameter of about two inches, and is articulated with the head of the femur. It is circumscribed by a margin or edge, very prominent at the upper part and exter- nally, uneven, and interrupted anteriorly by a deep notch for the passage of the vessels which supply the joint, presenting a slight depression behind, and one to the inside and downwards, and last- ly, supporting a fibro-cartUaginous brim which increases the depth of the cavity. 392. A little before and beneath the cotyloid cavity, is observed the Foramen Ovale or Obturator Hole, the largest perforation that exists in the bone. It is of an oval form in tlie male ; trian- gular, with the angles rounded, and smaller in the female. Its greatest diameter is inclined downwards and outwards. Its cir- cumference, which is thin and uneven, presents at the upper part a groove, passing obliquely from behind forwards and from without inwards, through which pass the obturator vessels and nerve, and gives attachment to a fibrous membrane which closes the hole, excepting at the place of the groove. The edges of the latter cross each other to be continued into the two sides of the circum- ference. 393. At the inner side of the foramen ovale, is a concave, nearly plane surface, broader above and below than in the middle, to which the adductor muscles of the thigh and the obturator exter- nus are attached. At its outer and posterior side, above the sciatic tuberosity, is observed a superficial groove over which the tendon of the obturator internus muscle slides. 394- Abdominal or Inner Surface. This surface is at its up- per part directed forwards, and at the lower backwards. At the backmost part and above, there are observed a tuberosity which gives attachment to the sacro-iliac ligaments, and a notched oval surface, corresponding to that of the lateral surfaces of the sa- crum, with wliich it is articulated. The rest of the upper part of this surface is occupied by a broad and shallow cavity, named the Iliac Fossa, perforated in its middle by a vascular canal, and filled by the ihac muscle. It is limited below by a concave, broad, and rounded prominent line, which forms a portion of the upper strait of the pelvis. Beneath this line are observed, a smooth, inclined, nearly plane surface, covered by the obturator internus and levator ani muscles ; the inner orifice of the obturator hole and its groove; and lastly, a second surface, narrower above than below, which corresponds to the bladder. 395. Upper Edge, or Iliac Crest. Thick, uneven, convex, in- « Koruko;, a certain kind of cup.