5J9 ORGANIZATION OF THE AURICLE. forwards and downwards, and terminates, becoming tliinner, be- liind an«l above the anti-tragus, from wbicli it is separated by a slight notch. 4. Tlic Fossa naviczdaris or scaplioides, the superficial depres- sion which separates the two roots of the anti-helix. 5. The 'Frapns, a kind of small mammillary eminence, placed be- fore the orifice of the auditory canal, which it seems to conceal. Its form is flat and irregularly triangular. Its base is continuous above and below with the rest of the auricle. Its summit is directed backwards and outwards. Its outer edge is separated from the com- mencement of the helix by a notch. G. The Anti-trogus, another mammillary eminence smaller than the preceding, situated opposite to it behind, and beneath the an- ti-helix. It is conical, and its summit is turned upwards and forwards. 7- The Cmicha, a deep cavity, limited behind by the anti-helix, divided into two unequal portions by the helix, limited before by the tragus, and below by the anti-tragus. Its upper portion, which is narrower and transversely elongated, is continuous with the groove of the hehx. The lower portion, which is broader and of a some- what triangular form, is continuous anteriorly and internally with the meatus auditorius. 8. The Lobule or Lobe of the Ear, a soft rounded eminence, of variable size, which terminates inferiorly the circumference of the auricle, and which it is customary in some countries to perforate, for the purpose of suspending rings to it. 1921. The Inner Surface of the auricle is inclined backwards. It presents eminences and cavities the reverse of those observed on the outer surface, with the exception of the tragus and anti-tragus, which have nothing to correspond with them here. Free in a great part of its extent and separated from the head by a greater or less interval, it is continuous anteriorly with the temporal region. 6. ORGANIZATION OF THE AURICLE. 1922. Of the Dermal Layer. The skin of this region presents a great degree of thinness, particularly upon the different folds. Having a great number of sebaceous follicles chspersed through it, it adheres pretty lirmly to the fibro-cartilage, from which it is se- parated by a dense cellular tissue, which scarcely contains any fat, and it forms the lobe of itself. The latter is besides filled with a ma.ss of very fine fat, contained in very narrow cellules. At the summit and on the inner surface of the tragus, it is furnished with hairs which vary in length and number in different subjects. They appear destined to prevent the introduction of the small bodies which float in the atmosphere into the ear. L ibro-eartilage of the Auricle. It constitutes the basis of the external ear, determining the forms of that part by its elastieity and consistence. All the eminences and cavities which