MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 383 metatarsal bone, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti, which is seen anteriorly between its inner edge and the flexor brevis communis, which is united to it behind. 1384;. It carries the little toe downwards, and bends it a little. OF THE FLEXOR DREVIS MINIMI DIGIT!. 1385. Short, thicker in the middle than at its extremities, and situated internally of the preceding, this muscle aiises, by aponeu- roses prolonged over its inner surface, from the under part of the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the liga- mentous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. From thence it directs itself horizontally forwards, and is inserted, by apo- neurotic fibres appearing upon its under surface, into the lower and outer part of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Its in- ferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis and the abductor mi- nimi digiti. The upper surface is covered by the fifth metatarsal bone and by the last plantar interosseous muscle. It bends the first phalanx of the little toe. 5. Interosseous Region. . OF THE INTEROSSEI PEDIS. 1386. The interossei of the foot are similar in their number, form, and disposition to those of the hand (1245.) Six belong to the three middle toes, and one to the little toe. The great toe has- none. As in the hand, we also distinguish them, for each toe, inta abductors and adductors. Four are situated on the back of the foot, and three on the sole. 1387- Interossei of the second, toe. The adductor is the largest of the interossei of the foot. Its form is that of a triangular prism.. It is dorsal, and arises from the whole extremity of the inner side of the second metatarsal bone, and from the outer side of the posterior extremity of the first. The latter portion is separated from the first by an interval in which passes the anterior tibial artery. Its fleshy fibres are attached to the two sides of a ten- don concealed in their substance, and which they accompany to the extremity of the tarsus. This tendon is partly inserted into the inner edge of the base of the first phalanx of the second toe, and partly upon the corresponding extensor tendon. Its upper surface is covered by the skin. The inferior corresponds to the abductor pollicis; and its sides are applied upon the first two metatarsal bones. The abductor is also dorsal and of the same form. It arises from the whole outer side of the second metatarsal bone and from the upper part of the inner side of the third. It is term’nated