12 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 30. The body of these bones, which is whiter than the rest of their extent, is everywhere composed of a very thick compact tissue, of which a very tliin layer only covers the spongy substance of their extremities, and whose fibres have a longitudinal disposition, al- though they are inclined over each other in all directions, forming numerous connections by means of transverse and oblique fibres, and constituting superimposed plates. 31. The Flat or Broad bones (ossa lata sive plana) are for the most part destined to protect important viscera, and by uniting to- gether form the walls of certain cavities, such as those of the cra- nium, pelvis, &c. They are almost all bent upon themselves, and their margin, which is generally a little thickened, forms articula- tions, or affords insertion to muscles. They are formed of cellular tissue contained between two thin tables of compact tissue, whose fibres are frequently radiated. In the bones of the skull in particular, this cellular tissue has received the name of Diploe or Meditullium. 32. The Short Bones (ossa crassa) are always of small dimen- sions, and generally globular, tetrahedral, cuboidal, cuneiform, or polyhedral. They occur associated in great numbers in the regions which they occupy, as in the tarsus, carpus, and vertebral column. Their surface, which is always uneven, presents many cavities and eminences ; and, like the flat bones, they have no medullary canal. In general also, their articulating surfaces are broad. These bones are composed of cellular tissue, Surrounded by a thin compact lamina, with fibres crossing each other in all direc- tions. Their whiteness is never so great as that of the flat bones, and of the diaphysis of the long ones. 33. The surface of the bones is often raised into eminences, to which the general name of Apophyse or Process,\ is given. During the earlier periods of life, however, these emmences are for the most part called Epiphyses,X because they are then pretty frequently separated from the rest of the bone by a cartilaginous substance, which is not the case at a more advanced stage, when all the apo- physes are perfectly continuous with the substance of the bones, and form part of the same body. The following table contains an enumeration of the different kinds of apopliyses, together with their peculiar cliaracters. I.—^Apophyses forming Articulations. * Those which belong to the vioveablc articulations. Heads, wliicli are nearly hemispherical. Condyles, which are broader in one direction than in the other. • * Those belonging to articulations that do not admit oj motion- Dentations or Teeth, Roots, &c. Jl,—Apophyses affording Attachment to Fibrous Organs. and which are named, * according to their general forms. I Aari)fi/«(K«(, nascor de, c.vorio>. 1 KTifuofuti, adtiiiscoi'.