OF THE OLOSSP-PHARYNGEAL NERVES. 4<6‘9 period behind the rest of the nerve. It directs itself a little for- wards and upwards towards the bottom of the internal auditory canal, and on arriving at the base of the cochlea, divides into a great number of very slender filaments. All these filaments enter into an equal number of small apertures which this base presents, and thus penetrate into the cochlea, parallel to its axis. They then spread out their ramifications upon the lamina spiralis, which di- vides it into two seal®. They are so much the shorter and more delicate the nearer they are observed to the summit, and they all form, on the membranous part of that lamina, a very dense and very thick network. For this distribution of filaments, the nerve is twisted upon itself round the axis of the cochlea, and the twig which terminates it passes through the central canal, and is distri- buted to the infundibulum and the last half turn of the spiral la- mina. It is larger than the others. 1622. Branch of the Vestibule and Semi-circular Canals. Its bundle, united at first to the preceding, separates from it in the in- ternal auditory canal, proceeds backwards and outwards, forms a grayish, gangliform bulging, from which emanate three twigs of dif- ferent sizes. 1623. Great Twig. Larger than the others, behind which it is situated, it enters into the vestibule by several porosities, and there separates into two portions, after leaving its envelopes and becoming whiter. One of these portions spreads out in the vestibule itself and forms a sort of nervous membrane composed of very delicate reticulated, and, as it were, diffluent ramifications. The other ad- vances towards the approximated orifices of the superior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals. Here it bifurcates, mingles with the kind of pulp which bulges in the form of ampullae at their origin, and thus disappears in a manner still unknown. 1624. Middle Twig. This twig, which is divided into two fila- ments, and immediately enters into the vestibule, loses itself in the membrane which lines that cavity by a multitude of very subtile, very soft, and very white ramifications. 1625. Small Twig. Placed beneath the others, it enters into the vestibule by a single aperture, which is observed at the outer part of the internal auditory canal. It directs itself towards the posterior vertical semicircular canal, and seems to be prolonged in its interior after being expanded upon the pulpy ampulla which is observed at its orifice. OF THE GLOSSO-PHARyNGEAL NERVES.* 1626. The Glosso-gharyngeal Nerves come from the upper and lateral parts of the spinal marrow, between the facial and pneumo- “ Y>.Z0Stt,, lingua ; pharynx.