OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 767 si; they ascend obliquely towards the tendon of that muscle, and join the superior. 7. LYMPHATIC VESSELS W'HICH ARISE FROM THE AXILLARY GANGLIA. 2778. The axilla contains a very remarkable lymphatic plexus, formed by a great munber of ganglia (2686) and by the vessels which terminate in them, connect them with each other, or issue from them, 'fhe latter, as they leave the highest and deepest ganglia, are reduced to the number of three or four large trunks which proceed around the subclavian vein, as far as its entrance into the thorax. There, those of the left side collect into one or two trunks which pass between the subclavius muscle and the first rib, and open partly into the corresponding subclavian vein, and partly into the thoracic duct. Those of the right side gener3,Uy furnish a single trunk, of a large size, which might be compared to the thoracic duct itself, but of inconsiderable length. This trunk, which opens at the angle formed by the union of the right internal jugular and sub-clavian veins, is named the Right Great Lym- phatic vein. (Tronc hrachio'cephalique, Chauss.) 8. OF THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HEAD AND OF THE ANTERIOR SURFACE OF THE NECK. 2779. Epicranial Lymphatics. They are distributed on all sides beneath the skin of the cranium, and may be distinguish- ed into three orders of bundles. The occipital bundles unite in ganglia placed behind the mastoid processes, and go to join the su- perficial lymphatics of the posterior surface of the neck. The temporal bundles accompany the veins of that name, gain the paro- tid gangha, and mingle with the anterior superficial lymphatics of the neck. The frontal bundles collect at the inner angle of the eyes, augmented by the vessels of the eyelids and orbit, and join the lymphatics of the face. 2780. Lymphatics of the Fac§. These arise from all parts of the face, by radicles distributed under the skin. They follow the course of the facial vein, and divide in the submaxiUary ganglia, where they arc confounded with the following. 2781. Superficial Anterior Lymphatics of the Neele. These seem to be a continuation of those of the head, form a plexus which accompanies the subcutaneous veins of the neck, and open by two or three trunks, to the left into the highest part of the thoracic duct, and to the right into the great lymphatic vein of that side.,