234« ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and emit much azote. Alcohol, diluted acids, and solutions of alum, common salt, and nitrate of potash, increase their consis- tence. 790. The organic elements of the muscles are fat, gelatin, albu- men, a great quantity of fibrin, a principle of a peculiar nature, coloured, soluble in alcohol, giving to broth its taste and smell, and named Osmazome* by M. Thenard, who discovered it. There also occur in these organs a colouring matter somewhat different from that of the blood, carbonate, hydrochlorate and phosphate of soda, phosphate of lime, and oxide of iron. If the analysis is push- ed farther, the results obtained are a great quantity of azote, hy- drogen, oxygen, carbon, iron, phosphorus, soda, and lime. 791. The muscles, like the bones, may be divided into long^ broad, and short, and each of these kinds may present muscles which may be either simple or compound. 792. The simple muscles have all their fibres in a similar direc- tion. They are in general bulging, that is to say, they present the form of an elongated fasciculus, whose transverse outline is round- ed, and which is more or less inflated in the middle. This form depends upon the mode of insertion of the fleshy fibres, which, aris- ing above and terminating below, one after another in succession, are so much less numerous the nearer to each extremity that they are examined. The rectus femoris and supinator longus furnish examples of this arrangement. The simple muscles are sometimes flat, and have parallel fibres, which form a kind of fleshy band, as we observe in the sartorius, &c. or broad and very extended mem- branes, as in most of the abdominal muscles. These two kinds of muscles have sometimes tendons or aponeuroses in their middle, or in some part of their extent. Of this description are the masseter, the recti abdominis, &c. 793. There are also simple radiated muscles, and simple penni- f(yrm muscles of the same order. The fibres of the former proceed from a common centre, and are disposed like the radii of a circle, as is the case with the diaphragm, the iliacus internus, the temporal muscle. Sec. ; those of the latter are disposed in two rows, forming an angle with each other, like the barbs of a feather. A variety of this muscle is that which is named semi-penniform, and which has its fibres also oblique, but on one side only. The flexor carpi ra- dialis is penniform, the flexor carpi ulnaris, semi-pennifbrm. 794. The compound mtiscles are those which have but a single belly and several tendons, like the flexors of the fingers; or several bellies and several tendons, like the biceps flexor cubiti, the sacro- lumbalis, &c. 795. We have already made known the various situations wdiich the bones may have with relation to the different planes of the body, (45.) It is the same with respect to the muscles. Their size and direction may also sometimes serve to distinguish them from • odor ; {u/tos,jus csculcnliim.