OIICANIZATION OF THE NOSE. 577 although generally situated in the median line of the body, in a vertical direction, may be inclined more or less perceptibly to either side, so that its two lateral surfaces, instead of being plain, are then convex on the one side and concave on the other. These two surfaces are invested by the pituitary membrane. They present a great number of small porosities, which make them appear as if sha- greened, and which receive prolongations of that membrane. Sometimes also this cartilage is perforated by a hole which allows the nasal fossae to communicate with each other. Its upper edge is uneven, very much inclined backwards and downwards, and articulated with the lower edge of the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, which sometimes divides into two lami- nae for its reception. The lower edge presents two portions, a pos- terior and an anterior. The former is longer, inclined a little downwards and forwards, and is received into a groove of the vo- mer. The latter, which is shorter, rounded, free, and without any attachment to the neighbouring parts, is placed between the inter- nal branches of the fibro-cartilages of the nasal apertures, to which it is only attached by a loose cellular tissue, and along with which it contributes to form the septum of the nose. Its anterior edge is subcutaneous, prominent and very thick above, becomes thin be- low, and is entirely concealed by the fibro-cartilages of the nasal apertures, between which it unites, at an obtuse angle, with the in- ferior edge. It is from the upper half of this anterior edge that the two late- ral portions arise, which are at first continuous with it, but which, farther down, are separated from it by a fissure filled with cellular substance. They direct themselves obliquely over the sides of the nose, under the ossa nasi. Their form is triangular. They are attached above and below to the nasal bones and the ascending processes of the superior maxillary bones. A much less compact tissue, which sometimes is only a mere membrane in which are de- veloped some amorphous fibro-cartilaginous nuclei, unites them be- low to the fibro-cartilages of the nasal apertures. Externally, they are covered by the triangularis muscle, and lined internally by the pituitary membrane. They are somewhat less capable of being ruptured, and appear more flexible than the first portion. The three portions of this cartilage seem to be sometimes sepa- rated and distinct, there being observed on the anterior edge of the septum, along the union of the lateral portions, a superficial groove which terminates by a very small ridge. 1984. Of the Fibro • cartilages of the wpertures of the Nose. It is very difficult to determine their size and form. In general, however, they represent an ellipse truncated posteriorly. They are curved upon themselves, presenting the appearance of two branches, an inner and an outer, meeting at an angle. By their union, they constitute, anteriorly, and on each side, a more or less distinct pro- minence, separated by a groove from that of the opposite side. The outer, which is directed a little upwards and backwards, ter-