OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 77s situated partly before and partly beneath the external ear, filling up the deep excavation which exists on the sides of the face, between the posterior edge of the ramus of the lower jaw, the meatus audi- torius cxternus, and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It extends vertically from the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw. Its form is that of a very irregular pyramid, with an oval base di- rected outwards. 2802. Its oitter surface, which is broad, flat, oval, slightly con- vex, and having no precise limits, extends more or less upon the face. It is covered by some fibres of the platysma myoides and by the skin, under which creep some nervous filaments. Its cir- cumference is prolonged anteriorly over the masseter muscle, and superiorly over the articulation of the jaw. At the under part of this circumference, from which Steno’s duct takes its rise, the branches of the facial nerve are seen emerging. 2803. The anterior surface corresponds above to the articula- tion of the lower jaw, externally to the posterior edge of the same bone, and internally to the pterygoideus internus muscle. It is moulded upon these different parts, and penetrates into their in- tervals. 2804. Its posterior surface is connected by pretty dense cellu- lar tissue with the meatus auditorius externus, the mastoid process, the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the styloid process, and the muscles which arise from it. It is coasted internally by the internal carotid ar- tery, and by the internal jugular vein. The external carotid artery, at the moment of its termination, and especially the superficial tem- poral artery, are also in connection with this surface of the parotid gland. They are even generally enveloped by its parenchyma, especially the latter, which traverses it from below upwards ; while the facial nerve, which is also placed in the gland during part of its course, passes transversely through it. 2805. The parotid gland furnishes, by each of the granulations of which it is composed, a very slender excretory duct, which unites with those in its vicinity, in the manner ,of veins, to form some- what larger twigs, then branches, and lastly a considerable trunk named the Parotid Duct or Steno's Duct. This duct emerges from the fore and outer part of the gland, a little above the middle of the height of the masseter muscle, over which it proceeds hori- zontally, from behind forwards, to turn over its anterior edge, and sink into the adipose cellular tissue of the cheek. Having arrived upon the buccinator muscle, it passes through an aperture formed in the midst of its fibres, and terminates in the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, at the distance of about three lines from the meeting of the cheek with the corresponding gums. The parotid duct does not pass through the buccinator obliquely, but perforates it perpendicularly, and forms an angle as it passes through the mucous membrane of the mouth, proceeding a little for-