47 FRONTAL BONE. the middle with a groove, in which is lodged the commencement of the superior longitvidinal sinus of that membrane. Ihc margins of this groove unite below, forming a ridge, to which the summit of the fal.v cerebri is in part attached, and which terminates at a hole called the foramen eoecum. The uses of this aperture are not yet well known. Sometimes it is completed by the ethmoid bone. 154. This surfiicc of the bone also presents on each side a great number of inequalities, whicli correspond to the windings and cir- cumvolutions of the brain, at least in part; for, as Bichat has re- marked, it is often a prominent portion of the brain that corres- ponds to an eminence on the bone, and vice versa. These ine- qualities are commonly named inamillary eminences and digital im- pressums. Tliere are also observed upon it several arterial fur- rows, and the coronal or frontal fosscB, which correspond to the prominences of the same name. 155. Upper margin. This margin is thick, uneven, more than semicircular, cut obliquely at the expense of its inner plate above, and of the outer below. It is articulated with- the parietal bones in such a manner, that, with the aid of this obliquity of its edge, it rests upon them above and supports them below. It terminates on each side by a broad rough triangular surface, which joins the great wings of the sphenoid bone. 156. Lower margin. This is straight, thin, interrupted in its middle part by the ethmoidal notch, and cut obliquely so as to sustain the small wing of the sphenoid bone. 157- Structure. The frontal bone is pretty thick towards the nasal protuberance and the external orbital processes, but very thin and even diaphanous in its orbital region. It is formed of diploe contained between two compact laminm, and presents in its substance two cavities, which bear the name of frontal sinuses. These sinuses, which vary in size in different subjects, not be- ing yet developed in childhood, while they are very large in old people, have their orifice anterior to the ethmoidal notch, and from thence proceed, at the same time enlarging, into the frontal region of the bone, sometimes even extending into the external orbital processes. They are separated from each other by a septum, which, however, is sometimes wanting. It is seldom that they are wanting altogether. They communicate with the anterior cellules of the ethmoid bone. 158. Articulations. The frontal bone is articulated with the parietal bones, the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the nasal bones, the upper maxillary bones, the lachrymal bones, and the malar bones. 159- Development. Its development takes place by two points of ossification, which begin, about the forty-second day of gestation, to make their appearance on the coronal prominences, or rather in the orbital arches, and from thence send out radii towards the cir- cumference of the bone. It was formerly asserted that these two