OF THE FACE IN GENERAL. 95 327. The free edge of these arches is undulated in such a man- ner, that in tlic upper jaw it descends slightly from the first in- cisor to the second grinder on each side, and again ascends, which renders it necessary for the last teeth of the lower jaw to be situat- ed higher in order to reach the corresponding teeth in the upper jaw. This arrangement is particularly evident in the heads of women. This edge is simple at its fore part, but posteriorly pre- sents two lips, on account of the greater breadth of the grinders. The outer lip is sharper in the upper jaw than the inner; but the reverse is observed in the lower jaw. 328. From the first incisor to the first large grinder, the teeth gradually increase in size, and afterwards diminish. Their length, however, is in general uniform, otherwise mastication would be hampered. The mtervals by which they are separated are very small; and they are always more extended on the side of the roots, which gives them a triangular form. 329- If we are to give credit to observers, the dentary arches have sometimes been seen double or even triple. One of the sons of Colombo furnished that anatomist with an example. According to Thomas Bartolin, Louis XIII. of France presented the same anomaly. This arrangement, however, is of rare occurrence ; but it not unfrequently happens, in consequence of some disorder in the second dentition, that some of the teeth are double. 330. Below the inferior dentary arch, there are observed, in the middle line, the symphysis and eminence of the chin, and on each side, the mental hole, the external oblique line, and the insertion of the levator menti, the quadratus and triangularis labiorum, and the platysma myoides. 331. Posterior or Guttural Region. This region is much broader than high, and extends transversely from one of the paro- tideal edges of the lower maxillary bone to the other, and vertical- ly from the posterior nasal spine to the xipper edge of the vomer. In the middle, it presents the posterior edge of this bone, and its articidation with the palatal bones. On the sides, there is first ob- served the posterior aperture of the nasal fosscB, which is higher than broad, and of an elliptical form. At the upper part of this orifice, is the portion of the pterygo-palatal canal, which is form- ed in the palate bone. At its outer part, is seen the tuberosity of the palate bone; and externally of the latter, between it and the branches of the jaw, there occurs an empty space, filled in the re- cent state by the outer pterygoid muscle. Lastly, the parotideal edge of the lower jaw limits this region laterally. 332. Inferior or Palatal Region. This region is naturally di- vided into two portions, one superior and horizontal, named the vault oj^ the palate ; the other vertical and inferior. The latter is formed by the inner surface of the dentary and alveolar arches, and by the lower maxillary bone ; the former, by the upper maxillary and palatal bones united. .333. The palatal vault, which is invested with the membrane of