123 OF THE CLAVICLE. -which is embraced by the levator anguli seapulae, and which is named the Posterior or Cervical Angle. 432. Outer or Aanllary* Edge, named also the Costa. It in- elines downwards and forwards, and is much thicker than the others. At its upper part, it is marked with a sort of groove into which the long portion of the triceps extensor cubiti is inserted. Posteriorly, it presents rugosities into which is inserted the teres minor. Ante- riorly, where it is rounded, it furnishes points of insertion to the sub-scapularis. At its lower part, it receives the teres major; and by uniting with the posterior edge, forms an angle named the In- ferior or Costal, which is thick and rounded, and gives insertion to the teres major and some fibres of the latissimus dorsi. 433. The axillary edge of the scapula is surmounted by a thick truncated angle, in which is formed an articular cavity named the Glenoid.-f’ This cavity, which is superficial, is of an oval form, broader below than above ; its great diameter is vertical, and a little inclined downwards and outwards. It is covered with cartilage, and is articulated with the head of the humerus. Its circumference, like that of the cotyloid cavity, is surrounded by a fibro-cartUagi- nous rim. At its upper part, it gives attachment to the long por- tion of the biceps muscle. It is supported by a contracted part, named the Neck of the Scapula, which is more distinct posteriorly and downwards than in the other directions, and gives attachment to the fibrous capsule of the articulation of the humerus. 434. Structure. The scapula is cellular at its angles, and more especially in the substance of the spine, acromion, coracoid pro- cess, and glenoid cavity. In the middle of the supra and infra- spinal fossae, it is entirely compact, thin and transparent. There are pretty regularly observed in it two distinct vascular holes on the upper and under surfaces of the spine. Some holes of this kind are also seen in all the places where there is cellular tissue, and around the neck. 435. Development. Its development takes place by six or seven points of ossification : 1. one for the body of the bone, which commences at its centre; 2. one for the glenoid cavity ; 3. one for the summit of the coracoid process ; 4. one for the upper surface and summit of the acromion ; 5. one for the dorsal edge ; 6. one for the posterior edge of the spine; 7- frequently one for the lower angle. 436. The scapula is articulated to the clavicle and humerus. OF THE CLAVICLE.j 437. The Clavicle or Collar Bone, is a long irregular bone, placed, on each side and nearly transversely, at the upper and fore • Axillary, belonging to the Axilla, or arm-pit. t Txmrt, caviias hand profunda; liiti, foi ma. t C/anjeaii/, a key. Kku$, davit.