657 OF THE INFERIOll MAXILLARY ARTERY. 2. OF THE INFEIHOR DENTAE OE INFEEIOE. MAXILLAEY AETEEY. (Art, Maxillo-dentaire, Chauss.) 2269. It arises inferiorly from the internal maxillary artery, at the same place where the middle meningeal separates from it above, sometimes, however, a little farther. It descends anteriorly along the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, at the outer side of the pterygoideus internus, behind the inferior dentar nerve, and before tlie internal lateral ligament of the articulation of the lower jaw, as far as the aperture of the dentar canal (289), which it traverses along its whole extent, to make its appearance again beyond the mental foramen. 2270. Before penetrating into the dentar canal, this artery gives off at first numerous ramifications to the pterygoideus internus and inferior dentar and hngual nerves. Close to the orifice of that ca- nal, it furnishes a twig which descends forwards in a small groove formed upon the inferior maxillary bone along the attachment of the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Accompanied by a filament of the in- ferior dentar nerve (1597)j loses itself by a great num- ber of subdivisions in the mucous membrane of the mouth, and in the mylo-hyoideus muscle. 2271. The trunk of the artery itself then enters the canal, along with the inferior dentar nerve, and sometimes, however, by a sepa- rate aperture. As it passes transversely beneath the alveoli, it sends off from its upper side twigs which penetrate into these ca- vities, and are destined for the roots of the teeth, which admit them by a hole formed at their summits. Under the first small molar tooth it bifurcates. One of its branches, which is very small, emerges by the mental foramen, throws itself into the quadratus and triangularis muscles, and anastomoses with ramifications of the facial artery. The other branch, which is larger, continues its course in the bone to the symphysis of the chin, and gives twigs to the roots of the corresponding canine teeth and incisores. 2272. Frequently, at the very place where the dentar artery arises, the internal maxillary artery furnishes some isolated twigs. One of them ascends upon the temporal bone, behind the auricular canal, and is distributed to its walls, to the membrane of the tym- panum, and to the ceruminous follicles (1931). Another pene- trates into the tympanum by the glenoid fissure, and gives ramifi- cations to the mucous membrane of the walls of that cavity and to the anterior muscle of the malleus.