parts ill connexion. 'I'liey are also kept down by several irregular fibres, which are le.ss distinct. OF THE CRICO-ABYTENOfU AllTfCULATlO.V. 1409. Kach arytenoid cartilage is also articulated by arthrodia with the cricoid cartilage, by means of surfaces, which we have al- ready described, and which are invested by a synovial capsule, and strengthened by some ligamentous fibres. These fibres are larger internally and posteriorly, and there constitute a triangular bundle. OF THE THYRO-AKYTEXOID AUTICUT.ATION. 1410. On the inside of the larynx, there are observed two liga- ments, about two lines in breadth, thicker internally than external- ly, formed of elastic and parallel fibres, contained in a fold of the mucous membrane. They arc extended horizontally, proceeding forwards, and a little inwards, from the anterior prominence of the base of each arytenoid cartilage, to the middle of the retiring angle of the thyroid cartilage, where they are interlaced with each other. They form the principal part of what is named the Vocal Cords. they are connected externally with the thyro-arytenoideus muscle, which they separate from the crico-arytenoideus lateralis. They are covered in the rest of their extent by the mucous membrane. 1411. Sometimes a fibrous bundle, passing transversely before the arytenoid muscle, extends from one of the arytenoid cartilages to the other. We have already pointed out the manner in which the epiglottis and the thyroid cartilage are connected. III. Of the Muscles of the Larynx. OF THE CRICO-THYROIUEI. 1412. Tliese muscles are two in number, and are situated on the sides and at the fore part of the lower portion of the larynx. Each of them is thin, quadrilateral, broader above than below, of- ten divided into two portions by an adipose line. It arises from the side and fore part of the cricoid cartilage, ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and terminates at the lateral part of the low- er edge of the thyroid cartilage, and at the anterior edge of its small horn, leaving above, between it and its fellow, an interval in which the crico-thyroid membrane is seen. Their anterior surface is covered by the sterno-thyroideus and constrictor pharyngis inferior muscles, and by the thyroid body. The 'posterior corresponds to the crico-thyroid membrane, and the crico-arytenoideus lateralis muscle..