OF THE THYROID GLAND. 401 lines long in an adult man. Posteriorly, where it is formed by the separation existing between the anterior prominences of the base of the two arytenoid cartilages, it is from two to three lines in breadth; but anteriorly, it is mucli narrower, in consequence of the approxi- mation of the two ligaments by which it is formed. In the female, the dimensions of the glottis arc a little less. They also vary in diderent individuals, and even in the different circumstances of life, from the motions which the arytenoid cartilages perform. 1424. The Inferior KxtremiUj of the larynx, which is of greater extent in man than in woman, represents a circle pretty accurately traced and formed by the lower circumference of the cricoid carti- lage. It is connected by a fibrous membrane with the first ring of the trachea. Its upper extremity is much wider than the lower. It is formed anteriorly and on the .sides by the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage, behind the middle of which there is perceived the triangular space occupied by the gland of the epiglottis, and closed by a sort of fibrous membrane, thicker at the middle than at the edges, attached to the posterior cavity of the body of the hyoid bone, (317) ^nd to the middle part of the epiglottis, beneath the place where the mucous membrane is reflected. Farther back, we find the epiglottis itself and its different glo.sso-epiglottic and ary- teno-epiglottic mucous folds; together with the superior aperture of the larynx, placed above the glottis, and formed laterally by these latter folds, anteriorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the arytenoid cartilages. In its ordinary state it presents the figure of a triangle of which the base is before and the summit behind. It is directed a little obliquely backwards and downwards. This aper- ture must not be confounded with the glottis, which is situated be- neath it, (1425). The arteries of the larynx are furnished by the superior and inferior thyroid branches. Its veins discharge them- selves into the corre.sponding trunks. Its lymphatics lose them- selves in the inferior jugular ganglia.* Its nerves are derived espe- cially from the ]>air of pneumo-gastric nerves, and from the two su- perior cervical ganglia. Of the Thyroid Body or Gland. 1426. The Thyroid Body or Gland, (Glandula thyroidea,) is an organ respecting the uses of which we are totally ignorant, and which anatomists usually describe after the larynx, on account of its situation. It in fact covers the lower and anterior parts of that organ, as well as the first rings of the trachea. This body exhibits great differences in its form in different individuals, and at different ages in the same individual, without our being able to assign any reasons for them; but, in general, it is larger in the child than in the adult, and in the female than in the male. It is more constant • When speaking of tlie Sympathetic Sy.stem tlie Student is to understand by the word ganglion what ii commonly called a conglobate'glntid.