651 OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. inferior attachment, and the constrictor pharyngis medius; after whicli, bending upwards, it ascends between the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus muscles, and between the latter and the sublingual gland, above the great horn of the hyoid bone, as far as the root of the tongue. There, it changes its direction again, becomes hori- zontal, and, under the name of the Ranine Artery, advances, ac- companied by the lingual nerve, between the genio-glossus and lingualis muscles, to the point of the tongue, where it anastomoses with that of the other side by an arch. This artery is consequently nearly horizontal from its commence- ment, to the moment when it bends back towards the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus muscle. It is vertical during its course along the genio-glossus muscle, and horizontal again from the base to the point of the tongue. This disposition allows it to be distinguished into three portions. 2248. Under the hyo-glossus muscle and behind it, the lingual' arter}^ furnishes some inconsiderable branches, which are distribut- ed to that muscle and the constrictor pharyngis medius. Some others pass through it, and arrive at the thyro-hyoideus and digas- tricus muscles. There are some which throw themselves into the genio-glossus muscle, and anastomose with those of the opposite side. It is from the same point also that the Dorsal Artery of the Tongue arises, which directs itself upwards and outwards to- ward the base of that organ and the epiglottis, and whose ramifica- tions are chiefly distributed to the stylo-glossus muscle, the back of the tongue, the tonsils and the velum palati. Although some authors mention this branch as constant, I have yet very frequent- ly found it wanting. 2249. Upon the genio-glossus, there are detached from the lin- gual artery several twigs which penetrate that muscle. But there also arises from the same place a larger branch, which is named the Sublingual Artery, and which is sometimes a division of the sub- mental (2239). Directed horizontally forwards between the mylo- hyoideus and genio-glossus, and above the sublingual gland, this artery furnishes a great number of twigs to those parts and to the mucous membrane of the mouth. Some of them unite with those of the submental, or of the sublingual artery of the other side. There are some also which pass through the mylo-hyoideus mus- cle, and arrive at the posterior belly of the digastricus. 22-50. Lastly, under the tongue, the lingual artery gives off la- terally a great number of large twigs which lose themselves in the lingualis and genio-glossus muscles, and in the tissue of the tongue, anastomosing witli each other, and with those of the opposite side. At the very tip of the tongue, and aliove the frenum of that organ, the two lingual arteries, which have assumed the name of ranine, anastomose with each other.