ORGAN OF DIGESTION. 608 ritoneal cellular tissue, between the right kidney and the ascend- ing portion of the colon. 2098. The inyier surface of the duodenum is mucous like that of the stomach. There is seen upon it a multitude of circular folds, which differ extremely in their configuration, and are very close to each other. These are the vuhiuloe conniventes. They are formed by the mucous membrane alone, and their existence is constant in all states of the duodenum. They project three or four lines in its cavity. Some of them are oblique and cross each other, or run into those next them; their length is not the same in aU; they never form entire circles, only representing arches which embrace the half, two-thirds or three-fourths of the intestine, whose pointed extremities advance unequally beyond each other. Their breadth varies as much as their length. The use assigned to them is that of retarding the progress of the alimentary sub- stances for the purpose of favouring the absorption of the chyle. The reticular tissue which we pointed out at the inner surface of the stomach shows itself in the depth of the grooves by which they are separated. 2099. There is also observed in the interior of the duodenum, at the point of union of the second and third curves, a small tuber- cle, at the summit of which are seen the united or isolated orifices of the choledochus and pancreatic ducts. 2100. At its lower part the duodenum is continuous with the small intestine, without any very distinct line of demarcation being observed. h. ORGANIZATION OF THE DUODENUM. 2101. From what we have just said, it has already been seen that the duodenum is not, like the stomach, invested with a serous membrane, the peritoneum being only applied upon it in a small portion of its extent. It is to this partial deficiency of the peri- toneal coat that the intestine owes the faculty of dilating to such a degree as almost to equal the stomach in size. 2102. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is pretty thick. All its fibres are transverse or circular, and have a great similarity to those of the stomach. The layer of dense and solid cellular tis- sue which unites it to the mucous membrane was called the Ner- vous Coat by the older anatomists. 2103. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is reddish, very soft, spongy villous, and as if downy. It is of its replication that the valvulm conniventes are formed. It possesses all the characters of the internal membrane of the stomach, and is truly continuous with it (2089). Between it and the pre.ceding coat, there is observed a great quantity of flattened mucous follicles,^the orifices of wliich are more visible than in the stomach. 2104. The arteries of the duodenum are very numerous, and