STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN. 423 longs itself into the bottom of the lateral ventricles, turning over the concave edge of the cornua Ammonis (14<72), and at length losing itself near tlie inferior aperture of the ventricles. Between this band and the optic thalamus, is a slit which opens in a fissure of the inferior surface of the cerebrum, and through which the pia mater penetrates. 1476. Beneath and behind the fornix, in the folds of the pia mater, and above the tubercula quadrigemina, is the Pineal Gland or Conarhem, a small grayish body, of the size of a large pea, va- rying in its form, of a soft and pulpy consistence, and everywhere isolated from the cerebral substance. Only at its fore part, where it is whiter, it receives two cords of medullary substance, the ped- uncles of the pineal glan^, which come from the upper and inner part of the optic thalami, where they form a sbght prominence, proceed backwards, gradually increasing in bulk, pass over the sides of the posterior aperture of the third ventricle, and unite be- fore attaching themselves to the gland, to which they stand in the same relation as the pituitary stem to the body of the same name. It ought also to be remarked, that it is between the pineal gland and the choroid web that the posterior orifice of the arachnoid ca- nal occurs. The nature of this small body is unknown. It receives a con- siderable number of vessels. Very frequently, in the adult, it con- tains a remarkable quantity of small transparent calculi, very hard, and of a siliceous aspect, varying much in their number and dispo- sition. They are generally collected into a small quadrilateral mass (the Acervuliis of Soemmering), under the choroid web, near the posterior commissure. At other times, they are irregularly distri- buted on the sides, or in the very substance of the organ. On ex- amining the masses of these small concretions with the microscope, the brothers Wenzel supposed they discovered in them a proper membrane which connects them together. The larger among them are not formed of a single mass, but are the result of the agglome- ration of several smaller ones. Their figure is irregular at first sight, but with a little attention, it is discovered that they are all round. Their surface is rough and dotted with points. 1477- 1’he different parts which we have described above as ex- i.sting in the exterior of the brain, are separated from each other in various places by cavities or intervals known by the name of Ventricles of the Brain. These are distinguished into Ijiteral or Superior Ventricles, of which there are two, and a Middle or Third Ventricle. Recently (2d November 1824), M. Laurencet, of Lyon, has endeavoured, by unfolding the brain in a peculiar manner, to show that the ventricles of the l^rain do not really exist, and are merely the result of the approximation of the nervous membrane, which, according to him, constitutes the brain, and may be spread out without being obliged to tear it. Before we venture to pronounce 2 F