ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. (215 710. The cotyloid ligament is not the only fibrous organ which contributes to convert the cotyloid notch into a hole, it being as- sisted in this by two bundles of fibres which are attached beneath it, to the two sides of that notch, forming two planes which cross each other. The deeper of these planes comes from the upper side, and is partly attached to the lower, where it is confounded with the cotyloid ligament; the other, which is superficial, ascends towards the upper part of the notch, and is also confounded with the same ligament. 711. Synovial Membrane. From being at first expanded over the cartilage of the head of the femur, it is continued over a part of the neck of that bone, where it invests a sort of dense, thick membrane with longitudinal and separated fibres, which constitutes the periosteum of the neck. At the base of this neck, it is reflect- ed over the capsular ligament, which it lines in its A^^hole extent. Arrived at the circumference of the cotyloid cavity, it passes over the two surfaces of its fibro-cartilaginous rim, enters into its ante- rior, covers the reddish cellular tissue which occupies its bottom, adheres strongly to it, and lastly ascends along the inter-articular ligament to the cartilage of the hea'd of the femur. 712. Beneath this synovial membrane, in the back part of the bottom of the cotyloid cavity, is a flattened mass of reddish cellular tissue, mingled with a soft and unctuous substance, forming the largest of the organs that have been described under the name of Synovial glands. It receives a prodigious quantity of arterial ra- mifications which arise from a small branch of the obturator artery which penetrates into the cavity by its inferior notch. Some of these ramifications lose themselves on the membranous sheath of the inter-articular ligament. There issue from it a great number of venous ramifications, which also make their escape through the notch of the cavity, forming a trunk which enters the obturator vein. These vessels are accompanied by a nervous filament of the same name, and are surrounded by a layer of more or less adipose cellular tissue, losing itself on the edge of the mass itself, which is surmounted by very large fringes. 713. The whole circumference of the head of the femur is moreover bordered with numerous small grains of the same nature as those which we have already pointed out in several of the articulations. There is one very large grain of this kind, which raises the syno- vial membrane close to the insertion of the inter-articular ligament, at the centre of the head of the femur. 714. The ilio-femoral capsular ligament is traversed by a great number of blood-vessels. Many nervous filaments also creep on its surface. The latter arise from the obturator nerve by a branch which separates from it as it passes through the obturator hole, and which divides into five or six twigs at the upper and inner part of the capsule. Another branch, arising from the same trunk, directs itself more downwards following the same direction. It separates upon the capsule into eight or ten filaments, some of which pass