ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. C41* and pulmonary vein. It describes several llexuosities, winds over the base of the heart, arrives at its free edge, changes its direction, and gains the groove which prevails upon the posterior surface of that organ. There, it divides into two considerable branches, of which the larger follows the same groove as far as the summit of the heart, while the other directs itself transversely between the left auricle and ventricle, and descends upon the thick edge of the heart to its extremity. 2214. At the moment of its commencement, the right coro- nary artery gives off very slender ramifications, which are distri- buted to the aorta and right auricle. One of them loses itself upon the commencement of the pulmonary artery and in the fat which surrounds it, and anastomoses with a twig of the left co- ronary artery. Afterwards, five or six other small branches ascend upon the right auricle, three before and three behind, and extend over the venas cavae and the inter-auricular septum; while some others, of larger size, and indeterminate number, descend and ramify upon the two surfaces of the right ventricle. The most remarkable of these latter follows the free edge of the heart, sepa- rates into two twigs, and anastomoses upon the summit of the or- gan with the left coronary artery. 2215. The branch which creeps in the posterior groove of the heart sends a certain number of twigs to the right and left, over the corresponding wall of the two ventricles. They are prolonged as far as the two edges of the organ. It also furnishes two or three pretty large trunks, which dive horizontally into the septum of the ven- tricles, and there unites with those of the opposite coronary artery. 2216. The other branch throws backwards small twigs over the left auricle, and others of somewhat larger size over the ventricle of the same side. In descending along the thick edge of the heart, it gives off ramifications which anastomose with those of the pre- ceding branch or of the left coronary artery. OF THE LEFT CORONAEY OR ANTERIOR CARDIAC ARTERY. 2217. Much smaller than the preceding, and a little higher, it arises like it from the commencement of the aorta, but to the left side of the pulmonary artery. It immediately directs itself down- wards and a little to the left and forwards, between the pulmonary artery and the left auricle, by the appendage of which it is at first entirely concealed. It then enters the groove of the anterior sur- face of the heart, and runs along its whole extent to the summit of the organ. 2218. Before arriving at the base of the ventricle, the left co- ronary artery gives oft’ no branch ; but there, it sends to the right a rather small branch which goes to be distributed to the aorta and pulmonary artery, and a more considerable one to the left, which winds between the auricle and ventricle, and descends upon the