PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, 14G largest of all the canals of this kind that are met with in the long bones. 509- These surfaces are separated by three edges. The ante- rior is more prominent at its middle part than above, and espe- cially than at the lower part, where it is rounded and disappears altogether. It is called the Crest of the Tibia. It is twisted like the body of the bone, and gives attachment to the aponeurosis of the leg. The inner edge is thick, rounded, more distinct below than above, where it gives attachment to the internal lateral liga- ment of the knee joint. To this edge are attached the popliteus, soleus, and flexor longus digitorum pedis. The outer edge is thin and sharp, and gives insertion to the interosseous ligament. It is bifurcated at the lower part. 510. The upper, or Femoral Extremity, which is larger than the lower, is transversely oval. It presents at its upper part two articular surfaces, which are concave, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulated with the condyles of the femur. They are improperly known under the name of Condyles of the Tibia. The inner, which is deeper than the other, is of an oval form from before backwards. The outer, which inclines a little obliquely downwards and outwards, has a nearly circular form. A pyramid^ process, with a broad base, inclined obliquely upwards and in- wards, surmounted by two tubercles, situated at a greater distance from the fore than the back part of the bone, and named the Spine of the Tibia, separates these two surfaces, and presents anteriorly and posteriorly two uneven depressions which give attachment to the semilunar flbro-cartilages, and the crucial ligaments of the knee joint. The anterior is larger than the posterior. The upper extremity of the tibia is limited anteriorly by a triangular, somewhat convex surface, directed obliquely forwards and downwards, presenting a great number of vascular apertures, and at its lower part a tubercle to which is attached the ligamen- tum pateUm. Posteriorly there is observed a more or less deep notch. On the sides two considerable eminences are met with, which are named the Tuberosities of the Tibia. The inner is very large, more distinct than the outer, and gives attachment to the in- ternal lateral ligament of the knee joint, and posteriorly to the ten- don of the semimembranosus muscle. The outer presents at its back part a small rounded surface, somewhat convex, nearly circu- lar, directed downwards, and covered with cartilage to be articu- lated to the upper extremity of the fibula. 511. The Loiver or Tarsal Extremity has a nearly quadrilate- ral form, and presents anteriorly a broad convex surface, which gives attachment to ligaments, and is covered by the tendons of the muscles of the fore part of the leg. Posteriorly, there is ob- served another surface, nearly plain, and traversed from above downwards by a superficial groove, in which slides the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis pedis. At its lower part it also receives insertions of ligaments. To the outside is seen a concave triangu-