BONES IN GENERAL. n organs of rfie cellular, the areolar or sponyy tissue, and the com- pact tissue. 1 • 1 • The former of tliese tissues results from the interlacing of a multitude of laminae running in all directions, and leaving between them small vacuities or cellules of variable extent, generally very irregular in their form, and communicating with one another, as is demonstrated by the circumstance, that mercury may be made to pass through them. This tissue almost always occupies the centre of the bones. The inferior turbinated bones of the nose, ac- cording to most anatomists, form the only exception. We shall presently see how far this opinion is correct. The reticular tissue of authors is merely a variety of the cel- lular tissue, in which the cellules are larger, and the laminae and fibres by which they are bounded much thinner and more delicate. The compact tissue is formed by fibres placed so close as to leave no intervals, without their being held together however by small pegs, as Gagliardi imagined. This tissue commonly exists at the surface of the bones, and lines the various apertures that may occur in them. Although by the naked eye no interstices are perceptible between the fibres or lamellae of which they are com- posed, the microscope discovers small medullary and vascular canals in the substance. 26. The bones vary much in size, some of them being a fourth, a fifth, or a sixth of the length of the body, while others of them are not more than a few lines in diameter. 27. Their form is always symmetrical, some being median and single, others lateral and in pairs. In the former, the one lateral half is a counterpart of the other. In the latter, the bone of one side of the body corresponds ex- actly to that of the opposite side. 28. With respect to figure, the bones are distinguished into long,Jlat, and short, according as the length or the breadth pre- dominate in their dimensions, or are equal to the thickness. This division, which is founded on the relative proportions of their three geometrical dimensions, is however subject to some exceptions ; and there are in fact bones, which in one respect may be considered as long bones, while in another they ought to be arranged among the flat: of which kind are the ribs, and the lower jaw. 29. The Long Bones (ossa longa, sive cylindrica.) occur in the limbs. Those nearest the trunk are longest and less numerous. Their extremities arc enlarged, and their middle part, which is named their body or diaphysis, is contracted, and most commonly triangular and twisted. Their centre is perforated by a cylindri- cal cavity, named the medullary canal, which renders the bones stronger without increasing the quantity of matter which enters into their composition, and is larger in old than in young individuals. This cavity is divided into numerous cells by the threads of the reticular tissue of which we have spoken above, and which extend in different directions from one wall to the other.