THE ILIAC BONE. 113 clmed outwards, excepting posteriorly where it is directed a little inwards, twisted upon itself* like an italic s, thinner in the middle than at the extremities, and longer in the female than in the male; this edge gives attachment externally to the obliquus externus ab- dominis and latissimus dorsi, as well as to the crural aponeurosis ; internally, to the transversalis abdominis and quadratus lumborum; and in the intermediate portion, to the obliquus internus abdominis. In an adult woman it is six inches in extent, when measured di- rectly, and eight inches when its turnings are followed. 396. Loiver Edge. This edge, Avhich is shorter than the others, and inclined inwards, presents below a thin crest, more oblique and blunter in the female, bent outwards, forming one of the sides of the pubic arch, giving attachment, externally, to the gracilis and adductors of the thigh, and internally to the corpus cavernosum, and the transversus perinoei, and erector penis. This crest is surmounted anteriorly by a vertical surface, of an eUiptical form, which unites with the bone of the opposite side to form the symphysis of the pubes. 397- Posterior Edge. Its form is very irregular. It is oblique from above downwards, and from without inwards. At its union with the upper edge, it forms the Posterior and Superior Iliac Spine, a large projecting eminence, which is separated by a small notch, from another smaller eminence, named the Posterior and. Inferior Iliac Spine. The latter is rounded, sharp, and formed by the posterior part of the surface which articulates with the sa- crum. Beneath this process, there occurs a very deep notch, which contributes to form the Great Sciatic Hole (foramen magnum sciaticum), and which is terminated below by a thin, pointed, tri- angular, and compressed eminence, named the Sciatic Spine. This .spine, which is more or less prominent in different individuals, gives attachment externally to the superior gemellus, internally to the coccygeus, and by its summit to the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament. Beneath it are observed a notch, pretty frequently channelled, in which is reflected the tendon of the internal obturator muscle, and the Sciatic Puberosity. This latter eminence, which is broad and rounded, is formed by the union of the posterior and inferior edges of the iliac bone. The quadratus and adductor magnus femoris, are insertetl into its outer part; the inferior gemellus and sacro- sciatic ligament into the inner; the biceps, semi-tendinosus and •semi-membranosus into the middle. 398. Aritenor Edge. This edge is concave, oblique above, and nearly horizontal below. By uniting with the upper edge, it forms the Aiiterior and Superior Iliac Spine, into which are inserted, externally the tensor vaginae femoris, internally the iliac muscle, and in the middle the obliquus externus abdominis and sartorius. A notch giving passage to some small nerves, separates this emi- nence from the Anterior and Inferior Iliac Spine, to which is at- tached one of the tendons of the rectus femoris. The tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles slides over a groove which is observed I