ORGANS OF SENSATION. 43=i the iiperturc of the venEO Galeni; the other ascends in tlie su1)staiicc of tlie falx for some time, curves liackwards and downwards, and pe- netrates obliquely into the straight sinus towards the middle of its length. The latter only is furnished with a valvular fold. J 505. Straight Sinus (Fourth or Peiyendicular Sbins, Soemm.) Triangular in its whole extent, broad behind, contracted before, passing a little obliquely downwards and backwards, it pre- vails all along the base of the falx, above the tentorium cerebelli, from the termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the torcular Herophili. In its interior, it presents the same appearance as the superior longitudinal sinus: that is to say, upon its walls a great quantity of fibrous bundles, closer to each other before than be- hind, form remarkable prominences beneath the delicate membrane wliich covers them. It receives the inferior longitudinal sinus, as we have already said. The veins of the cerebral ventricles or the venae Galeni empty themselves into its anteripr and inferior part, presenting a valvular fold. Towards the middle of its length and inferiorly, the straight sinus stiU receives the blood of the superior veins of the cerebellum, through a rounded separation of the fibres of the dura mater. 1506. Occipital Sinuses (Posterior Occipital Simises, Soemm.) These sinuses commence on the sides of the foramen magnum, not far from the termination of the lateral smuses, with which they sometimes communicate, and ascend, becoming broad- er, and drawing nearer each other, into the substance of the falx cerebelli, v/here they pretty frequently unite altogether. They open, each by itself, into the base of the torcidar Herophili. They receive the veins of the falx cerebelli, of the dura mater which lines the inferior occipital fossae, and those of the posterior part of the cerebellum. 1507- Lateral Sioiuses (Transverse Sinuses,'^oemm.) They conduct the blood from the torcular Herophili to the foramen lace- rum posterius, into the sinus of the jugular vein. Their course is marked by a groove which exists on each side of the interior of the skull (229.) A difference of capacity is almost always observed between them, the sinus of the right side being generally larger. From the torcular Herophili to the upper edge of the petrous pro- cess, they have a triangular form ; in the rest of their course, their section is elliptical. Their interior, which is everywhere smooth and polished, presents none of the bridles of which we have made mention in speaking of the other sinuses. They receive some veins from the cerebellum, the posterior extremity of the cerebral hemis- pheres, the tentorium cerebelli, and the cavity of tlie tympanum. They also present in the second part of their course the orifices of the superior and inferior petrous sinuses, which carry the blood from all the other sinuses of the base of the skull. By the mastoid and posterior condyloid foramina, they communicate moreover with the occipital veins on the outside of the skull.