ORGANS OF THE VOICE* 402 in its form. It seems composed of two oval lobes, flattened from before backwards, thicker below than above, and having a more or less oblique direction in different individuals. These two lobes are sometimes united in a great part of their extent; but in general they are separated, and are only connected with each other by a sort of transverse cord, more or less broad and thick, and which is named the Isthmus of the Thyroid Gland. This cord is some- times wanting, and has never the same appearance in two subjects, nor does it ever ascend as high as the larynx, which is embraced in the concavity of the crescent, wliich it forms in conjunction with the two lateral lobes. 1427. The anterior surf ace of the thyroid body, which is gene- neraUy convex over its whole extent, is covered in the middle by the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, and on the sides by the latissimi coUi, omo-hyoidei, and sterno-cleido-mastoidei. Its posterior surface, which is concave, is connected by a filamentous cellular tissue with the larynx and the first rings of the trachea. It also covers the crico-thyroidei, thyro-hyoidei and constrictores pharyngis inferiores. Its posterior and lateral edges rest upon the trunks of the carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gastric and recurrent nerves, the communicating cords of the cervical ganglia, and that of the left side only, on the oesopha.- gus. Its upper edge, which is deeply notched in the middle, is coasted by the superior thyroid arteries. The lower edge, which is convex, is in like manner coasted by arteries, and gives rise to large veins. The upper extremities of its lateral lobes are lodged between the thyroid cartilage and the trunks of the carotid arteries; the lower, between these arteries and the trachea. 1428. The thyroid body is not contained in any membrane. The cellular tissue by which it is immediately surrounded seems alone to supply it with an envelope, which is somewhat dense and never con- tains fat.* 1429. The proper tissue of the thyroid body is soft and spongy. Its colour varies much. Most commonly it is of a brownish red, deeper in women and children than in men and adults ; sometimes it has a gray or yellowish tint. Its intimate texture is not yet weU known. The greater number of anatomists liken it to that of the glands; and this body is in fact composed of several distinct lo- bules, agglomerated into lobes of greater or less size. Their intervals are occupied by a delicate cellular tissue, which never presents any adipose matter; but it is in small quantity. An oily fluid of a yellowish colour, seems to fill the areolse without being contained in particular cavities. Very frequently, however, there are obsen^ed disseminated here and there in the substance of the organ, vesicles swelled with a milky or colourless fluid, thick or thin, transparent • Many anatomists liave described a small muscular slip, found most generally on one side only as a levaior glandnla: thyroidem; the muscular fibres composing this slip proceed from below upwards, or from one of the lobes of the thyroid body to- wards the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone.