PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 194 tachccl from each of its portions transverse fibres, shorter, closer, and more numerous in the male than in the female, which form concentric laminae intersecting each other, and of which the more superficial pass round the articulation, while the internal only describe a semi- circle at its upper or lower part. In many subjects, and chiefly in vvomen, it is observed that these fibrous laminae are wanting at the posterior part of the symphysis. They are so much the broader and thicker, the nearer they are to the lower and upper part of the symphysis; their dimensions decrease in proportion as they ap- proach the centre, and they become less apparent. Toward the middle of these there are also commonly observed two small smooth polished oblong surfaces, covered with cartilage, moistened by a viscid fluid of a whitish or yellowish colour, and which appear lined by a very delicate synovial membrane. They gene- rally occupy only a third of the length of the posterior half* of the thickness of the symphysis. This disposition is much less appa- rent in the male than in the female, and it is stiU more distinct immediately after parturition. We observe, however, that in ge- neral the quantity of fibres, and the extent of the cartilaginous sur- faces, are in inverse ratio, and that the relation between them is very variable; for sometimes the fibres predominate, and some- times the smooth surfaces occupy almost the whole breadth of the articular surfaces of the pubes. The fibro-cartilaginous substance which unites the bones of the pubes is much thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, where it forms a sort of prominence, very distinct in the female, and which occupies only the middle of the symphysis. It disappears above and below. This articulation is strengthened by two ligaments. 634. Anterior Puhic Ligament. Tliis ligament is an irregular fibrous expansion, partly intermingled with the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, partly with the periosteum of the bones of the pubes. It appears to be formed of several superimposed layers, which all pass before the articulation. The most superficial of these layers, proceeds from the upper part of the symphysis, ex- panding and separating into two fasciculi, to the fore part of the branches of the pubic arch. The deep fibres are trans- verse, and unite in their passage with the laminm of the fibro-car- tilage. 635. Inferior Pubic or Triangular Ligament.^ (Ligamentum arcuatum.) This is much stronger than the preceding. It is a thick and triangular bundle which occupies the upper part of the arch of the pubes, to the upper and inner part of the branches of which it is attached on either side. Its fibres, which are of a yel- lowish colour, very close, transverse, and a little curved so as to present their concavity below, are very short above, and are conti- nuous with the lamime of the symphysis. They become longer in proportion as they are lower, and are then immersed in cellular tissue. This ligament is very firm and perfectly distinct. 636. The symphysis of the pubes is further strengthened above