PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 80 The out&r edge, which is very long, uneven, and sloped, sup- ports the ascending process of the maxillary bone, and is often fur- nished below with two or three small prominences in the form of teeth, which are received into holes formed on that process. The inner edge, which is broad above, and narrow below, is ar- ticulated with the bone of the opposite side, forming a ridge with It behind, in which there is a groove for receiving the anterior ex- tremity of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone and the nasal spine of the frontal. 275. Structure, Development, Articulations. The nasal bones present cellvdar tissue in almost their whole extent, but especially at their upper and inner edges. They are developed by a single point of ossification. It is unnecessary to mention its articulations again. OF THE LACHRYMAL BONE. 276. Form. The Lachrymal Bones, (Ossa Unguis,) which are the smallest belonging to the face, are placed at the inner and fore part of the orbit, occupying a quadrilateral irregular space situated between the frontal,’ ethmoid and superior maxillary bones. Their form corresponds to that of the vacuity in which they are placed. They present the following parts. 277- An orhitar surface, which is external, smooth, divided longitudinally and in the middle, into two portions, by a thin and prominent ridge, forming a sort of hook at its lower extremity. Be- fore this ridge, which is sometimes wanting, there is a channel perforated with a multitude of minute holes, and entering into the composition of the Lachrymal Groove. It is covered by the walls of the lachrymal sac. Posteriorly, there is observed a plane sur- face, broader but shorter, and not cribriform. 278. A nasal surface, which is internal, and presents in its middle a groove which corresponds to the ridge on its outer sur- face. Anteriorly to this groove, there is observed an uneven sur- face, which belongs to the middle meatus of the nasal fossae ; and behind it, there are seen rugosities which correspond to the ante- rior cells of the ethmoid bone, and which cover it. Pretty fre- quently also some of these inequalities communicate above with those of the orifice of the frontal sinuses. 279. Four edges, an upper, a lower, a posterior, and an ante- rior. The upper edge, is short, uneven, and articulated to the in- ternal obitar process of the frontal bone. The lou'er, is divided into two portions by the extremity of the external ridge. It unites before with the lower turbinated bone, by a thin plate, curved in- Avards, and elongated downwards, Avhich contributes to form the nasal canal; and behind, with the inner edge of the obitar surface of the upper maxillary bones. Sometimes the middle hook of this edge is wanting, and in that case is substituted by a small super- 4