OF THE RECTUiM. 017 state of vacuity, it is marked with some irregular transverse wrinkles, which arise from the falling in of its walls. 2133. The rectum being immoveably fixed in its place, its rela- tions are not subject to variation, although they dilfer anteriorly in the different sexes. Thus in the male, it corresponds, inferiorly and anteriorly, to the fundus of the bladder, the prostate gland, and vesiculaj sen^inales, while in the female, it is covered by the vagina, with which it is connected by a very considerable vascular lace-work. To this union the name of Recto-vaginal Septum is given. But anteriorly and superiorly, the rectum is covered by the peritoneum in both sexes, and is in contact with the uterus in the female, and the body of the bladder in the male. Frequently, one or two convolutions of the small intestine glide between it and these organs. Posteriorly, and in both sexes, the rectum lies upon the sacrum and coccyx, from which it is separated by the hypogastric vessels and nerves, contained in a fold of the peritoneum, broad above, where it is coirtinuous with the sigmoid mesocolon, narrow below, and bearing the name of Meso-recturn. At its lowest part, it is in contact with the levator ani muscle. On its sides, this intes- tine is only connected with the adipose cellular tissue which occurs abundantly in the pelvis, and with the levatores ani. 2134. The outer surface of the rectum is smooth, polished, and white. Lined above by the peritoneum, it presents in its whole extent vertical and parallel striae, which are owing to the presence of longitudinal muscular fibres uniformly diffused over its whole circumference, so that it has a considerable resemblance to the oesophagus considered also with reference to its exterior. There are, moreover, observed upon it, the numerous anastomoses of the hemorrhoidal vessels, and some fatty appendages towards the base of the sacrum. 2135. The inner surface of the rectum is commonly smooth in its upper half, but, in the lower, there are observed some parallel longitudinal wrinkles, which are thicker near the anus, and are of variable length. These wrinkles, whose number varies from four to ten or twelve, and which are called the Columns of the Rettum, are formed by the mucous membrane and the layer of subjacent cellular tissue. Between these columns, there are almost always to be found membranous semilunar folds, more or less numerous, oblique or transverse, of which the floating edge is directed from be- low upwards on the anterior side of the intestine. These folds form a kind of lacuna; of which the bottom is narrow and directed downwards. There are observed, moreover, on the inside of the rectum the orifices of mucous follicles which are directed from above downwards, and reddish villosities which belong to the mu- cous membrane. The follicles in question pour into the rectum a white and pretty thick mucus, so long as they are examined at some distance from the anus: but at the anus itself a hair is seen rising from their centre.