PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 16 and the Vomer, which form tlic upper jaw, together with the In- ferior Maooillartj Bone, whicli of itself forms the under jaw. the face must also be referred the thirty-two Teeth which are found in the adidt, and the Hyoid Bone,* which is situated on the fore and upper part of the neck. The lower extremity of the trunk is the Pelvis, which is formed of the Sacrum, the Coccyx, and the Haunch Bones or Ossa Inno- minata. The upper or thoracic limbs consist each of four parts: 1st, The Shoulder, which is formed of the Clavicle and Sca- •pula ; 2d, The Arm, consisting of the Humerus ; 3d, The Fore-arm, composed of the Radius and Cubitus; 4th, The Hand, which is itself divided into the Carpus, Meta- carpus, and Fingers. The Carpus consists of eight bones arranged in two series, and which, commencing from the radial side, are named as follows: In the first row, the Scaphoid, Semilunar, Pyramidal, and Pisiform Bones ; in the second, the Trapezium, Trapezoides, os magnum and os unciforme. The Metacarpus results from the aggregation of five bones, which are distinguished into first, second, &c. counting from the radial side. Each of the fingers, excepting the thumb, which has only two, consists of three bones, named Phalanges. The lower or abdominal limbs are divided into three parts, the Thigh, the Leg, and the Foot. The thigh consists of a single bone, the Femur. The leg is composed of three, the Patella or Rotula, the Tibia, and the Fibula. The foot, like the hand, is divided into three parts, as follows : 1st, The Tarsus, consisting of seven bones arranged in two rows of which the first is formed by the Astragalus and Calca- neum, and the second by the Scaphoid Bone, the three Cuneiform Bones and the os cuboides. 2d, The Metatarsus, consisting of five bones, which are dis- tinguished mto first, second, &c. counting from within outwards, and not, as in the hands, from the outside. 3d, The Toes, which consist each of three Phalanges, except- ing the first or great toe, which has only two. The skeleton also presents several anomalous bones, whose ex- istence is not constant. These are the Sesa7noid Bones, which are developed in the substance of certain tendons. 45. We have still to remark here that the number of the bones is what we have above represented it only in adults, and that to determine it with strict accuracy, it becomes necessary to take into • Tlie anatomist might, with as mud) propriety, say, “ the hone of the finger,” as the liyoid bone. In the assemblage of hones termed /lyoid, there arc five distinct hones. K.