MUSCLF.S OF THE LEG. 360 tlie ankle, passes into a particular groove bcneatli the annular liga.- inent of tlie tarsus, runs along the inner edge of the foot, slides over the first phalanx of the great toe, with which it is connected by two fibrous expansions, and is at length inserted into the last ])halanx, over which it is expanded. This tendon, which is broader near its insertion and upon tlie tarsus than in the rest of its passage, is surrounded by a synovial capsule at the moment of its passing under tlie annular ligament. 1326. The inner surface of this muscle eorresponds to the tibialis anticus, and to the anterior tibial nerve and vessels. T.he outer surface is applied against the extensor communis digitorum. Its anterior edge is concealed above between the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum, and is covered below by the tibial apon- eurosis and tlie skin. The posterior edge lies upon the fibula, the interosseus ligament, the tibia, the anterior tibial artery, the tibio- tarsal articulation, and the back of the foot and great toe. 1327. This muscle extends the last phalanx of the great toe upon tlie first, and the latter upon the first metatarsal bone. It also bends the foot upon the leg, or the leg upon the foot. OF THE EXTEXSOR I.ONGUS COMMUNIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. 1328. Elongated, thin, transversely flattened, simple and fleshy above, divided into four tendons below, this muscle arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, between the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus, from the two aponeurotic partitions which sepa- rate them from each of these muscles, from the anterior ligament of the upper articulation of the tibia and fibula, (727) from the in- terosseous ligament, from the fore part of the fibula over a space of five or .six inches, and from the tibial aponeurosis at the upper part of its inner surface. The fleshy fibres proceeding from these different insertions follow various directions. The upper are ver- tical, the lower more and more oblique. They form a mass which descends obliquely inwards, and which is larger in the middle than at its extremities. They are all inserted into a tendon which is at first concealed in their substance, and which appears upon their inner surface about the. middle of the leg, being accompanied by them posteriorly as far as the annular ligament of the tarsus. Long before arriving there, the fleshy fibres and the tendon are di- vided into three contiguous portions, which pass beneath it in a groove invested v/ith a very distinct synovial capsule, and which is common to them with the tendon of the peroneus tertius (1331.) At this moment, the inner portion bifurcates, so that upon the back of the foot there are perceived four tendons which separate from each other, directing themselves toward the four last toes, and crossing the direction of the extensor brevis digitorum. The inner is obviously stronger than the others, and the outer frequently re- ceives a fibrous jirolongatiou from the tendon of the peroneus bre- 2 R