OF THE OLFACTORY NERVES. 445 1535. The arterial trunks whicli accompany the nerve, send tlicm branches which penetrate on all sides into their interior. The optic nerve is the only exception to this rule. These small arteries creep at first in the cellular tissue that exists between the cords, and have there a more or less considerable size. They send small branches into all the interstices of the filaments, which ex- pand upon the neurilemma and seem to lose themselves upon its inner surface. 1536. The veins of the nerves follow the same course as their arteries, but they do not issue by the same places which give en- trance to the latter. 1537. Absorbent vessels have not yet been traced in all the nerves, some authors having only pointed them out in the princi- pal nerves; nor has it been demonstrated that nervous filaments go to be distributed upon the neurilemma. 1538. The encephalic nerves are usually divided into several classes, accordmg to the place w’here their trunk connects itself with the encephalon, and they are thus distinguished into nerves which arise from the cerebrum, the cerebral protuberance, the me- dulla oblongta, and the medulla spinalis. The cerebellum does not furnish any. But recent discoveries, of which indications, however, were previously furnished by various anatomists, afford quite different ideas with respect to the nerves. Like the different ]>arts of the encephalon, they seem produced, at their origin, by bundles of fibres reinforced by gray matter. It even appears de- monstrated that in following the roots of the different nerves, they are seen ascending from the spinal marrow towards the point where they show themselves externally; and, in fact, the olfactory nerve is the only one in w'hich no direct connection with the spinal mar- row can be demonstrated, or at least with the protuberance formed especially by the medullary cords which arise from its upper part. In several nerves, howevei-, in man, this disposition is not so ma- nifest as not to require the analogy furnished by the anatomy of animals of the other classes ; but as we arc merely occupied with the description of the organization of the human body, we must stop short where the testimony of the senses can no longer guide us in our researches. We shall, therefore, confine ourselves to the circumstances that are manifested in man. OF THE ENCEPHALIC NERVES IN PARTICULAR. OF THK OLFACTOIIY NKUVES, Oil FIRST I’Alll OF NERVES. 1539. There arc few subjects in anatomy that present so much diversity of opinion in authors as the olfactoiy nerves, whctiicr w'ith reference to their origin, or to their texture, and even their use. The ancients considered them as a kind of cinunctorics, or canals by which the scrum and pituita separated by the brain flowed oil, and named them Processus MammiUtres. 'I’hoy form-