ACTIVK OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 376 })]accd to tlic outer side of the tendon of the flexor communis digi- torum. 1 his tendon, which was at first broad, becomes narrower as it leaves the fleshy fibres, passes under that of the flexor com- munis, communicates with it, (1347,) proceeds over the inner edge of the foot between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, passes between the two sesamoid bones of the first articulation of the metatarsal bones and phalanges, opposite which it enlarges, to penetrate into the fibrous sheath of the great toe, which is similar to that of the thumb (1191,) and in which it is enveloped by a sy- novial membrane. At the entrance of tliis sheath, it contracts, presents traces of a longitudinal division, and is expanded at its ex- tremity, which is attached to the lower and posterior part of the last phalanx of the great toe. 1354. In the leg, the posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the soleus and by the tibial aponeurosis. The anterior is ap- plied upon the fibula, the tibialis posticus and flexor longus com- munis muscles, the interosseous ligament and the tibia. Its tendon is surrounded by synovial membranes behind the ankle joint and under the great toe, and by the flexor brevis pollicis under the sole of the foot. 1355. This muscle bends the second phalanx of the great toe upon the first, and the latter upon the corresponding metatarsal bone. It increases the concavity of the sole of the foot, and ex- tends the foot and the leg upon each other. 4. Peroneal Region. OF THE PEEONEUS LONCPS. 135G. The Peroneus longus is placed at the outer part of the leg and under the sole of the foot. It is very long and narrow, fleshy and of the form of a triangular prism above, terminated be- low by a slender tendon. It arises from the upper part of the ti- bial aponeurosis, the upper third of the outer surface of the fibula, a small part of the tibia, two aponeurotic partitions which are placed between it and the soleus and flexor longus poUicis, on the one hand, and the extensor communis digitorum on the other. It descends at first a little obliquely backwards, enlarging in the mid- dle, and is terminated by a tendon which commences very high upon its outer and anterior side, and only becomes free about two thirds d Hvn the leg. This tendon continues to run along the fibu- la, directing itsell’ however a little backwards, and behind the ex- ternal malleolus enters a groove which is common to it with that of the peroneus brevis, and in which it is kept down by a ligamentous bridle. The synovial capsule which it contains is common to the two tendons, to the ligamentous bridle itself, the inner surface of the external lateral ligament (/ I'A), Jinfl 6ie groove of the fibula. Beneath the malleolus it quits the tendon of the peroneus brevis.