557 VITREOUS BODY AND HYALOID MEMBRANE. At the entrance of the optic nerve into the eye, the hyaloid membrane is reflected upon itself to form a canal which passes di- rectly through the vitreous body from behind forwards. At the level of the ciliary processes, towards the circumference of the crystalline lens, this membrane divides into two laminae, one of which passes before the capsule of that body while the other lines the concavity which receives it behind. 'I here results from their separation a space of the form of a three-sided circular prism, completed by the circumference of the lens. It is this empty space that is called the Canal of Petit. It is broader on the side next the temple than towards the nose, and its existence may be ea,sily de- monstrated by insufflation. The two laminae which form it are in perfect contact. The anterior presents striae corresponding to the ciliar}’^ processes, and is equally traversed by radiating bridles, which make it appear bagged when the canal is distended, and as if composed of a row of canals placed at regular intervals. 1917. The structure of the hyaloid membrane is yet little known. It receives branches from the central artery of the retina. It becomes crisped by the action of heat and by that of concen- trated acids. 1918. No part of this membrane is so dense and so thick as the portion which forms the hoUow destined for the reception of the crystalline lens. No adhesion exists in this part between the hya- loid membrane and that of the lens. They are equally smooth, and their contact is maintained by a kind of dew which lubricates their surfaces.* • The above description of the formation of the canal of Petit is incorrect, and, moreover, in some points, unintelligible. The student is referred to a memoir on this subject in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. x. part 2 ; and the following brief description of these parts, extracted from the memoir allud- ed to, may perhaps be found useful, and enable the student to dissect those parts for himself. Near the point where the zonule of Zinn commences, and where the pulpy por- tion of the retina ceases, there is detached a delicate colourless membrane over the whole anterior concave surface of the vitreous humour, and which, as is very correct- ly stated in anatomical works, is merely contiguous to the posterior surface of the caj)sule of the lens, but is not in any way connected with it. This contiguity I per- ceived to be constant, by reason, probably, of the elasticity of the membranes I am next to describe, viz. those immediately forming the canal of Petit. After the layer of the hyaloid membrane which invests the anterior aspect of the vitreous humour has been detached, the remaining structure [passes on towards the equatorial margin of the lens; but, previous to being fixed into its capsule, it alters very much in appearance, and assumes a structure 1 have already often described. It divides into two distinct layers; the external or outer, constituting the internal ciliary processes, and an inner membrane, also vascular, separating the canal of Pe- tit from a cavity, which may be formed artificially, by blowing in air betwixt tho posterior surface of the capsule of the lens, and the hyaloid membrane on which this rests. .Just as the membranes forming the canal of Petit are about to reunite, they adhere firmly to tho capsule of the lens, and seem to transmit another very delicato membrane, closely investing the posterior surface of that capsule. This is the whole mechanism of the canal.