170 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. These articular synovial capsules vary much in their general as- pect. There are some which represent round and simple bags, as is the case at the phalangeal articulations. Others, as in the coxo- femoral and scapulo-humeral articulations, seem traversed by a liga- ment or by a tendon, round wliich they are reflected so as to form a sheath. These membranes are absolutely cellular, as is proved by mace- ration, there being no distinct flbre in them. Their tissue is den- ser and less pliant than that of the serous membranes. Injections demonstrate in them a great quantity of bloodvessels, which arrive at them by traversing the hgaments and fibrous capsules. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in them, but it may be presumed that they exist in great abundance. No nerve has ever been observed in them. The synovial membranes appear entirely foreign to the solidity of the articulations ; and only favour their motions by exhaling a fluid of a peculiar nature which is named Synovia,* (Aximgia ar- ticularis, or unguen articulare, Soem.) 570. This fluid which is not, as was for a long time believed, produced by the mixture of the serosity of the membranes with the marrow of the bones, is whitish, viscid and transparent, of a sweetish and somewhat saline taste, and of a faint animal smeU. If it be allowed to rest on being removed from the joint, it is con- verted into jeUy. It mixes very well with water ; its specific gra- vity is a little greater than that of water, in the proportion of 105 to 100 ; it lathers when agitated, and can be drawn out like the white of an egg, without being so unctuous or so consistent as it is. The action of caloric, alcohol, and mineral acids, demonstrates the existence of albumen in it, which becomes concrete under their in- fluence. Latterly M. Orfila has shown that fibrin is one of the constituent principles of synovia, which also contains mucus and soda, the latter causmg paper tinged with a vegetable blue to be- come green when dipped in it. M. Margueronj* has moreover dis- covered hydrochlorate and carbonate of soda in it; but all these substances are held in solution by a great quantity of water, wliich forms more than three fourths of the weight of the fluid. Exposed to a moist air, the synovia loses its viscidity, becomes turbid, as- sumes a red or brown colour, and allows ammonia to be disengag- ed. By distillation it furnishes a charcoal, which, besides the two salts mentioned above, also contains phosphate of lime. There has also been observed in it an animal substance which is said to be uric acid. The quantity of the synovia varies much in the different articu- lations, there being some which contain more than the others; but in general, it may be stated, that the greater the mobility of the part is, the more abundant is this fluid in it. ■ A Word of obscure and recent origin, wliich Paracelsu.s appears to have first em- ployed to designate a disease, or which may have been applied to the fluid in ques- tion on account of its bearing some distant resemblance to the albumen of an egg. t Memoir read to the Acad, des {Sciences, in 1792.