696 ORGANS OF CTRCULATION. leaves that groove and the bone, and directs itself to the middle of the intercostal space. '] here, as in the rest of its course, it gives numerous twigs to the intercostal muscles, the periosteum of the ribs and the pleura. Some of them pass outwards to the superfi- cial muscles, while others anastomose with the divisions of the in- ferior twig. Lastly, the branch itself terminates towards the fore part of the thorax, by anastomosing with the branches of the in- ternal mammary artery (2343), if it belongs to one of the intervals which separate the true ribs. If, on the contrary, it occurs in the region of the false ribs, it disperses itself in the muscles of the ab- domen, where it anastomoses with ramifications of the internal mam- mary, epigastric and iliac circumflex arteries. 2435. The last intercostal artery is concealed at its origin by the corresponding pillar of the diaphragm, which receives some twigs from it. After supplying its dorsal branch, it continues its course along the inferior edge of the rib which is above, and arriving at its middle part, divides into two or three branches. One of them passes transversely into the abdominal muscles ; the others descend vertically, between the two oblique muscles of the abdomen, as far as the iliac crest, where they anastomose with the lumbar arteries, or with the circumflex iliac artery. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH ARISE FROM THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 2436. These are distinguished into anterior, lateral, and inferior. BRANCHES GIVEN OFF ANTERIORLY BY THE ABDOMINAL AORTA, a. OF THE RIGHT INFERIOR DIAPHRAGMATIC ARTERY. Arth’e Sous diaphragmatique, Chauss.) 2437. It generally comes off from the aorta by itself, sometimes along with the left. It also occasionally comes from the coeliac ar- tery. In the first case, it has its origin immediately beneath the interlacing of the fleshy fibres which go from one pillar of the dia- phragm to that of the opposite side. It immediately ascends a little outwards, along the free edge of the right pillar of that mus- cle, to which it gives several twigs, as well as to the supra-renal cap- sule, the pancreas and the liver. It then divides into two branches. 2438. Anterior Branch. It gives off at its commencement a transverse twig, which unites before the oesophagus with a similar twig of the left diaphragmatic artery. It then traverses the adhe- sion of tlie liver to the diaphragm, gains the neighbourhood of the vena cava inferior, sends several ramifications to the pericardium, through the diaphragm, and separates into a great number of se- condary branches which lose themselves in that muscle, communi- cating with tlie corresponding superior diaphragmatic. Others pe- netrate iuto the liver by its most retired part. One of them, which