13 BONES IN GENERAL. Impressions, unequal eminences, not much raiscil, extended in breadth, and formed of a great number of small tubercles placed very close together, and separated by slight depressions. Lines, unequal eminences, not very prominent, but extended in length. Ridges, eminences resembling lines, but smooth, and more distinct. Bumps, when they are rounded, broad, and smooth. Protuberances and Tuberosities, when rounded and rough, * ■ according to the bodies to which they are compared. Spinous Apophyses, in the form of a spine or thorn. Styloid, in the fonn of a conical point. Coracoid, like the beak of a crow. Odontoid, or tooth-like. Mastoid, or mamillar, like a nipple, * • * according to their uses. Trochanters, or those which are subservient to turning. Orbitary, belonging to the orbit, &c. * * * • according to their direction and relative situation. Ascending, vertical, transverse, superior, &c. III.—Apophyses intended for the Eeflection of Certain Tendons WHICH Deviate from their Originai, Direction. IV Apophyses which Correspond to Cavities Existing on the sur- face of Organs. 34. In the apophyses, the direction of the fibres of the compact tissue is not the same as in the rest of the bone. They are longi- tudinal in those which are elongated, and run in all directions in such as are large and thick; but they are never radiated, except- ing in the bumps of the broad bones of the cranium. 35. The bones also present various kinds of cavities at their surface, which are usually characterized as follows;— I.—Articular Cavities, which are called. Cotyloid, when they are hemispherical. Glenoid, when broad and shallow. Trochliform, when scooped in the form of pulleys. Faces, when nearly plane. Alveolae, when of a conical form. II.—Cavities which do not belong to Articulation. * such are intended Jbr the reception oj'parts. Fossce, when the entrance is wider than the bottom. Sinuses, when it is narrower. * • Cavities for the insertion of parts. Impressions, when they are wide, unequal, and shallow. Grooves, when extended in length. * * * Cavities for the passage of tendons. * * * * Cavities formed hy the impression of parts. Grooves, when they correspond to arteries. Gutters, or Channels, when they correspond to veins. * • • ■ « Cavities subservient to transmission. Notches, when superficial, and formed in die edges of bones. Foramina or Holes, when they pass through a thin bone. Canals, or conduits, when their passage is of great extent, or when formed by the superposition of several bones. * • • * • Cavities which transmit vessels far the nourishment of bones.