OUGANfZATION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. GOl and are only separated by cellular tissue. Their redness besides diminishes much, and at length they even become almost white. Towards the stomach, the longitudinal fibres expand and diverge in a sensible manner, so that the internal mucous membrane is dis- tinctly seen in the intervals of their bundles. They are continued upon the stomach, while the circular fibres entirely cease. Between the muscular coat and the inner membrane of the oeso- phagus, there is found a layer of dense and compact cellular tissue, which never contains fat. 2072. Mucous Memlrrane. It is soft, spongy, delicate, rather thin and white, especially below. It is eontinuous above with the membrane of the pharynx, but not with that of the stomach be- low. In its whole extent, and in the empty state of the organ, it presents more or less numerous longitudinal folds, arising from the contraction of the muscular coat, and frequently running into each other. In the substance of these folds there are prolonga- tions of the cellular tissue of which we have just made mention, and to which the older writers gave the name of Nervotes Coat. On their projecting surface are seen minute tubercles or rather vd- losities of a cylindrical or conical form, resembhng on a small scale the papillm of the tongue. 2073. The mucous follicles of the oesophagus are much smaller and less numerous than those of the pharynx. They are thinly scattered in the cellular tissue lying between the two layers which form it. Their orifices are very small, and occur in the depressions '«fhich separate the longitudinal folds. They are sometimes call- ed oesophageal glands. They are surrounded by a circle of tu- bercles or villosities. 2074. The arteries of the oesophagus are in general of inconsi- derable size. They come in the neck from the inferior thyroid ar- teries ; in the thorax, from the bronchial and directly from the aorta ; in the abdomen, from the inferior diaphragmatic arteries and from the coronary artery of the stomach. Its veins terminate in the inferior thyroid veins, the superior vena cava, the internal mammary veins, the vena azygos, the bronchial and phrenic veins, and the coronary vein of the stomach. The lymphatic ves- sels go to the ganglia which surround it. Its nerves are furnished by the pharyngeal and pulmonary plexus (1640), the cardiac nerves (1823), the thoracic nervous ganglia (1833), and especial- ly the pneumo-gastric nerves and their recurrent branches (1638). All these nerves form around it a large plexus which envelopes it the whole way to the stomach.