OF THE DORSAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. 497 after running for some time upon its internal surface. The other, or inferior, entirely loses itself in the deltoid muscle, and termi- nates near its anterior edge and insertion into the humerus. OF THE DORSAL NERVES, OR THOSE WHICH ISSUE BY THE INTER- VERTKBKAL FORAMINA OF THE DORSAL REGION OF THE VICR- TEBKAl. COLUMN, They arise, like the cervical nerves (1658), from the lateral parts of the spinal marrow, by two distinct roots, an ante- rior and smaller, and a posterior or larger, separated by the liga- mentum dentatuin, directed so much the more obliquely down- wards the lower they are examined, and united into a single trunk beyond the intervertebral hole and a small gray and hard gang- hon, formed by the posterior root. In a word, the greatest simi- larity exists between them and the cervical nerves. They are twelve in number on each side, and are distinguished by their numerical name, counting from above downwards. The first issues between the first two dorsal vertebra?, and the last between the twel/th dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra, 1714, On emerging from the intervertebral hole which belongs to it, each dorsal nerve, less voluminous than the last cervical and the lumbar nerves, immediately divides into two branches, a j)os- terior or dorsal, and an anterior or intercostal, of which the lat- ter is the larger. F05TERIOII OR DORSAL BRANCHES, 1715, They are immediately directed backwards between the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, under the semi-spi- nalis dorsi and multifidus spinae, where they commonly divide into two orders of twigs. Of these, the inner, of which there are one or two for each branch, and which are rather slender, enter immechately into the semi-spinalis dorsi and multifidus spina? muscles, pass obliquely through them, giving off several filaments to them, emerge between them and the longissimus dorsi, which also receives ramifications from them, perforate the muscles which lie above the latter, and, for the most part, lose themselves in the skin of the back, some of them however remaining in the trapezius and rhomboideus. The outer, which are larger, descend oblique- ly outwards beneath the semi-spinalis dorsi, multifidus spinae and longissimus dorsi, emerge in the triangular spaces which the levatorcs costarum form above, and pass between the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, to which they furnish filaments. They then expand into several ramifications which creep under the latis- simus dorsi, trapezius, and rhomboideus, pass thrpugh them, and are ultimately distributed to the skin.