PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 22 in which respect it is very different from the other cervical verte- brae. The laminm are very thick and strong. Lastly, the verte- bral hole is heart-shaped. In the fetus, the second vertebra has a point of ossification more than the others, for the tooth-like apophysis. That process some- times forms by two distinct germs. It is articulated with the first and third vertebrae, and moreover with the occipital bone but not directly. 59. The promine7it or seventh vertebra, differs from the rest only in being larger, and in having its spinous apophysis more elongated, and commonly not bifurcated, as well as in the circum- stance of its transverse apophyses being generally destitute of a hole at the base. This vertebra has always a point of ossification more than the others, consisting of a small rib-like bone placed transversely be- fore the pedicle, which connects the processes to the body, and which is not united with it or the body of the vertebra until the age of five or six years. Sometimes its outer extremity extends beyond the summit of the transverse apophysis a few lines, an inch or even more, so as to form a rudimentary rib, analogous to the cervical ribs of certain animals.* B. In the dorsal region, there are distinguished: 60. The First Dorsal Vertebra, of which the body is more ex- tended transversely than from before backwards, and on the sides presents a complete costal impression above, and a half cavity of the same nature below, which is connected with a similar half cavity in the second dorsal vertebra. The spinous apophysis is thick and long with a tubercular extremity, and is nearly horizon- tal in its direction. The articular apophyses are oblique. 61. The Tenth Dorsal Vertebra, which generally has an entire articular impression, on either side of the body at its upper part, for the tenth rib. 62. The Eleventh Dorsal Vertebra, which is very remarkable for its size, and whose body, which is almost round, approaches much in its general appearance to the lumbar vertebrae, and pre- sents on each side, towards the pedicle of the transverse and arti- cidar apophyses, a single entire depression for the eleventh rib. The spinous apophysis is short, broad, and horizontal. The transverse apophyses have no articular surface at their extremity. 63. The Twelfth Dorsal Vertebra, which presents exactly the same characters as the eleventh, but whose transverse apophyses arc longer, and the loiver articular processes convex and turned outwards. C. In the Lumbar Region, there is only distinguished the fffh vertebra, which has its body cut obliquely beneath, so as to be much thicker before than behind, and is articulated hi this direc- tion with the sacrum. Its transverse apophysis is short, but strong and rounded. • Bedard, Memoire snr I'Ostcosc, Nouveau Journal do Medicine, Janvier, ISIO.