THE ETHMOID BONE. 41 thin, fragile, semitransparent, papyraceous laminae, placed in all sorts of directions, and thus constituting walls of cellules which vary in their form and sizfe, and are more or less open externally, in different subjects. The object of these cellules seems to be the enlargement of the surfaces without increasing the bulk. This bone also, although of pretty considerable size, is very light. Most anatomists consider it as formed of three portions ; a mid- dle and superior which they denominate the Cribriform or Hori- zontal Plate, on account of its perforations and position; and two lateral, named Labyrinths. We shall adopt Bichat’s divisions, which are as follows : 130. A cerebral or superior surface, which is broad, very un- even, and lined by the dura mater ; in the middle part, and pos- teriorly, is a small notch, sometimes a process horizontally flat- tened, which is articulated with a corresponding part belonging to the orbito-nasal surface of the sphenoid bone. A little more for- wards, there is seen rising a triangular compressed eminence, vary- ing much with respect to size and direction, sometimes very large and bulging, sometimes depressed and thin, vertical or deflected to either side, filled up or occupied internally by a small cavity, or sinus, which in some cases communicates with the sinuses formed in the substance of the frontal bone. This pyramidal process is the Crista Galli or Ethmoid Crest. It is continued by its base into the rest of the bone ; its summit gives attachment to the falx of the brain ; its posterior edge is elongated and oblique behind ; its anterior edge short and vertical. It ends before in two small depressed eminences, which articulate with the frontal bone, and generally contribute to the formation of the foramen coecura, of which we shall speak as we proceed. Its two lateral surfaces are plane and smooth. On either side, externally of the pyramidal process, there is observed a wide and somewhat deep channel, corresponding to the olfactory nerves, much more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly, and {)ei^rated in its whole extent, but especially at the fore part, by round irregularly distributed holes, named the Olfactory Fora-' mina, on account of their giving passage to the olfactory nerves, enveloped in small menyngeal sheaths. 131. These holes are of two kinds. Some are large and distinct, and are situated on the lateral parts of the channel, to the number of ten or twelve. The rest are very small and less numerous, and occupy the middle region. Each of them forms the superior orifice of a small canal, which subdivides as it descends into the interior of the bone, with the exception of most of those of the second order, which are true foramina, with a vertical or oblique direction. Anteriorly to each of the olfactory channels, at the very base of the process, is a smali longitudinal fissure, which is traversed by the internal branch of the nasal nerve. 132. More externally, there is observed on either side a qua- drilateral tortuous surface, marked with several half cellules, which