PRELIMINAUY OBSERVATIONS. 3 cipitate it. The latter even forms with it a compound which is not liable to putrify. Hydrochlorate of iridium and of dcutoxyde of mercury, nitrate of mercury, sulphate of platina, and persul- phate of iron, also precipitate it, while most of the other metallic salts do not act upon it. Gelatin does not occur naturally in any animal liquor, which seems to confirm M. Thenard’s opinion that it does not exist rea- dy formed in the economy, but is produced by the action of ca.- loric.* 7. Albu7ne7if is a very viscid, transparent fluid, nearly desti- tute of smell, and tasteless, frothing on being agitated in water, becoming concrete by the action of caloric, emitting a peculiar smell under the application of heat, and coagulating through the in- fluence of alcohol. It unites with all the acids in the same man- ner as the salifiable bases, and more frequently forms ternary combinations with the metallic solutions. Lastly, it always con- tains sulphur and subcarbonate of soda, which gives it the pro- perty of colouring green the tincture of mallows and the syrup of violets. This substance is found in almost aU the animal fluids, the chyle, the synovial fluid, the serum of the blood, &c. 8. Fibrin or Gluten, is a whitish, elastic, solid, filamentous, soft substance, destitute of smeU and taste, insoluble in water, alcohol or ether, soluble without being decomposed in vegetable acids diffused in water, and in weak alkalies. It enters very largely into the composition of the blood, and forms nearly the whole of the muscles. It is also met with in the chyle and in the humour ex- haled from the internal surface of the serous membranes. 9. Fat or oil exists in almost every part of the body of animals, varying however in its physical properties, being sometimes fluid, sometimes solid, at one time white, at another coloured, but always unctuous to the touch, destitute of smell, of a mild taste, so as to be nearly insipid, insoluble in water, and lighter than that fluid. It melts under the action of caloric at a rather low temperature, fre- quently at 15° Reaum. for example, and takes flame at a high temperature, becoming at the same time decomposed. With alka- lies it forms soap, and is converted into a mild principle, and into margaric and oleic acids. M. Chevreul has shown that all the fats are composed of two immediate principles, stearine and elaine. 10. Miccusis a viscid, ropy, transparent fluid, without smeU or taste, difficultly soluble in water, insoluble in alcohol, frothing in the former of th^s^ fluids by agitation in the air, not forming a jeUy, and incapam^ of coagulating, but easily dried by heat. It is precipitated by chlorin, alcohol, and acetate of lead, but is not so either by tannin or, deutochloride of mercury. It occurs at the * It appears, however, that, latterly, Berzelius has met with it in the blood. ■f The Latin word albumen, signifies the white of an egg, which is almost entirely composed of this principle.