OF THE RADIAL ARTERY. 689 2398. Ea'ternal Branches. They are three in number, and are distributed to the thumb. The first descends under the ten- dons of the abductor longus and extensor brevis pollicis, and goes to the attachment of the abductor pollicis, where it loses itself. The second, which arises a little lower, is called the Dorsal Artei'y of the T/mmb. (Artere sus-metacarpienne du pouce^ Chauss.) It descends obliquely outwards, behind the first metacarpal bone and over the first phalanx of the thumb, and terminates by anas- tomising with its external collateral artery, after distributing some very small twigs to the periosteum, the integuments and the ab- ductor muscle of the thumb. The third descends along with the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, upon the inner edge of the first metacarpal bone. It gives ramifications to the periosteum and abductor muscle of the fore-finger. 2399. Internal Branches. They are two in number. One be- longs to the carjms, the other to the metacarpus. 1. Dorsal Artery of the Carpus. (Art. sus-carpienne., Chauss.) It arises opposite the outer edge of the tendon of the extensor carpi ra- dialis longior,and directs itself transversely inwards over the posterior surface of the second row of carpal bones, covered by the tendons of theextensores carpi radiales andextensores digitorum,and terminates by anastomosing with a similar branch of the ulnar artery, or by di- viding into several twigs. But, in its course, it gives off very short stiperior twigs, which lose themselves upon the ligaments of the radio-carpal articulation, and communicate with those of the ante- rior interosseous artery, and longer inferior twigs, in indetermi- nate number, which descend towards the superior extremities of the metacarpal bones, where they anastomose with the perforating arteries of the deep palmar arch. They then proceed behind the interossei muscles, and lose themselves in their substaRce aiid ;n the integuments of the back of the hand. 2. Dorsal Artery of the Metacarpus. It comes off from the radial artery at the moment when it is about to enter into the up- per extremity of the abductor indicis muscle. It passes immedi- ately over the second matacarpal bone, along which it descends obliquely to the middle of the back of the hand. Sometimes it is prolonged as far as the index. Its twigs are distributed to the ab- ductor indicis and integuments. Some of these communicate with the dorsal artery of the wrist. 3. OF THE UADIAI. AHTERY IN THE PALiM OF THE HANQ. 2400. On entering into the palm of the hand, the radial artery separates into two large branches. One of them descends between the flexor brevis pollicis and abductor indicis muscles, and divides into two twigs, one of which follows the inner edge of the thunib, the other the outer edge of the fore-fingei:, at the extremities of which they anastomose with the collateral vessels.