ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. otIicT fleshy fibres of the hitissimus dorsi come from the outer sur- face of the last three or four ribs by digifcations, at first aponeurotic, wliich arc laid the one over the other so as to })resent an imbricat- ed appearance from above downwards, and whicli are interlaced v/ith digitations of the obliquus externus abdominis, with wliich they form a pretty acute angle. After thus commencing, the fibres of the muscle, which are so much the shorter and less oblique the higher they arc, converge and proceed to the lower angle of the scapula, the upper fibres passing horizontally outwards, and those of the costal digitations ascending almost vertically. When arrived there, the muscle pre- scnits little breadth, but much thickness, and often receives a small fleshy bundle from the scapula. Then contracting considerably, it continues its progress upwards and outwards, applied upon the teres major, and is twisted upon itself, so as to be nearly covered in its turn by that muscle. Ijastly, arrived in the vicinity of the humerus, the fleshy fibres of the latissimus dorsi give rise to a tendon about three inches long and an inch broad. This tendon is turned from below up- wards, and from behind forwards, over, the lower edge of the teres major, whose direction it crosses a little. Its lower part receives the fleshy fibres of the upper part of the muscle, and its upper part those from below. At first contiguous with the tendon of the teres major, separated from it by cellular tissue and afterwards by a small synovial capsule, it soon unites with it to be inserted at the same time into the posterior lip of the bicipital groove. An aponeurotic band about two lines broad, descends from the small tuberosity of the humerus before these tendons, comes beneath them, and keeps them apphed against the bone. The tendons themselves send out from their lower edge another fibrous expan- sion which throws itself into the brachial aponeurosis, and some bundles which line the bicipital groove in conjmictisn with the tendon of the pectoralis major. 885. The posterior surface of the body of this muscle is every- where covered by the integuments, excepting at its upper and in- ner part v/hcre it is subjacent to the trapezius. The anterior sur- face covers the oblique muscles of the abdomen, the serratus pos- ticus inferior, sacro-spinalis, levatores costarum, the inferior inter- costal muscles, the serratus magnus, rhomboideus, teres major, infra-spinatus, the lower ribs and the inferior angle of the scapula. 886. The anterior surface of its tendon, united with that of the teres major, is in connection with the axillary vessels, the bracliial plexus, and the coraco-brachialis. The posterior is conti- guous with the upper and huier part of the humerus. A thin synovial capsule facilitates its motions upon that bone. 887- Tlie latissimus dorsi carries the arm backwards by lowering it and making it turn upon its axis from witliout inwards. It ap- plies the inferior angle of the scapula against the thorax, and brings the arm strongly against the walls of that cavity when it acts si-