OF THE PHARYNX. 597 connect the periosteum with the/mucous membrane, so as to ren- der the latter perfectly motionless. It is between the two laminae which result from this union that the nerves and vessels creep. The membrane of the palate is continuous anteriorly, and on the sides, with the gums, which are formed of a kind of firm and compact reddish tissue, covering the two sides of each alveolar arch, and filling the intervals which remain between the teeth, the necks of which they closely surround. The gums are continued anteriorly into the intermil membrane of the cheeks and lips. Their intimate nature is rather difficult to be made out. They are confounded with the periosteum, receive blood-vessels, and ap- pear composed of two layers, a pulpy and a fibrous, covered by the mucous membrane. No follicles are discovered in their substance; but the mucous membrane which enters into their constitution, is prolonged into the alveoli, and from the bottom of these cavities, sends into the cavity of each of the teeth a bulbous prolongation which exactly fills it, and which has been named the yul'p or niL- cleus of the tooth (323). Bonn, Walther, and Lavagna first pointed out this fact, which is now generally admitted. 2056. The arteries of the palate and gums come from the pala- tal, alveolar, infra-orbitar, labial and buccal branches, and for the lower gums in particular, from the submental and mental. The veins correspond to the arteries. The nerves are furnished by the palatine (1799), facial, infra-orbitar, superior and inferior dentar nerves, and by the naso-palatine ganglion (1823). 2. Of the Pharynx.^ a. GENEIIAL CONFORMATION. 2057- The Pharynx is a kind of musculo-membranous, symme.^ trical canal, placed in the median line of the body, and irregularly funnel-shaped. It extends from the base of the skull to near the middle of the rieck. Limited above by the basilar process of the occipital bone, it is continuous below into the oesophagus, and an- teriorly with the nasal fossae, the mouth, and the cavity of the larynx, corresponding to the velum palati in their interval. Pos- teriorly, it rests upon the vertebral column and the longi colli and recti capitis antici muscles. On its sides, it is in contact with the common and internal carotid arteries, with the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gas trie nerves, and, at its uppermost part,°with a small portion of the internal pterygoid muscles. It is connected with those different parts by a lamellar cellular tissue, destitute of fat, and very extensile. • of the Greeks.