778 ORGANS OF SECRETION. 2821. The pancreas secretes a fluid which appears to have much resemblance to the saliva, and which mingles with the bile to be poured into the duodenum. III.—OJT’ THE ORGANS OF THE SECRETION AND EXCRE- TION OF THE RILE. Of the Liver. GENEEAL CONFOEMATION. 2822. The Liver* is the largest of all the glands. It is a single, unsymmetrical organ, very dense, of great weight, easily torn, and of a reddish brown colour. It occupies the whole right hypochon- drium, and a part of the epigastric region. Its general form is ir- regular, but approaches to that of the section of an ovoid made in the direction of its length. Its absolute weight, in the adult, va- ries, according to Soemmering’s experiments, from two to five pounds, and its specific weight is 15,203. Limited above by the diaphragm, it is protected anteriorly by the base of the thorax, be- yond which it does not pass in the sound state, although it may be liable to undergo some slight changes of position, according to the state of the neighbouring organs, and the posture of the body. 2823. Upper Surface of the Liver. It is convex in its whole extent, more so however to the right side and posteriorly than elsewhere. It is turned directly upwards at the left extremity; in the middle, it looks backwards; and to the right, is inclined straight outwards. It is everywhere contiguous with the dia- phragm, which it even seems to push upwards, rendering it more concave on the right side than on the left. A fold of the perito- neum, which we shall describe as we proceed, and which is com- monly called the Suspensory Ligament of the Liver, divides it from before backwards into two unequal portions, which are named the Great or Right Lobe, and the Middle or Left Lobe. 2824. Lnferior Surface of the Liver. This surface is of less ex- tent than the upper, very irregularly concave, and inclined a little backwards. It presents from left to right the following parts : 1. A broad and superficial depression, which belongs to the middle lobe, and rests upon the upper surface of the stomach. 2. The Groove of the Umbilical Vein (the Horizontal or Longitu- dinal Groove of Boyer), passing from before backwards, and sepa- rating the two lobes below, as the suspensory ligament does above. This groove is more or less deep, and in its lower half is pretty fre- quently converted into a true canal by a portion of the substance of the liver, which passes from one lobe to the other. In the fetus, I • Ilsraf of the Greeks, Jccur of the Latins.