190 ORGANS OF SFCRKTION. nccteil by filiimGiits, whicli altliougb numerous are yet very deli- cate, and by some very small ramilications of blood-vessels. It is ratber tbin, transparent, and possessed ot little extensibility, and appears to be of a fibrous nature. ’ 2809. Tbe urine secreted in tbe cortical substance of tbe kid- neys passes through tbe ducts of tbe tubular substances, and thus arrives in tbe infundibula, tbe pelvis, and ureter, which we now proceed to examine. C. OF THE CALYCES, PELVIS, AND URETER. 2870. The Calyces (Infundibula) are small membranous ducta which embrace, on the one hand, the circumference of the mammillae, and on the other, open deeply in the pelvis, and only at its extremi- ties or towards the side of it which faces the convexity of the kidney. Their number varies from six to twelve, one of them frequently belongs to several mammillae at once. Their diameter is always proportional to the number of mammillae which they embrace, and they are surrounded by much fat. 2871- The Pelvis is a small membranous bag which occupies the posterior part of the fissure of the kidney. It is placed behind the renal artery and vein. It is elongated from above downwards, flattened from before backwards, presenting an irregularly oval form, much contracted below to be continued into the ureter. The orifices of the infundibula are perceived in its deepest part. 2872. The Ureter is a long membranous canal, of a cylindrical form, and about the size of a writing quill, extended obliquely be- tween the pelvis, with which it is continuous, and the bottom of the bladder, into which it opens. It commences in the sinuosity of the kidney by a hollowed portion, which is named the Infundibulum. From thence it descends obliquely inwards as far as the sacro-ihac symphysis, being then only separated from its fellow by the breadth of the base of the sacrum. It then continues to descend in the same direction, directing itself a httle forwards, in the midst of much fat, to the inferior posterior wall of the bladder, between the muscular and mucous membrane of which it passes, contract- ing a little. It proceeds thus between them for the space of about an inch, directing itself inwards and forwards, and, on arriving at the posterior angles of the trigonal space of the bladder, terminates there by a narrow oblique orifice, which is destitute of any kind of valve, as is the infundibulum. In this course, the ureter corresponds from above downwards, and posteriorly, to the psoas magnus muscle, the common iliac ves- sels, whose direction it crosses, and the hypogastric vessels. A71- teriorly, it is at first covered by the peritoneum and the spermatic artery ; then, in the excavation of the pelvis, it is crossed in the male by the vas deferens. It is, moreover, to be observed, that the