ORGANS OF SENSATION, ,518 cellular tissue of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, it is deeply con- cealed between the bones, and difficult to be discovered. It fur- nishes a great number of twigs from the cbfferent points of its cir- cumference. The inner are the spheno-palatine nerves ; the infe- rior, the palatine. The superior form communications with the superior maxillary nerve, as we have already shown (1587). Last- ly, the posterior is the vidian or pterygoid nerve. 1797. Of the Spheno-palatine Nerves. Their number varies from three to five at the moment of their origin. They introduce themselves immediately into the nasal fossae, through the spheno- palatine hole, near the posterior extremity of the middle turbinated bone. They are always very soft. They spread out upon the septum or outer waU of these cavities in the following manner. 1st, Two or three filaments proceed at first between the periosteum and the mucous lamina of the pituitary membrane, to the concave surface of the upper turbinated bone. They lose themselves in the corresponding meatus, near the aperture of the posterior eth- moid cells (357,) without its being yet ascertained whether they send ramifications into these cellules. 2dly, Other very short twigs go to the middle turbinated bone. The highest of them, af- ter running for some time upon its convex surface, passes through it by a small hole, and loses itself upon its concave surface in the membrane. The others terminate upon its posterior extremity. 3dly, Some extremely slender twigs unite into one, and wind be- fore the sphenoidal sinus, to gain the posterior part of the septum. 4thly, Larger than the preceding, a twig, named the Naso-palatine, winds at first before the sphenoidal sinus, traverses the arch of the nasal fossae, and passes to the septum between the two laminae of the pituitary membrane. It descends very obliquely forwards along the septum, and thus arrives, without ramifying, at the supe- rior aperture of the anterior palatine canal (354.) There, it intro- duces itself into a canal of its own, and of which we have already spok- en. The twig of the right side is prolonged a little more forwards than the left, to meet the orifice destined for its reception. But both, on arriving at the middle of the anterior palatine canal, issue from their particular canals, and terminate at the upper angles of the naso-palatine ganglion, without reaching so far as the mouth. The naso-palatine nerve distinctly anastomoses with a filament coming from the superior and anterior dentar nerve, which extends along the wall of the maxillary sinus to penetrate into the nasal fossae. 1798. Of the Palatine Nerves. They are three in number, one large and two small. 1799. The Great or Inferior Palatine Nerve, placed before the other two, enters immediately into the posterior palatine canal (366,) after always giving oft" a nasal filament which introduces itself into the fossae of that name, between the middle and inferior turbinated bones, opposite the sphenoidal process of the palatine bone, and which is distributed to the free edge of the middle tur- binated bone, to its concave surface, and to the convex surface ot