ORGA'iS OF DIOfiSTlON. 612 often triple that of the small intestine, and surpassieS that of the colon or rectum. Its length is about three or four finger-breadths, and no other limits can be assigned it, to distinguish it from the colon than the termination of the small intestine. It has nearly the appearance of an irregular triangular prism. Its outer surface presents very large bulgings, irregularly disposed, and interrupted in three places by very distinct longitudinal depressions, formed by the union of the longitudinal muscular fibres. One of these de- pressions is anterior; the other two are posterior; but one is turned to the right and the other to the left. The outer surface of the ccecum is in connection anteriorly with the walls of the abdomen, posteriorly with the psoas magnus and iliacus internus of the right side, internally with the small intes- tine, of which it receives the lower extremity, which is inserted in- to it so as to form an acute angle below and an obtuse or nearly right angle above. There is observed in this place a circular groove, deeper and more distinct below than above. 2114. The ccecum is surmounted by several appendages formed by particular folds of the peritoneum, and filled with fat. Their number, form, and size, are equally indeterminate below, to the left, and anteriorly. There is abrays seen arising from it, a particular appendage, of the same nature as itself, the appendix vermiformis^ or ccecal appendix. It is of the size of a writing quill, varying from two to four inches in length, cylindrical, flexu- ous and bent upon itself; free nearly in its whole extent, but bound down to the right upon the ccecum by a fold of the perito- neum. Its surface is free, polished, whitish, and traversed by some vessels. It is hollow in its whole extent, and communicates with the cavity of the ccecum. Its walls are very thick, and it is constantly filled with a mucous fluid. In the fetus, the appendix vermiformis is remarkable for its great development. Its uses are entirely unknown. 2115. In its interior, the ccecum is lined by a mucous mem- brane, which we shall afterwards describe. It presents three longi- tudinal prominences, which correspond to the three external de- pressions mentioned above (2213), and cellules occupying their intervals, separated by transverse folds, and forming externally prominences which we have also mentioned. Inferiorly, and pos- teriorly, is seen the entrance of the appendix vermiformis, which is always free and open, and a little widened. To the left are the orifice of the small intestine and the ileo-colic valve or valvule of Bauhin. This valve, which is destined to prevent the return of the excremen- titious matters from the coecum into the small intestine, is ellipti- cal, broad, soft, thick, without support, and directed transversely. In the direction of its great diameter it is divided by a slit which separates it into two lips united at their extremities, adhering to the intestine by their convex edge, and floating in its cavity by their concave edge. Of these two lips, the upper, which is nar- rower, corresponds above to the colon and below to the small in-