198 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. it corresponds to the supraspihatus muscle, and above, to the synovial capsule and to the fibro-cartilage, when it exists. 648. Synovial Membrane.—It contains very little synovia, and is sometimes double on account of the presence of the inter-articu- lar fibro-cartilage. Its disposition is very easily conceived in the two cases, and its outer surface is only in contact with the two li- gaments of the articulation and with cellular tissue, 649. Coraco-clavicular Ligament.—It is this ligament which does not belong to the scapulo-clavicular articulation. Several anatomists have considered it as double, because it is formed of two fibrous bundles, whose direction is different. Both serve equally to connect the clavicle with the coracoid process. Consi- dered as a whole, it appears irregular, voluminous and very strong. Its two fasciculi are separated from each other, anteriorly, in a distinct manner, by an angular space which is filled with ceUidar tissue. The posterior and inner fasciculus, or conoid ligament, has the form of a reversed cone. It is shorter than the other, with close and divergent fibres, and is attached by its base to a tuberosi- ty which the lower surface of the clavicle presents externally, and by its summit to the broader part of the coracoid process. Its ati~ terior surface is covered by the subclavius muscle, and the poste^ rior by the trapezius. It is slightly confounded externally with tlie second fasciculus, and inferiorly with some of the fibres of the coracoid ligament (651). The anterior and ewternau fasciculus, or trapezoid ligament, which is placed at the distance of an inch from the scapulo-clavicular articulation, is longer and broader than the posterior. It is also less thick, and presents a quadrilateral form. Its fibres, which are shorter behind than before, are separated by small cellular spaces. It is attached superiorly to an oblique line, which proceeds from the above tuberosity to the extremity of the clavicle, and inferiorly to the inner and posterior part of the upper surface of the coracoid process. It unites posteriorly with the preceding ligament, forming a very distinct projecting angle. One of its surfaces is directed upwards and forwards, the other downwards and backwards. The first is in connection with the supra-spinatus muscle, and shghtly with the acromio-coracoid ligament (652) ; the other with adipose cellular tissue which fills the triangular space left by the two fasci- culi between them. PROPER LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA. 650. Besides the ligaments described above, the scapula is fur- nished with two other very distinct fibrous fasciculi, wdiich are at- tached to it by their two extremities, having no connection with its articulation with the clavicle. One of these ligaments closes the