MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 361 The inner bvncl/e, (or Vast7(s inter92Hfi,) is not always very distinct from tlie middle, and is much smaller than the outer. It appears more bulky below than above. It is attached to the an- terior and inferior part of the base of the small trochanter, and to tlie inner lip of the linea aspera, by a less broad and less thick aponeurosis than that of the outer portion, and which also descends to the middle of the thigh, 'rhe deshy fibres come from the inner surface and anterior edge of this aponeurosis as well as from the inner surface of the femur, and from the two upper thirds of the ridge which descends to the inner condyle. 3 hey are directed obliquely downwards, forwards, and outwards. The upper are longer tlian the lower; which latter are confounded along the linea aspera with the adductor muscles, and arc united to them by an aponeurosis which is traversed by vessels. 1:?90. The middle bundle is the smallest. It arises from the fore part of the base of the neck of the femur, along the oblique ridge which proceeds from the great to the small trochanter, and from the three upper fourths of the anterior surface of the body of the femur. Its fleshy fibres form a mass which descends, increasing in size, and which, at first isolated, soon becomes confounded with the two preceding portions, but first with the inner. 1291. These three portions are thus united by very broad apo- neuroses. One of these commences very high upon the inner surface of the first; the other rises about the same level upon the outer sur- face of the second; and the last appears toward the middle of the anterior surface of the third. They approach each other as they descend, become intimately united, and form a tendon, at first broad and thin, afterwards narrower and thicker, and at last confounded with that of the rectus femoris (1285), with which it is inserted into the whole upper part of the patella, sending off laterally two filnous expansions which embrace that bone and are attached to the tubci’osities of the tibia, along with portions of the fascia lata. 1 he fleshy fibres accompany it internally to very near the patella. 1292. The miterioi' eurfaee of the triceps cruralis is covered ex- ternally and above by the tendons of the glutasus minimus and glutmus maximus ; farther dowm, by the fascia lata and its tensor muscle, and at its low'est part, by the short portion of the biceps. In the middle, it is in connection with the iliacus and rectus femo- ris, and with the external circumflex vessels. Internally, the fascia lata, the crural artery, and the sartorius muscle are applied upon it. Its yoHterior mn'fnre covers the w'hole svrrface of the body of the femur, from which it is separated below by a considerable quan- tity of adipose cellular tissue, and the articulation of the femur and tilia.* • A few detnrhed nnispiilar fibres, fn’fpifntly found under tbc low'cr part of the middle portion, and iitlarlied to tiie (dj tnh; ol the knee-joint, have been described by some aulliois as a sejtarate muscle, tinder tlie name of Subcituaus or Cojisvlaiis. K.