ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 60% OF THE EXTREMITIES ANH ORIFICES OF THE STOMACH. 2084. Of the Cardia (Cardiac, Left or (Esophageal Orifee). It separates the two curves to the left, and is placed beneath the diaphragm, and above the large extremity of the stomach, at the union of the two right thirds and the left third of that viscus. It is in it that the oesophagus terminates. It is surrounded by a circle formed by the coronary artery and vein, and by the extremities of the oesophageal cords of the pneumo-gastric nerves (1641). It is also in relation with a part of the left lobe and lobulus Spigelii of the liver, and with the corresponding anterior edge of the vertebral column. 2085. Of the Pylorus * (Pyloric, right or intestinal orifice). It is situated in the epigastrium, lower and more anteriorly than the cardiac orifice. It terminates the stomach to the right, form- ing the summit of the cone represented by that viscus, and makes it communicate with the duodenum. Placed in the direction of the two curves at once, it commences by a funnel-shaped expan- sion, and terminates abruptly by a circular contraction. It gene- rally ascends backwards and a little to the right as far as the union of the two fissures of the liver. It corresponds above and before to the liver, below and behind to the pancreas, posteriorly and di- rectly to the right gastro-epiploic artery, and on the right side to the neck of the gall-bladder. It is often coloured by the transuda- tion of the bile through the walls of that reservoir, and is always surrounded by a great number of vascular twigs and nervous fila- ments. 3. ORGANIZATION OP THE STOMACH. 2086. The walls of the stomach are formed by three superim- posed membranes, a serous, a muscular, and a mucous. There also enter into their composition cellular tissue, vessels and nerves. 2087- Serous Membrane or Coat. It is formed by the perito- neum, and does not exist along the curvatures when the stomach is empty, as we have already said. There results from this disposi- tion that the stomach, in the state of vacuity, is no longer covered by portions of peritoneum Avhich were in connection with it during its distention by the food or by any other cause ; for it is then prolonged between the lamintc of the omenta, which leave in their whole contour a free space circumscribed by vessels. Here also, as in the rest of its extent, the peritoneum is white, transparent, smooth, and externally lubricated by a serous fluid. It is united to the muscular membrane by a ceilular tissue, which is very loose on the edges of the stomach, but very dense in the IluXw yoTta ; Ov^of, ciis/os ; that is to suy, a porter.