424 OUGANS OF SENSATION, on tills fiulijcct, we sliall wait the decision of the Royal Medical Academy of Paris, to tlic judgment of wliich M. Laurcncct has submitted his opinions in a very well written memoir. 14-7H. Re this as it may, the Lateral Ventricles (VentricuH f ricarnes) are two cavities of considerable extent, of a ligure rather difficult to be described, and symmetrically dispased to the right and le4t in the substance of the hemispheres. They commence be- hind the lissura Sylvii, at about two inches from the extremity of each hemisphere, where they are an inch distant from each other. From thence they direct themselves upwards, backwards, and in- wards, and are only separated by the Septum lucldum. They then proceed horizontally, and separating a second time, as far as the posterior part of the corpus callosum, whence they descend .downwards, outwards, and forwards. Finally, they again approach each other inferiorly, and terminate behind the lissura Sylvii, un- der the point at which they commenced, and in the bottom of a groove of which we have spoken. At the place where the direction of these cavities is entirely changed, there is observed in the sub- stance of the posterior lobe, a triangular prolongation, presenting its base before, and curved in such a manner as to have its conca- vity inwards. This is the Digital or Ancyroid Cavity. Each la- teral ventricle, therefore, has the form of an italic £ reversed The upper half o? the lateral ventricles is a little broader before than behind, and resembles the half of an elliptical vault. It is prolonged forwards into the anterior lobe by a small angular cavi- ty, named the Anterior Horn. Above, it is formed by the infe- rior surface of the corpus callosum ; below, by the anterior fold of the same body, the corpora striata, optic thalami, tmnia semicircu- laris, and fornix ; internally, by the septum lucidum ; externally, by the tissue which the diverging and converging fibres of the ce- rebral circumvolutions form by intermingling. The Digital Cavity or Posterior Horn is entirely lined by the medullary substance. On its inferior wall there is observed an eminence, broad before, narrow and pointed behind, curved in- wards, and more or less prominent in different subjects. This emi- nence is named the Unguis or Spitr (the Lesser Hippocampus of Vicq d’Azyr, the Unciform Eminence of Chaussicr.) It is broad before, narrow and pointed behind, curved inwards, and more or less prominent in different subjects. It is sometimes divided by a groove, so as to appear double. Its structure is the same as that of the cornu Ammonis (1472.) The lower half of the lateral ventricles, which occupies a part of the posterior lobe and the whole middle lobe, is a long narrow canal, longitudinally curved, and convex externally. Its walls are formed by the fimbriated bodies, tire cornu Ammonis, its access- ory, and a small grayish band. 1479. In their whole length, the lateral ventricles arc divided by a slit v/hosc direction is followed by the choroid plexus. This