399 ArEAinUASK OF THK LARYNX. highly vascular, its tissue is yet in general very firm. This be- comes especially eviclcnt in the places w'heie it is in contact with the cartilages. There, in fact, it is intimately united with their perichondrium. It contains in its substance a number of mucous fbllicles, whose narrow orifices are pretty easily perceived, espe- cially on the inferior surface of the epiglottis, and in the ventricles of the larynx; but papilla.- are rarely observed, as in most of the other mucous membranes. ^I'he fluid which it separates is less viscid and tenacious than that of the pituitary membrane; but it has more consistence than that which is furnished by the buccal membrane. OF THE I'EIJICLOTTIS Or GLAND OF THE EPIGLOTTIS. 1419. This is a mass of small glandular grains, sometimes ag- glomerated, sometimes isolated, deeply immersed in a great quan- tity of very dense adipose cellular tissue, and occupying, at the lower part of the anterior surface of the epiglottis, a triangular space, limited anteriorly by the thyroid cartilage and thyro-hyoid membrane. In some subjects, this gland cannot be distinguished amid the adipose body which contains it; but in general, the follicles of which it is composed, are seen forming small series which are prolonged as far as the edge of the epiglottis, and into the mu- cous folds which surround it, and occupying all the apertures which that fibro-cartilage presents towards its inferior extremity, to pour the product of their secretion over its laryngeal surface. OF THE AIlY-fENOID GLANDS. 1420. These glands are commonly compared to the letter L, and are lodged in the folds wliich the mucous membrane presents in passing from the epiglottis to the arytenoid cartilages, and from these to the thyroid cartilage. They are formed by an agglome- ration of small grains pretty much resembling the tissue of the la- chrymal gland, their colour varies from gi’ay to reddish white, and their tissue is compact and firm. Their vertical branch, which is rounded and con-siderably distant from the corresponding arytenoid cartilage, is free in the aryteno-epiglottic fold. The horizontal branch runs above the fold which limits the ventricle of the larynx above, and is a little less prominent than the other. The angle which these two branches form by their union is connected with the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The excretory orifices of the arytenoid glands are only seen with much difficulty.