OUGANS OF SENSATION. 524 with tlic nervous arch, which the suli-occipital and first cervical nerves form around tlie transverse process of the atlas (1655). Tlie third is the longest. It also bifurcates; hut one of its fila- ments goes to the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, and the other to that of the second. The inferior jilaments, which arise from the preceding cord of communication, whose ganglion is very short, send filaments into the scaleni muscles. One of them also divides into two secondary filaments, of which the upper dives between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus muscles, to anasto- mose with the third cervical pair, at the moment when it leaves the intervertebral hole, while the inferior, which is more superficial, goes to unite, at a greater distance, with the anterior branch of the same nerve. Several other of these filaments anastomose, moreover, very fre- quently, and in an irregular manner, with the branches of the cer- vical plexus. It is impossible to describe them separately, their chspo.sition being so much subject to vary. 4. OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1809. All these filaments are soft, thin, and slender, and ex- posed to still greater variations than the preceding as to number, disposition, anastomoses, &c. It may be stated generally, how- ever, that after distributing several ramifications to the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, they terminate on the larynx and pharynx, whether separately, or united with nerves from the brain. In some subjects, most of these are furnished by the conneeting cord of the first two cervical ganglia, or by the superior cardiac nerve. The upper have a direction obliquely downwards ; the lower are nearly horizontal. The former gain the upper part of the pharynx. There, they anastomose with twigs of the glosso-pharyngeal (1627), and pnen- mo-gastric nerves, to form the phanyngeal plexus (1634). The latter wind over the sides of the larynx, and cover the thy- roid body, and the muscles of the inferior hyoid region, with nu- merous and plexiform ramifications, some of which penetrate into the larynx through the thyro-hyoid (1406), and crico-thyroid (140/) membranes, and afterwards anastomose with the internal laryngeal (1635), and recurrent (1638) nerves. Some other anastomoses with the latter nerve also take place behind the thyroid gland by means of a filament which proceeds separately from the ganglion. 5. OF THE ANTERIOR FILAJIENTS. 1810. These filaments, which arc very numerous, and for the most part continually interlaced, are of three kinds.