OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES IN GENERAL. ISQ at the same level; the upper extremity of the ulna rises about a twelfth part above that of the radius. The latter is in general si- tuated in a plane a little anterior to that of the radius. At the el- bow, it is the ulna that principally forms the joint; but at the wrist, the radius is the chief constituent, and thus draws along with it the hand in all its motions. We have supposed the upper extremity hanging along the side of the body, with the back of the hand directed backwards. This position is what is termed supination. The term pronation., again, is applied to the position in which the back of the hand is directed outwards, while the thumb is turned forwards. In pro- nation, the radius is in its natural place at the upper extremity, while its lower turns upon the ulna; and in this state the two bones cross each other. 488. The Hand, or last part of the thoracic extremities, varies in its dimensions in different individuals, and is more extended in height than in breadth. It is also broader than the fore-arm. Its anterior surface, which is concave, is named the palm; the poste- rior, which is convex, and a little inclined upon the fore-arm, is named the hack of the hand. Its outer or radial edge is thicker than the inner. The hand is divided into the following parts. 489. The Carpus or Wrist, which commences the hand in the skeleton, and which is articulated to the fore-arm, being scarcely broader than it, is transversely oval. Its height is inconsiderable. It is flattened from before backwards, and slightly curved forwards. Its posterior surface is in general convex, and traversed by an un- equal depression which indicates the separation of the two rows of bones of which it is composed. Its anterior surface, which is concave, represents a sort of groove in which pass the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, together with nerves and ves- sels. The scaphoides and trapezium externally, and the pisiform bone with the process of the os unciforme internally, form four eminences which limit this groove on the sides, and to which are attached the muscles of the thumb and little finger, as weU as the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The two surfaces of the carpus are in general very uneven for the insertion of ligaments. The posterior surface forms part of the back of the hand, and is covered by the extensor muscles of the fingers. 490. On the side next the fore-arm, the carpus presents a con- vexity more prolonged backwards than forwards, which is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and is articulated with the bones of the fore-arm to form the wrist-joint. At the lower part it is ter- minated by a certain number of articular surfaces, which arc con- nected with the metacarpal bones. Externally and internally, it presents inequalities which give insertion to ligaments. 491. Metacarpus.—This part of the hand, which is situated between the carpus and fingers, is of a quadrilateral form, broader below than above. It is concave before, convex behind, and pre- sents very distinct intervals existing between the bones of which it