ORGANIZATION OF THE OESOPHAGUS. S99 rvnx, to the muscles of which it is attached by a rather loose cel- lular tissue, it is prolonged over the arch of the palate, is reflected upon its pillars, sinks into the two spaces which separate laterally the thyroid and cricoid cartilages (1419), lines the posterior part of the latter, passes over the sides of the larynx, and, is applied upon the arytenoidei, crico-ar}'^tenoidei postici and thyro-arytenoi- dei mucles (1412). This membrane has a very decided red tint. It is smooth, destitute of villosities, and presents only a few inequalities arising from the presence of the mucous follicles. It is evidently thicker above than below. It is covered with a very thin epidermis, and is folded in the part which corresponds to the larynx A multi- tude of capillary vessels are scattered over it. Its follicles are more numerous above than below. They are of an oval form and pretty large, and their orifices are very distinct. 2064. The pharynx receives on each side two principal arteries, the superior and the inferior pharyngeal, the former coming from the external carotid, the other from the internal maxillary. The inferior palatal and superior and inferior thyroid arteries also send some ramifications to it. Its veins go to the internal jugular, thy- roid, and labial veins. Its lymphatics direct themselves towards the ganglia, placed near the bifurcation of the internal jugular vein. Its nerves come from the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo- gastric nerves, and from the superior and middle cervical ganglia, the interlaced filaments of which constitute the Pharyngeal Ple.vus (1634). Of the GEsopJuigus.* a. GENEKAL CONFORMATION. 2065. The (Esophagus or Gullet (Gula^ is a musculo-mem- branous canal, which extends from the lower part of the pharynx to the superior orifice of the stomach. It commences therefore towards the fifth cervical vertebra, and terminates between the crura of the diaphragm. Its general direction is vertical; but presents some partial inflections. At its commencement, immedi- ately under the pharynx, it is placed upon the course of the me- dian line, which it leaves under the larynx to deviate to the left, so that, at the lower part of the neck, it is placed behind the cor- responding side of the trachea. On entering the thorax, it ap- proaches its original direction as far as the origin of the bronchi, where it regains it entirely, and continues in it to the moment “ "0/«, fero ; (pdya, comedo. 2 H