719 OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. EXTERNAL BRANCHES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. OF THE SUPERFICIAL MUSCULAR ARTERY. 2549. It comes off from tlic femoral, nearly at the same place as the deep muscular, and directs itself transversely outwards, be- tween the sartorius and rectus femoris. After a short course, it divides into ascmiding twigs which pass outwards between the ilia- cus, sartorius and tensor vaginae femoris, and are distributed to these muscles, and to the glutmus medius. One of them may be traced as far as the lower part of the latter muscle. 2550. The other external branches of the femoral artery are few and of small size. They lose themselves upwards in the psoas and iliacus muscle, and downwards in the triceps extensor. ANTERIOR BRANCH OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. OF THE ABDOMINAL SUBCUTANEOUS ARTERY. (Les ingninales, Chauss.) 2551. It is never absent, and is very slender and of great length. It arises from the artery immediately beneath the crural arch, and ascends obliquely outwards, between the abdominal aponeu- rosis and the integuments, as far as the level of the umbili- cus. It gives twigs to the lymphatic ganglia and cellular tissue of the groin, and to the skin and muscles of the abdomen. It anasto- moses with that of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and internal mammary arteries. 2552. The other anterior branches of the femoral artery are very slender, and are distributed to the cellular tissue, the integu- ments, or the sartorius. POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. OF the ARTERIA PROFUNDA FEMORIS. (Grande muscidaire de la cuisse, Chauss.) 2553. It arises from the back part of the femoral artery, an inch and a half or two inches below the crural arch, opposite the middle of the space comprised between the pubes and the small trochanter, and is of large .size, nearly equalling the femoral artery itself It deseends obliquely backwards as far as the origin of the middle por- tion of the triceps extensor muscle, and there bends inwards, pro- ceeding between the femur and the long and short adductors to, the middle part of the thigh. It then diminishes in size, passes through the aponeurosis of the adductor longus, gains the pos- terior surface of the limb, and separates into two thick branches, one of which enters into the short portion of the biceps femoris, and the other into the semi-membranosus.