PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCO.AlOTION. 1S2 cral, and of the last rib always, are connected solely witli the abdominal muscles.* 2. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS WITH THE VERTEBR.E. 595. These articulations, which belong to the order of angular ginglymi, and which arc extremely close, result from the junction of the heads of the ribs, invested with a thin cartilaginous lamina, with the cavities formed on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae (87 —53). These cavities, as we have already shown, belong to one vertebra only for the first, eleventh and twelfth ribs ; but for all the others, they are formed on the two bodies at once of two contigu- ous vertebras and on the fibro-cartilage which connects them. They are all covered with a thin layer of cartilage, which does not extend over the neighbouring spaces, and is destitute of the polished ap- pearance which is commonly remarked in organs of this nature. There is also observed in each of them a small mass of the reddish cellular tissue which has been taken for synovial glands, together with the following ligaments. 596. Anterior or Radiated Ligament. It is not the same in all the articulations of the ribs, on account of the peculiarity which we have exposed in the preceding paragraph. In the nine which fol- low the first, it is formed of three flat and thin fibrous fasciculi, which are fixed separately to the two vertebrm, and the fibro-car- tilage, which concur to form the articular cavity, and which, by converging, attach themselves all round the anterior part of the head of the rib, and constitute an irregularly quadrilateral fascicu- lus, with radiating fibres, of which the superficial are longer than the deep-seated. The small middle fasciculus which comes hori- zontally from the fibro-cartilage is the least distinct, and, like the two others, it leaves interstices between its fibres which give pas- sage to blood-vessels. The radiated ligaments of the first, eleventh and twelfth ribs, which are not thus divided, do not, however, present only a single order of fibres; part of that of the first is attached to the last cer- vical vertebra, and those of the two others also extend to the neigh- bouring vertebrae. The anterior surface of these radiated ligaments is covered by the nervous branches of the thoracic ganglia of the great sympa- thetic, by the pleura, and, on the right side only, by the vena azygos. The posterior siirface is applied against tlie articulation, for which it forms a sort of fibrous capsule, in conjunction with the middle costo-transverse ligament. 597- Inter-articular Ligament. It exists in the very interior of the articulation of the head of each rib, from the second to the • The outer extremity of the sterno-costui cartilages is intimately united to that of the ribs ; hut there is no ligament of any kind to keep these surfaces, whicli do not admit of any motion, in connection.