682 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. the internal mammary. In some subjects there are two or three su- perior thoracic arteries. 3. OF THE INFERIOR OR LONG THORACIC OR EXTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. 2366. It sometimes arises along with the superior; but more commonly it conjes off' from the axillary a little lower than it. It descends at first almost vertically, and only a little from behind for- wards on the lateral part of the thorax, between the lower edge of the pectoralis major, which covers it and the serratus magnus on which it lies. It then bends inwards, becomes subcutaneous, and divides into several branches which embrace the mamma. 2367- This artery gives numerous twigs to the pectoralis major, serratus magnus and intercostales muscles, the lymphatic ganglia of the axilla, the integuments and mamma. It anastomoses with the intercostal, internal mammary and superior thoracic arteries. BRANCHES WHICH THE AXILLARY ARTERY GIVES OFF IN THE AXILLA AND UPPER PART OF THE ARM. 1. OF THE COMMON, OR SUB-SCAPULAR ARTERY. 2368. The Sub-Scapular Artery (Artere sous-scaptdairey Chauss.) is of considerable size, and comes off from the lower part of the axillary artery, opposite the lower edge of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle and behind the brachial plexus. Imme- diately after its origin, it gives off three or four pretty large branches which proceed transversely either to the lymphatic gang- lia of the axiUa, or to the subscapularis muscle. It then descends obliquely along the lower edge of that muscle, and presently divides into two considerable branches, an inferior and smaller, and a su- perior and larger. ' 2369. Inferior Branch. It descends upon the subscapularis muscle, and along the anterior edge of the scapula, as far as the lower third of the latter, between the latissimus dorsi and serratus magnus muscles, and in the midst of cellular tissue. It divides iiir to a very great number of twigs, all of large size, which are ex- panded partly in the middle and inferior portions of the serratus magnus, and* partly throw themselves into the latissimus dorsi and integuments of the back. Some of them run along the edge of the scapula and turn over its inferior angle, to anastomose with twigs of the superior branch, and of the transverse cervical artery. 2370. Superior Branch. It runs horizontally from before backwards between the latissimus dorsi and subscapularis, teres major and minor, triceps extensor and subscapularis muscles, to turn over the anterior edge of the scapula. At its commencement