649 OF THE FACIAL ARTERY. BRANCHES WHICH THE FACIAL ARTERY GIVES OFF UNDER THE JAW. 2238. Inferior Palatine Branch. It is of very small size, and comes off from tlie facial artery a few lines above its origin. Some- times it even comes from tlie external carotid. It immediately ascends between the stylo-pbaryngei and stylo-glossi muscles, fur- nishes them with some ramifications, applies itself against the la- teral and superior wall of the pharynx, arrives between the pillars of the velum palati, and separates into a great number of small twigs wliich are distributed to the pharynx, the corresponding ton- sil and the Eustachian tube. Some of them ascend into the velum palati and lose themselves in its muscles and membranes or anasto- mose with those of the superior palatine artery. 2239. Submental Branch. It is furnished by the facial artery near the base of the jaw, and is larger than the preceding. Direct- ed forwards, between the platysma myoides, digastricus and mylo- hyoideus, it runs along the attachment of the latter muscle, fur- nishes it with a great number of twigs, which pass through its sub- stance to anastomose with those of tlie subhngual artery, which is itself frequently a division of the submental. Near the median line it bifurcates. One of the twigs passes before the origin of the digastricus muscles, and unites with that of the opposite side. The other ascends upon the chin, and after giving twigs to the integu- ments, inosculates with the ramifications of the inferior dentar ar- tery which escape by the mental foramen. 2240. Besides these two branches, the facial artery furnishes, in its lower half, several small twigs which lose themselves in the muscles of the superior hyoid region, and in the substance of the maxiUary bone. There also separate from it a great number which penetrate the submaxiUary gland, and subdivide there. Some of them ascend as far as the pterygoideus intemus, or are distributed to the mucous membrane of the mouth and the corresponding side of the tongue. BRANCHES WHICH THE FACIAL ARTERY TO GIVES THE FACE. 2241. External Branches. They are pretty numerous, but their volume is small and their disposition variable. They are dis- tributed in themasseter, platysma-myoides and buccinator muscles, in the adipose cellular tissue and skin of the cheek, on Steno’s duct, and on the parotid gland. Some of them communicate with the twigs of the transverse and buccal arteries. 2242. Internal Muscular Branches. They are distributed to the triangularis and quadratus muscles, as well as to the skin of the chin, and anastomose with the ramifications of the submental artery.