MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. fasciculi of different lengths, and terminates all at once at the third, fourth, and fifth vertebrae above that from which it arises. Each of the spinous processes also receives at the same time tendons :rom three or four of the fleshy bundles which arc beneath it. Pretty frequently also in the neck, other deeper bundles proceed from the transverse process of one vertebra to the spinous process and lower edge of the lamina of the one immediately above. But there is also observed, in this region, a superficial bundle, appear- ing isolated, which terminates in a very distinct point, at one of the tubercles of the summit of the spinous process of the axis, after beino- also fixed to that of the four next cervical vertebrae, and taking rise from the upper dorsal transverse processes. 820. I’lie posterior siirface of all these muscles is covered,‘in the neck, by the complexus magnus, the deep cervical artery, and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves; and in the back and loins, by the longissimus dorsi. The anterior surface covers the laminae of the vertebrae, their transverse and articular processes, and the ligamenta flava. The inner surface is applied upon the spinous processes, the interspinales cervicis, and the dorsal and lumbar interspinal ligaments. 821. These muscles have nearly the same uses as the sacro lum- balis and longissimus dorsi; but they have also some peculiar to themselves. In the standing posture, they balance the vertebral column upon the pelvis, by their sacral and lumbar fasciculi, which, by contracting, furnish also solid points of support for the dorsal and cervical fasciculi. Moreover, by acting on one side, they pro- duce a slight lateral inflection with rotation of the vertebral co- lumn ; or they may Jilso impress motion of rotation on any parti- cular vertebra, according as an individual fasciculus acts by itself. OF THE SACUO-SriNALIS, OR LUMDO-COSTALIS, COMFREHENDING THE LONGISSIMUS DORSI AND SACRO-LUMBALIS. 822. The Sacro-spinalis constitutes a very strong and thick fleshy bundle, a little flattened, contracted below, and broader above, which fills the whole space that exists between the lower part of the sacrum and the twelfth rib, where it divides into two distinct branches, the one internal, and more voluminous, which is the longissimus doi'si,, the other external, and more slender, which constitutes the. sacro-lumbalis. 823. A broad, strong, dense, and thick aponeurosis, of a white and glistening appearance, formed of interlaced fibres, and separat- ed from space to space by apertures traversed by nerves and ves- sels, covers the whole of this mass behind. Attached to the poste- rior part of the iliac crest, the sides of the notcli which terminates the sacral canal, the whole middle ridge of the sacrum, the spinous processes of the lumbar and last dorsal vertebra’, as well as to the corresponding interspinal ligaments, this aponeurosis gives origin to the greater part of the fibres of this muscular mass, is prolonged