C20 OIICAKS OF IIESPIIIATION. But the absolute weight of the lungs varies much in the difier- ent individuals in Avhich they are examined, which may depend up- on the greater or less quantity of blood that remains in them at the moment of death, or upon a larger development. It is also to be observed, that in children which have not breathed, the lungs are, with respect to the total weight of the body, in the variable rela- tion of 55, or 70 to 1; whereas the proportion is as 28, or 33 to 1, when respiration has taken place. The act of respiration, there- fore, augments their gravity in a great degree, a circumstance which it is of importance to know with reference to medical juris- prudence. 2143. The colour of the lungs, in the healthy and adult state, is of a pale yellowish red, more or less approaching to white or gray. This tint is equally observed in the interior, and at the ex- terior of the organ. But if the blood happens to be too much ac- cumulated in its parenchyma, the colour is a dark red or purple, uniformly diffused, or only dispersed in patches, which produces a marbled appearance. It is for this reason that the lungs are always more coloured on the side on which a dead body has lain. The reddish, or grayish colour of the lungs, is interrupted by small black and brown spots, irregularly dispersed at their surface, and more or less numerous. They are exactly defined, and in general affect a linear form. They are seldom isolated from each other. Some are entirely superficial, others peneti-ate more or less deeply into the tissue of the lungs, and there are some which seem limited to the pleura or membrane which immediately envelopes these or- gans, in the substance of which they also occur. Buisson consi- ders them as analogous to the lymphatic ganglia of the bronchi. They only begin to make their appearance about the age of ten or twelve years. 2144. Of all the solid organs of the body, the lungs are those which have the smallest density. They may be compressed with the greatest ease, and only resume their original state imperfectly. Although flexible and soft, however, they have a tissue which is not easily torn. 2145. The form of the lungs is not very easy to be described. It may, however, in a general manner, be likened to that of a cone, having its base directed downwards, and its summit upwards, and flattened behind. The right lung is divided into three unequal lobes, by two oblique fissures; the left presents only a single fis- sure, and consequently has but two lobes. Their outer surface, which is convex in its whole extent, c-sim- cially behind, and nearly plain anteriorly, is free in its whole ex- tent, and corresponds to the walls of the thorax, from which it is separated by the costal layer of the pleurce. It is smooth and po- lished, and constantly bedewed with a serous fluid. On the left lung, it presents a fissure which descends obliquely from the poste- rior to the anterior edge, and divides the organ into two lobes, a superior and anterior, which is smaller, and a posterior and inferior.