AORTIC INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. C95 BRANCHES WHICH THE THORACIC AORTA FURNISHES LATERALLY. OF THE INFERIOR OR AORTIC INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. 242{}. Their number is commonly nine on each side; but it is sometimes eight or ten, according to tliat of the intercostal spaces to which the superior intercostal artery gives twigs (2346). They arise from the lateral and posterior parts of the aorta at a slightly acute angle, and immediately ascend obliquely outwards, before the vertebral column. This inclination upwards is always much greater in the upper than in the lower intercostals. 2429- The right intercostal arteries are longer than the left by the whole breadth of the oesophagus, under which they pass ; in other respects, however, they are precisely the same on both sides. The first are lodged in the groove which each body of the vertebras presents as far as the articulation of the rib with the spine, and are covered by the oesophagus and vena azygos, the direction of which they cross. The second are in relation with the vertebra only in a much smaller space, and are only covered, in this first part of their course, by the pleura and thoracic ganglia. 2430. Near the articulations of. the vertebrae with the ribs, on entering each space to which it is to belong, each intercostal artery divides into two branches. 2431. Dorsal Branch. It directs itself backwards between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, internally of the inferior costo-transverse ligament. It furnishes at first some small twigs to the periosteum of the vertebrae, together with small branches which anastomose by arch, upwards and downwards, with the nearest intercostals. Then, through the intervertebral hole it sends off another twig which is distributed to the spinal marrow and its envelopes. Lastly, it traverses the fleshy bundles of the transverso-spinales muscles, descends between them and the longis- simus dorsi, and loses itself in the latter and sacro-lumbalis muscle, sending some twigs to the skin. 2432. Intercostal Branch properly so called. This, which is much larger than the preceding, may be considered as the continu- ation of the artery itself. It proceeds, winding a little, to the mid- dle of the intercostal space, between the pleura and external inter- costal muscles, and in the midst of much adipose cellular tissue. Immediately after it divides into two twigs which enter between the two planes of the intercostal muscles. 24.33. Inferior Twig. It is of rather small size, and follows at first for some time the upper edge of the rib which is beneath, and then directs itself upon its outer surface to subdivide in the perios- teum. 2434. Superior Twig. It is much larger, and runs along the lower edge of the rib which is above, situated in the groove which that edge presents (33). Towards the anterior third of the rib, it 2 z