800 ORGANS OF GENERATION. 2906. The epididymis is nothing but a canal formed by the union of all those which have traversed the corpus highmorianum. This canal or duct, which is very slender and bent' upon itself a multi- tude of times, describes numerous Hexuosities which are connected by cellular bridles. Its walls are very thick in proportion to its caliber. Its length is great; Monro makes it amount to thirty- two feet. Its volume increases in proportion as it advances from the head towards the tail of the epididymis. 2907. There is pretty frequently seen to arise from the middle of this organ a small canal which ascends in the middle of the spermatic cord, and whose termination is not well known. 4. OF THE stehmatic cokd. 29O8. The Spermatic Cord (Funiculus Sp&rmaticus), com- posed of' the spermatic artery and vein, of some other inconsider- able and irregular blood-vessels, of lymphatics, of nervous fila^ ments coming from the spermatic plexus (1825), and from the ge- nito-crural branch of the lumbo-abdominal plexus (I709), and of a duct for the semen called the vas deferens, is enveloped by seve- ral membranous layers, and contains a great quantity of cellular tissue in the intervals of its constituent parts. From the upper edge of the testicle, which is suspended at its extremity to the symphysis pubis, the spermatic cord, commonly shorter on the right side than on the left, and of variable size, as- cends almost vertically. There, it receives numerous veins from the scrotum, and then directs itself outwards and upwards to enter into the abdomen by the inguinal ring, crossing the epigastric ar- tery (2514). Then the organs of which it is composed separate from each other, and foUow a course with which we are already acquainted. The membranous layers which surround the spermatic cord are the fibrous coat of the testicle (2896), and its tunica erythroides (2895). 5. OF the vas deferens. 2909. The Vas Deferens or Ductus Deferens, arising from the tail of the epididymis, ascends, describing several flexuosities, be- hind the testicle, and immediately enters the spermatic cord, be- hind and internally of the spermatic artery and the nerves which accompauy it. After clearing the inguinal ring, it leaves the other vessels of the cord, descends backwards and inwards, parallel to that of the opposite side, upon the sides of the bladder, passes be- hind the umbilical artery, and before the lower part of the ureter. Then arriving under the inferior and posterior region of the blad- der, it approaches its fellow, is flattened in a remarkable manner,