ORGANS OF GENERATION, 798 (2897)- There may be tlistiriguished in each of them two slightly convex latcial surfacQSj a lower edge inclined lorwardsj an upper edge turned backwards and coasted by the epididymis, an anterior extremity looking upwards, and a posterior directed downwards. h. OllGANXZATION OF THE TESTICLES. 2900. A fibrous membrane, secreting vessels, blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and cellular tissue entw into the composition of the testicles. 2901. Fibrous Membrane or Tunica Albuginea. This mem- brane is of an opaque white, not unlike the sclerotica (1856), al- though a little thicker. It is distinctly fibrous, close in its tissue, traversed by blood-vessels, strong and very tenacious, and serves as a direct envelope to the testicle, whose form it determines. Its outer surface is covered by the serous coat (2897). The inner which is applied upon the proper substance of the testicle, sends into the interior of the latter a great number of filiform or flattened prolongations, which all direct themselves towards its posterior edge, where they terminate. These imperfect septa divide the cavity of the tunica albuginea into several triangular cells, filled by the seminiferous vessels. One of them generally traverses the testicle from one extremity to the other. 2902. Internally of the tunica albuginea, along the upper edge of the testicle, is an oblong prominence, a little broader above than below, and which is commonly named the Corpus Highmorianum (Sinus des Vaisseaux seminiferes, Chauss.) This body appears to be nothing else than a bulging of the membrane itself, through the upper part of which there pass obliquely the principal trunk of the seminiferous vessels which go to the epididymis. Some ana- tomists, on the other hand, consider it as a kind of canal into which these vessels open. Others, among whom is Swammerdam, make it an assemblage of arteries and veins. 2903. Parenchyma of the Testicles. This parenchyma, which is very soft, presents itself at first sight under the appearance of a kind of yellowish or gray pulp, marbled with reddish, and tra- versed by the very thin small septa which arise from the inner sur- face of the tunica albuginea, and which seem to divide that sub- stance into lobes and lobules. But when carefully examined, the parenchyma of the testicle appears to be formed of an immense quantity of very minute and flexuous filaments, interlaced and bent in all directions, and loosely connected with each other. Their strength is considerable, although their tenuity is such that, ac- cording to Monro’s experiments, they cannot be more than of an inch in diameter. Although they do not ramify, their number is great; the same author estimates it at about si.xty-two thousand five hundred, and he thinks that their total length may be valued