331 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. IIGG. Its anterMr mrface is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-ann. The posterior covers the flexor perforatus. Its two edges are united above, the one with the flexor carpi radialis, the other Avith the flexor perforatus. 1167. It stretches the palmar aponeurosis, and bends the liand on the fore-arm, or tlie fore-arm on the hand. OF THE FLEXOU CARPI ULKAUIS. 11G8. Situated internally of the preceding muscles, at the fore part of the inner edge of the fore-arm, long, thin, flat, semi-penni- form (793), broader above than below, this muscle arises from the inner condyle, by means of the common tendon, and from the inner side of the olecranon. Between these two origins passes the ulnar nerve, covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the one to the other. It also takes origin, externally, from a short apo- neurotic septum which separates it from the flexor perforatus ; in- ternally, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, which presents for this attachment very distinct and strong fibres, which proceed to the posterior edge of the ulna, and there fix the muscle over a great extent. From these different points the fleshy fibres descend, the outer nearly vertically, the inner obliquely forwards and out- wards. The first terminate at the upper extremity, the others along the whole posterior surface of a tendon which runs for a long time upon the inner and fore part of the muscle, after being at first concealed in its substance. This tendon becomes free only at the lower part of the fore-arm, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, becoming a little broader. At the moment of its termination, some fibres are detached from it, of which one set descends before the abductor and flexor pollicis, while the others pass before the ulnar artery, to be continued into the upper part of the ante- rior annular ligament of the wrist. 1169. The anterior stirface of this muscle is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm; the posterior covers the flexor per- forans, the ulnar artery and nerve, and the pronator quadratus. Its outer edge is united above Avith the flexor perforatus, from which it is separated beloAv by an interval in which the ulnar nerve and vessels are seen. 1170. It bends the hand upon the fore-arm, inclining it a little towards the ulna. When it contracts at the same time with the cxtensor carpi ulnaris, it draws it directly towards the mesial line. OF THE FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS OR PERFORATES. 1171. This muscle is elongated, very thick and flattened, and is situated on the fore-arm between the preceding muscles and the flexor perforans. It is simple above, but separates into four ten-