ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. CGO zygomatic fossa, gives at its commencement ramifications to the periosteum and fat of the orbit, and introduces itself into the infra- orbitar canal (238). It traverses it in its whole extent, placed beneath the nerve of the same name (1586), and throws through its walls some twigs into the rectus inferior and obliquus inferior muscles of the eye, into the orbicularis palpebrarum, and over the lachrymal sac. Near the orifice of this canal, it sends a small branch into the superior and anterior dentar canal (238), for the roots of the corresponding canine teeth and incisores, and for the membrane of the maxillary sinus. Emerging at length by the infra-orbitar foramen, behind the levator labii superioris, it separates into a great number of branches, which subdivide in the muscles of the upper lip and upon the lower part of the nose, anastomosing with the facial, alveolar, buccal, and ophthalmic arteries. BRANCHES WHICH THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY PRODUCES IN THE SPHENO-MAXILLARY FOSSA. 1. OF THE VIDIAN OR PTERYGOID ARTERY. 2280. It is very slender and sometimes comes from the superior palatine. It enters, along with the vidian nerve (1801), into the pterygoid canal, runs through its whole length from before back- wards, and issues from it to be distributed to the Eustachian tube and the vault of the pharynx, after sending some small twigs into the spongy tissue of the sphenoid bone and the membrane of the sphenoidal sinuses. Its ramifications anastomose particularly with those of the inferior laryngeal (2256). 2. OF THE PTERYGO-PALATINE OR SUPERIOR PHARYNGEAL ARTERY. 2281. Still smaller than the preceding, it directs itself obliquely backwards and upwards, and enters a little internally and inferiorly of it, into the pterygo-palatine canal, to proceed backwards to termin- ate at the pharynx, like the pterygoid, after giving some small twigs to the cellular tissue of the sphenoid bone and the Eustachian tube. It sometimes arises from the spheno-palatine. 3. OF THE SUPERIOR PALATINE ARTERY. 2282. Much larger than the two last, it separates from the in- ternal maxillary behind the summit of the orbit, descends vertical- ly in the pterygo-maxillary fissure, and enters the posterior pala- tine canal. Before entering, it furnishes three or four twigs which