VI PREFACE. gical importance, and every layer of cellular membrane becomes anotherj^^czVz transversalis! They dispute about the discovery of parts which all anatomists have seen since the days of Herophilus; but such is the method and regularity of their works, and so laudably anxious are they that no important or novel consideration should es- cape them, that Mr. Blandin, (I must choose one speci- men), describing all the possible surgical anatomy of, and all the surgical operations which can possibly be performed in and about the head, (which he invariably designates by the imposing philosophic name of “ Encephalic ex- tremity of the Trunk”), very gravely, and with the best faith in the world, informs his readers, that “ the head cannot be removed by amputation in the living subject without stopping respiration, and producing other incon- veniences which render this operation unhappily inad.- missible.”* Incredible as it may appear, some of these works have been translated into the English tongue, the translator seemingly wholly unconscious, that by so doing he w'as merely offering to the public the writings and discoveries in surgical anatomy of Mr. Collis, Mr. Abernethy, Sir Astley Cooper, Mr. Charles Bell, and Mr. Lawrence, in a mangled and depreciated form. But to return. There is a peculiar feature in the Continental system- atic anatomical works, which I cannot pass over without notice. They describe the anatomy of the whole body • I\Ir. Blandin ought not to despair: we now know, by accurate experiments made before respectable witnesses, that t)ie human body may be ripped up alive, and yet the person escape ; nay even recover. Limbs are hewn off agaimt lime ; if one man amputates at the hip joint, and requires only five minutes for his operation, another boasts of his greater expertness in quartering the body, as he requires only a minute and a half to perform a similar operation ; and although the operation should accidentally be unnecessary, and therefore cruel and scandalous, and moreorer fatal, he advertises it in the daily newspapers, “that his light may not shine under a bushel. It is said, moreover, that an attempt is to be made to remove the upper jaw in a case of diseased face; now, should the cranium oftlie patient happen to be furnished after the same fashion'as the operator, its removal may possibly be unattended by any bad results. The case may even figure ns one of “ amputation ol the head.