OF THE ANTERIOR SACRAL ARTERIES. 707 ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES. 2487* First Lmnhar Artery. It directs itself outwards, under the lower edge of the twelfth rib, following exactly the attachment of the diaphragm. It then bends downwards, and descends almost vertically between the peritoneum and transversus abdominis mus- cle, in which latter it loses itself. 2488. Second Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is of small size, descends in the substance of the quadratus lumborum and ramifies there. 2489. Third Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is very large, dives between the quadratus lumborum and transversus abdominis muscles, bends towards the iliac crest, and divides, towards the posterior third of the latter, into two large twigs, which pass through the broad muscles of the abdomen near their origins, and descend backwards into the glutoeus muscles, where they lose themselves, communicating with the twigs of the glutseal artery. 2490. Fourth Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is still larger than that of the preceding muscle, directs itself trans- versely between the psoas magnus and quadratus lumborum, along, the inferior attachment of the latter, throws large twigs upon the iliacus musele, passes above the ihac crest, and is equally dispersed in the glutaei muscles. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH TERMINATE THE AORTA BELOW. a. OF THE MIDBLE OR ANTERIOR SACRAL ARTERY. 2491. The Middle Sacral Artery (Artcria sacra media., Soemm. Artere mediane du sacrum, Chauss.) It arises from the posterior part of the aorta, a little above its bifurcation, before the fourth lumbar vertebra. Its size is about the same as that of the lum- bar arteries ; but it is frequently much less. It descends vertical- ly, and in a flexuous manner, over the sacro-vertebral articulation, and upon the anterior surface of the sacrum, placed in the median line of the body behind the rectum, the superior hemorrhoidal ves- sels, and the nerves of the hypogastric plexus. It is very slender when it arrives at the coccyx, and terminates towards the summit of that bone, anastomosing by two arches with the lateral sacral arteries, and sending small twigs into the fat which surrounds the rectum, and into the ischio-coccygeus muscle. 2492. The middle sacral artery furnishes a great number of la- teral branches. The first frequently take the place of one of the inferior lumbar arteries. They are generally very small and very irregular, and communicate with the ileo-lumbar arteries. The others, which are larger, come off to the right and. left, at the mid- dle of each false vertebra of the sacrum. Straight or flexuous, they direct themselves transversely outwards, and unite, near the 5