PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. H-4 gosG surfiVCG, tit the posterior part of wliicli is inserted the anterior crucial ligament. Very convex behind, nearly flat before, and very broad beneath, this condyle differs considerably from the inner, which is more convex anteriorly and less broad below. 500. Structure. The femur presents the structure common to all the long bones, in other words, is formed of compact tissue m its body, and of cellular tissue in its extremities. Its compact tis- sue appears evidently fibrous at the outside, and especially on the neck. A large cylindrical medullary canal occupies the whole in- terior of tlie bone, and presents a multitude of broad laminae which detach themselves from its walls, together with very slender inter- laced filaments. 501. Development. The femur is developed by five points of ossification, one for each of the three processes of the pelvic extre- mity, one for the body, and one for the two condyles of the lower extremity. 502. Articulations. It is articulated with the iliac bone, the tibia, and the fibula, by the various parts already mentioned. 2. OF THE LEG, OF THE PATELLA. 503. The Patella or Rotula is an irregular flattened bone, of inconsiderable size, occupying the anterior part of the knee. ' Its form is that of a triangle rounded on the angles. Its Anterior Surface is convex, uneven, covered with a great number of small vascular apertures and longitudinal strise which indicate the direc- tion of the fibres of the bone. It is covered by tenduious and aponeurotic expansions and by the skin. The Posterior Surface is separated into two portions covered with cartUage and articulated with the condyles of the femur, by a prominent line which descends obliquely inwards from the base of the bone towards its lower angle. Of these two portions, the outer is larger and deeper than the inner, in conformity to the disposition of the articular part of the corres- ponding condyle. Beneath them is seen a small triangular rough surface, into which is inserted the ligament of the patella. 504. The Base of the Patella, which is thick, directed upwards, and cut obliquely downwards and backwards, gives attachment to the tendon of the rectus femoris. Its two Lateral Edges, which are thin, convex, and prominent, receive aponeuroses from the tri- ceps extensor. Its Summit, which is sharp and directed down- wards, gives insertion to the ligamentum patelhe. 505. Structure. The patella is almost entirely formed of very ■SO th.at it may be said to liave been formed fur ilie occasional reception of the tendon of the poplitcus. This meohanism which has scarcely been properly described by any Anatomist, was well understood by Winslow. We shall return to this struc- ture when describing the functions of the poplitcus muscle—K.