JOS PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. muscles by which the latter are filled up. These channels are per- forated by four holes nametl the posterior saoral foramina, which are placed vertically beneath each other, diminishing in size as they proceed downwards, and are very irregular in their margin. They communicate with the sacral canal, and give passage to the poste- rior branches of the sacral nerves. To the outside of these holes, there is observed a series of eminences, which seem to be the con- tinuation of the articular processes of the vertebrm; and above them, are seen, on each side, two depressions into which are insert- ed the sacro-iliac ligaments. 374. A Pelvic or Anterior Surface. This surface is smooth, concave, traversed by four prominent lines, indicating the union of the different pieces of which the bone is composed in childhood, and separated by superficial, transverse grooves, which seem to cor- respond to the anterior surface of the bodies of the vertebraj. The highest of these grooves is convex transversely, the next is plane, the others concave. On the lateral parts are the Anterior Sacral Foramina, four on each side, larger than the posterior, with which they communicate by the sacral canal, and giving passage to the anterior branches of the sacral nerves. Their form is rounded, and their margin even. To the outside of these holes, which also di- minish in size from above downwards, is a surface w'hich gives at- tachment to the pyramidal muscle, and is marked with some broad grooves, having various directions, the upper transverse, the others becoming more oblique in succession. These grooves terminate in the sacral holes, and are occupied by the nerves which issue from them. This part of the bone appears to be nothing else than an aggregation of pieces corresponding to the transverse processes of the vertebrae. 375. Two Iliac or Lateral Surfaces. These surfaces, which are very uneven, triangular, broad above and contracted below, present at the upper part an irregular rough space, of an oval form, posteriorly notched, and articulated to a similar surface belonging to the iliac bone. It is directed obliquely backwards, and, with re- ference to the median line, inwards, and is narrower below than above. The rest of these surfaces is uneven for the attachment of the sacro-sciatic ligaments. At their lowest part, there is observed a small notch for the passage of the fifth pair of sacral nerves. 376. A Base, which is directed upwards and a little forv'ards, and is largest in the transverse diameter. In the middle and an- teriorly, it is surmounted by a transverse oval surface, placed obliquely to correspond with the body of the last vertebra, with which it is articulated, and in connection with the last interverte- bral cartilage. On its sides is observed a smooth surface, trans- versely concave, convex from before backwards, inclined forwards, covered by the anterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and continued into the iliac fossa. Behind the articular surface, is observed the ori- fice of the Sacral Canal, of a triangular form, wider behind than before, and giving attachment by its two lateral margins, to the