351 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 1251. From the elbow to the hand, the fibrous sheatli of which we are speaking is called the Anti-hrachial Aptnieurosis, or Apo7i- eurods of the Fore-arm. It is evidently continuous with the pre- ceding portion, and receives moreover anteriorly a lamina detached from the tendon of the biceps (114<7), laterally bundles of fibres arising from the outer and inner condyles, and posteriorly a pro- longation of the tendon of the triceps (1154). Between the inner condyle and olecranon, it sends off' a transverse bridle which binds the two attachments of the flexorcarpi ulnaris, and underwhich passes the ulnar nerve, which even receives a sort of sheath from it. The portion of it which covers the anconeus is very thick and does not adhere. The sheath descends along the fore-arm, and arriving at the wrist, is continued into the two annular ligaments, and is traversed by the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and palmaris lon- gus. It is also separated externally from the skin by nerves and by venous and lymphatic vessels. It sends between them, and especially above, bundles of fibres which pass into the skin, form- ing areolae and arches in which the branches of the superficial venous and nervous plexus of the fore-arm are obliged to pass. It covers aU the superficial muscles of the fore-arm, to which it ad- heres above by the different fibrous partitions which we have al- ready pointed out between the pronator teres and flexor carpi ra- dialis, the flexor digitorum sublimis and palmaris longus, the pal- maris longus and flexor carpi ulnaris, the extensor digitorum com- munis and extensor minimi digiti, the extensor minimi digiti and ra- dialis longior, the radialis longior and extensor carpi ulnaris, the latter muscle and anconeus. It is free below and externally. On the inner side it is inserted into the whole inner edge of the ulna. It is denser and stronger than the brachial aponeurosis ; but its fibres are much more distinct at the fore and outer part than internally or behind. These fibres have no constant direction, but cross each other in aU directions, and leave between them small quadrilateral openings which are traversed by blood vessels. 1252. Before the bend of the elbow, and the prolongation of the biceps muscle, there is observed a plane of very superficial fibres, which descend inwards, and are effaced about the upper fourth of the fore-arm, to become transverse. This plane divides into two lamina?, one of which passes between the biceps and brachialis in- ternus, while the other forms a sheath around the median nerve and vein. OF THE ANNULAR LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST. 1253, Anterior Annular Ligament. This is a strong and broad fibrous bridle, of a quadrilateral form, broader transversely than from above downwards, extended at the fore part of the car- pus, and converting into a canal the groove which that part pre- sents. It is attached externally to the fore part of the trapezius