ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. timicil by common aponeurotic fibres, into the transvcrsalis alnlo- ininis. nyi- The posterior fibres, proceeding from the prevertel)ral notch of the a]>oneurosi.s, are directed in small numl)er.s to a sort of aponeurotic arcli, extended from the base of the transverse ]>rocess of tlie first lumbar vertebra to the body of the second, and undei* which passes the upper part of the ])soas muscle. But they unite for the most part into rwo thick bundles, which are named the PMars, Co/iiiims, or Cntra of the J)lni)hr(i<}m. Of tliese crura the rk/M: is longer, broader, and thicker, and is situated nearer the middle line of the vertebral column. It is attached to the Ixubcs of the four first lumbar vertebrm, by as many tendinous digitutions. The /•;/>, which is narrower, shorter, more slender, and situated more to the side, is only attached to the bodies of' the tlirce first lumbar vertebrae. These two crura leave at first between them a considerable separation, which constitutes a narrow, oblong aper- ture, a little broader before, situated toward the middle of the ver- tebral column, all fleshy in its circumference, and through whicii the oesophagus and plicumo-gastric nerves pass from the thorax to the abdomen. Immediately after, there is detached from each of them a fleshy bundle, which is interlaced with that of the opposite side, and of which the anterior, descending from the left column to the right, is the larger. These two bundles complete the lower part of the oesophageal aperture, and form the upper part of a new aperture of a parabolic form, which the two columns also leave be- tween them, and which gives passage to the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic canal. This aperture, which is situated more poste- riorly and more to the left than tlie preceding, is farther distm- guished from it by having its margin aponeurotic and continuous with the tendons of the crura. On its sides and behind, are spaces left between the fleshy fibres, for the passage of the nervous cords, which form a communication between the thoracic ganglia and those of the abdomen. 875. The upper or thoracic surface of the cliapliragm is convex and inclined backwards. Its middle part is strongly connected with the pericardium, and corresponds to the medijistinum. Its sides, which are lined by the pleura, support the base of the lungs. Anteriorly, it covers the triangularis sterni, on the sides the iuter- costales interni, and posteriorly the aorta, and the psoas magnus and quadratus lumborum. Its wferior or abdominal surface is concave in its whole ex- tent, and a little inclined forwards; but its concavity is not regu- lar, being always greater to the right than to the left, which appears to arise from the presence of the liver. In the middle it is nearly plain. Posteriorly, the kidneys, the renal capsules, the pancreas and the duodenum; on the right side, the liver ; and on the left, the spleen and the stomach, arc connected with it. In the rest of its extent, it is covered by the peritoneum, whence it results that