PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 220 3. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TIBIA WITH THE FIBULA. 725. Like the two bones of the fore-arm, those of the leg are connected directly by their two extremities, and by their middle part through the intervention of a fibrous membrane. There is this difference, however, between these two parts, that the articu- lations of the one permit very free motions, while the dispositions of those of the other render motions impossible, or at least very ob- scure. UPPEIl ARTICULATION OP THE TIBIA WITH THE FIBULA. 726. This articulation is an arthrodia, resulting from the con- tact of two circular flat surfaces, belonging, the one to the tibia, the other to the fibula, and covered with a layer of cartilage. They are lined by a synovial capsule, and are kept in place by two hga- ments. 727. Anterior Ligament. It descends obliquely outwards from the fore part of the external tuberosity of the tibia before the head of the fibula. It is flattened and rather broad. Its fibres are se- parated by cellular tissue into several distinct fasciculi. They are parallel, longer above than below. This ligament is strengthened and covered in a great part by the tendon of the biceps flexor cruris. 728. Posterior Ligament. This is much less marked, and much weaker than the anterior, and is composed of doser fibres. It pre- sents the same arrangement behind the articulation as the other ligament does at its fore part. It is covered by the popliteus, and sometimes the synovial membrane of the knee joint extends to it. 729. Synovial Membrane. It lines the two articular surfaces, the two ligaments, and some irregular fibres which are intermediate between the latter. Anteriorly and above, it is covered by the tendofi of the biceps, and posteriorly and above, it is contiguous with the synovial membrane of the knee. MIDDLE ARTICULATION OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA. 730. Interosseous Ligament, {Septicm longitudinale interos- seum, Weit.) The interval left between the tibia and fibula is filled up by this ligament, which, like that of the fore-arm, (67O), presents itself under the form of a thin aponeurotic mem- brane, broader above than below, composed of oblique fibres which, from the outer edge of the tibia, pass over to a ridge which runs along the inner surface of the fibula, and terminate below at the inner edge of that bone. Its anterior surface is covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and peroneus tertius, and by the anterior tibial vessels. The muscles are partly attached to it by their fleshy fibres. Its