ORGANS 01’ ABSORPTION. an The fourth comes from the anterior region of the right lobe. Some of its vessels ascend in the suspensory ligament to unite with those of the first bundle. 'J'he rest descend in the fissure of the liver, there join the deep vessels, and divide in some ganglia near the pylorus. Several are seen following a retrograde course along the free edge of the liver, and terminating to the right with those of the second bundle. On the left lobe of the liver, the superficial lymphatics may be distinguished into three separate parcels. Those of the first parcel ascend from their commencement in the suspensory ligament, and there Join those of the first bundle of the right lobe. Those of the second parcel arise from the whole surface of the left lobe, gain the left lateral ligament of the liver, and there divide into two portions. The inferior bend to the right and between the lobule of the liver and the small curvature of the stomach, and lose themselves in some ganglia, where they meet those of the stomach and lower surface of the liver. The superior proceed to the left, under the diaphragm, and join the lymphatics of the spleen, near the large extremity of the stomach. Lastly, the lymphatics of the third parcel come from the poste- rior part of the left lobe, descend towards the cardia, and go to the ganglia of the small curvatcrre of the stomach. 2758. Superficial Lymphatics of the Inferior Surface of the Liver. Some of them take their origin between the circumference of the liver and gall-bladder. They are pretty numerous, descend to the left, and divide in the gangba which surround the vena cava and aorta. Others originate over the whole surface of the gall- bladder, unite into large trunks, which embrace the neck of that reservoir, and terminate in the ganglia placed behind the duode- num. Some of them issue from the lobulus quadratus, forming a single trunk, which directs itself towards the gall-bladder, and joins the others. Lastly, others still come from the whole extent of the left lobe and lobulus Spigebi, and unite with the preceding, or with the deep lymphatics. 2759. Deep Lynvphatics of the Livei\ They originate in all parts of the parenchyma of the liver, accompanying the ramificji- tions of the blood vessels and biliary ducts, emerge along with them by the fissure, collect in great numbers araund the lobide, slip between the laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum, gain the cfanelia of the small curvature of the stomach or those which siu- round the coeliac artery, and thus terminate towards the com- mencement of the thoracic duct. B. OF THE THOIIACIC UUCT. 276O. This canal, in which terminate all the lymphatic vessels