OF THE CCECUM. 6ll‘ shorter fibres whose extremities pass between each other. The deep fibres form a more distinct layer. They are curved in the transverse direction of the intestine; but none of them pass en- tirely round it, they being interrupted like the longitudinal. The muscular membrane is connected with the peritoneum by a layer of cellular tissue, in general very thin, but pretty thick and loose on the side next the mesentery. It is separated from the mucous membrane by another layer of denser and more compact cellular tissue, which continues the nervous coat of the older writ- ers, of which we have already spoken. 2111. Mucous Membrane ox Coat. It is whitish and thicker than in the stomach. We have pointed out the valvulse conni- ventes which it forms by being folded upon itself (2106). Its vil- losities, which are excessively numerous, and very apparent, are thin, flexible, and collected into pellets or fringes. On examining them with the microscope, it is discovered that each of them is terminated by an oval ampuUa perforated with a small hole, which Lieberkuhn considers as the entrance of a lacteal vessel. The walls of this ampulla are lined with a very delicate and very dense net-work of arteries and veins. The intervals which exist between these villosities are furnished with a great number of mucous fol- licles, commonly designated by the name of Peyer"'s Glands, and which form slight prominences on the inside of the intestine. They are more numerous on the side next the mesentery than anywhere else. Their form is round or oval; there are also more of them in the lower region of the intestine. 2112. The arteries of the small intestine come from the con- vexity of the terminating branch of the superior mesenteric artery. Its veins join the vena portae. Its lacteals, which are more numerous above than below, end in the ganglia of the mesentery. Its nerves arise from the superior mesenteric plexus (1859). 4. Of the Large Intestine, or of the Caecum and Colon. A. OF THE C(ECUM. a. CONFORMATION AND DISPOSITION. 2113. The Ccecum*, which is placed between the end of the small intestine and the commencement of the colon, in the right iliac fossa, which it almost entirely fills, has been so named because it dives inferiorly under the form of a cul-de-sac. Its volume is • InteHinum caciini, the blind intalinc.