OF THE PALATE BONE. 75 irregular figure, and was long confounded by anatomists with the upper maxillary bone, is situated behind the latter, and below the middle region of the base of the skull. It seems formed by the union of two plates joined at a right angle, so that one of them is horizontal and inferior, the other vertical and superior. Each of these por- tions is commonly described separately in order to facilitate the ex- amination of this' bone, which is very complicated. 252. Horizontal or Palatal Portion. It is quadrilateral, and seems to be the continuation of the palatal process of the upper maxillary bone. Its Upper Surface is smooth, and forms part of the floor of the nasal fossae. It is concave from within outwards, and straight in the other direction. The Lower Surface, which is wrinkled and uneven, although less so than the corresponding sur- face of the maxillary bone, presents posteriorly a transverse ridge for the insertion of the peristaphylinus externus, and forms part of the arch of the palate. There is also observed upon it, in the same direction, and a little outwards, an oval hole, sometimes double, which is the inferior orifice of the posterior palatal canal. Ante- riorly, this portion of the bone rests upon the palatal process of the upper maxillary bone, by means of an oblique edge. Posteriorly, it is terminated by a second edge, named the GtiUural, which is free, sharp, and notched, and gives attachment to the velum palati. At its inside it is furnished with an eminence, which, on being united with that of the opposite side, forms the Posterior Nasal Spine. To' the inside, it presents an uneven edge, much thicker than the others, articulated to the corresponding bone, and surmounted by a thin crest, which contributes to the formation of a groove into which the vomer is received. Externally, it is confounded with the vertical portion. The centre of the horizontal portion of the palate bone is much thinner than its edges. 253. Vertical or Ascending Portion. This portion is of an ob- long form, slightly inclined inwards, broader and thinner than the horizontal, and rests upon the upper maxillary bone. Its Inner Surface, which enters into the composition of the nasal fossae, pre- sents below a broad and superficial depression, which belongs to their inferior meatus, and which is separated from another depres- sion situated above, and forming part of the middle meatus, by a rough horizontal ridge, united to the inferior turbinated bone. Its Outer Surface is in general uneven, and articulated with the in- ner surface of the maxUlary bone. It presents, behind, a groove more or less deep, which contributes to the formation of the poste- rior palatal canal, and above, a srhaU smooth surface which is seen in the zygomatic fossa. 254. The Anterior Edge of this portion of the bone is very un- even and thin, and is prolonged below into a very brittle bony plate, which contracts the entrance of the maxillary sinus, and is received into the slit of which we have made mention in describing that orifice. 2-55. The Posterior Edge, which is equally uneven with the last.