ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 708 anterior sacral holes, with the branches of the lateral sacral arter- ies. Sometimes they pass through these holes, and are distributed upon the last vertebral nerves. In their course they furnish many ramifications to the periosteum of the sacrum. h. OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. (Aftcres Pelvi-crurales, Chauss.) 2493. They result from the bifurcation of the aorta, opposite the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the fibro-cartilage which unites that vertebra to the fifth. They are of equal size, and descend, separating from each other at an acute angle, and di- recting themselves a little forwards, as far as the sacro-iliac sym- physis, where they divide each into two large arteries which are called the Hypogastric and Ewternal Iliac. In the female, on ac- count of the breadth of the pelvis, the two common iliac arteries form a larger angle than in the male. 2494. The right common iliac artery passes before the end of the vein of the same name, and covers in a great part the vena cava inferior. The left is coasted internally and posteriorly by the left common iliac vein, and is only covered by the peritoneum. The ureters cross, anteriorly and at right angles, the direction of each of them. Externally, they are both applied upon the psoae muscles. 2495. In their course, these arteries give off no branch. They only give a few very slender twigs to the walls of the iliac veins, the peritoneum, the lumbar lymphatic ganglia, and the ureters. OF THE HYPOGASTRIC OR INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 2496. The Hypogastric Artery (Arterepelvienne.^ Chauss.) which is a little smaller than the external iliac, dives almost vertically into the excavation of the pelvis, before the sacro-iliac symphysis, and, directing itself a little forwards, forms a slight curve, of which the convexity is posterior. At the end of a very short course, it separates into a very great number of branches, which arise some- times separately, and sometimes by common trunks, and which are distinguished into posterior, anterior, internal and inferior. POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE HYPOGASTRIC ARTERY. a. OF THE ILIO-LUMBAR ARTERY. (Art. lUaco-muculaire, Chauss.) 2497- It comes from the hypogastric, opposite the base of the sacrum, or issues a little farther down from the gluteal. It varies