ORGANS OF SENSATION. 564> The circumference of the membrana tympani is, as it were, cased in the groove with which the internal extremity of this canal is marked. 1936. The membrana tympani is thin, transparent, dry, fibrous, destitute of blood-vessels in the ordinary state. It is not perforat- ed by any aperture, as some anatomists have alleged, and permits no direct communication between the tympanum and the meatus auditorius externus. It promptly hardens under the action of heat, and is not putres- cible. 1937. Above and below, the outer wall of the tympanum is formed by two small uneven osseous surfaces. 1938. hiternal Wall. It is but slightly inclined backwards, and is more distant from the external wall above than below. The ob- jects which are remarked in it are the following. 1. The Fenestra Ovalis, an aperture of an oval form, which forms a communication between the tympanum and the vestibule. Its greatest diameter is horizontal, the other vertical. Its upper edge is curved in the form of a half ellipse; the lower is nearly straight. On the side next the vestibiile, it is contracted by a small very flat rim, which occupies its circumference. The fenestra ovalis is closed by the base of the stapes, which not being altogether so large, is embraced by a delicate membrane, which unites it in a moveable manner to the circumference of the aperture. Above the fenestra ovalis, there is remarked a bony eminence, rounded and elongated backwards and downwards. It indicates the course of the aqueduct of Fallopius at this point (183). 2. The Promontorium. This is another pretty broad tubercular eminence, of a variable form, which limits the fenestra ovalis below. This prominence is formed by the outer side of the vestibule, and by the corresponding scala of the cochlea. It is bounded behind by an irregular depression. Anteriorly, it corresponds to the ex- tremity of a bony lamina, which separates the Eustachian tube from the inner muscle of the malleus. 3. The Fenestra Rotunda. Placed beneath and a little behind the promontory, this is of smaller dimensions than the fenestra ovalis, and forms a communication between the inner scala of the cochlea and the tympanum. It is situated at the bottom of a ca- vity, or kind of oblique, irregular funnel-shaped canal, which with- draws it in a great measure from the view on the side next the tympanum. It is not round, as its name would imply, but of a triangular form. It is closed by a particular membrane which is not parallel to that of the tympanum. In the first months of ges- tation it is directed almost anteriorly. Towards the period of birth, it is already turned obliquely backwards by the development of the tympanum. But afterwards, it inclines outwards, and a little downwards, from the effect of the formation of the mastoid cells, and of the growth of the process which contains them.