785 ORGANIZATION OF THE SPLEEN. known, seem to liave some connection with the secretion of the bile, is a parenchymatous, vascular viscus, of a soft and spongy texture, and of a dark red colour, inclining to black, rarely uniform, and almost always marbled. It is placed deeply in the left hy- pochondrium, beneath the diaphragm, above the descending colon, between the tuberosity of the stomach and the cartilages of the false ribs, before the corresponding supra-renal capsule and the upper part of the kidney of the same side. It is attached to the sur- rounding organs in a more or less loose manner by folds of the pe- ritoneum, and by a great number of vessels. Its form is that of a segment of an ellipse, of which the greatest diameter is nearly ver- tical. Its volume presents the most numerous variations, and cannot be given with precision, any more than its weight. Its specific gravity, however, is to that of water as 1160 to 1000. 2845. Most commonly the spleen is single. Sometimes however it is accompanied by some small bodies of the same nature, which are of variable form, and are lodged in the omentum. - 2846. The Outer Surface of the spleen is convex and in con- tact with the diaphragm. It corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs of the left side. The imier is divided into two parts by a longitudinal groove called the Fissure of the Spleen. This fissure never occupies the whole length of the organ, and is filled by vessels and a certain quantity of fat. The posterior portion of the inner surface of the spleen is applied upon the left side of the vertebral column ; the anterior, which is a little larger, corresponds to the great cul-de-sac of the stomach. 2847- The circumference of the spleen has a very irregular form. Thicker above and behind than below and before, it is smooth and rounded, but intersected from space to space by notches varying in depth and number. It corresponds above to the apo- neurosis of the diaphragm, below to the left kidney and supra-renal capsule, behind to the pancreas, before to the walls of the thorax, through the intervention of the diaphragm. ORGANIZATION OF THE SPLEEN. 2848. Serous Envelope. It is formed by the peritoneum, and invests the whole exterior of the spleen, with the sole exception of the bottom of the-fissure, on the edges of which it is reflected to be continued into the laminae of the membranous folds which fix the spleen to the stomach and diaphragm. Thin, transparent, smooth at its outer surface, and adhering by the other, it is applied upon another envelope of a fibrous nature. 2849. Fibrous Envelope. It adheres intimately to the preced- ing by its outer surface, and by its inner it sends a great number of delicate prolongations into the parenchyma of the organ. At the bottom of the fissure, it is in contact with adipose cellular tis- sue, and furnishes other more distinct prolongations which ac-