772 ORGANS OF SECRETION. opens, by a very contracted orifice, under the inferior turbinated bone. This orifice, although free, is furnished with a circular fold formed by the pituitary membrane. 2799. The nasal canal transmits into the nose the tears which the puncta lachrymalia have absorbed at the inner angle of the eye. II.—OF THE ORGANS OF SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE SALIVA, OR OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS AND THEIR DUCTS. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 2800. The Salivary Glands are symmetrically placed, to the number of three on each side of the face, behind and beneath the lower jaw. Their form is in general very irregular, and their ex- tent varies much in the different subjects in which they are exa- mined. Sometimes they are perfectly distinct and isolated; at other times, they seem to be confounded with each other. But they all present characters which are common to them, and which serve to distinguish them from the other glands of the body. Thus their vessels penetrate them on all sides, and are already much ramified before arriving in their parenchyma; while the liver, the spleen, and the kidneys receive theirs by a determinate point, and under the form of more or less voluminous trunks. They are supplied with a considerable number of nervous fila- ments from the encephalic system; while the liver has but a very small number, and the kidneys none at aU. Their colour is grayish, their tissue firm and strong; the gra- nulations of which they consist are successively united into lobules and irregular lobes, which gives them the greatest resemblance to the pancreas and lachrymal gland. They are enveloped by no particular membrane, as is the case with the liver, the kidneys, &c. They merely seem surrounded by a thin layer of cellular tissue, destitute of fat, and very different from the fibrous membranes. Lastly, their excretory ducts all open in the interior of the mouth, without any intermediate reservoir, while the tears, the bile, the urine, the seminal fluid, &c. are contained for some time in a reser- voir before arriving at their destination. Of the SaUvary Glands in Particula)'. 1. OF THE PAROTID GLAND.* The Parotid Gland is the largest of the salivary glands. It is • ITa^a, juxta ; us, arcs, atiris.