519 OF THE SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. the inferior turbinated bone, extending to near its anterior extre- mit y. The great palatine nerve then runs through its canal, where its filaments are frequently spread out, and only connected by a loose cellular tissue. A little before issuing from it, it sends a second ramification into the nasal fossie. This latter passes through a small aperture of the vertical portion of the palate bone, proceeds horizontally along the edge of the inferior turbinated bone, and loses itself on the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone. It is often contained in a small bony canal. At the same place the palatine nerve transmits, by one of the ac- cessory canals, a filament which goes to the velum palati to be dis- tributed there. The nerve itself then immediately issues from its canal, directs itself forwards under the arch of the palate, and se- parates into several twigs. The outer, which are larger and more numerous, follow the inner edge of the superior alveolar arch, and lose themselves in the gums. The inner subdivide on the middle of the vault of the palate, and especially furnish filaments to the mucous follicles of that region. Some of them anastomose with the inferior filaments of the naso-palatine ganglion. 1800. Middle Naso-palatine or Guttural Nerce. Arising be- hind the preceding nerve, it descends along the posterior part of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, enters a canal of its own, and emerges behind the hook of the pterygoid process, dividing into two filaments, one of which goes to the corresponding tonsil and terminates by four or five ramifications in the velum palati, while the other, which separates into two or three filaments, is entirely destined for the latter organ. 1801. Small Palatine Nerve. Situated still farther back than the preceding, it descends between the pterygoideus externus mus- cle and the superior maxillary bone, then between the latter and the palatal bone, in a groove of its own, and divides into two filaments, one for the uvula, the other for the tonsil and the follicles of the membrane of the palate. 1802. Of the Vidian or Pterygoid Nerve. On leavuig the spheno-palatine ganglion, it proceeds horizontally backwards, sends two very slender filaments to the membrane of the sphenoidal sinus, enters the pterygoid canal (111), and passes through it, giv- ing off, through its walls, ramifications to the upper and back part of the sej)tum of the nasal fossm, the memljrane of the pharynx near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, and that orifice itself. On issuing from its canal, the vidian nerve traverses the fibro-cartila- ginous plate which closes the foramen lacerum antcrius (218), and divides into two twigs, a superior and an inferior. 1 he inferior or carotid twig serves as a medium of communica- tion between the sjdieno-palatine ganglion and the cavernous and su- perior cervical ganglia. It passes into the carotid canal applying itself against the walls of the artery, and amistomosc.s with the fila-