THE TEMPORAL DONE. 51 OF THE TEiMFOllAL HONK.* 171. Form. The Temporal Bones (ossa temporum) are of a form which it is difticult to define, pre.senting a great number of eminences and cavities, containing in their interior the organs of hearing, and oecupying the lateral and inferior parts of the cranium. Each of these bones is commonly considered as resulting from three distinct portions, although in reality it forms a continuous whole, and consists of only a single piece. The three portions thus admitted by anatomists are the squamous 'portion externally, the mastoid por- tion behind, and the petrmis portion beneath and within. We distinguish in the temporal bone the following parts. .172. An auricular or external surface. It is slightly convex, smooth, and entirely situated at the outside of the skidl. At its anterior and upper part, it presents a pretty broad surface, marked by several grooves in which branches of the deep temporal arteries are lodged. It gives attachment, nearly over its whole extent, to the temporal muscle, and forms part of the temporal fossae. Be- neath, there is observed a strong process, broad at its commence- ment, but gradually diminishing, at first directed horizontally outwards and forwards, but soon preserving the latter direction only, and twisting upon itself as it removes from the rest of the bone, so that its surfaces, from being horizontal, become vertical. This is the Zygomatic Process, of which the upper edge is thin and straight, giving attachment to the temporal aponeurosis ; while the lower edge, which is thick, concave, and much shorter than the other, serves, as well as the inner surface, for the insertion of the masseter muscle. Its outer surface is convex, and lies immediately beneath the skin. Its extremity is cut obliquely downwards and backwards, and presents indentures like teeth which articulate with the malar bone. Its base, which is turned backwards, and hollow- ed above by a superficial groove, in which a great part of the fibres of the temporal muscle slide, bears below a blunt and low tubercle, to which is attached the external lateral ligament of the articula- tion of the lower jaw, and which gives rise to two prolongations named the Roots of the Zygomatic Process. One of these roots, (the Temporal Condyle of Chaussier,) which is inferior, trans- verse, concave inwards and outwards, convex from before back- wards, and covered with cartilage, serves for the articulation of the lower jaw; the other, which is superior and longitudinal, is direct- ed backwards, and divides into two. Its upper subdivision, by describing a curve, gains the circumference of the bone; the lower descends a little inwards, and terminates at the outer extremity of a very narrow fissure which penetrates into the cavity of the tympa- num, and which is named the Glenoid Fissure. Through this The Temporal Bones have been so named on account of their occupying the region of the liead on which the hair generally first begins to turn grey, thus in- dicating the various periods of age, (temjwra.J