487 OF THE BllACIIIAL PLEXUS. one, which Bometimes comes from a common trunk with the auri- cular. Arising from the middle part of the plexus, and especially from the second cervical nerve, they are reflected, like the preced- ing and beneath it, over the posterior edge of the sterno-cleido- mastoideus muscle, from whence they proceed transversely between it and the platysma myoides. They immediately divide into a greater or less number of twigs and fllaments, some of which ascend to unite deeply with the descending branch of tire facial nerve (1C18) and with some filaments of the auricular branch of the same plexus (I674), while the others diverge in all directions, and are distributed to the platysma myoides and digastricus muscles, the in- teguments of tlie neck and the maxillary gland, where they com- municate with the filaments of the mylo-hyoid twig of the inferior maxillary nerve (1598), and with those of the facial nerve. Some of them proceed transversely to anastomose in the median line with the ramifications of the opposite side. Some others ascend super- ficially towards the lower parts of the face to be united to the men- tal nerve (1598). OF THE FOUllTII, FIFTH, SIXTH, AND SEVENTH FAIRS OF CERVICAL NERVES. I676. Posterior Branches. They are much smaller than the corresponding branches of the first three pairs. They deseend ob- liquely outwards between the semi-spinalis colli and complexus ma- jor muscles, to which they give filaments, and on arriving at the spinous processes, traverse the splenius and trapezius, and lose themselves in their fibres and in the integuments of the back part of the neck and upper part of the back. 1677- Anterior Branches. They are remarkable for their size. At first situated between the two scaleni muscles, before the pos- terior, they all furnish one or two filaments, which anastomose with those of the cervical ganglia, and some others which lose themselves in the scaleni muscles. They then all communicate to^gether, and form the Brachial Plexus. It is moreover to be observed here, that the anterior branch of the fourth nerve sends a twig to the phrenic nerve (1667) communicates with that of the third, while that of the seventh unites with a branch of the first dorsal nerve. OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. I678. Formed by the union and interlacement of the anterior branches of the last four cervical nerves and first dorsal, broad above and below, and contracted in the middle, the brachial plexus extends from the lateral and inferior part of the neck to the axilla, where it divides into several branches which are distributed to .the 2 1C