311 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. OF THE CONSTIlICTOIl VAGIN.K. (M. PenJtceo-Clitorien, Chauss.) 109() This muscle forms a sort of fleshy ring, much more dis- tinct in young women than in sueh as have born ehildren. It is formed of two pianos of fibres, whieh arising, so to speak, from the proper tissue of l;he vagina, are interlaced, between the anus and vulva, with the sphincter ani and transversus perinaei, and frequent- ly receive a bundle from the internal region of the sciatic tubero- sity. They turn on either side around the orifice of tlie vagina, degenerate into an aponeurotic tissue, and lose themselves in the fibrous membrane of the cavernous body of the clitoris. This muscle contracts the orifice of the vagina, which it em- braces. IV. MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1097- The Abdomen is an oblong cavity, of variable size, con- vex before and especially below, concave behind and on the sides, situated under the thorax, and above the inferior extremities. It contains the principal viscera of the body, and is divided into se- veral regions, which we shall make known as we proceed.* "f* 1, Anterior Abdominal Region. 1098. Along the middle part of the abdomen, from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis of the pubes, there is observed a strong tendinous cord, which obtains the name of Linea alba. Its late- ral limits are not well determined. It is broader above than below, and occupies the interval between the two recti muscles of the ab- domen, presenting about its middle a cicatrix, which is named the umbilicus, and which is its firmest point. This cicatrix replaces an opening which in the fetus gave passage to the urachus and the parts which constituted the umbilical cord. It is deeper and more distinct the older a person is, and adheres strongly to t*he integu- ments, so that in fat people, it appears much more sunk than in otliers. Its circumference, whieh is thick and very hard, is irre- gularly quadrilateral, and formed of four planes of albugineous fibres bent upon themselves, and erossing each other at their ex- tremities. Between these four planes is the traee of the aperture, which is very close, but which yet allows a probe to penetrate ob- liquely downwards between the peritoneum and the anterior wall of • See the article Peritoneum in a subsequent part. t Interposed betwixt the integuments and abdominal aponeurosis, the student will observe the fascia superfcialu, extending over the abdominal region downwards over the front of the thigh. Like most other fasciaj, described by writers on Surgi- cal Anatomy, it is composed chiefly, if not wholly, of cellular membrane. This fa- cia extends likewise over the inguinal ring, and consequently forms one of the layers to be cut tluough in the operation for strangulated inguinal hernia. As it covers the fore part of the thigh, it seems almost unnecessary to remark, that it will also be found interposed between the sac of the crural hernia and the integuments.