MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. 291 10. Palatal Region. OF THE CIBCUMFLEXUS PALATIj peeistaphylinus externus, OR PTEBYGO-STAPHYLINUS.* 1007. The Circumjleodis Patati is found in the substance of tlie velum of the palate, and forms an elongated, thin, transversely flat- tened muscle, bent in the middle. It arises, by very distinct apo- neurotic fibres, from the scaphoidal fossa of the pterygoid process (114), the fore and outer part of the fibro-cartilage of the Eusta- chian tube, and the parts in the neighbourhood of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, as far as the spine of that bone. From these origins it descends vertically along the posterior edge of the inner wing of the pterygoid process, and turns under the hook by which it terminates, after having degenerated into an aponeurosis which is wrinkled upon itself at the moment of this reflexion, and which is kept in place by a small ligament. A small synovial capsule fa- cflitates its motions. After this, it proceeds horizontally inwards, is expanded in the velum palati, before the levator palati moUis, unites with its feUow, and terminates at the transverse ridge, wliich is observed upon the inferior surface of the horizontal portion of the palate bone (252). There it sends off a prolongation to a dense and compact membrane which seems to keep the velum palati firm at its upper part. 1008. The fleshy portion of this muscle which is fusiform, is covered, in its external surface, by the pterygoideus internus. By its inner surface, it is applied against the levator palati moUis and constrictor pharyngis superior, and against the inner wing of the pterygoid process. Its aponeurotic portion is lined internally by the mucous membrane of the velum palati. Posteriorly, it is con- nected with the palato-pharyngeus. 1009. This muscle stretches the velum palati horizontally, and may dilate the Eustachian tube as Haller supposes. OF THE LEVATOR PALATI MOLLIS, PERISTAPHYLINUS INTERNUS, OR PETRO-STAPHYLINUS. 1010. Although this muscle is slender, it is yet stronger than the preceding, and is of an elongated form, round above, broader and flat below. It is situated on the sides of the posterior aper- tures of the nasal fossie. It arises by short aponeuroses, from the under surface of the petrous process, before the external orifice of the carotid canal (177)) and from the neighbouring part of the Eustachian tube. From thence it descends somewhat oblicjuely nt{/, circcL, propi ; uvula.