OP THE TEMPORAL AND ALVEOLAR ARTERIES. 659 ^interior deep temporal, or from tlie alveolar, or lastly from the infra-orbitar. Of very inconsiderable size and very dexuous in its course, it descentls obliquely forwards, beside the buccal nerve (1592), between the pterygoideus internus muscle, and the ramus of the jaw, advances towards the cheek, becomes transverse, and separates, at a greater or less distance from the commissure of the lips, into a great number of twigs which arc spread out in the buc- cinator, zygomaticus major, zygoraaticus minor, and platysma myoides muscles, the integuments, the mucous membrane of the cheeks, and the mucous follicles of that part. It anastomoses with the facial (2211), infra-orbitar and transverse artery of the face (2261). 2- OK TIIK ANTEEIOU DEEP TEMPORAL ARTERY. 2277- Its volume is pretty considerable. It ascends vertically in the anterior part of the temporal fossa, between the internal and anterior region of the temporalis muscle and the malar and sphe- noid bones. One of its twigs enters into the orbit by one of the holes with which the malar bone is perforated, and anastomoses W'ith one of those of the lachrymal artery. Several others of smaller size also pass through the same bone, but lose themselves in the adipose tissue which envelopes the ball of the eye, or upon the lachrymal gland. Lastly, the artery itself terminates by subdi- viding in the substance of the temporal muscle, where it communi- cates with the ramifications of the posterior deep temporal artery (2273), and of the middle and superficial temporal arteries. 3. OF THE ALVEOLAR ARTERY- ('Art. Sus-maxillaire, Chauss.) 22‘JS. It is of considerable size, and arises opposite the maxillary tuberosity, on which it descends from behind forwards, describing numerous turns. In some cases it comes from the infra-orbitar or anterior deep temporal. After sending some small twigs into ‘the superior and posterior dentar canals (244) for the roots of the large molares and the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus, it ad- vances tortuously along the gums, to which it gives some ramifica- tions. Arrived at the fossa canina, it still sends a dentar twig to molares, and loses itself by subdividing in the cellular tissue of the cheeks, the buccinator muscle, and the periosteum of the maxillary bone, anastomosing with the infra-orbitar by one of its principal twigs. 4. OF THE INFRA-ORBITAR ARTERY. 2279. Of equal size with the anterior deep temporal, it separates from the internal maxillary towards the upper and fore part of die