307 MUSCiLES OF THE PELVIS. ilic superior are the longest, on the posterior tubercle of the last six transverse processes of the neck. It is observed, in some cases, that a small bundle proceeds from the portion attached to the axis to ascend to the transverse process of the atlas. 1075. Between the tAvo scaleni there is commonly found a small fleshy bundle which proceeds from the upper edge of the first rib, to the transverse processes of the seventh and sixth vertebrae, or to that of the seventh only. It isp>laccd behind the subclavian artery, and before the anterior branches of the two last cervical nerves. This is the scale^ius tnimmus of Soemmering. 1076. The anterior side of,the scalenus posticus coiTCsponds to the preceding muscle, from -which it is separated below by the sub- clavian artery, and above by the anterior branches of the cervical nerves. The posterior side, which is very narrow, is in connection with the sacro-lumbalis, transversalis colli, -splenius, and levator an- guli scapulas. The mner covers the first external intercostal mus- cle at its lower part, and at the upper the summits of the last six transverse processes of the neck, and between them the posterior intertransversales muscles. Lastly, the outer side, which is broad above and narrow below, is covered by the serratus magnus below; in the middle, by the transverse cervical artery, the skin, a great number of lymphatic ganglia, and nervous filaments of the cervical plexus; at its upper part, by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus. 1077- This muscle has the same uses as the scalenus antiens, but it draws the vertebral column a little backwards. IV. MUSCLES OF THE PELVIS. 1. rinal Region. OF THE LEVATOR AMI. (if/. Sous-Pubio-Coccygien, Chauss.) 1078. This muscle completes the lower wall of the abdomen, forming, at the lower part of the pelvis, a sort of concave ftoor, which sustains the inferior part of the rectum and the bladder, around which it constitutes a kind of cincture which also embraces the commencement of the urethra and the vesiculoe seminales. It is thin, membranous, irregularly quadrilateral, broader above than below, and arises, by short aponeurotic fibres, from the inferior and posterior part of tlie symphysis pubis, from the ossa ilii, from above the upper region of the obturator internus, from the sciatic spine, and from a broad and thin aponeurosis which covers the obturator internus, and which is sometimes continuous with a fibrous lamina eletached from the psoas parvus. These different origins, which arc continuous with each other, are only a little interrupted, toward the obturator hole, for the passage of the obturator nerve and ves- sels. The middle and anterior ffeshy fibres descend from witliout inwards and from before backwards. They unite behind and be- neath the rectum, with those of the opposite side, and envelope