680 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. the posterior and deep part of the subclavian, externally of the inferior thyroid, behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and immediately before the transverse processes. It has been seen to come from the inferior thyroid or vertebral artery, or to have a common trunk with the superior intercostal. Immedi- ately after its origin, it ascends obliquely outwards, partly between the two last transverse processes of the neck, after giving small twigs to the scaleni, longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles, directs itself backwards, upwards and inwards, between the complexus major and semi-spinalis colli muscles becomes verti- cal, and ends by anastomosing, towards the head, with the verte- bral and occipital arteries, sending numerous ramifications into the muscles and integuments of the back part of the neck. OF THE AXILLAHY* ARTERY. 2356. It forms the direct continuation of the subclavian. Si- tuated at the superior lateral part of the thorax and in the axilla, it commences in the interval between the two scaleni muscles, and directs itself obliquely downwards and outwards, as far as the level of the inferior edge of the latissimus dorsi muscle, where the bra- chial artery commences. In this course, it describes a curve of which the convexity is directed outwards and upwards, and the concavity inwards and downwards. 2357. The anterior side of the axillary artery is at first cover- ed by the platysma myoides in a small triangular space which is formed by the scalenus anticus muscle, the nerves of the brachial plexus and the clavicle. It is then in relation with the clavicle itself, whose direction it crosses, and with the subclavius muscle. StUl lower, the pectoralis major muscle, then the pectoralis minor, and lastly, the tendon of the pectoralis major and the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles are applied upon it. From the cla- vicle to the lower part of the axilla, the axillary vein lies upon the artery of the same name. 2358. Its posterior side rests internally upon the brachial plexus. At the middle it corresponds to the cellular interval which sepa- rates the serratus magnus and subscapidaris muscles. Externally it lies upon the teres major and latissimus dorsi. 2359. Its under or inner side is at first lodged in a more or less deep groove which the upper surface of the rib presents for it. It then corresponds to the first intercostal muscle, the second rib, and the upper digitation of the serratus magnus, from which it is afterwards more or less separated by the brachial plexus, or by cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia. 2360. Its upper or outer side is at first covered by the skin, • A.1 ilia, tlic arm-pit.