ORGANS OF CIRCULATION, 700 lobe and in the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, accompanying, like the preceding, the divisions of the vena portae. OF THE BI’I,ENIC AllTERY. 245^. In the adult it is larger than the hepatic, the reverse of which 4s observed in the child. At its commencement, it passes from right to left, forming numerous and very distinct flexuosities, along the upper part of the pancreas which lodges it in a particular p’oove. It thus arrives at the fissure of the spleen, after furnish- ing several branches, which are the following. 2456. Pancreatic Branches. They come off, in irregular num- ber, from the lower part of the splenic artery, dive perpenchcular- ly into the parenchyma of the pancreas, and then subdivide, to be united with the twigs of the pancreatic artery furnished by the right gastro-epiploic (2451). 2457. Left Gastro-epiploic Branch. It arises from the trunk itself of the splenic artery, or only from one of the branches by which it terminates. Its size is generally equal to that of the right gastro-epiploic; but it is frequently much larger, so as tp appear to form the true continuation of the artery which gives rise to it, having its direction changed. It ascends at first a little to the left towards the great extremity of the stomach, is concealed for some time by it, and then descends along the great curvature. At its commencement, it throws some ramifications into the pancreas ; but along the great curvature, it sends upwards, over the two surfaces of the stomach, and downwards, into the great omentum, twigs of larger size, which are distributed precisely in the same manner as those of the right gastro-epiploic artery, with which it anastomoses towards the middle of the great curvatiue (2451). 2458. At some distance from the fissure of the spleen, the ar- tery divides into two or three branches, which subdivide themselves into seven or eight twigs, which diverging from each other, follow- ing a longitudinal straight line, and contained at first between the two laminm of the peritoneum, gain the inner surface of the spleen after a course of about two inches. They penetrate into that vis- cus by so many separate apertures which are observed along its fissure, presently subdivide to infinity, anastomosing with each other by arches, and seem in a great measure to constitute the pro- per tissue of the organ. 2459. Vasa Brevia, These are pretty large but very short twigs, which come from the terminating branches of the splenic artery be- fore their entrance into the spleen, and immediately pass to the large extremities of the stomach, near the cardia, whence they expand over the two surfaces of that organ, anastomosing with the trans- verse oesophageal twigs of the coronary artery (2446). In this manner, they serve to complete the arterial circle which envelopes the cardia.