ORGANS OF SENSATION. 42G terior aperture of the Aqueduct of Sylvius, a cylindrical canal, formed obliquely in the substance of tlie cerebral protuberance, be- neath the tubercula quadrigemina, and opening posteriorly into the Ventricle of the cerebellum, under the valvula Vieussenii. Its sur- face presents inferiorly a groove which is continuous with the Ca- lamus Scri/ptm'ius, and, on each side, one or two small inequalities. 8. sxnucTunE of the cerebellum in particular. 1481. The bundles of convergent and divergent fibres are fiir from being so well demonstrated in the cerebellum as in the cere- brum. We cannot here adopt the method followed in the preced- ing article, but shall describe all the white substance of this organ as formed by fibres of the second kind. 1482. We have already said (1442) that the anterior surface of the cerebral pi’otuberance is formed by a pretty thick layer of white matter, manifestly fibrous, to which the name of Pons Varolii or An7iular Protuberance is given. This layer unites its fibres pos- teriorly and on each side into two thick divergent bundles, much more separated from each other than the peduncles of the brain, and diminishing in size in proportion as they proceed from the cerebral protuberance towards the cerebellum. These are the Peduncles of the Cerebellum. Each of them is convex and rounded externally. The restiform processes (1446) form on each side a sort of pro- longation, named the processus ad Medullam Spinalem, which, from the posterior surface of the upper extremity of the medulla oblongata, ascends upon the inner side of the peduncle of the cere- bellum and unites with it. Lastly, the white lamina which covers the tubercula quadrigemi- na also appears to be gathered posteriorly into two longitudinal bundles, named Processus ad testes, united together by the vahui- la Vieussenii, and applied upon the upper and inner parts of the same peduncle. By their junction, these three productions appear to constitute a common trunk, in the middle of which is a kind of elongated ovoi- dal nucleus, circumscribed on all sides by a very distinct undulat- ed line of a yellowish colour. This is the Corpus dentatum or se^'ratum. It is a little nearer the upper than the lower surface of the cerebellum, and appears slightly compressed. Its tissue is firmer than that of the rest of the cerebellum ; it is surmounted by several points, and traversed by some vessels; its colour is a little deeper than that of the ordinary gray substance. It is only seen with great difficulty in children. The white fibres cannot be traced into its interior, as in the optic thalami; and it seems to be isolated like the nucleus of the corpora olivaria (1458.) 1483. To the outside of the peduncles of the cerebellum, there are seen the appendix lobularis, and the trunks of the facial and acoustic Herves.- Internally, that is to say between the two pro-