420 ORGANS OF SENSATION. which come from the gray matter that envelopes the cerebral cir- cumvolutions externally, and constitute different commianures. These commissures belong both to the upper and to the lower cir- cumvolutions ; and we now proceed to their examination. 1468. At the bottom of the superior circumvolutions, the con- verging filaments are seen forming a sort of tissue with the diverg- ing filaments, uniting into larger and larger filaments, and lining the roof of the lateral ventricles, to emerge by the inner and lower edge of the hemispheres and form the Corpus callosum (mawima commissura cerebri, Soemm. Mesolobe, Chauss,) which is distinctly perceived at the bottom of the great interlobular fissure. 1469. The Corpus callosum, or Mesolobe, is therefore a long and broad band of soft and fibrous medullary substance, of a quadrilateral form at first sight, but curved forwards and back- wards upon itself. Its direction is horizontal, its breadth greater behind than before, its situation such that it is a little nearer the anterior than the posterior part of the brain. It is only a few lines thick. Its upper surface is in part concealed by the hemispheres, which advance above it, forming a kind of oblong cavity, of which we have already spoken (1435.) It is convex from before back- wards, plain in the transverse direction. In its middle, following the course of the median line, is a prominent longitudinal line, of a more compact tissue, which penetrates the whole thickness of the organ, and which is commonly called the Raphe. On each side of this raphe, which corresponds to the inferior edge of the falx cerebri, there is observed a filament, which is also longitudinal, and which is separated from it by a small flexuous groove. This filament is the trace of the arteries of the corpus callosum. Some- times on the anterior part of that body, these filaments, which are by some authors called the Longitudinal Nerves of Lancisi, and which are always convergent, unite into a single line. More ex- ternally is a surface of greater extent, and apparently smooth, but in which a closer inspection discovers a number of prominent lines, more or less transverse, more distinct posteriorly, and terminating at the raphe, near which they are inflected towards the lateral ven- tricles. These lines are named the Transverse Medullary Traces. 1470. The inferior surface of the corpus callosum is visible and free over a much greater extent than the upper. At the sides it contributes to form the upper wall of the lateral ventricles. In the middle, it covers the fornix or three-pillared vault, with which it is directly continuous behind, and from which it is separated an- teriorly and at the middle by the septum of the ventricles. 1471. At its anterior extremity, the corpus callosum is reflected from before backwards, and from above downwards, between the two hemispheres, where it forms a sort of rounded prominence. It extends and is prolonged as far as the base of the cerebrum, to- wards the flssura Sylvii, near the origin of the olfactory nerve, em- bracing the fore part of the corpora striata, and forining the ante- rior region of the floor of the lateral ventricles. In this course, it