OF Tin-: MKDIAN NERVI!. 491 whicli, after forming a single trunk as far as tlie common origin of tlie biceps and coraco-brachialis, divide anew into two divergent cords, of which the inner passes before the axillary artery to con- tribute to the formation of the median nerve, while the outer con- stitutes the nerve of which we here speak. 1689. This nerve descends at first obliquely outwards behind the coraco-brachialis muscle, and passes into an aperture which its fibres leave for it, so that it passes through the muscle (1143), after supplying it with a very slender filament which may be traced until near its insertion into the humerus. After this, it descends along tlie inner and fore part of the arm, between the brachialis in- ternus and biceps muscles, giving off several twigs to them. One of these twigs, which is larger than the others, descends inwards, divides into two filaments, and proceeds as far as the lower extre- mity of the brachialis internus. Another follows the same direc- tion, and communicates with the median nerve towards the lower part of the arm. The external cutaneous nerve then disengages itself opposite the tendon of the biceps and externally of it, tra- verses the middle of the bend of the arm under the median-cepha- lic vein, and descends along the fore and outer part of the fore-arm, between the aponeurosis and the skin. When it has arrived at some distance from the wrist, a place vdiere its volume is sensibly diminished on account of the numerous filaments which it has fur- nished to the integuments during its course, it divides into two branches, an outer and an inner, and so terminates. 1690. The outer branch, which is larger than the other, sends a twig over the back of the hand, which is more or less prolonged u])on the fingers. It then descends behind the thumb and upon its outer side, also giving some filaments to the fore-finger. Several of its ramifications anastomose with those of the radial nerve. 1691. The inner branch descends upon the muscles of the thumb, in the palm of the hand, and there subdivides into a mul- titude of filaments which may be traced upon the fingers. OF THE MEDIAN NERVE. 1692. This is the largest nerve of the brachial plexus, from which it arises, behind the internal cutaneous brachial nerve, and between the ulnar and external cutaneous nerves. The sixth and seventh cervical nerves, united to the first dorsal, form its principal origin, to which is joined a branch of the common trunk of the fourth and fifth cervical nerves (1688), which forms, with all the other roots, a kind of nervous interlacement around the axillary ar- tery (1679). 1693. After thus originating, the median nerve descends a lit- tle outwards behind the inner part of the biceps and internally of the brachial artery. It arrives at the bend of the arm without giv- ing off' any ramification, and traverses it in its middle part, inter-