712 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. gives off a small branch wliich directs itself behind the symphysis pubis, spreads out some ramifications upon the periosteum, and anastomoses with a similar branch of the opposite obturator artery. 2513. At its exit from the pelvis, on the upper edge of the ob- turator externus muscle, the obturator artery divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. 2514. Posterior Branch. It descends along the outer edge of the obturator hole, placed between the two obturator muscles, in which it sometimes directly loses itself. In general, however, it reaches as far as the sciatic tuberosity, bends outwards beneath the quadratus femoris muscle, and gains transversely the back part of the thigh, where it gives several twigs to the ilio-femoral articu- lation, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the sciatic artery. It loses itself in the surrounding muscles ; but there is de- tached from it a very remarkable small twig, which penetrates into the cotyloid cavity by its inferior notch, and goes to be distributed to the reddish cellular tissue which fills the deepest part of that cavity. 2515. Anterior Branch. It descends between the first and se- cond adductor muscles, giving off twigs to them, as well as to the obturator externus, pectineus, and gracdis muscles, and to the integuments of the upper and inner region of the thigh and of the genital parts. It terminates by anastomosing with a twig of the internal circumflex artery, or by losing itself in the muscles and skin. Near its commencement, it sends off a small twig which descends along the internal edge of the obturator hole, to anastomose with a twig of the posterior branch, so that this fora- men is truly surrounded by a complete arterial circle. INTERNAL BRANCHES OF THE HYPOGASTRIC ARTERY. a. OF THE MIDDLE H.EMORRHOIDAL ARTERY. 2516. It is sometimes wanting, and is of more constant occur- rence in the female than in the male. It varies much in its size and origin, frequently coming off from the ischiatic or internal pu- dic. It descends obliquely over the anterior part of the rectum, behind the fundus of the bladder in the male, and behind the va- gina in the female. It separates into a great number of twigs, which expand in these different parts, and anastomose superiorly with the haemorrhoidal twigs of the inferior mesenteric artery, and inferiorly with those of the internal pudic. h. OJ THE UTERINE ARTERY. 2517* Its volume is always in relation with the state of deve- lopment of the uterus, so as frequently to be very small, while in other cases, at the end of gestation, for example, it is larger than any other branch of the hypogastric artery. It arises from the hy-