PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 8 trunk, where they are subservient to the most important functions of life.* To these different kinds of organie tissues we might still add the Erectile^ or Cavernous Eissue, and the Horny 'Fissue, as several anatomists of the first order have recently done.*)* DIVISIONS OF ANATOMY. The study of anatomy is pretty generally divided, according to the mutual resemblance of the organs, into several distinct branches, which have corresponding denominations. Thus the department which treats of the hard parts is called Sceletology, while the word Sarcology is employed to designate that which considers the soft parts of the body. Seeletology\ itself is divided into Osteology,^ which refers to the bones only, and Syndesmology,^^ which treats of the ligaments. Sarcology,^ in Hke manner, is divided into Myology, Neurology, Angiology, Adenology, Splanchnology, and Dermology,** accord- ing as its subjects are the. muscles, nerves, vessels, gkmds, viscera, or integuments. In this treatise we shall adopt another mode of division, already promulged in various modern works ; we shall examine the organs with reference to their physiological relations, according as they serve to connect us with surrouncUng bodies, or contribute to the nutrition of the individual, or are intended to be employed for the propagation of the species. To the first class belong the organs of locomotion, speech, and sense; to the second, those of digestion, respiration, circidation and absorption, and of the secretions; while the third contains those of generation. One of the great advantages of this method is that it intimately connects anatomy with physiology. • Some authors have also distinguished the organs, which according to them, differ from the viscera only in being situated externally. But this denomination has very evidently a much too general signification. In the living being, in fact every part that manifests the existence of life by its acts, or supports it by its exercise, is an organ. f Anatomists and Surgeons make frequent use of the term fascia; we shall after- wards explain the meaning of this term. K. I TKiXtros, cadaver exsiccatum ; Xoyn sermo, § os ; Xoyos, sermo. II 'Suy^KTfiOf, ligamenlum ; Xoyos, sermo. ^ caro ; xiyos, sermo. * * Mus musculus i 'Ntu^ov, nervus : ’ Ayyaty, vas ; ’ Alnv, glandula ; ^jrXayxyof,^*^- cus ; cutis ; Xoyos, sermo.