PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 76 rests in a great measure upon the inner side of the pterygoid pro- • cess. It is also frequently hollowed, in nearly its wliole length, in order to be articulated to it, by a narrow groove, broader below than above. At its union with the guttural edge of the horizontal portion, there is observed a very prominent pyramidal eminence, inclined outwards and downwards. This is the Tuberosity of the Palate Bone, which fills up the bifurcation of the two wings of the pterygoid process. Above and within, this tuberosity is hoUowed by three channels, of which the two lateral, uneven, and furnished with slight asperities, receive the summit of these wings, Avhile the middle one, which is smooth and polished, completes the pterygoid fossa. The inner groove is the deepest. Below, it presents a narrow surface which belongs to the palatal arch, and in which are seen the orifices of canals leading into the posterior palatal canal. Externally, it forms part of the zygomatic fossa, and gives attach- ment to the outer pterygoid muscle, at the same time that it pre- sents some inequalities for the purpose of uniting with the upper maxillary bone. In the latter place, it is perforated by the pos- terior palatal canal, which ceases to be in part formed in the max- illary bone. 256. Its Upper Edge is surmounted by two eminences, the an- terior of which is larger than the other, a little deflected outwards, and is named the Orbitar Process. It is supported by a contract- ed portion, forming a sort of neck or pedicle, on the inner side of which there are observed a slight ridge which is articulated with the ethmoidal turbinated bone, and a small channel which belongs to the superior meatus of the nasal fossae. Its form is such as to present five distinct surfaces : 1st, An anterior, uneven, inchned downwards, and articulated to the maxiUary bone; 2dly, A pos- terior, deflected inwards and upwards, united to the sphenoid bone by means of some rugosities which form a cellule in the substance of the process and continuous with the sphenoidal sinuses ; 3dly, An outer, smooth, inclined backwards, forming part of the zygo- matic fossa; 4thly, An inner, inclined downwards, concave, fre- quently hollowed by a cell, and united to the ethmoid bone; Sthly, An upper, smooth and plane, forming the most retired part of the floor of the orbit, separated from the outer by a small blunt edge, which contributes to the formation of the sphenomaxillary fissure. 257. The other eminence of this edge, which is smaller, less ele- vated, broader, and laterally compressed, has received the name of Sphenoidal Process. Internally, it is smooth and concavp, and forms part of the nasal fossae; externally, it enters into the com- position of the zygomatic fossa; at the upper part, where it is very narrow, it unites with the sphenoid bone, and presents a groove which forms the pterygo-palatal canal. In this direction also, it is articulated with the turbinated bone of the sphenoid. 258. These two processes are separated from each other by an almost circular notch, converted by the sphenoid bone into a hole, named the Spheno-Palatal, which corresponds to the nervous