MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 295 the platysma myoides, excepting at its upper part, where it lies under tlie skin and parotid gland. Between it and the platysma myoides are observed the external jugular vein and some nervous filaments of the superficial cervical plexus. Its inner surface is applied inferiorly upon the sterno-clavicular articvdation, the sterno- thyroideus, sterno-hyoideus, and omo-hyoideus muscles, the inter- nal jugular vein, the trunk of the carotid artery, the pneumo-gas- tric nCTve, the cervical plexus, and the communicating cord of the cervical ganglia. Above, it corresponds to the scalenus, levator angubscapulae, splenius, and digastricus muscles, and to the spinal accessory nerve. Its anterior edge is very close below to the muscle of the opposite side, but is very widely separated above. Its upper and lower parts are pretty thick, but in the middle it is thin. The posterior edge is thin and a little concave. 1023. This muscle carries the head forwards, inclines it to its own side, and makes it perform a rotatory motion which turns the face to the opposite side. When the two muscles act together, the head is directly bent, and in this case the thorax requires to be previously fixed below by the recti abdominis. 2. Superior Hyoid Region. OP THE DIGASTEICUS,* BIVENTEK MAXILL.E. (M. Mastoido-Genien, Chauss.) 1024. This muscle is situated on the lateral, upper and anterior parts of the neck, beneath the under jaw. It is thick and fleshy at its extremities, slender and tendinous at the middle, where it is bent upon itself. It arises posteriorly, by aponeurotic fibres, from the mastoidal groove of the temporal bone, and descends obliquely inwards and forwards, at first broader and thicker, but becoming gradually thinner and changing into a pretty strong rounded ten- don, more apparent externally than internally, about two inches long, and which crosses the lower part of the stylo-hyoideus or passes behind it. There it is received into a kind of aponeurotic ring, furnished internally with a small synovial bursa, a line or two in breadth and of variable length, which is attached to the upper edge of the os hyoides, and brings it more or less near to the middle of the muscle. Then a broad and thin aponeurosis is de- tached from the lower edge of the tendon, which here changes its direction, and is bent upon itself. It descends before the mylo- hyoideus, contracts firm adhesion to it, and is also attached to the body of the hyoid bone. The muscle then ascends forwards and inwards toward the base of the jaw, becomes a second time fleshy and thick, approaches that of the opposite side, and is inserted into a fossa situated upon the sides of the symphysis of the chin, by • A), duo i yatfln^, vcnlcr / two-bellicd.