OF THE VAGINAL AND ISCHIATIC ARTEIIIES. 713 pogastric, whether separately, or along with the umbilical, or from the internal pudic. It directs itself at first upon the lateral and upper part of the vagina, between it and the bladder, giving off’ a certain number of twigs to both these organs. It then ascends, in the substance of the ligamentum latum, upon the sides of the uter- us, and has an extremely flexuous course. There, it divides into a great number of twigs which penetrate into the tissue of the or- gan, proceed transversely and in a flexuous manner over its two surfaces, and anastomose in the median line with those of the op- posite side. It also throws upon the Fallopian tube and ligamen- tum teres some small twigs which inosculate with those of the sper- matic arteries (2484). There also commonly proceeds from it one which goes to the vagina, and which frequently traverses its whole length. C. OF THE VAGINAL AKTERY. 2518. Like the preceding, it exists only in the female. Some- times even it is not met with, and is then replaced by twigs of the uterine, vesical and middle hasmorrhoidal arteries, which are dis- tributed in the walls of the vagina. It arises from the hypogastric artery, the internal pudic, the umbilical, the middle haemorrhoidal, and sometimes from the obturator artery. It descends forwards, furnishing a pretty large twig to the lateral region of the bladder, then continues its course over the side of the vagina, gives it nu- merous branches, and reaches as far as its orifice, whence it distri- butes ramifications to the external parts of generation. INFERIOR BRANCHES OF THE HYPOGASTRIC ARTERY. a. OF THE ISCHIATIC ARTERY. (Art. Femoro-poplitee, Chauss.) 2519. It arises from the hypogastric separately, or along with the glutaeal. A little smaller than the latter, it yet appears to be the true continuation of the trunk of the hypogastric. Directed almost vertically downwards between the rectum and the walls of the pelvis, before the pyramidahs muscle, it issues through the lower part of the sciatic notch, between the inferior edge of that muscle and the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament, leaving behind it the great sciatic nerve. 2520. In the pelvis, this artery furnishes some twigs, not of very constant occurrence, to the rectum, the bladder, the uterus, and the levator ani muscle. It also sometimes gives off’ the two pudic, the middle haemorrhoidal and the obturator arteries. 2521. At its leaving the pelvis, the ischiatic artery separates in- to several large branches. One of them directs itself obliquely downwards and inwards, following the origin of the glutaeus maxi-