ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 606 line of demarcation perceived between the two memlnanes. The longitudinal folds which that of the oesophagus forms terminate at the cardia by so many maramellse or tubercles. Besides, the mu- cous membrane of the stomach is thicker than that of the oesopha- gus, which is not covered with villosities. 2090. Between the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, and along the two curvatures only, are observed mucous follicles, of small size, and opening on the inside of the viscus by sunk and not very apparent orifices. They are commonly called Brunner's Glands^ from the name of an anatomist who first described them. 2091. At the place where the pylorus presents the least width, there occurs internally a circular rim, which is flattened and per- pendicular to the walls of the orifice. It has been improperly called the Valve of the Pylorus. It is merely a replication of the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, which corresponds by one of its surfaces to the cavity of that viscus, and by the other to that of the duodenum, and of which the small circumference is thin, free and floating, so as to circumscribe a narrow aperture by which the food passes into the intestines. But its great circumference is formed by a particular fibrous ring, of a sohd texture and white co- lour, placed between the two forementioned membranes. This ring is the Pyloric Muscle of some authors. 2092. The arteries of the stomach are very numerous and very large, compared with the volume of the organ and the thickness of its walls. They come from the two gastro-epiploic, the pyloric, the coronary, and the splenic arteries. They creep at first in the cellular tissue between the peritoneal and muscular coats; but their secondary divisions pass through the latter, and their ulti- mate ramifications form a very delicate network in the substance of the mucous membrane. These arteries are extremely flexuous, on account of the changes of volume to which the stomach is exposed. The veins of the stomach bear the same name, and follow the same course as the arteries. They J50ur their blood into the trunk of the vena portae, or into one of its principal branches. Like the arteries, they anastomose with each other a great number of times. 2093. The lymphatic vessels of the stomach arise at its inner surface or outer surface, and present for the most part their prin- cipal trunks under the peritoneum. They may be referred to three orders. They go particularly to the ganglions placed along the two curvatures, as we shall make known afterwards. 2094. The nerves of the stomach come particularly from the pneumo-gastric nerves (1642), and the three divisions of the co?liac plexus (1845).