OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. 799 at five thousand two hundred feet. Capillary arteries and veins of still greater minuteness are observed among them. These filaments ^are the seminiferous vessels or ducts, whose ca\’ity has not yet been demonstrated by injections. What is po- sitively known with respect to them is, that they present at inter- vals, small bulgings, which some have taken for glandular granu- lations, and others as mere replications, and that they all direct themselves towards the upper edge of the testicle. Before arriving there, several of them unite together to form larger trunks, into which mercury may be passed from the epididymis. These trunks, to the number of ten or twelve, sometimes twenty or thirty, traverse the corpus highmorianum opposite and a little below the head of the epididymis, dilate a little, describej some si- nuosities, and unite to give rise to the canal which forms the epi- didymis. We have no certain knowledge with respect to the intimate structure of these canals, their minuteness rendering their exami- nation impossible. 2904. The arteries of the testicles come from the spermatic. (2451). The spermatic veins take their origin in their substance. (2643). It is not ascertained that any serous filament penetrates their interior; but a great number of lymphatic vessels are seen to issue from them. (2710). 3. OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. 2905. The Epididymis * (ParastataJ is a small oblong, ver- miform body, enlarged at its extremities, thin in its middle part, and fiattened from beneath upwards. It lies along the upper edge of the testicle, to which it appears superadded. Surrounded by a great number of vessels from which it receives several ramifications, the epididymis has a pretty distinct grayish tint. Its upper part, or head, is much larger than the rest. It embraces the corresponding extremity of the testicle, of which it receives the seminiferous trunks, and presents several modulated prominences upon its surface. Its lower part, or tail, adheres pretty firmly to the testicle, and bending upwards and backwards, is continuous with the vas deferens. Its middle part, or body, is only in general connected with the testicle by the intervention of the tunica vaginalis, which goes from the one to the other. The epididymis is situated exteriorly of the sac which that mem- brane forms, which only covers it in the places where it does not adhere to the testicle, and which itself adheres pretty strongly to its surface. On leaving it to invest the testicle, it forms between the two organs two oblong, triangular sinuosities placed in contact by their summits. * Et/, suj)cr ; iculiculus.