OF THE CARUNCULA LACHRYMALIS. 769 fore part of the orbit. Its size is generally about that of a small almond, but its form is liable to vary. Most commonly it repre- sents an ovoid flattened from above downwards, and from without inwards, and whose greatest diameter is directed from before back- wards. Its colour is light yellow inelining to red. 2786. Convex externally and above, the lachrymal gland cor- responds in this direction to the periosteum of the orbit, and is connected with it by a multitude of small filaments which proceed from the one to the other. Slightly concave at its inner and un- der parts, it rests upon the ball of the eye and its external rectus muscle, from which it is separated by a thick layer of adipose tis- sue. Anteriorly, it is protected by the rim of the orbit, and a little by the upper eyelid. Posteriorly, it is immersed in the adi- pose cellular tissue of the orbit. 2787- The lachrymal gland is composed of a considerable num- ber of small lobules connected by cellular tissue, and separated from each other by vessels and nerves which creep in their inter- vals. These lobules themselves are formed of rounded granula- tions, of a reddish white colour, in which the last ramifications of arteries terminate, and in which the radicles of veins commence, but whose more intimate structure is stdl entirely unknown. It is presumed that from each of them issues a small excretory canal, which by uniting with others in its vicinity, gives rise to trunks which are somewhat more distinct, although stiU extremely slender and very httle apparent in man. However, according to the testi- mony of several eminent anatomists, who have seen them injected, it appears that they are six or seven in number, and that they open, internally of the upper eyehd, at some distance from the outer part of the corresponding fibro-cartilage. Their orifices, which are se- parated by pretty narrow intervals, are seen, it is said, upon the conjunctiva, where their series forms a curved fine, the convexity of which is directed upwards and outwards. 2788. A fibro-cellular capsule of considerable thickness enve- lopes the lachrymal gland, and sends partitions into its substance, which separate the lobules from each other. Moreover, the lachry- mal artery (2259), the vein (2597)> the nerve of the same name, must be considered as contributing to the composition of this gland, the use of which is to secrete the tears and pour them upon the fore part of the ball of the eye by the small ducts which we have just mentioned. 2. OF THE CARUNCULA LACHRYMALIS. 2789. The Caruncula Lachrymalis is a small reddish tubercle, of a pyramidal form, varying as to size in different subjects, situat- ed in the inner angle of the eyelids, at the fore part of the ball of the eye, behind and within the puncta lachrymalis. Its base is di- rected backwards and inwatds, its summit forwards and outwards (1844).