nxivfost of the Greek?. OlUiANS OK UKSPlliAl'lO.V, 6^2'2 1. Of THf. I'OEIJK.E.* 214/. The Pleurai fire two tliiii, diaplianous, perspirable mem- ])ranes, which internally cover each side of the chest, and are re- flected from thence over both lungs. Like all the serous mem- branes, to whose order they belong, their internal surface is always in contact with itself, and they thus represent each a bag without aperture. By their meeting together they form the mediastina, and their course is precisely tlic same on either side. Proceeding from the sternum, the pleurae direct themselves out- wards, line the inner sui-fixce of the ribs, their cartilages and the muscles which occupy their intervals, separated, however, from the latter by the intercostal vessels and nerves, and by adipose cellular tissue. They thus advance as far as the vertebral column, re- flected infcriorly over the diaphragm, of which they cover the tho- racic surface, and superiorly under the upper ribs, behind which they form a kind of cul-de-sac for lodging the summits of the lungs. Towards the articulations of the ribs with the vertebrfB, they are applied upon the thoracic nervous ganglia (1834) and their twigs, and then direct themselves over the lateral parts of the body of the vertebrae. There the two pleurae approach each other, although there re- mains between them a narrow and uTegularly ti’angular space, in which are lodged the descending aorta, the oesophagus, the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, the lower part of the trachea, the com- mencement of the bronchi, and a great numbey of lymphatic gan- glia, the whole immersed in a cellular tissue. This place is the Posterior Mediastinum, the direction of which is vertical and pa- rallel to that of the vertebral column. Anterior to this space, the pleurae, which are very close to each other, do not yet come into contact, but pass to the sides of the pe- ricardium, cover them at first over a small extent, and are re- flected over the posterior part of the pulmonary vessels and over the lungs themselves. They cover at first the convex surface of the latter, their summit and base, diving deeply into the interlobular fissures. From thence they return upon their plain surface, the anterior part of the pulmonary vessels, and the other portion of the sides of the pericardium, at the fore part of wdiich they again approach each other. They then gain the posterior surface of the sternum, and the point whence we have considered them as setting out, intercepting between them a space not parallel to the ster- num, but inclined from above downwards and from right to left, broader below than above, very narrow at its middle part, and re- pi’esenting a kind of cross, of which the lower branches are more widely separated than the upper. This space, w'hich is commonly named the Anterior Mediastinum, lodges the thymus gland