OF THE SESAMOID BONES. 3.59 transverse direction, gives attachment at its upper and posterior part, to the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum, and sus- tains tlie nail at its upper and fore part. Inferiorly, it presents at the back part a tubercle, whieh receives the insertion of the ten- don of the flexor communis perforans. Their Posterior Extre- mity or Base is much larger than the anterior. In other respects, it is similar to that of the second phalanges. The Anterior Ex- tremity or Summit is fungiform, rounded, tubercular, and is con- nected with the pulp of the toes. 540. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The first phalanges of the toes are similar to those of the fingers, with respect to their composition and mode of growth ; but the second and third are formed of cellular tissue, invested by a thin layer of compact tissue, and are only developed by two, and sometimes by a single point of ossification, on account of their smallness. Wlaen there are two of these points, the one occupies the posterior extremity, the other the body. The anterior extremity does not present an epiphysis. The first phalanges articulate with the metatarsal bones and the second phalanges ; the latter with the first and third. In the great toe, the first phalanx is connected directly with the last. OF THE SESAMOID BONES.* 541. The Sesamoid Bones are small irregular bodies, varying in number, and irregular in their occurrence, but which generally exist more numerously in the male than in the female, and which are met with in certain joints of the fingers and toes. They vary much in their form, and are composed of spongy tissue covered by a slight layer of compact tissue. They do not exist in children, and are ordy developed in advanced age in the tendons which sur- round the joint to which they belong. 542. In the hand, two are commonly met with at the anterior part of the first joint of the thumb, sometimes one or two at the corresponding joint of the fore-finger, another at that of the little finger, and one at the second joint of the thumb. It is seldom that they are observed in any of the other joints, although Mor- gagni mentions such an occurrence. The two first of the thumb are of an oblong form, convex anteriorly, covered with cartilage, and lodged in a groove of the inferior extremity of the first meta- carpal bone. Sometimes one of them is larger than the other. They are enveloped by the fibres of the tendon of the flexor brevis muscle, while the tendon of the flexor longus passes between them. 543. In the foot there are in like manner three for the great toe. Their form is the same as those of the thumb. One is also pret- ty frequently found at the first joint of the second toe, and another at that of the fifth. * ohformam setami, grants fere similem.