84. PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tluin before, where it retains its straightness. In its substance there are formed most commonly sixteen alveoli, sometimes only fourteen or fifteen, and in a few rare cases eighteen, which are in- tended for the reception of the teeth, and constitute together the Lower Alveolar Arch. As in tlie upper jaw, the alveoli vary in their form according to the kind of teeth which they receive. The two middle are the smallest and narrowest; those which succeed them are a little larger; but the third on each side, which contains tlie canine tooth, is evidently the deepest. Those of the small grinders, which come next, are shorter, and are commonly single. The sixth on each side, which is square and generally divided into two, is the largest. The seventh preserves nearly the same dimensions and form; but the eighth contracts, becomes triangular, and in many cases pre- sents only a single cavity. Its inner waU forms a remarkable pro- minence above the obhque line, and is much thinner than the outer. AU these cavities are perforated, at their summit, by small aper- tures for the passage of vessels and nerves which are distributed to the teeth. The alveoli form prommences and depressions of vari- ous sizes on both sides of the dentary arch externally, correspond- ing to their cavities and the intervals by which they are separated. These prominences are always larger at the fore part of the jaw than on the sides or behind, where sometimes they are not observ- able at all. These parts are covered by the gums. 293. The alveolar arch is surmounted posteriorly by the coro- noid process,* a triangular eminence, slightly inclined outwards at its summit, varying as to size, acuteness and general direction in different individuals. It seems to arise anteriorly from the union of the outer and inner oblique Hues, which approach each other as they ascend, leaving in their interval a groove into which the buc- cinator muscle is inserted. The obhque line is prolonged on the inner surface, and forms there a pretty considerable projection. The summit of this process is embraced by the tendon of the tem- poral muscle. Its outer surface corresponds to the masseter muscle, the inner to the pterygoideus internus. 294. Posterior or Parotideal Edge. This edge is free, blunt, nearly vertical, and forms, with the lower edge, the angle of the jaw, which is more or less obtuse, seldom straight and frequently deflected outwards. Externally the angle gives insertion to the masseter, internally to the pterygoideus internus, posteriorly and between these muscles to the stylo-maxillary ligament. The posterior edge, which corresponds nearly in its whole ex- tent to the parotid gland, becomes gradually broader toward its upper part, and is terminated above by an oblong convex eminence, higher within than Avithout, bent forAvards, and directed obliquely inwards and backwards, so that its axis, if prolonged, AA'ould form an angle of from 110 to 136 Avith that of the opposite side. Tliis * So named from its resemblance to the beak of a croAV, in Greek