PASSWE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. gameiit, unci proceeding a little inwards, is inserted wholly into the tuberosity of the os cuboides. 758. Synovial Memhrnna. Its course is sufficiently simple, as it only covers the two cartilaginous surfaces, and the upper and in- ferior deep ligaments between the calcaneum and cuboid bone. It is seen exposed in several of the interstices in the former. Exter- nally, it coi-res ponds to the sheath of the peroneus longus, and in- ternally to a fibrous and cellular tissue. 9. ARTICULATION OF THE SCAPHOID WITH THE CUROID BONE. 759. A kind of inteTOsseous ligament is observed between the scaphoid and cuboid bones. It is very strong and firm, with short and dense fibres, and is firmly attached to the two bones. In the .sole of the foot, there is also observed another inferior ligament^ which is rounded, concealed in the cellular tissue, and extendecl obliquely between the scaphoid and cuboid bones. When the two bones touch each other by a surface covered with cartilage, there is observed, moreover, a small special synovial hag, and a dorsal ligament, which passes transversely under the form of a quadrilateral fasciculus, and is covered by the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. 10. ARTICULATION OF THE THIRD CUNEIFORM BONE IVITH THE CUBOID. 760. The outer side of the third cuneiform bone is articulated to the os cuboides by a cartilaginous surface, covered by a synovial capsule. A dorsal ligament and a plantar ligament are the only bonds of this articulation. The first, which is thin and oblique, is inserted into the upper part of the neighbouring edge of the two bones. Its fibres are separated by vascular intervals ; the other, which is much thicker, is seen at the lower surface of the tarsus. It is attached to the inner part of the os cuboides, and passes over to the plantar surface of the third cuneiform bone. Its fibres are transverse. There also occurs between these two bones, in the points where they are not in immediate contact, a fibrous and cellular tissue, analogous to most of the interosseous ligaments. 11. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CUNEIEORM BONES WITH THE SCAPHOID. 761. The scaphoid bone is articulated by means of its anterior surface with the three cuneiform bones, forming an arthrodia. The surfaces by which these bones are in contact are covered with cartilages, which are continuous with those of the articulations of