444 ORGANS OF SENSATION. nerve. The same nerve .sometimes unite large and small cords; at other times they are equal, as in the sciatic nerve, &c. 1532. Every encephalic nerve is enveloped by an external mem- brane, which forms for each of its filaments a true canal in which is contained a white medullary matter. This membrane is the Neurilemma* That wh^?h surrounds the vertebral nerves is manifestly continuous with the proper membrane of the spinal marrow (1525;) and, in like manner, that which envelopes the nerves at the level of the cerebral protuberance appears to be identified with the pia mater, which invests that portion of the brain. The olfactory nerve has no neurilemma, and the optic nerve presents it only after its commissure. The neurilemma adheres strongly to the cellular tissue. It is transparent, and seems fibrous. It is very easily hardened under the action of acids or caloric; by long-continued boiling it acquires a peculiar yellowish tint; allcaliea have no effect upon it; macera- tion does not dissolve it, and it resists putrefaction for a very long time. Its tenacity is considerable; but its intimate nature is yet very little known. 1533. In each tube formed by the neurilemma is a medullary substancef which exactly fills it. It seems of the same nature as the white substance of the brain and spinal marrow. It is from it that the nerve derives its peculiar tint. By desiccation it becomes sensibly yellow. It resists putrefaction more than the encephalic tissue. Like it it does not harden either under the influence of caloric, or under that of acids. Like it, also, it remains suspended in water under the form of an emulsion. By ebullition, it acquires a dull and gray hue. Sulphuric acid at first hardens it, and then reduces it to a pulp; nitric acid only renders it yellow and hardens it; alcohol also hardens it, while the alkalies dissolve it. We have to remark, however, that many anatomists, even of the jmesent day, do not admit this intimate structure of the nerves, and refuse to the neurilemma the canaliculate form which we have attributed to it above; but when these organs are submitted to the action of different reagents, as they have been by Reil and Bichat, the circumstances mentioned above are met with. 1534. The nerves are invested and connected with the neigh- bouring parts, by an abundant layer of adipose cellular tissue, which sends off internally prolongations which separate and isolate the nervous cords and filaments from each other. The principal of these prolongations generally contain fat; but those which are interposed between the nervous filaments themselves do not contain any. This cellular tissue unites the cords of the nerves and their filamehts, so that no motion can take place between them. It is not observed around the nerves that are lodged in a bony canal. • Niu^ov, ncrviia ; Atfi/ta, tunica. + Soinc aiitliors, niid among the rest Monro, are of opinion that a gray substance also exi6ts in tlie nerves.