OF IHE LUNGS. (Tin go ])artly to tlie liypogastric, and partly to the inferior mesaraic. Its nerves come from the sciatic (17f>^n hypogastric (18G1) plexus.* CLASS SECOND. ARTICLE SECOND. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. \.—OF THE LUNGS. a. CONFORMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2141. T\ie Lungs (Fubnones)-f axe two spongy, cellular, ex- pansible organs, contained within the cavity of the thorax, separa- ted from each other by the mediastina and the heart, surrounded by membranes which are named pleurae, and destined to produce changes upon the air and blood which penetrate into them, on which is essentially founded the act of respiration. Although the lungs are to appearance separate and distinct, they are yet vertically united to each other, since they receive the air by a single canal, and as the blood is transmitted to them by a single ve.ssel. Their volume is not equal however, but on account of the projection of the diaphragm on the right side caused by the liver (821), and the obliquity of the mediastinum to the left, the right lung is thicker than the left, which in its turn has a greater vertical extent than it. The left lung is also a little smaller than the right. In all cases, the volume of the lungs is exactly proportioned to the capacity of the cavity of the thorax, being so much the larger the wider the latter is. They follow very accurately the motions im- pressed upon its walls, against which they are always applied, and dilate and contract like them ; nor does any vacuity ever exist in the interior of the chest. 2142. The lungs are proportionally much lighter than the other organs ; they never sink in water so long as they are in their na- tural state, and this lightness depends upon the air Avhich pene- trates their whole tissue. In infants which have never breathed, the lungs generally sink in the fluid in which they are immersed. • According’ to the phy.'<iologlcn] ordgr, we ought to describe here the orgnns of ab.sorptioa ; but as their study is considcrnljly lacilitali <1 by that of the organs of circulation, we shall defer their exiiuiiiiatioii until wo have described tlie latter. + of ^le Greets.