481 OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. the posterior brancli of the first cervical nerve. One of these lat- ter passes behind the muscle, and tlie other traverses it, to throw itself into the middle part of the complexus major. They vary much in respect to size. In some subjects, in place of these three twigs, the branch im- mediately divides into seven or eight filaments which proceed di- rectly to their destination. OF THE NERVES WHICH 1>.\S9 THROUGH THE INTERVERTEBRAL FORAJIINA OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN AND THROUGH THE .SACRAL FORAMINA. IG57. These nerves, of which there are thirty pairs, seven for the cervical region, twelve for the dorsal, five for the lumbar, and six for the sacral, all agree in possessing the following characters: 1st, they rise from the sides of the spinal marrow by means of two roots, an interior and smaller, and a posterior or larger, between which passes the ligamentum dentatum ; 2dly, each of these roots is formed by a greater or less number of distinct filaments, separ- ated from each other at their commencement; 3dly, before issu- ing from the vertebral canal, they traverse a certain space in its interior ; 4thly, in their passage through the intervertebral holes, they unite; 5thly, but previous to this, the posterior root alone forms a particular enlargement or a kind of ganglion of a grayish colour and oval form, hard, and of a texture difficult to be deter- mined, which is lodged in a cavity furnished by the bony surfaces. OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. 1658. The first of these nerves passes between the atlas and axis ; the' last between the seventh cervical vertebra and the first dorsal. They are distinguished by their numerical names, counting from above downwards. Their anterior roots commonly arise from the spinal marrow by two bundles formed of seven or eight fila- ments, isolated at their very commencement, but uniting almost immediately, and proceeding from above downwards gradually in- creasing in size. The posterior roots, which are much larger, arise by a variable number of fibres (three or four for the first, six or seven for the next three, eight or nine for the last) in a pretty dis- tinct groove of the spinal marrow (1447.) Each of these bundles is composed of several isolated filaments, less distinct than those of the anterior roots, and which converge towards each other, so as to give to the root a pyramidal form. It is also pretty frequently re- marked, that between two of these roots there exists a middle fila- ment, which bifurcates in such a manner as to belong equally to both. The first two pairs of cervical nerves proceed nearly in a trans-