254 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. press the lower ribs in ptirticular, or to raise the upper, accordiini- as it acts from tlie lumbar region or from the cervical. The longissimus clorsi fixes the transverse processes, tending to lower them upon the pelvis, and concurs in this manner, with the semi- spinalis dorsi and multifidus spina? to keep the vertebral column erect. OF THF. TllANSVEUSUS CEIIVICIS, Oil THANSVEIISALIS COI.I.I. 830. The Transversus Cervicis is situated on the posterior and lateral parts of the neck and the upper part of the back. It is slender, elongated, flattened from within outwards, thinner at its extremities than in the middle, and arises, most commonly, by six small tendons, from the transverse processes of the eighth, seventh, sixth, flfth, fourth, and third dorsal vertebrae. These tendons are so much the longer the lower they are, and cross at right angles those of the longissimus dorsi. They ascend almost vertically, and are replaced by fleshy tongues which cover each other and are mutually confounded. These tongues, in their turn, are terminated by tendons similar to the preceding, but so much longer the higher they are. They are accompanied by the fleshy fibres as far as their insertion, and are attached below the posterior tubercle of the transverse processes of the sixth, fifth, fourth, third, and second cervical vertebrae, so that the muscle is not connected with the two first dorsal or the last cervical vertebra. 831. The posterior edge of the transversus cervicis is almost confounded above with the small complexus muscle. In the middle, it is covered by the levator anguli scapulas, and the ser- ratus posticus superior; and below, by the longissimus dorsi, with which it is also in part confounded. Its anterior edge covers the transverse processes of the vertebrae, from the second cervical to the eighth dorsal. Its outer surface, which inclines a little back- wards, corresponds to the splenius, levator anguli scapulae, and sa- cro-lumbalis; the inner is applied upon the complexi, and part of the semi-spinalis dorsi. 832. The transversus cervicis extends the vertebrae of the neck, and inclines them to either side. 3. Lateral Vertebral Region. OF THE INTER-TRANSVEESALES COLLI. 833. The Inter-transversales Colli are small, quadrilateral, thin, flat bundles, placed two and two in the intervals of the transverse processes of the neck, excepting between the first and second, where there is only one. They are distinguislied into anterior and pos- terior : the former are six in number, the latter five. The two muscles of each interval are attached separately, the one to the anterior, the other to the posterior edge of the groove, which is ob- served on the transverse process liclow. They then ascend paral- lel to each other, and separated by the anterior branches of the