PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 28 the true ribs. It reeeives its development from eight or nine eentres of ossifieation, and sometimes more. ISeclard, with great propriety, considers the sternum as compos- ed of six principal bones, some of which, the first for example, are developed by two osseous nuclei. The fifth of these bones occu- pies the fifth intercostal space, together with the sixth, which is very narrow. The whole collectively appears to form a sort of chain.* In about one subject out of fifty, there remains an aperture be- tween the fourth and the fifth of these sternal bones, or between these two bones themselves; the sternum is proportionally longer and narrower in the female than in the male. h. OF THE RIBS. 82. The Ribs (Costce) are irregular, very elastic bones, bent in various directions, raised at one of their extremities, flattened and rather thin before, rounded and thick behind, always articulat- ed with the dorsal vertebrae, and often, but not always, with the sternum, which permits their being distinguished into two classes, viz. true or vertehro-sterQial ribs, and/aZse or asternal. There are seven true, and five false ribs, on each side. These are commonly designated by their numerical name, countmg from above down- wards.-f- 83. The length of the ribs gradually increases to the eighth, and then diminishes to the twelfth. Their breadth diminishes in- sensibly from the first to the twelfth. The first is nearly horizontal. The others become gradually more inchned as they descend. In general, the posterior part of the ribs is curved according to a line belonging to a smaller diameter than the fore part. The first rib is also much nearer the axis of the chest than the others, which retire more and more from it as they descend. It represents a rather small and nearly regular semicircle. Those which follow, are less regularly curved, form a part of a larger cir- cle, present a remarkable projection behind, and are twisted upon • Bedard has given a particular name to each of these bones. The first, which the German anatomists have already named, the handle (mantthrium), is his pri- mi-sternal, or clavi-sternal; they become afterwards successively duo-sternal, tii- sternal, quarti-sternal, and ultirai-sternal, or ensi-sternal. Tlie attempt of M. Bedard to give a philosophical nomenclature to the bones of the sternum was, to say the least of it, imprudent and ill-judged; his knowledge of comparative anatomy was quite inadequate to the attempt. The mode of deter- mining the various bones of the sternum, and of applying to them correct philoso- phical terms, is a subject infinitely above the reach of a mere teacher of human ana- tomy, and can succeed in the hands of the comparative anatomists only. K. f It not unfrcqucntly happens that the number of ribs is found to vary. There arc never, however, more than thirteen on each side, or less than eleven. Some- times this disposition exists on one side only. When the number of ribs is thus in- creased or diminished, the same phenomenon is observed with respect to the dor- sal vertebra: