OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 759 Several of those of the left side end in the splenic ganglia, or in those which cover the corresponding pillar of the diaphragm. 6. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE WALLS OE THE PELVIS AND APDOMEN. 2746. IHo Lumbar Lymphatics. They originate in the substance of the iliacus muscle, and upon the iliac bone, uniting afterwards into two trunks which pass under the psoas muscle, and subdivide again to terminate partly in the inferior lumbar ganglia, and partly to contribute to the formation of the External Iliac Lymjjhatic Plextis, or the assemblage of lymphatics which accompany the ex- ternal iliac vessels, passing from one ganglion to the other, and anastomosing thousands of times with each other. 2747. Sacral Lymphatics. These arise from the adipose tissue in which the rectum, sacral nerves, and pyramidalis muscle are im- mersed. Some of them issue from the sacral canal by the anterior sacral holes, and all terminate in the inferior lumbar or hypogas- tric ganglia. Those which go to the latter contribute to form the Hypogastric lyymphatic Plexus, which, like the external iliac plexus, is constituted by an intertexture of vessels and ganglia, and is placed upon the sides of the pelvis. It is in it that the ob- turator, glutaeal, ischiatic, uterine and vesical lymphatics terminate. Externally, it is continuous with the corresponding external iliac plexus, internally with its fellow on the middle of the sacrum, and superiorly with the lumbar lymphatic plexus. 2748. Epigastric Lymphatics. Arising from the anterior wall of the abdomen, in the vicinity of the umbilicus, they pass from within outwards through the abdominal aponeurosis, and dive into the recti muscles, where they are joined by new twigs which come from these muscles themselves and from the obliqui and transversus muscles. They then unite into several trunks, descend along the course of the epigastric vessels, and subdivide in some small ganglia situated near the crural arch, to terminate afterwards in the exter- nal iliac plexus. 2749. Circumflex Iliac Lymphatics. Their radicles are distributed in the integuments of the sides of the belly, and pass successively through the substance of the transversus and obliqui museles, where they are augmented by some others. They then collect in- to some trunks which descend forwards towards the iliac crest, which they follow, accompanying the circumflex iliac vessels as far IS one of the external iliac gangilia. 2750. Lumbar Lymphatics. Their roots, which are extremely numerous, commence in the quadratus lumborum, and obliqui and transversus abdominis muscles, and in the interior of the vertebral ;anal. The trunks which result from their union accompany the lumbar arteries, pass between the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, divide into several ganglia placed between the transverse 3 D