ORGANS OF GENERATION. 814. 2959. Outer Surface. Anteriorly and posteriorly, it is invested above by the peritoneum -over a very small extent. Anteriorlv and inferiorly, it is in contact with the bladder and urethra. Posterior- ly and inferiorly, it rests upon the rectum. It is connected with these different organs by a rather dense cellular tissue. On the sides, it corresponds above to the broad ligaments of the uterus, and below to a mass of cellular tissue which separates it from the levatores ani muscles, and in which creep the uterine and vesical vessels, and the umbilical artery. 2960. Inner Surface. The walls of the cavity of the vagina are in contact with each other in their ordinary state, and invested with a more or less thick layer of mucus. Its cavity is dilated in the ratio of the number of births and the frequency of coition. The anterior wall is intersected longitudinally and in the middle by a narrow and elongated ridge, more distinct on the side next the vulva than near the uterus. In the former direction it even frequently forms a pretty prominent tubercle beneath the orifice of the urethra. On the posterior wall a similar but less apparent ridge is observed. These two walls present, moreover, a great number of transverse wrinkles, which are effaced on the sides, and which are much more prominent and more numerous in the vici- nity of the vulva than near the uterus, where they follow all sorts of directions. All these rugae are intersected at right angles by the two longitudinal ridges of which we have spoken, and are en- tirely formed by the mucous membrane which lines the canal. 2961. The upper extremity of the Vagina is fixed around the upper part of the neck of the uterus, a little higher behind than before. The lower extremity forms in the vulva a fissure elon- gated from above downwards, and from before backwards. h. ORGANIZATION OF THE VAGINA. 2962. The vagina is lined by a mucous membrane, around which there are observed a layer of erectile spongy tissue, and ano- ther cellulo-vascular membrane. A constrictor muscle (IO76), to- gether with numerous vessels and nerves, also enters mto the com- position of this organ. 2963. Mucous Membrane. It is evidently the continuation of that of the vulva, and is equally continuous with the mucous membrane of the uterus. Inferiorly it is of a bright red colour, becomes whitish or grayish above, and posteriorly often presents irregular bluish or livid spots. Between the rugosities of which we have spoken above, it is perforated with a great number of pores, which are the orifices of its mucous follicles, or rather of its iacume. Its thickness diminishes in proportion as it retires in the vulva towards the neck of the uterus. In some places it has a neai'ly cartilaginous consistence. In its whole extent, it is invested by a very distinct epidermis.