498 ORGANS OF SENSATION. ANTEUIOll BRANCHES. 1716. The first issues under the first rib, and the twelfth under the last rib. They have this in common, that each of them receives one or two filaments from each thoracic ganghon. They then pro- ceed outwards under the pleura to the angle of the ribs, where they enter between the two planes of the intercostal muscles, after which they draw near the lower edge of the rib immediately above them, and follow its course, which gives them a different inclination (85). They also accompany in a more or less intimate manner the inter- costal vessels, and in particular the artery of that name. 1717- Anterior Branch of the First Dorsal Pair. Imme- diately after its origin, and after its communication with the first thoracic ganglion, it furnishes a twig which proceeds obliquely downwards under the inferior surface of the first rib, runs along its inner edge, arrives near the sternum, perforates the intercostal muscles, and loses itself on the upper and fore part of the thorax, after giving several filaments to the muscles just named. With respect to the branch itself, it descends outwards before the neck of the rib, and unites with the seventh cervical nerve to assist in forming the brachial plexus (I678). 1718. Anterior Branch of the Second Dorsal Pair. It directs itself along the inner surface of the second rib, as far as the ante- rior edge of the seri’atus magnus, where it divides into two twigs, an intercostal properly so called, and a brachial, after sometimes furnishing a considerable filament which ramifies m the posterior part of the intercostal muscles. The intercostal twig continues to run along the lower edge of the rib, gives filaments to the intercostal muscles, and, on arriving at the sternum, emerges between that bone and the external inter- costal muscle, and is expanded by several twigs on the anterior part of the thorax and in the pectoralis major. The brachial twig immediately perforates the external intercos- tal muscle, after giving it some small filaments, and descends obliquely outwards into the axilla, where it sometimes receives a filament of communication from the internal cutaneous brachial nerve (1685), which augments its size. It then descends along the inner and back part of the arm, sends several filaments to the integu- ments, and loses itself near the elbow by a great number of ramifi- cations. 1719. Anterior Branch of the Third Dorsal Pair. It follows the lower edge of the third rib as far as its middle, gives some fila- ments to the posterior part of the intercostal muscles, and divides into two twigs. One of these, the intercostal, follows the same di- rection as the branch, gives off but few filaments, passes under the triangularis sterni, furnishes it with some ramifications, and is ex- panded near the sternum upon the anterior part of the thorax, 'file other, the brachial twig, gives some filaments to the intercos-