OllGANS OF SENSATION. 43G tlic tciltorium cercbclli. Tliey pass above tlie trifacial nerve, and at its level leave for a moment the groove of the temporal bone. They are less broad but longer than the inferior. They open into the lateral sinuses, towards tlie point where the latter experience a curvature. They are triangular in their interior, and present but very few transverse bridles. 1511. Inferior petrous sinuses. They arise from the caver- nous sinuses at the same point as the preceding, with which, they, communicate at the moment of their commencement, descend be- hind and to the outside of the inferior edge of the petrous and ba- silar processes, and terminate in the lateral sinuses at the level of the sinus of the internal jugular vein. They are broader at their extremities than at their middle part, and present the same struc- ture as the superior petrous sinuses. Their inner wall, that which is immediately applied upon the bone, appears to be formed only of the internal membrane of the veins, no lamina of the dura ma- ter being perceived upon it. The two kinds of petrous sinuses receive veins of no great im- portance, all of which come from the dura mater. Some of them traverse the bones and communicate with the outside of the skull. 1512. Transverse Sinus (Anterior occipital sinus, Soemm.) Placed transversely at the upper part of the basilar proces.", it forms a communication between the union of the two petrous sinuses and cavernous sinus of the one side with that of the other. It varies in breadth, but is always of large size, and is lodged between two laminae of the dura mater, in a superficial depression of the bone. In its interior, it presents a very distinct cavernous tissue. It re- ceives several veins from the labyrinth. It is by no means rare to see two or three other transverse sinu- ses placed between the latter and the occipital hole. OF THE PIA MATER. 1513. The Fia Mater, (Meninx Interior, Soemm.) like the dura mater, covers the brain on all sides, and like the arachnoid membrane, is prolonged into its internal cavities ; but it also be- longs to the anfractuosities and depressions which are observed at its surface. It is not prolonged over the spinal marrow. We also observe that, properly speaking, it is not a true membrane analo- gous to the organs that are known under that name. It is a cel- lular, loose, transparent web, without consistence, in which there ramify and cross each other in a thousand different directions a multitude of blood vessels, more or less delicate, and more or less tortuous, and which is only attached to the surface of the brain by the ramuscules of these vessels which penetrate into the substance of the latter organ. 1514. External Pia Mater, Above, the pia mater, covers on