ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. fasciculi to form an entire muscle of them, tlie cellular tissue con- stitutes a very distinct layer around it, and this layer in most cases is of a membranous appearance, rather loose, and filled with fat in greater or less quantity according to the subject. It is of it that the general sheath of the united fasciculi is constituted; and the cellular tissue of the muscles may be considered as a collection of envelopes contained within each other, and diminishing in thick- ness and denseness from without inwards, so that those which sur- round the fasciculi of a lower order are in a manner invisible, so great do their tenuity and softness become. 783. Now, this cellular tissue of which we have already had re- peated occasion to speak, is itself an assemblage of lamellae, of very minute, soft whitish filaments, crossing each other in a multitude of different directions, leaving in their intervals areohe, consisting of numerous irregular cellules, which communicate with each other. This tissue/surroirnds and penetrates all the organs 6f the system. It is the seat of a serous exhalation, the product of which is accu- mulated in greater or less quantity in its cellules. It must not be confounded with another tissue which is also very extensively dis- tributed, and which is immersed in its proper substance. I mean the Adipose Tissue. This, wdrich is in particular very abundant in the general cellular envelope of the muscles, is composed of small masses, pretty regularly rounded, agglomerated and connected with each other. Each of these granulations is a small membran- ous, isolated ve.sicle, filled with fat, and of which the interior is di- vided by several incomplete partitions, while its surface is covered by blood-vessels.* 784. From the neighbom-ing trunks the muscles receive very distinct arteries, w'hose size and number are always proportional to the volume of the muscle. They penetrate its substance from all points of its surface, although their entrances, are generally more towards the middle than at the extremities. Their principal branches creep at first between the largest fleshy fibres ; then they divide and subdivide into an almost infinite number of ramifica- tions which ultimately become capillary, to be introduced, always running along the cellular envelopes, and incessantly presenting new divisions and new anastomoses, between the subordinate fasci- culi and betw'een the fibres themselves. With the exception of certain viscera, such as the lungs and kidneys, there are few' organs which receive so much blood as the muscles. 785. The veins follow, in the muscles, the same progress as the arteries, which they accompany along their whole course; but they surpass them, as they do every where else, in number and magni- tude. Some of their principal branches even creep at the surface of the muscles, without corresponding to any artery. Bichat is of opinion that in general they are but scantily supplied with valves. Bedard, Propositions sur qiielques points de Medecine. -tto, Paris, 181S.