ORGANS OF SENSATION. 464 ance. It proceeds forwards, upwards and outwards, along the basilar groove, to beneath the posterior clinoid process, where it perforates thefdura mater on the sides of the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone. It then enters the cavernous sinus, in the in- terior of which it is accompanied to a certain distance by the arachnoid membrane, which has furnished it with an envelope from its commencement. It is situated externally of the internal carotid artery, with which it is connected by a pretty dense cellular tissue, and is separated from the blood of the sinus by a fold of the internal membrane of the latter. In the sinus itself, it is directed outwards and downwards, and acquires a reddish tint and a somewhat larger volume. In passing above the orifice of the carotid canal, it receives from behind forwards two or three grayish and soft filaments which come^rom the superior cervical ganglion. 1603. The external motor nerve enters into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. The dura mater affords it a particular aper- ture above that of the ophthalmic vein. It passes between the two posterior fasciculi of the rectus externus of the eye, along with the common motor and nasal nerves, with which it is pretty intimate- ly connected. Then, prolonging itself along the ocular surface of that muscle, it loses itself entirely in its substance by several fila- ments which penetrate it in a divergent manner. OF THE FACIAL NERVE, OR PORTIO DURA OF THE SEVENTH PAIR. 1604. The real origin of this nerve is distinguished with great difficulty, and it cannot be made to come in a clear manner from a remote part of the spinal marrow. It becomes apparent immedi- ately behind the posterior edge of the annular protuberance, in its angle of union with the restiform body, some lines to the outside of the preceding, one line only before the acoustic nerve. It forms at first a flat, very white, soft cord, not enveloped by the neurilem- ma, and adhering for some time, by its upper edge, to the peduncle of the cerebellum. Some very slender filaments then join it, and seem to be detached from the acoustic nerve. Their connection with the latter nerve is seldom evident, but they always form a dis- tinct origin between those of the two nerves themselves. 1605. After becoming free, the facial nerve is invested with a neurilemma, and continues to proceed outwards, upwards, and for- wards, applied in a sort of groove formed upon the acoustic nerve, with which it penetrates into the internal auditory canal, and which it afterwards leaves to pass into the aqueduct of Fallopius (180.) It passes through this canal in its whole extent, and issues from it by the stylo-mastoid hole to be spread out upon the face. 1606. Opposite the hiatus Fallopii, the upper filament of the vidian nerve is applied from behind forwards upon the facial nerve, without really anastomosing with it. A little farther on, there is detached from it a very minute filament which loses itself in the in-