333 MUSCLES or THE FORE-ARM. a sort of concave channel, which receives the corresponding ten- dons of the flexor profundus; but, towards the lower part of the tirst phalanges, they actually split in the middle to aflbrd a passage to these latter, and divide into two portions, which separate at first, then turn and approach each other, so as to fonn anteriorly a se, cond channel wdiich is filled by the tendon of one of the portions of the flexor profundus. These two portions unite towards the ar- ticulation of the first and second phalanges, and send off' to each other small fibrous bands which regularly cross each other. Last- ly, they separate again, contract and terminate on the sides of the anterior surface of the second phalanx, a little beneath its middle part. At the moment of tlieir first separation, these portions are at- tached to the anterior surface of the metacarpal phalanges by two pretty long and very slender ligamentous bridles. Sometimes there is only one. 1174. Synovial Bursa of the carpus. It is spread out, on the one hand, upon the tendons of the two common flexors of the fingers, and of the flexor longus poUicis, and upon the median nerve, which it embraces and seems to unite into a common bundle; and, on the other hand, upon the anterior surface of the carpal bones efnd the posterior surface of the annular ligament, above and below wliich it forms a sort of cul-de-sac. It sends a considerable number of replications between these different parts, and contains very little synovia. 1175. Fibrous sheaths of the Fingers. The sheaths which we have just mentioned, form with the anterior surface of the pha- langes, a true canal, half bony and half fibrous, which lodges the tendons of each of the portions of the two flexor muscles. They commence beneath the inferior metacarpal ligament (699), from which several fibres are sent off to join them, and terminate at the extreme phalanx by interlacing with the expansion of the tendon of the flexor profundus, being in their whole extent attached along the edges of the phalanges. Their anterior surface is covered by the skin and collateral vessels of the fingers; the posterior is smooth and lined by a synovial membrane. The tissue of these sheaths is very compact. They are formed of interlaced trans- verse fibres, of a pearly colour, and are very thick at the middle of the first and second phalanges, but opposite their articulation, dis- appear entirely, so as to leave the synovial membra;ne exposed. The latter proceeds fiom the wall of the sheaths over the tendons, forming above and below very distinct culs-de-sac, and enveloping these tendons in a double web, which is fixed posteriorly against the phalanges by a triangular replication formed of two lamina; placed back to back. This separation which exists between the two ter- minal slips of the tepdons of the flexor perforatus is filled by pro- longations of the synovial membrane. 1176. The anterior surface of the flexor perforatus is covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, and palmaris longus, the