MUSCLES OF THE LEGk 375 OF THE TIBIALIS POSTICUS. 1350. Elongated, flat, much thicker above than below, and some- what of the form of a triangular prism, this muscle bifurcates at its upper part to allow a passage to the anterior tibial vessels. The outer and smaller branch of this bifurcation, arises from the inner and back part of the fibula ; the other, which is larpr, is attached to the oblique line of the tibia, to its posterior surface, and to the interosseous ligament. From thence the muscle descends at first nearly vertically and afterwards a little inwards, successively re- ceiving fibres which come from an aponeurotic septum placed be- tween it and the flexor communis ^gitorum and flexor proprius pollicis. It increases in size to its middle part, and diminishes far- ther down. It terminates at length by a tendon which commences pretty high upon its inner and fore side, and which, after becom- ing free, passes into the groove formed behind the malleolus inter- nus, as we have already mentioned (1347,) where it increases jnuch in breadth, to be inserted at the lower and inner part of the os scaphoides, and by a prolongation into the base of the first cuneiform bone. The portion of this tendon which passes under the head of the astragalus contains a sesamoid bone. 1351. The anterior surface of this muscle covers the fibula, the tibia, a large extent of the interosseous ligament, and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament (7^1 •) The i)osterior surface is co- vered by the soleus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor proprius pollicis muscles, and by the malleolar fibrous sheath (1347-) 1352. It extends the foot upon the leg, raising its inner edge. It also extends the leg upon the foot. OF THE JFLEXOR L03SH5PS TOLLICIS.. 1353. Fleshy, thick and flattened above, of the form of a trian- gular prism in the middle, slender and tendinous below, and situ- ated at the back part of the leg and the under part of the foot, this muscle arises from the two lower thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the interosseous ligament, 4ind from two aponeuro- tic partitions which separate it from the two preceding muscles on the one hand, and on the other from the peroneus longus and pe- roneus brevis. It descends vertically behind the fibula, becoming larger as far as its middle, and then contracting again. Arrived at the lower part of the leg, it terminates by a tendon at first con- cealed among its fleshy fibres until opposite the ankle joint. There, it becomes nearly horizontal, enters a groove formed behind the in- ferior extremity of the tibia, (511) and the posterior surface of the astragalus, (521), where it is kept down by a ligamentous sheath which is lined by a synovial bur.sa, and which accompanies it under the arch of the calcancum in a particular depression. It is there