THE TEMl'OllAL liONE. 55 the tympanum, and descends first obliquely, then vertically, into the inner wall of that cavity, to end in the stylo-mastoid hole. This canal is lined by a very thin fibrous prolongation, and perfo- rated in its passage by several apertures, independently of that of the hiatus Fallopii. Bertin has mentioned one at the level of the latter, but much smaller than it, and opening into one of the semicircular canals. M. Jacobson has lately described another which leads into a groove, or according to Bcclard, into a canal formed on the promontory of the tympanum. It contains an an- astomosis of the glosso-pharyngcal nerve, with a filament of the spheno-palatine ganghon and of the carotid plexus. Lastly, far- ther on this aqueduct gives rise to a canal which transmits the cord of the tympanum, and to some small canals for nervous filaments which are distributed to the muscles of the small bones of the ear. 181. Behind the petrous process, and always on the cerebral surface of the temporal bone, there is observed a pretty deep fossa, in the form of a channel, which presents the internal orifice of the mastoid hole, and lodges a portion of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. 182. Circumference. It commences by a retiring angle, at the place where the anterior edge of the petrous process unites with the rest of the bone. This angle, which receives the sphenoidal spine, presents at its bottom two apertures, separated by a bony lamina, and placed one above the other. The upper, which is less marked, gives entrance to the inner muscle of the malleus; the lower is the orifice of the bony portion of the Eustachian Tube. After this it is cut obhquely at the expense of its outer surface, is thick and toothed, and articulates with the sphenoid bone, directing itself forwards and upwards. It then becomes thin and sharp, and proceeds backwards, describing a semicircle. Here it is articulated with the parietal bone, and forms what is called the Squamous Suture. Above the mastoid process it is again marked with a re- tiring angle, becomes thickened, and unites with the inferior and posterior angle of the parietal bone. Lastly, it descends forward, thick and toothed, beneath the mastoid process, articulates with the upper portion of the lower edge of the occipital bone, and termi- nates at the petrous process near the stylo-mastoid hole. 183. Structure. The petrous process contains within it a very compUcated organ, which we shall examine as we proceed. It is formed of a very dense and white compact tissue; next to the teeth, it is the hardest part of the skeleton ; and from this circum- stance it has derived its name. The mastoid process is filled with large cells. The rest of the bone presents the same structure as the other bones of the cranium. 184. Articulations. The temporal bone is articulated to the sphenoid, occipital and parietal bones, the malar bone, and the lower jaw, by the various points mentioned above. 185 Development. Its development takes place by six points of ossification, oue for the petrous process, one for the contovir of