PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. G^2 Blight depression corresponding to the upper angle of tlie occipital bone, and below, the external protuberance of that bone. This region of the skull is almost entirely covered by the occipital and frontal muscles, and by the tendinous expansion by which they are united. It is in general smooth and even, and presents no other apertures than the parietal holes. 209- Inferior Region. This region is free in its posterior half. In the anterior, it is articulated with the bones of the face. It extends longitudinally backwards from the nasal notch to the ex- ternal occipital protuberance, and is hmited on the sides by an ir- regular undulated line, which proceeds from that eminence to the mastoid process, from thence directing itself between the glenoid cavity and the meatus auditorius, toward the base of the Zygoma- tic process, to be continued into the ridge, which separates the temporal region of the sphenoid bone into two parts, and to termi- nate at the external orbitary process. The objects comprehended in this region, which does not present any convexity similar to those which the vault forms behind, are very numerous. 210. From the occipital protuberance, there proceeds, on either side, the upper curved line, and downwards the external occipital crest, from the middle of which the lower curved lines seem to a- rise. Between the latter and the upper, are observed impressions into which are inserted the complexus magnus and splenius. An- teriorly to the external occipital crest, is the occipital hole, on the lateral and posterior parts of which are the marks of the insertions of the small and great posterior recti and superior oblique muscles of the head, and which presents anteriorly the occipital condyles with the attachments of the odontoid ligaments, the posterior and anterior condyloid fossae, and their corresponding holes. To the outside of the condyles, there are observed the insertions of the recti capitis laterales, the jugular process of the occipital bone, the mastoidal suture, the groove of the same name into which is in- serted the digastric muscle, the foramen stylo-mastoideum, and a small aperture for the passage of the nervous filament called the chorda tympani. 211. JBeyond the occipital hole is the basilar surface, with ine- qualities for the rectus capitis anterior major and minor, which a- rise from them. It is limited anteriorly by the basilar suture. On each of its sides it presents the petro-occipital suture, terminated behind by a pretty deep cavity, commonly more distinct on the right side, rarely wider on the left, and sometimes of equal size on both sides. This is the Jugular Fossa, which is formed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the occipital bone, and which lodges the commencement of the jugular vein. It is also in the bottom of this fossa that the Foramen lacerum posterius is observed, which Communicates with the cavity of the skull, and whose margin is very unequal. A small bony plate, frequently completed by a cartilage, rising from the occipital or temporal bone, divides it into two parts, of which the anterior is smaller than the