779 OP THE LIVER. it lodges anteriorly the umbilical vein, and posteriorly the venous sinus ; and in the adult it is occupied by the fibrous cords which are formed by the remains of these obliterated vessels. 3. The Groove of the. Vena Portce, or Transverse Groove. This is a fissure less deep and shorter than the preceding, which it in- tersects at right angles, and which follows the direction of the ^eat diameter of the liver. It occupies about the middle third of that organ, a little nearer its posterior than its anterior edge. It com- mences upon the right lobe by a sort of narrow slit, then enlarges much as it proceeds towards the left side, but never presents the appearance of a canal. It lodges the sinus of the vena portae (2689), the hepatic artery (2449), the roots of the hepatic duct, and a great number of nervous filaments and lymphatic vessels. All these parts are connected together by a kind of dense, compact, and fibrous sheath. 4. The Groove of the Vena Cava Inferior. It is situated be- hind, near the convex edge of the liver. It is very short, but re- markably deep, and is often converted into a true canal (2668). 5. The Posterior Portal Eminence, Small Lobe of the Liver, or Lobulus Spigelii. This is a kind of mammillary eminence of very great size, which is placed behind the transverse groove of the liver, in the back part of the cavity of the peritoneum, beneath the gastro-hepatic omentum. Its form, which is subject to considerable variation, is more commonly that of a more or less obtuse triangu- lar pyramid. Two prolongations appear to fasten its base to the great lobe of the liver. One of these gradually loses itself at its surface; the other ascends posteriorly towards the groove of the vena cava inferior, which it even contributes to form. This emi- nence rests posteriorly upon the Vertebral column, between the vena cava inferior and the oesophagus, and looks as if squeezed be- tween the two orifices of the stomach, the pancreas, and the rest of tlie liver. 6. The Anterior Portal Eminence. It is of less size than the posterior, broad, and little elevated. It separates the anterior half of tlie groove of the umbilical vein from a superficial fossa of an oval form, vdiich lodges the gall-bladder. 7- Two superficial depressions, of which the anterior corresponds to the right extremity of the arch of the colon, while the posterior corresponds to tfic right kidney and the renal capsule of the same side. . 2825. Circumference of the Liver. It is irregularly quadrila- teral, varying in thickness at the different parts of its extent, and is everywhere, excepting at its lowest part, embraced by the peri- toneum. Anterwrlg, it is thin, convex, applied against the base of the thorax, and always interrupted by two notches, Of these, one is narrow and deep, and is formed by thp anterior extremity of the groove of the umbilical vein; the other is broader, but more super- ficial, and placed to the right of the first: it corresponds to the fun-