ORGANS OF SENSATION. 488 nrm. In forming it, the anterior hranches of the a))ove-mentioncd nerves proceed in the following manner. Those of the fourth and fifth cervical neiwes descend obliquely outwards, and, after a course of about an inch and a half, unite into a single trunk which pre- serves the same direction. Those of the seventh cervical and first dorsal nerves also unite and form a trunk which becomes nearly horizontal. Lastly, that of the sixth cervical nerve proceeds for a long time between these two trunks in an isolated manner; but, opposite the first rib, it unites to both. Thus, the brachial plexus divided into three distinct portions at the moment of its origin, af- terwards forms a large flat bundle in which the nervous filaments are mingled and interlaced in an inextricable manner. 1679- The brachial plexus is situated at its commencement be- tween the scaleni muscles, the anticus lying upon it so as to cover it below over a considerable extent, and lea\dng it almost bare above. It is then immersed in the subclavicular adipose tissue, passes between the subclavius muscle and the first rib, is applied upon the upper portion of the serratus magnus, and is lodged in the upper part of the axilla. Until it reaches the latter place it remains situated behind the axillary artery and vein, but then the different branches which terminate it, surround the artery on all sides and form a sort of sheath for it, while the vein, which had always been more superficial retains its position. 1680. The branches which the brachial plexus furnishes are distinguished into thoracic, supra-scapular, infra-scapular, and bra- chial. The latter are designated by the names of internal cutane- ous brachial, external cutaneous brachial, median, radial, cubital, and axillary. THOHACHC KRAXCIIKS. 1681. Anterior Thoracic Branch. Furnished chiefly by the sixth cervical nerve, it issues from the anterior part of the ple.xus, descends behind the clavicle before the axillary artery, and divides into a pretty considerable number of filaments. Some of these, which are not always met with, form a kind of ring by turning from before backwards around the axillary artery, and ascend, posterior- ly to it, to unite a second time with the plexus towards the point where the seventh cervical nerve unites with the first dorsal. The others continue to descend upon the thorax, and are distributed among the fibres of the pectoralis major, and upon the inner sur- face of the pectoralis minor. Frequently a small twig proceeds by itself from the cord which the last cervical and first dorsal nerves form, passes under the ax- illary artery, and is entirely distributed to the jjcctoralis minor. 1682. Posterior Thoracic Branch. It detaches itself from the upper part of the plexus posteriorly, and arises by two twigs, of which one comes from the Iburlh, the other from tiie fifth cervical