PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 200 truncated, and much inflated in the middle, of which the summit embraces the contour of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, while its base is fixed around the neck of the humerus, the circumference of which has more extent than that of the glenoid cavity. Its loose- ness is very remarkable, and it is much longer than is necessary merely to keep the surfaces in contact, permitting them to separate from eaeh other more than an inch. Its outer surface is covered, superiorly and internally, by the coraco-humeral ligament (655) and deltoid muscle ; a little more externally, by the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles, whose tendons are firmly attaehed to it. Inferiorly, the long portion of the triceps extensor muscle is only separated from it by a thin layer of rather loose cellular tissue, which is also the case with the axiUary vessels and nerves. In- ternally, it is interrupted by the passage of the tendon of the sub- scapularis muscle, which mingles part of its fibres with this liga- ment. From this interruption there generally residts an oval aper- ture, of which the eu-cumference is strengthened above and on the sides by two pretty distinct fibrous fasciculi. Its inner surface is attached around the glenoid cavity, beyond the glenoid ligament (656). It is sometimes interrupted internally, and as it were re- placed by the tendon of the sub-scapularis muscle Its inferior edge is fastened to the base of the neck of the humerus, expanding and prolonging itself considerably beneath this portion of the bone at its lower part, while at its upper it is confounded with the ten- dons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. Between the two tuberosities of the humerus, this edge is interrupted by the passage of the tendon of the biceps flexor muscle, and is attached to the two sides of the groove which lodges it. This hgament is formed of fibres crossing each other in aU di- rections, and is thicker above than any where else. The tendons of the different muscles which are inserted into the tuberosities of the humerus are in part confounded with it, and contribute in no small degree to strengthen it. 655. Coraco-humeral or Accessory Ligament. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the articulation, and is formed by a very dense fasciculus which arises from the outer edge of the cora- coid process, and directing itself forwards and outwards, is attached to the anterior part of the great tuberosity of the humerus, con- founding its fibres with those of the tendon of the infrwspinatus muscle. Its inner surface is ultimately united to the capsule in the greater part of its extent. 656. Glenoid Ligament. This is a sort of fibro-cartilaginous rim, which seems intended to increase the depth of the glenoid cavity. It is especially formed by the fibres of the tendon of the long por- tion of the biceps musele, whicli bifurcates at the upper part of this same cavity, which it embraces in the interval between its two branches. There are also distinguished in it proper fibres, which proceeding from any point of the circumference of the cavity, ter- minate at a more or less distant point. It presents a somewhat