PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 130 an oval cavity with its greatest diameter from before backwards, which is covered with cartilage, and is named the smaller sigmoid cavity.* This cavity is articulated with the upper extremity of the radius, and is continued above into the Larger Sigmoid Cavity, which rolls upon the trochlea of the humerus, and which is formed by the anterior surface of the olecranon, and the upper surface of the coronoid process, which unite nearly at a right angle. Its posterior and vertical portion is larger than the anterior which is horizontal. It is also divided by a prominent line, which passes •from the upper part of the olecranon to the summit of the coro- noid process, into two lateral portions, of which the inner is the larger. 461. The Loiver or Carpal Eaitremity is very small, and pre- sents two eminences. The outer, which is named the Head of the Ulna, is rounded, covered with cartilage, contiguous at its lower part with the triangular fibro-cartilage of the joint, and received externally into the cavity of the lower extremity of the radius. The inner, or Styloid process, is more prominent, and is placed a little backwards. It is conical and slightly turned outwards. Its sum- mit gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the radio- carpal articulation. Posteriorly these two eminences are separated by a groove, in which passes the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, and below by an uneven depression into which is inserted the tri- angular fibro-cartHage just mentioned. 462. Structure, Articulations, and Development. The ulna, which is perfectly similar to the radius in its structure, is articulat- ed with that bone, the humerus, and by intervention with the pyra- midal bone. It is also developed by three points of ossification. Sometimes it presents a supernumerary bone at the summit of the olecranon or coronoid process. Soemmering has observed the lat- ter case. Sometimes also there occurs a centre of ossification in the cartilage which is to form the styloid process. IV._OF THE BONES OF THE CARPUS.+ The carpal bones are eight in number, and form two rows. FIRST ROW. OF THE SCAPHOID ROME. 463. The Scaphoid Bone% (os Scaphoides, os Naviculare) is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, and is the larg- est of those that occur in the first row. It is elongated, convex on * 'S.iy/^cu'inu having the form of the letter sigma, represented by C and not by 2. •j* of tlie Greeks. niivtcula ; uloty figura^