726 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. and a little forwards under the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, advancing as far as the outer edge of the foot, where it passes un- der the tendon of the peroneus longus. In this coursa, it gives a great number of twigs to the extensor brevis digitorum and to the ligament of the tarsus, and terminates by several small twigs which anastomose with those of the external plantar artery. 2585. Metatarsal Artery (Artere sus-metatarsienne, Chauss.) Smaller than the preceding, it arises from the dorsal artery of the foot, near the place where the latter enters the first interosseous space. Directed forwards and outwards under the extensor brevis digitorum, it forms a curve of which the concavity is directed back- wards, and furnishes ramifications to the extensor brevis digitorum, the periosteum and the articulations of the tarsal bones. Its convexi- ty, which is anterior, gives off three remarkable twigs, which are called Dorsal Interosseous Arteries of the foot. They direct themselves forwards in the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces ; and on arriving between the extremities of the metatarsal bones, com- municate with the posterior perforating arteries of the external plantar. They then give twigs to the interossei dorsales muscles, over which they pass, and to the integuments, and communicate with the anterior perforating arteries, close upon the metatarso- phalangeal articulations. At the same level, each of them divides into two small branches which follow the correspondmg edges of the toes, from the outer edge of the second to the inner edge of the last, and lose themselves in the skin. 2586. Immediately before diving into the first interosseous space, the dorsal artery of the foot gives off a pretty large branch which runs on the outer side of the first metatarsal bone as far as its articulation with the first phalanx of the great toe. There, this branch divides into two twigs, one of which runs along the outer edge of the first toe, while the other follows the mner edge of the second. 2587- Arrived in the sole of the foot, the dorsal artery turns outwards, between the accessory muscles of the flexor longus digi- torum and interossei plantares, and separates into branches of equal size. One of them continues the course of the artery outwards, and contributes to form the plantar arch by anastomosing with the external plantar artery. The other follows the interval of the two first metatarsal bones between the abductor poUicis and flexor bre- vis pollicis muscles, to which it gives twigs, one of which, larger than the others, winds to the inner side of the great toe, and ar- rives at its extremity. The branch then passes through the flexor brevis muscle, and divides into two principal twigs, which subdi- vide and run along the corresponding edges of the two first toes. OF THE FIBULAR OR PERONEAL ARTERY. 2588. Smaller than the posterior tibial, and situated very deeply at the back part of the leg, it directs itself a little obliquely out-