677 OF THE SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL NERVES. 2342. In its passage behind the sterno-costal cartilages, the in- ternal mammary artery gives off on each side branches which arc distinguished into internal and external. 2343. External Branches. Their number in general equals that of the intercostal spaces to which the artery corresponds. Their volume and length are so much the greater, the lower the intercos- tal spaces are in which they are examined. They arise at the level of the inferior edge of each cartilage, follow it for some time, and descend afterwards upon the intercostal muscle, in which most of them are entirely lost, communicating with the twigs of the inter- costal arteries. There are some, however, which perforate the in- tercostal muscles, and are distributed to the two pectoral muscles, the mamma and the integuments. Sometimes each intercostal space contains two of these branches, one of them following the inferior edge of the cartilage, the other the superior. 2344. Internal Brajiches. They are so much the larger the higher they are, which is the reverse of the preceding branches. Their number is the same as theirs. Immediately after their com- mencement, they throw some transverse twigs into the fibrous tis- sue which covers the posterior surface of the sternum, and direct themselves to the exterior of the thorax, passing through the inter- costal muscles near that bone. They then bend upon themselves, and send twigs in a radiating manner into the pectoralis major, obliquus externus abdominis, rectus abdominis and intercostales interni. They anastomose with the preceding branches, and with the external thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The last of these branches directs itself transversely over the xiphoid cartilage, and anastomoses there by an arch with that of the opposite side, whence it frequently descends between the linea alba and the peri- toneum to go to the suspensory ligament of the liver, where it com- municates with ramifications of the hepatic artery. 2345. Of the two branches which terminate the internal mam- mary artery, one is external, the other internal. The external de- scends outwards behind the cartilages of the last ribs, furnishes some twigs to the diaphragm, passes between its insertions, and goes to lose itself in the transversus and obliquus abdominis. It anastomoses with the inferior intercostal, lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries. The internal descends behind the rectus muscle, gives it a great number of twigs, and anastomoses towards the um- biheus with the epigastric artery. 2. OF THE SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. 2346. Its volume and length vary much. Arising from the lower and back part of the subclavian, opposite the deep cervical artery, it descends before the neck of the first rib, externally of the inferior cervical ganglion, and forming some flexuositics. Opposite