693 OF THE BRONCHIAL ARTERIES. terior interosseous. It becomes much smaller inferiorly, and gives a great number of ramifications to the extensor carpi ulnaris, ex- tensor proprius minimi digiti, extensor digitorum communis, exten- sores carpi radiales, supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarjn pol- licis, extensor primi internodii and extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, and extensor indicis. One of its twigs, which is much larger than the rest, passes between the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, gains the inferior extremity of the radius, and loses itself separately at the posterior and ex- ternal part of the carpus. 2421. Superficial Palmar Arch. When the ulnar artery has passed the pisiform bone, it descends at first vertically before the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, then bends outwards in the palm of the hand, to form this arch, of which the convexity is di- rected downwards. Towards the upper extremity of the second metacarpal bone, it dives to communicate with a branch of the ra- dial artery. The concavity of this arch gives off but very few twigs, which are distributed to the lumbricales muscles and annular ligaments. But its convexity generally furnishes five larger branches, which are called the Collateral Arteries of the fingers. The first of these collateral arteries descends obliquely inwards upon the muscles of the little finger, to which it gives ramifica^- tions, and whose direction it crosses at right angles. It is after- wards placed upon the inner edge of the little finger, and reaches as far as its extremity. The other four branches descend in the interosseous spaces to the heads of the metacarpal bones, where they divide each into two twigs, which run along, the corresponding edges of the four fingers and the inner edge of the thumb. They anastomose by an arch with each other, in the substance of the pulp of the fingers, and give off in their course a great number of twigs, which are distributed to the ten- dons and sheaths of the flexor muscles, the periosteum of the pha- langes, the ligaments by which they are united, and especially to the integuments. OF THE ARTEUIES WHICH ARISE FROM THE THORACIC AORTA. 2422. They are distinguished into those which come from its anterior part and those which issue from its sides. BRANCHES WHICH THE THORACIC AORTA FURNISHES ANTERIORLY. a. OF THE RRONCIIIAL ARTERIES. 2423. There are commonly two, a right and a left. The right