PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 162 minish. The first is undoubtedly the largest. But the use of shoes greatly alters the form of the feet in civilized countries. In con- sequence of the constraint which they impose upon them, the toes change their direction, their phalanges become irregular, and they are even frequently united together. COMPARISON OF THE SUPERIOR ANU INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 552. The superior extremity is situated in a plane posterior to that occupied by the inferior extremity of the same side. This is satisfactorily shown by letting a line fall from the glenoid cavity to the cotyloid cavity. The two superior extremities are separated, at their upper part, by a larger interval than that which exists between the heads of the femurs. With respect to length and strength, the inferior extremities greatly exceed the superior. Their length forms seven-thirteenths of the total length of the body. We observe however that the hand, from the manner in which it is articulated with the fore- arm, presents larger dimensions, following the general axis of the limb, than the foot, which forms nearly a right angle with the leg. The femur and humerus have a great resemblance to each other. At their upper extremity, the head and trochanters of the one correspond to the head and tuberosities of the other. The tibia and fibula have an obvious resemblance to the radius and ulna. The patella may, to a certain extent, be considered as analogous to the olecranon. The malleoli of the foot, and the styloid processes of the wrist, are also analogous parts. But the foot and the hand are the parts that admit of the most perfect comparison. Pes altera manus^ it has been said, and the saying is very true. They present the same divisions, the same bones, and, to_a certain degree, the same kind of motions. Indi- viduals born without arras have been seen, who were so expert in using the foot, that they could write and lay hold of the minutest objects with it. These two parts differ, however, in certain respects. Thus the tarsus is very Afferent from the carpus in respect to the number, size, form and arrangement of its bones. It is arti- culated chiefly to the lower extremity of the tibia, while the car- pus unites principally with the radius to which the fibula* is analo- gous. Besides, as we have already said, their mode of junction is quite different. The tarsus is the longest part of the foot; in the hand the carpus occupies very little space. All that the former has gained with respect to size and solidity, it appears to have lost with reference to mobility. Tlie toes are much shorter than the fingers, and present con- siderable differences in the structure and conformation of their pha- langes. • Mr. Cloquet means the Tibia; and I'should feel inclined to think that this most extraordinary and unaccountable error was merely an error of the press, did not the mistake run tlirough all the editions of the original work of Mr. Cloquet—K.