57 OF THE OSSA WOUMII. 189. Four FAlges, of which tlic upper or parietal is the longest. It is straiglit and denticulate, and joins that of the opposite hone, mth which it forms the sagittal suture. The lower or temporal edge is the shortest. It is concave, and surmounted by an oblique surface, marked with prominent radiating strim, Avhich is connected with the upper edge of the temporal bone, forming the squamous suture. The anterior or coronal edge is denticulate, and joins the frontal bone. The angle which it forms above with the upper edge is truncated in children, and substituted by a membranous part belonging to what is named the Upper Fontanelle. The angle formed below by its junction with the lower edge is much prolonged downwards and forwards. It is obliquely curved at its summit, and is articulated with the sphenoid bone. At its internal part, it presents a deep groove, or even a canal, which lodges the middle menyngeal artery, and from which proceed almost all the branches which constitute the Jig-leaf. At the bottom of this groove, there frequently occur two small holes through which ves- sels pass into the diploe. Lastly, the posterior or occipital angle is extremely unequal. Its indentations are very irregularly dis- posed, and retain among them many of the small bones called ossa Wormii. They articulate with the upper edge of the temporal bone. The angle which it forms below with the lower edge is truncated, and is articulated to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It is hoUowed internally by a portion of a canal which is continuous with that existing on the occipital and temporal bones, and which lodges a part of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. 190. Stru^ure and Development. The parietal bone is in general thin, although somewhat thickened at its upper and back parts. It consists of diploe contained between two compact plates. It is developed by a .single point of ossification, which makes its appearance on the parietal protuberance, over a pretty wide ex- tent, and under an areolar form. 191. Artkmlations. The parietal bone is articulated to that of the opposite side, and to the frontal, occipital, temporal and sphe- noid bones. OF THE OSSA WORMII. 192. The Ossa Wormii or Triquetrous Bones which arc ex- tremely variable as to size, situation, form, number, and other cir- cumstances, are found interposed between the bones of the cranium which have been described. Round heads scarcely ever present any of them, frequently none at all. In such as are elongated from before backwards, on the contrary, they occur in ^eat numbers. It is in the suture formed by the occipital and parietal bones that they arc most commonly met with. Sometimes the upper angle of the occipital bone is