OF THE CEllEBELLUM. 409 and the reverse. Other lamellae form in this place, and mingle Tvith the rest during their passage. It is from this disposition that the processus vermiformis of which we have spoken results. 1439. Inferior Sicrface of the Cerebellum. It presents a deep depression in the median line, named the Valley, which lodges an- teriorly the commencement of the spinal marrow, and is divided posteriory into two by a pretty large eminence, called the Processus vermiformis hiferior. It is surrounded on both sides by a band of white substance. It is a true lamellated lobule, composed of a great number of parallel transverse laminae, unequal in size and height. Some of them are prolongations of the slips which termi- nate the lateral lobules; others arise in the intervals of the grooves, and are more or less long. At the middle, where this lobule is broader and higher, its laminae are triangular. Posteriorly, it pre- sents a rather flat tubercle. Anteriorly, it is terminated by a nar- row, rounded prolongation, from seven to eight lines in length, and four or five in breadth, which has by some been improperly compar- ed to the uvula, and is generally named the Mamillary Eminence of the inferior vermiform process. On each side, the inferior part of the cerebellum presents a very convex rounded surface, raised in the middle, on which there are distinguished four lobules which describe concentric arches, and are turned inwards to end at the middle depression. The first of them is less long, but broader and thicker than the others. It is composed of a great number of concentric laminm differing in their extent and direction. Those which occupy the edges of the me- dian fossa are short, and form a sort of rounded protuberance. At the outer side of this first lobule, and a little befpre it, is a small foliated or lamellated tvift, of an oblong form, rounded, rather low, and distinguished by the small size of its laminae and by a very distinct groove. It is the Lobule of the j>ar vagum of Vicq d’Azyr, the Appendice Lobulaire of Chaussier. The other lateral inferior lobules are less compounded than the first, and become successively longer. Their laminae are less ob- lique. They do not preserve the same thickness in their whole extent. Their laminae are seen to blend with each other in differ- ent places. The last terminates by a rounded slip in the median depression. 1440. Circumference of the Cerebellum,. Anteriorly and pos- teriorly, the curvature of this circumference, is intemipted by two notches or broad depressions, of which the posterior corresponds to the internal occipital crest, and receives the falx cerebelli; while the anterior, which is broader and of a semilunar form, embraces a part of the cerebral protuberance, and the commencement of the spinal marrow. This circumference is moreover traversed by a large horizontal groove, pretty deep in its whole extent, and very wide before. Altogether posteriorly, on each side of the posterior notch, the circumference of the cerebellum presents a distinct lo- bule, resembling a cuneiform segment of an ovoid, and composed of