OF THE INFEUIOR TPIYUOID ARTERY. arteries of the brain occupy the base of that organ, and arc placed between it and the bony surfaces, so that the motions of the circu- lation must necessarily impress them very distinctly upon the brain, which in fact is the case. This impulse is transmitted to it in a uniform manner, on account of the extensive anastomoses of these dift'erent trunks. The principal branches of these same trunks are lodged in tlie fissures and anfractuosities. The twigs subdivide to infinity in the pia mater, and it is in reality only the capillary extremities of the vessels that penetrate into the pulp of the organ. 4. OF THE INFERIOn TnYROII> ARTERY. 2333. Proportionally larger in children than in adults, it is of much smaller size than the vertebral artery, and is more superficial than it. It arises from the upper part of the subclavian, almost at the same level as the internal mammary, and a little externally of the vertebral. It ascends at first vertically upon the scalenus an- ticus, and, on arriving before the fifth vertebra, suddenly bends inwards, passes transversely behind the common carotid artery (2225), and goes in a tortuous mannei: to the thyroid body. 2334. Internal Branches. The inferior thyroid artery fur- nishes some internal branches of small size and indeterminate num- ber. They lose themselves by descending in the longus colli mus- cle, or are distributed to the oesophagus and trachea, which they accompany as far as the thorax. These latter are expanded upon the origin of the bronchi, and in the surrounding lymphatic gang- lia (2159), and anastomose with the bronchial arteries and the up- per intercostal. 2335. External Branches. The posterior and superior scapu- lar arteries often arise externally from the inferior thyroid; but the latter always furnishes in that direction a certain quantity of small branches, more or less slender, which ascend in the scalenus anti- cus and longus coUi muscles, and another much larger branch which is of constant occurrence, and which is named the ascend- ing cervical artery. 2336. Aseendhiff Cervical Artery. It ascends upon the sca- lenus anticus and longus colli muscles, arrives at the rectus capitis anticus major, furnishes ramifications to both, and sends some, moreover, into the splenius muscle and lymphatic ganglia of the neck. It anastomoses with the vertebral, posterior cervical, and occipital arteries. 2337. Arrived at the lower and outer part of the correspondino- lobe of the thyroid body, the inferior thyroid artery divides into two large branches which separate from each other, pass behind the organ, and send it numerous twigs which subdivide in its substance, anastomosing with the opposite inferior thyroid artery and with the two superior thyroids. It also throws itself some very small twin's over the mucous membrane of the trachea.