SiS'l' active: ou.gans of locomotion. by a tendon, wliich lias tlic same insertions on the outer side of tlie second toe, as the adductor on the inner. Its///-'/■'er surfure is co- vered by the skin, by a thin aponeurosis 'which goes from the se- cond to the third metatarsal bone, and by the extensor tendons of the toes. The hiaer surface corresponds to the abductor pollicis. 1388. Interrossei of the third toe. The adductor is plantar, and as the third and second metatarsal bones are very close to each other, it is rather situated above them than in their interval. Its form is that of a triangular prism. It arises from the two lower thirds of the whole inner surface of the third metatarsal bone, and from the ligaments by which they are united inferiorly to the tar- sus. Its fleshy fibres are inserted upon the outer surface and a little upon the inner edge of a tendon which terminates, like those of the preceding muscles, at the inner side of the third toe. I’he tipper side of this muscle is placed between the tliird metatarsal bone and the abductor of the second toe. I'he loiver side is ap- plied upon the transversus pedis and abductor pollicis. The ab- ductor of the third toe is dorsal, and larger than its adductor. It arises from the whole outer side of the third metatarsal bone, from the upper part of the inner side of the fourth, and from the liga- ments by which they are united, and terminates by a tendon pre- cisely similar to those of the other interossei. Its upper surface is covered by an aponeurosis which goes, from the third to the fourth metatarsal bone. The lower covers the transversus pedis and the tendons of the flexor muscles. 1389- Interossei. of the Fourth Toe. The is plantar*. It is flattened, and situated beneath the interosseous space to which it belongs. It arises from the lower part of the inner sui*face of the fourth metatarsal bone, and from the ligaments by which it is connected with the tarsus. Its tendon is inserted upon the inner side of the fourth toe. The abductor^ which is larger than the adductor and dorsal, arises above from the inner edge of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the whole outer surface of the fourth, and terminates on the outer side of the fourth toe. The relations of these muscles are the same as those of the interossei of the third toe. 1390. Interosseus of the Fifth Toe. It is an adductor, and belongs to the sole. It arises a little from the fibrous sheath of the peroneus longus, and from the two inferior thirds of the inner surface of the fifth metatarsal bone, and terminates on the inner surface of the fifth toe by a tendon which the fleshy fibres accom- pany as far as the articulation. 1391- The motions which the interossei of the foot impress up- on the toes are similar to those which the interossei of the hand make the fingers perform (1219.) 6