MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 3€1 of which passes between the teres major and minor, the other be- tween tlic infra-spiuatus and teres minor. This edge is then con- founded with the teres minor as far as the middle of its length. 1127. When the arm is lowered, tlie infra-spinatus turns it out- wards by rotation. When it is raised, it draws it backwards. OF THE TEEES WINOH. 1128. Tile Teres Mbioris a long narrow muscle, flattened from above downwards in its inner half, and from behind forwards in the outer. It is situated beneath the preceding, and arises from a rough triangular surface, which limits the fossa infra-spinata near the axillary edge of the scapula, and from two aponeurotic laminte which separate it from the teres major and infra-spinatus. From thence, it ascends obliquely outwards, running along the infra-spi- natus, to which it is often united. Its fleshy fibres terminate, near the humerus, on the anterior surface of a flat, tendon which com- mences by aponeuroses on tlie posterior surface of the muscle, and which is inserted into the inferior surface of the great tuberosity, wliere it is united with the capsule of the joint. Some of the lower fibres are duectly attached to the humerus, beneath the great tu- berosity, 1129. Its posterior side is covered by the deltoid muscle and the skin. The anterior covers the external scapular artery, the long portion of the triceps, the fibrous capsule of the joint, and a small portion of the scapula. The upper side is broader internally than externally. It is connected, in the former direction with the infra- spinatus muscle. The lower is connected internally with the teres major, from which it is afterwards separated by the long portion of the triceps. 1130. The teres minor has the same uses as the infra-spinatus, OF THE TERES MAJOR, 11.31. The Teres Major is a long flat muscle, broader than the preceding, beneath which it is situated. It arises by short aponeu- rotic fibres, from a quadrilateral surface which terminates inferi- orly the fossa infra-spinata, and from fibrous partitions that are met with between it and the subscapularis on the one hand, and the infra-spinatus and tei’es minor on the other. From thence its fleshy fibres, which arc all parallel, proceed obliquely outwards running along the teres minor; then twisting upon themselves, se- parate from that muscle, and give rise to a broad and flat tendon, more distinct above than below, and before than behind. This tendon, which is about an inch bread, follows the direction of the muscle, is applied by its anterio;>^urface upon that of the latissi- mus dorsi, (885) unites with it, and is attached to the posterior