ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 706 vertebral column, before the psoac muscles and ureters, whose di- rection they cross, and behind the peritoneum. The right passes, moreover, backwards, or before the vena cava inferior. Their course is extremely flexuous. They are presently after united to the spermatic veins, and are distributed very differently in the male and in the female ; after previously giving ofl", in either sex, very small twigs to the fat and lymphatic ganglia of the surrounding parts, as well as to the walls of the ureters and to the peritoneum. 2483. In the Male, the spermatic artery, placed beside the vas deferens, issues by the inguinal ring, and is distributed to the tes- ticles, giving; off by the way ramifications to the different parts which constitute the spermatic cord. At the moment when it terminates, it divides into two bundles of twigs, one of which goes to the epididymlis, the other to the testicle. The first penetrate by the head of the epididymis, are expanded in that body, and give some ramifications to the tunica albuginea and the substance of the testicle. The others penetrate into the tekicle by its upper edge, 0nd give to the tunica albuginea a great quantity of ramifications, which afterwards lose themselves upon the fibrous septa lying be- tween the masses of the spermatic ducts. 2484. In the Female, after crossing the edge of the psoas muscle, the spermatic artery dives into the pelvis and goes to the ovary. Most of its twigs lose themselves in the tissue of that or- gan. The others are distributed in the Fallopian tube, the round ligament teres, and on the sides of the uterus, where they anasto- mose with the uterine arteries. d. OF THE LUMBAE AETEEIES. 2485. They are commonly four on each side. Five, however, are not unfrequently met with, and sometimes only three. Then- size is always greater than that of the intercostal arteries. They come off as much from the posterior part as from the sides of the aorta, and direct themselves more or less transversely outwards over the middle of the bodies of the first four lumbar vertebras, being covered by the psoas magnus, or by the pillars of the dia- phragm. Arrived at the base of the transverse processes, they di- vide into a dorsal or posterior branch, and an anterior or lumbar branch, properly so called, after sometimes giving a few small twigs to the bodies of the vertebrm, the cellular tissue, and the lymphatic ganglia of the loins, the pillars of the diaphragm, and psoie muscles. 2486. The dorsal branches of the four lumbar arteries are very slender. They send at first into the vertebral canal a twig which is distributed to the spinal marrow and its envelopes, and then dive into the substance of the fleshy mass of the sacro-spinalis muscle, where thej'^ lose themselves, sending some ramifications in- to the intertransvcv.sales and transverso-spinales muscles, and into the integuments. They anastomose with each other.