21 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. larger bony arch, which also gives attachment to ligaments above and below, and which is tubercular behind for the insertion of the j)osterior small recti muscles of the head. This arch is rounded and thick behind, but anteriorly, where it is confounded with the rest of the vertebra, it is depressed and marked above with a groove for the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve, and below for the second cervical nerve. The atlas has moreover a large vertebral hole, chvided by a ligament into two portions ; of which the posterior alone contributes to the formation of the canal. Two irregular tubercles, on the inside of the upper articular apophyses, give attachments to this ligament. The notches are here situated behind the articular apophyses, which are nearly horizontal and very broad. The tipper is concave, oval, and inclined inwards, and is articulated with the occipital bone; the lower is nearly plain, and also inclined inwards, and is connected with the axis. Lastly, the transverse apophyses are very long, terminate in a more or less obtuse point, and seem to rise by a double root, of which the anterior branch is more slender, the posterior longer and larger. The hole which perforates their base, is larger than in the other cervical vertebrae. 57. The atlas, which in the adult is almost entirely formed of compact tissue, and is articulated with the occipital bone and the axis, is sometimes developed by five points of ossification, one for the anterior arch, two for the posterior, and one for each of its la- teral parts. But more commonly this vertebra commences its development with three points only, one median or two lateral points for the anterior arch, and two for the lateral masses and the posterior arch. 58. The Axis or Second Vertebra, (Axis, Epistropheus,) has a nearly triangular form. The body is much higher than broad, and is marked anteriorly with a central ridge and two hollows for the long muscles of the neck. From its upper part arises a long, rounded, vertical apophysis, named the odontoid^ or tooth-like process, which is articulated before with the anterior arch of the atlas, and is marked behind with a small convex surface for sliding on the transverse ligament. By its summit, which ends in an acuminated head, it gives attachment to the odontoid ligaments, which are connected with the occipital condyles, and is itself sup- ported by a sort of neck. The spinous apophysis is here very large, and is marked below with a broad and deep channel. The upper notches are placed much farther back than the loiver. The superior articular apophysis is nearly horizontal, thrown a little outwards, and convex. It is much broader than the inferior, which is turned forwards and downwards. The transverse apo- physis is very short, and is neither bifurcated nor channelled. It seems, as it were, to arise from the upper articular apophysis, and the hole by which its base is perforated has an oblique direction. * aihros) dcns.