MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 51.9 terminated by a tendon, appearing sooner internally than external- ly, which is inserted in the same manner as the preceding, hut on the fore-side of the first phalanx of the index. Its anterior mr- face is covered hy the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis. The 'inner corresponds to the next muscle. It carries the fore-finger inwards. 1246. Jnferossei digiti medii. The abductor, which is situated at the back of the hand, is larger than the preceding, and has the form of a triangular prism. It arises from the whole inner side of the second metacarpal hone, behind the origins of the adductor in- dicis, from which it is only separated by a very thin cellular line, and from the whole outer side of the third bone of the same region, as well as from the ligaments which connect these bones with each other and with the neighbouring bones. Its upper extremity is perforated for the passage of an artery. The lower is terminated by a tendon, which, like the preceding, is attached to the outer side of the first phalanx of the middle finger, and of its extensor tendon. Its posterior surface, which is very broad, is covered by the skin and by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the fore- finger, as well as by an aponeurosis which passes from tlie seeond metacarpal bone to the third. The anterior surface is very nar- row, and concealed under the flexor brevis and adductor poUicis. It carries the middle finger outwards. The adductor of the middle finger is also situated at the back of the hand, and has the same form as the adductor. It arises from the inner side of the third metacarpal bone, and from the posterior part of the outer side of the fourth, as well as from the ligament by which they are connected. At its upper part it is bi- frircated for the passage of an artery. Below, it terminates, like the others, in a tendon which is attached to the inner side of the upper extremity of the first phalanx, and of the extensor tendon of the middle finger. Its posterior surface is covered by the skin and the tendons of the common extensor of the fingers. It carries the middle finger inwai'ds. 1247. Interossei Digiti Annularis. The abductor, which is placed in the palm of the hand, and is also thick and prismatic, arises from the two anterior thirds of the outer surface of the fourth metacarpal bone and from the ligaments by which they are connect- ed with the neighbouring bones. Its inferior tendon is attached to the outer side of the first phalanx and of the exterior tendon of the ring finger. Its anterior surface is covered by the lumbricales and by the tendons of the flexor profundus. It carries the ring-finger outwards. The adductor, wliich is triangular and prismatic, and situated on the back of the hand, arises from the whole inner side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and from the posterior part of the outer edge of the fifth, as well as from the ligaments by which they are connected. Its upper extremity is traversed by an artery ; the lower terminates in a tendon which is attached to the inner side of