74.5 OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR. OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR OR ADDOMINALIS. 2668. It is much larger than the superior, and extends from the articulation of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae to the right auricle of the heart, at the inferior and posterior part of which it opens, forming to a certain degree a common aperture with the vena cava superior. It ascends at first vertically on tlie right lateral part of the bo- dies of the lumbar vertebrae, to beneath the liver, covered by the right common iliac artery, then by the peritoneum and duodenum, and placed to the right of the aorta. Opposite the liver its caliber frequently contracts a little, and sometimes, on the contrary, en- larges in a remarkable degree. It enters behind that viscus, de- scribing a slight curve, the convexity of which is turned to the left. It then sometimes passes through an aperture which the liver pre- sents to it; but, more commonly, is lodged in a notch formed be- tween its right lobe and lobulus Spigehi. In the latter case, it corresponds to the middle and inferior part of the diaphragm. Above the fiver, the vena cava inferior introduces itself into the pericardium, passing through a wide aperture of the aponeurosis of the diaphragm (850). It directs itself a little obliquely to the left, backwards and upwards, then immediately enters the right auricle of the heart by an aperture which is bounded by the Eustachian valve (2151). 2669. The branches which the vena cava inferior receives in this course are the middle sacral vein, the lumbar veins, the right sper- matic vein, and the renal, capsular, hepatic, and inferior diaphrag- matic veins. 2670. Middle Sacral Vein. It ascends upon the middle part of the anterior surface of the coccyx and sacrum, and opens into the vena cava, in the angle formed by the union of the two com- mon niac veins. 2671. Lumbar Veins. They are four on each side, and com- mence each by an abdominal branch and a dorsal branchy corre- sponding to the branches of the lumbar arteries (2456). Their first roots anastomose with those of the last intercostal veins, and of the epigastric and circumflex iliac veins. The dorsal branches communicate, by the intervetebral foramina, with the vertebral sin- uses. These branches unite and form a trunk which directs itself transversely, from without inwards, along the lumbar arteries, be- tween the bodies of the vertebrae and the psoas muscle. The lum- bar veins of the left side pass under the aorta, and are in conse- quence longer than the right. Before the vertebral column, those of the same side communicate with each other by means of several vertical twigs. 2672. Spermatic Veins (Veines testiculaires on veines de Vovaire, Chauss.) A little larger than the corresponding arteries, the spermatic veins differ in their origin in the different sexes.