OHGANS OF SENSATION. 4G8 OF THE ACOUSTIC* NERVES, OR PORTIO MOLLIS OF THE SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. 1620. The Acoustic Nerve arises transversely over tlie resti- form body, from the substance of a small gray band, a little pro- minent, which constantly covers the base of this nerve, and which unites it to the floor of the fourth ventricle. Most commonly some of its roots traverse this cord, and are manifestly continued into the upper two of the white striae which are observed upon the sides of the calamus scriptorius (lltliS). There is observed, moreover, a kind of small band which seems to unite the two origins of the acoustic nerves and furnish them with a commissure. It is cover-, ed by the posterior layer of the protuberance. The acoustic nerve begins to be separated from the substance of the brain in a small excavation, nearly of a triangular form, placed between the olivary eminence, the peduncle of the cerebellum, the protuberance and the restiform body. This excavation also con- tains the facial nerve, which, besides its distinct origin, is further separated from the acoustic nerve by a small process of the spinal marrow, which passes between them, and by some small vessels. Thus far the nerve is soft and pulpy ; but it now assumes the ap- pearance of the other nerves, that is to say, it is composed of nu- merous filaments, invested by a neurilemma. Of a volume equal to that of the common motor nerve, it also becomes more consist- ent than the olfactory nerve, but it nevertheless remains softer than the other nerves. In proportion as it retires from the encephalon, it forms a flat- tened cord, as it were rolled up upon itself, and marked internally by a groove in which the trunk of the facial nerve is lodged. All the filaments which enter into its composition are very delicate, and anastomose with each other, so as to form a very complicated and dense plexus. Only at its back part, there is observed, almost from its commencement, a whiter and softer cord than the rest, Avhich is not formed of filaments. It seems homogeneous and pulpy. Moreover, the intermediate filaments which commonly direct themselves to- wards the facial nerve, and of which we have made mention, some- times intermingle with its own filaments, after forming a small plexus by themselves. The acoustic nerve proceeds parallel to the facial, so long as it is contained within the skull. It introduces itself along with it into the internal auditory canal (177)5 where its plexiform structure be- comes more and more apparent, and at the bottom of which it di- vides into two branches. 1621. Branch of the Cochlea. This branch is formed by the white and unfilamentous cord which is distinguished at an early Aniat, audio.