731 OF THE VEISS IN PARTICUI-AR. much greater than that of tlic last trunks, tlicrc results tliat the venous system represents a cone whose summit is at the lieart, while its base is at the eircumference of the body. These radicles anastomose frequently together, and form net-works like those of the last ramifications of the arteries which give rise to them (2207)- Sometimes also two principal venous trunks inosculate with each other. 2G12. The walls of the veins are much thinner than those of the arteries, and have a grayish-white tint. They are formed of only two coats. The otefer is loose, extensile, composed of longitudinal fibres more or less apparent, and more or less close. It is fre- quently surrounded by a sheath of cellular tissue, the lamellae of which are placed very close upon each other. The inner coat is thin, smooth, and polished, having a considerable resemblance to that which lines the arterial tubes (2173), but never containing bony dots like those which are so frequently met with in the latter. This coat is prolonged into the right cavities of the heart and the sinuses of the dura mater, and by being folded in the veins, forms there a great number of semilunar valves precisely similar to those v'alves which we have seen at the commencement of the pul- monary artery and aorta. These valves are sometimes isolated, more frequently disposed in pairs, but rarely three together. Their free edge is directed towards the heart, and is more or less concave. They are much more abundant in the veins of the inferior extremities than in those of the head or superior extremities. The system of the vena portae is destitute of them. Their use evidently appears to be to prevent the blood from returning, by the veins, from the heart towards the circumference of the body, and their number is so much the great- er the farther we remove from the heart. 2613. The coats of the veins, like those of the arteries, contain minute arteries and veins; but they are far from presenting so great a number of nervous filaments. The vena portae is the only one in which a very apparent nervous plexus is observed (1818), h. OF THE VEINS IN PARTICULAR. 1. Of the Veins ivhich concur in forming the Vena Cava Superior. a. OF THE VEINS WHICH GIVE RISE TO THE EXTERNAL .JUGULAR VEIN. 2614. Internal Maxillary Vein. (Veine yuttiirn-niaxillaire, C'hauss.) It arises by a multitude of radicles in all the parts to which the artery of the same name is distributed (223.1), ex- cepting in the dura mater, for the middle meningeal artery is not accompanied by any vein. It is, therefore, composed of the