698 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 2444. This artery sometimes furnishes the capsular or the infe- rior diaphragmatic. But it always separates, after a course of about half an inch, into three branches of unequal size, which are named the coronary artery of the stomach, the hepatic artery, and the splenic artery. OF THE CORONARY ARTERY OF THE STOMACH. (Art. Coronaria ventriculi, Soemm. Art. Stomo-gastrique, Chauss.) 2445. This is the smallest of the three which arise from the cceliac trunk. It directs itself upwards, forwards, and to the left, approaching the cardia, over the right side of which it bends down- wards to follow the small curve of the stomach, to near the pylo- rus, where it anastomoses with the pyloric artery. In this second part of its course, it occupies the interval which the two laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum leave between them, at the moment when they go to cover the stomach (2087). The branches which it gives off may be distinguished into oesophageal and gastric. 2446. (Esophageal Branches. They vary in number, and are either vertical or transverse. Frequently there is only one of the former. Arising from the bend which the artery forms near the cardia, it ascends upon the oesophagus, which it follows to a consi- derable distance in the posterior mediastinum, and is distributed to its walls by a great number of flexuous twigs, which anastomose with the aortic oesophageal arteries (2426). If there be two or a greater number, they follow precisely the same course. The transverse branches surround the cardia in a semicircular manner. Some of them subdivide on the widest part of the oesophagus ; the others extend as far as the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, and there anastomose with the vasa brevia. 2447. Gastric Branches. They come off along the small curva- ture of the stomach, and pass over the two surfaces of the viscus. Their number is irregular, and their size very variable. They se- parate into a great quantity of flexuous twigs, which dive between the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, and anastomose with each other, and with the two gastro-epiploic arteries. 2448. In many subjects, the coronary artery of the stomach sends a very considerable branch to the liver. OF THE HEPATIC ARTERY. 2449. Much larger than the preceding, it directs itself trans- versely to the right and forwards under the small lobe of the liver to near the pylorus, whence it slightly ascends towards the neck of the gall-bladder, and the transverse fissure of the liver. In this Course, it furnishes only two branches, the pyloric and right gastro- epiploic.