ORGANIZATION OF THE LUNGS. G‘21 which is larger. This fissure nearly penetrates through the whole thickness of* the organ. A similar fissure is observed on the right lung; hut in it the upper lohe is divided into two portions by a secondary fissure running obliquely downwards and outwards, and consequently in a direction the reverse of the great fissure, and which varies much as to depth and extent. In the two lungs, the upper lobes, which are large above, terminate below in a point, while the contrary takes place in the lower lobes, which are always larger. In the right lung, the middle lobe is triangular, presenting its summit outwards, and its base inwards, and is smaller than the other two. The internal surface of the lungs, which is plain or slightly concave, to accommodate itself to the shape of the heart, is in contact with the mediastinum, and corresponds behind to the ver- tebral column. About the middle of its height is seen the inser- tion of the bronchi and pulmonary vessels. Its two anterior thirds are in direct connection with the pericardium and thymus gland. Their anterior edge is thin, sharp, especially below, oblique, si- nuous, more or less uneven, directed obliquely downwards and for- wards, and notched on the left side only, to receive the point of the heart. Their posterior edge is thick, rounded, nearly vertical, and lodged in a groove* which the ribs form on the sides of the verte- bral column (103). Their base, which is slightly concave, rests upon the upper sur- face of the diaphragm (875), and is inclined a little downwards, and outwards on each side. It is circumscribed by a sharp and sinuous edge, which is lodged between the ribs and the insertions of the diaphragm, and on which there occurs the end of the in- terlobular fissure. Lastly, their summit, which is narrow, obtuse, and a little bulged, is situated at the level of the first rib, which it frequently sur- mounts a little. h. ORGANIZATION OF THE LUNGS, 2146. The tissue of the lungs is very complicated. It seems essentially composed of prolongations and successive ramifications of the bronchi, and pulmonary arteries and veins, which stick to- gether in all their divisions, and are sustained by a very fine cellu- lar tissue, so as to constitute a series of lobules which are covered and united by the pleurm, and interspersed with nerves, vessels, and lymphatic ganglia.