ACTIVE ORGANS 01' LOCOMOTION. them is constituted l>y a slender and triangular fasciculus which is confounded externally with the orbicidaris palpehrarifm. 947- The anterior surface of the pyramidalis nasi is covered by the skin; the posterior is applied upon the corrugator super- eilii, the frontal bone, the fronto-nasal suture, and the ossa nasi. 949. It contributes very little to the motions of the nose, and can only serve to give the frontalis muscle a fixed point at the moment when it brings forw'ard the integuments of the skull. . OE THE COMPRESSOE, OR TRIANGULARIS. (M. Sus-maxillo-nasal, Chauss.) 949. This muscle is thin, flat and triangular, and is situated upon the sides of the nose. It arises internally of the fossa can- ina by a very short and narrow aponeurosis, from which proceed in a divergent manner, the fleshy fibres, which issuing from be- neath the levator labii superioris aheque na.si, cover the back of the nose, describing a cvirve whose convexity is directed upwards. The superior fibres which are longer, ascend, and the inferior, which are shorter, are horizontal. They gradually dege- nerate into a rather loose aponeurotic expansion, which covers the nose, adheres to it, and is continuous with the pyramidalis nasi and the compressor of the opposite side. One of its portions is at- tached to the fibro-cartilage of the wing of the nose. 950. Its anterior surface is covered by the skin, and a little by the levator communis muscle; the posterior is applied upon the superior maxillary bone, and upon the lateral cartilage of the- nose. < 951. Anatomists have attributed entirely opposite uses to this muscle. Its true action is to draw the wings of the nose outwards, and thus to cUlate the nostrils. or THE LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL/EOUE NASI. 952. This muscle is a thin triangular fleshy bundle, contracted at its upper part, and broader below. It is situated on the sides of the nose. It arises above from the outer surface of the ascend- ing process of the superior maxillary bone, beneath the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as from the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove and the lower part of the base of the orbit, by short aponeuroses, to which succeed the fleshy fibres, which descend obliquely outwards in a diverging manner, and are partly attached to the fibrous membrane, the fibro-cartilage, and even the skin of the wing of the nose, and partly lose themselves in the up- per lip, passing before the orbicularis oris. - 953. Its anterior sxiifavc is placed beneath- the sldn, to which-