ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 217 tent by the tendon of tho biceps flexor cruris ; internally, it is ap- plied upon the tendon of the poplitajus, the corresponding semilunar libro-cartilage, to which it intimately adheres, and the synovial membrane. The external inferior articular vessels pass beneath it. Another ligamentous bundle, {Ligamentum laterale externum, breve, Weit.) appears accessory to this. It passes behind it, in a parallel direction, from the attachment of the external head of the gastrocnemius muscle, or from the posterior part of the cir- cumference of the corresponding flbro-cartilage to the summit of the upper extremity of the flbula. 718. Internal Lateral Ligament. It is also situated a little be- hind the articulation, and descends from the tuberosity of the in- ternal condyle of the femur to the upper part of the inner edge and surface of the tibia. It is flat, membranous and aponeurotic, thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, much broader below than above. It is covered at its upper part by the aponeurosis of the thigh, and below by an aponeurotic expansion, arising from the tendons of the sartorius, semitendinosus, and gracilis. It is applied over the synovial membrane, the internal flbro-cartilage, which gives in- sertion posteriorly to a considerable bundle of its fibres, and the tibia. 719. Posterior Ligament. Some anatomists consider this liga- ment as a division of the aponeurosis of the semimembranosus muscle. It appears to me, however, rather to form a distmet liga- ment, which exists under the form of a fibrous fasciculus, deeply seated at the back part of the articulation, and directed obliquely from the internal tuberosity of the tibia to the outer condyle of the femur. Its fibres are irregular, and present frequent separations for the passage of vessels. It is covered by an aponeurotic plane, which really comes from the semimembranosus, and is applied upon the crucial ligaments, from wliich it is separated by a great quantity of fat, and by the middle articular vessels. 720. Anterior Crucial Ligament>. It is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur, whence it directs itself obliquely towards the uneven depression, which is situated on the fore part of the spine of the tibia. It contracts as it descends ; its fibres are slightly twisted upon themselves; and when it has ar- rived at the tibia, it is continued into the anterior extremity of the internal semilunar flbro-cartilage. Anteriorly, it is invested by the synovial membrane, and posteriorly, is applied by means of cellular tissue upon the following ligament. 721. Posterior Crucial Ligament. It arises from the outer and fore part of the inner condyle of the femur, crosses the direction of the anterior crucial ligament, proceeding obliquely outwards and backwards, to the posterior part of the spine of the tibia. It in- creases much in size as it descends, and its inferior extremity seems divided into two fasciculi, of which one is attached to the tibia, while the other is continued into the posterior extremity of the ex- ernal semilunar fibro-cartUage. Posteriorly, it is covered by the