OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. G55 superciliary arteries, while the others bend towards the top of the bead, where they meet those of the opposite side. 7’he posterior branch ascends obliquely over the parietal and oc- cipital bones, describes there a great number of sinuosities, and gives oft’ msuiy twigs which are uniformly spread out in all direc- tions in the integuments, the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, the attolens auriculam and the pericranium, communicating with those of the anterior branch, and of the opposite temporal, occipital and posterior auricular arteries. OF THE INTEKNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. (Art. Gutturo-majsillaire, Chauss.) 2265. More voluminous than the temporal, it arises from the external carotid at the same point as it, and is remarkable for its complex course and for the great number of important branches which it gives off to the deep parts of the face. Immediately after its origin, it dives beneath the neck of the condyle of the jaw, bending inwards and downwards, then advances directly inwards, passes between the dentar and lingual nerves, and arrives in the interval which separates the two pterygoidei muscles, where it changes its direction in a little to proceed forwards over the maxil- lary tuberosities. It then bends, becomes vertical, glides between the two fixed insertions of the pterygoideus externus muscle (987), m the bottom of the zygomatic fossa between it and the temporalis muscle. Finally, arriving near the floor of the orbit, it again takes a horizontal and transverse direction, dives into the spheno-max- illary fossa, and divides into several branches in the middle of the adipose cellular tissue which fills that cavity. The internal maxillary artery is consequently horizontal near its origin and termination, and vertical in the middle. It describes, moreover, several very distinct sinuosities, which vary in difrerent subjects. BRANCHES WHICH AJIISE FROM THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY AR- TERY, BEHIND THE NECK OF THE CONDYLE OF THE JAW. 1. OF THE MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERY. 2266. This is the largest bi>inch of the internal maxillary artery. It ascends vertically towards the skull, between the two pterygoidei muscles, and accompanied by twb filaments of the inferior maxillnry nerve which go to unite with the facial nerve. It gives off at first some small twigs to the pterygmdeus externus, peristaphylinus ex- ternus, and constrictor pharyngis superior muscles, as well as to the temporal and sphenoid bones. • Some of these latter pass through the sphenoid bone by particular apertures, and lose them- selves in the dura mater. It thus arrives at the foramen spi-