746 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 2673. In the male, tliey commence by a plexus which is nam- ed tlie Spermatie, the roots of which are expanded in the testicle, and issue from it for the most part through the tunica albuginea, before the head of the epididymis. None of these roots pass from the epididymis to the testicle; only, towards the small extremities of the latter, a pretty large branch issues from the testicle, extends along the upper part of the epididymis, and contributes to form the plexus, the roots of which then become more numerous and larger, and anastomose with the roots of the dorsal veins of the penis, and of the vesical, internal pudic and other neighbouring veins. After- wards, the plexus collects into four or five branches which ascend externally of the tunica vaginalis, enveloping the vas deferens, and anastomosing frequently with each other. These branches then pass through the inguinal ring, unite and form a single trunk which directs itself inwards and upwards, running along the psoas muscle, as far as the upper part of the pelvis. There, the spermatic veins divide a second time to form another plexus under the kidney. This plexus has been named the Corpus pampiniforme. It is augmented by a great number of Adipose veins, which come transversely from the mass of fat which sur- rounds the kidneys, and which communicate frequently toge- ther. Some of its twigs also come from the mesocolon and me- sentery, where they anastomose with those of the vena portae. Above the corpus pampiniforme, the spermatic veins unite again, ascend obliquely inwards between the peritoneum and psoas mus- cle, and open, the right into the vena cava, under the renal vein, the left into the corresponding renal vein. 2674. In the female, the spermatic veins derive their origin from a plexus expanded in and upon the ovarium, and of which several roots come from the sides of the uterus, where they anastomose with the uterine veins. They are afterwards joined by some branches which arise from the ligamentum teres and Fallopian tube. These different branches collect between the two laminae of the broad ligament of the uterus, pass over the external iliac ar- tery, crossing its direction, bend outwards, gain the brim of the pelvis, and after this exhibit the same appearances as in the male. 2675. Renal or Emulgent Veins. They are of great size. Their roots correspond exactly to the last ramifications of the renal arte- ries, in the substance of the kidneys. They unite in the fissure of the organ into several converging branches, which collect into a single trunk before the artery. The trunk directs itself transverse- ly inwards, and opens upon the sides of the vena cava. The left renal vein is commonly larger and longer than the right, which pre- sents a slight obliquity. In their course, the renal veins receive some capsular and adi- pose twigs. The left is moreover augmented by the corresponding spermatic vein. 267c. Capsular Veins. There is one on each side. They fre-