.547 OF THE CORNEA. the dura mater furnishes to the optic nerve, is manifestly seen. Anteriorly, the sclerotica presents a circular aperture, tlie diameter of which is about six lines, somewhat larger however transversely than from above downwards, and whose circumference, which is sloped at the expense of the inner surface, receives the cornea like a case. j ^ i i 1885. In the adult, the sclerotica is only formed of a single la- mina, the fibres of which are so interlaced that it is difficult to dis- tinguish them. Although at first sight no organization is discern- ible in it, it is shown by maceration to be in reality composed^f fibrous filaments and small laminae intermingled in an irregular manner. It contains very few blood-vessels, and those which it has are capillary. No nerves or lymphatics have as yet been dis- covered in it. In the eye of the fetus only, the sclerotica may be separated into two distinct laminae. Some anatomists have sup- ^ posed its inner lamina to be a prolongation of the pia mater; but this opinion appears to have no foundation. 2. OF THE CORNEA. 1886. The Cornea, (Cornea Pellucida), which is of a nearly circular form, convex anteriorly, transparent, and constituting the anterior fifth of the eye, is cased in the great aperture of the sclerotica (1884), and presents the appearance of a segment of a smaller sphere added to a larger, and whose diameter is seven or seven and a half lines, while the chord of the segment itself is five lines. The transverse diameter of the cornea is a little larger than the vertical. It is also a little broader on the side next the nose than on the opposite side. Its anterior surface, which is convex and prominent, is covered by a kind of peculiar mucous layer, distinct from the conjunctiva, and itself defended by an epidermis of its own. The posterior sitr- face is lined by the aqueous humour, and limits the anterior cham- ber of the eye, a space comprised between the iris and cornea. The circumference of the cornea, which is cut obliquely at the expense of its outer surface, is covered by a corresponding slope on the edge of the sclerotica, and adheres intimately to it. 1887- The cornea is thicker than the sclerotica, but it is not fibrous. Its tissue is composed of six distinct laminae, superimpo^ cd upon each other, easily separable, and of whidi the anterior seem to adhere less intimately. It does not appear to contain either nerves or blood-vessels ; but there evidently exists a serous fluid between the laminae which compose it, and on squeezing the membrane, this serum is distinctly seen to ooze out in the form of small drops. It becomes opaque when immersed in boiling water, alcohol or an acid. 3