718 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. down, it is covered by the sartorius muscle which crosses its direc- tion. 2541. Its posterior side rests, at its uppermost part, upon the body of the pubes, from which it is separated by the pectineus muscle, then upon that muscle itself, and upon the small and mid- dle adductors, which are separated from it by a thick layer of fat. 2542. Its outer side corresponds at first to the crural nerve, then to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles, which separates it from the ilio-femoral articulation. It is then in rather distant relation with the sartorius muscle; and lastly, below, is immediately applied upon the internal portion of the triceps, which separates it from the body of the femur. 2543. Its internal side is in contact superiorly with the crural vein, then with the pectineus muscle, and it is at length placed be- tween the adductor longus and sartorius. The latter covers it at the lower part of the thigh. 2544. The branches of the femoral artery are distinguished into internal, external, anterior, and posterior. INTERNAL BRANCHES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. OF THE EXTERNAL PUDIC ARTERIES. (Art. Scrotales ou vulvaires, Chauss.) 2545. They are two in number, and may be distinguished into superjicial or subcutaneous, and deep or sub-aponeurotic. 2546. The Superjicial arises from the femoral artery, at a very small distance from the crural arch. It proceeds transversely in- wards between the skin and the crural aponeurosis, directs itself towards the parts of generation, and, before arriving there, divides into two twigs, the one superior, the other inferior. The superior ascends towards the pubes, and loses itself in the skin of the lower part of the abdomen, communicating with the epigastric and abdo- minal subcutaneous arteries. The inferior is distributed to the scrotum and skin of the penis in the male, where it extends as far as the prepuce; and to the corresponding labium pudendi in the female. 2547. The second external pudic artery arises a little lower from the femoral or profunda femoris. It descends at first ob- liquely, and then runs transversely inwards under the crural aponeu- rosis, which it perforates, to gain the scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. It anastomoses with the inferior twig of the preceding. Pretty frequently it is crossed anteriorly by the inter- nal saphena vein. 2548. The other internal branches of the femoral artery are a little larger than the preceding; but they vary much as to number, origin, and disposition. They are distributed to the gracilis and adductor longus muscles, and to the integuments.