109 OF THE PELVIS. last of tlie ligamcnta flava. This orifice is limited, on either side, by a concave articular process, directed backwards and inwards, united with that of the last vertebra, detached from the rest of the bone anteriorly and on the sides by a pretty deep groove, whicli alomr with the inferior notch of that vertebra, forms the last fora- D men conjunctivum. 377. A Szimmit, directed downwards and a little backwards, presenting a transverse oval surface, by which it is articulated to the coccyx. 378. Structure. The sacrum, although very thick, especially at its upper part, is light and almost entirely spongy. It is be- sides perforated with a great number of cavities, which are further calculated to duninish its weight. An extremely thin layer of com- pact tissue invests its surface, and is prolonged into the sacral holes and canal. This canal itself, of which the transverse section is tri- angular, is curved like the sacrum, a little flattened below, or even open behind to a considerable extent, and diminishes in breadth as it descends. The last prolongation of the encephalic membranes and the sacral nerves fill up its interior. 379. Articulation and Develojmient. The sacrum is articiflated to the fifth lumbar vertebra, the coccyx, and the two iliac bones. Its junction with the spinal column forms a projecting angle named the Promontory. Its development is in some measure shnilar to that of the vertebrae, and takes place by thirty-four or thirty-five points of ossification, disposed as follows : 1st, five, placed above each other, occupy the middle and anterior part; 2dly, in each of the intervals by which they are separated, at a period considerably antecedent to that of birth, two small bony plates are developed, which seem to form their articular surfaces ; 3dly, ten are situated anteriorly on the sides of the latter; 4thly, behind them there are developed six others, between which; Sthly, there appear three or four others, which correspond to the spinous processes and their plates ; 6thly, there is one on each side,, at the upper part of the iliac surface, for the articular face. This latter is developed at a later period, and seems to form a thin plate, which itself sometimes originates by three or four particular centres. It is not uncommon also to find some other points of ossification besides those mention- ed ; but they are very irregular and inconstant. On account of the complexity thus exhibited by the develop- ment of the sacrum, many anatomists have considered it as formed by the union of five vertebrae placed one above the other, and de- creasing from the upper part downwards. 380. The sacrum has a different form in the male from what it has in the female. In the former, it is longer and narrower, and has a smaller curvature. In the latter, on the contrary, it is shorter, broader, and more curved, and presents pretty unvarying- ^mensions, which it is of importance to know. Thus, in general, it is from four to four and a half inches in length; its breadth, taken at the upper part, is nearly equal to its length, while at the lower.