OF THE ARM. 125 at a more advanced period, wlien that part has nearly acquired its full size, there is formed at each extremity an osseous crust, which ultimately unites with the rest of the bone. It is articulated to the sternum and scapula. 2. OF THE ARM. OF THE HUMERUS. 443. Form. The Humerus (Os Humeri, Os Brachii) is the longest and largest bone of the thoracic extremities. It appears as if suspended to the shoulder, and terminates at the elbow. It is ir- regular and of a cylindrical form. Its divisions are the following: 444. Body or Middle Part. From being nearly cylindrical at the upper part, it becomes triangular, prismatic and flattened be- fore and behind at the lower. It appears as if twisted upon itself in its middle region. Its posterior surface is rounded above, and turned a bttle inwards, while below it looks outwards, and is broad and flattened. In its whole extent, it is covered by the triceps extensor, to which it furnishes many points of attachment. Its inner surface is narrower than the outer. At its upper part, there is observed a longitudinal depression, covered with car- tilage in the recent state, deep above, and gradually losing itself as it descends. It is the groove of the biceps, in which the ten- don of the long portion of that muscle slides. It gives insertion, by its posterior edge, to the united tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The inner surface of the humerus presents, in its middle part, the medullary foramen, which is directed from above downwards, together with some inequalities to which the coraco-brachialis is attached. At its lower part it is rounded, in- clines a little forward, and gives insertion to the brachialis internus muscle. Its outer surface is also covered by this muscle at its lower part; but, near its upper third, it presents the Deltoid Impres- sion, a sort of scabrous surface into which the deltoid muscle is in- serted, and which surmounts a broad and superficial depression, inclined obliquely from above downwards and from behind for- wards, which marks the passage of the radial nerve, and one of the principal branches of the humeral artery. 445. These three surfaces are separated from each other by three prominent lines. The outer, which is not very distinct at its upper part, where it gives attachment to the triceps extensor, is traversed in the middle by the groove of the radial nerve, and becomes very prominent and a little curved forwards at the lower part, where it affords insertion to the brachialis internus, supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, triceps extensor, and an inter- muscular aponeurosis. 446. The inner prominent line is also rather indistinct above,