OF THE PELVIS. 107 V.—OF THE PELVIS* 370. The Pelvis is a large irregular bony cavity, opeji above and below, which terminates the trunk beneath, supports or con- tains part of the intestines, urinary and genital organs, together with a prodigious cpiantity of blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, &c. and which, at the same time, affords articulation to the abdominal extremities, gives insertion to their muscles, and is subservient to the performance of their motions. The pelvis supports the verte- bral column behind, and is sustained anteriorly by the femoral bones. In the adult, it is situated nearly in the middle part of the body, and is composed of four broad and flat bones, of unequal thickness, and differing much in their form, size, and situation. Of these bones, two are placed behind in the median line, namely, the Sa- crum and Coccyx, two anteriorly and on the sides, namely, the Iliac or Coxal Bones. The latter correspond to each other on cither side, and unite anteriorly by mutual apposition. OF THE SACRUM.*f- 371 • The Sacrum (os saci'um, or Sacral Bone,) is symmetri- cal, pyramidal, triangular, curved forwards below, situated at the posterior part of the pelvis, between the two iliac bones, immedi- ately under the vertebral column, and above the coccyx. It is perforated in its whole length by a canal named the Sacral, which is a continuation of the vertebral. It presents the following parts. 372. A Spinal or Posterior Surface. It is convex, very un- even and rough, and presents, in the median line, four or five com- pressed horizontal eminences, of which the upper are the longest, and which correspond to the spinous processes of the vertebras. These eminences are frequently united together, and form a sort of longitudinal ridge. Beneath them, the sacral canal terminates, under the appearance of a triangular channel, closed behind by the posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament, and limited on the sides by two tubercles, which unite above with the last of these eminences, and under which is observed a notch, which transmits the last sacral nerve. These tubercles are named Horns of the Sacrum. They sometimes unite with eminences on the base of the coccyx. 373. On the sides of these eminences are observed two broad and superficial channels, which seem to form the continuation of the vertebral channels, and which are covered by the origins of the • Pelvis is the Latin for a basin, to wliich the upper part of this group of hones has a considerable resemblance. Vcsalius and Colombo aj)pear to have been the lirst. anatomi.sts who considered the pelvis by itself, and who assigned it the j)arficular name which it bears. t The epithet suere'd (nf«v) was given by the ancients to a multitude of diflerent parts, and especially to several of those which are subservient to generation.