ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 666 other, 60 as to form a tliird circle which embraces the pupil. Some of tliese twigs do not anastomose liowcver, and go directly to the pupil. In the foetus, there are seen setting out for the membran,a pupillaris (1899), about thirty flexuous and radiating ramifica- tions, which leave tlie concavity of the great arterial circle of the iris to anastomose thousands of times between the two laminae of tlie membrane, forming very flexuous arches of variable figure and size, between which there remains towards the centre of tlie pupil, an empty space of an irregular form, and destitute of blood- vessels. 4. OF THE SUPERIOR MUSCULAR ARTERY. 2300. It is sometimes wanting. Immediately after its com- mencement, it gains the inferior surface of the attollens oculum muscle, and divides into several twigs which are distributed to its fleshy fibres and to those of the levator palpebrae superioris and obliquus oculi superior muscles, as well as to the periosteum of the orbit. When this branch does not occur, these twigs arise from the lachrymal artery, the supra-orbitar artery, and the ciliary arteries. 5. OF THE INFERIOR MUSCULAR ARTERY. 2301. More voluminous than the preceding, it is never absent. It arises from the ophthalmic artery between the ciliary arteries, or after the lachrymal, and directs itself from behind forwards between the optic nerve and the depressor ocuh muscle. Its twigs are dis- tributed to that muscle, to the abductor ocuh, the obliquus oculi inferior, the periosteum of the orbit and the lachrymal sac. It presents the most numerous variations. Its trunk sometimes ac- companies the abductor oculi muscle, and issues from the orbit to anastomose by an arch with the infra-orbitar artery. It sometimes gives rise to the central artery of the retina. 2302. From the two muscular arteries principally, and occa- sionally from the lachrymal and infra-orbitar at the same time, come the Anterior Ciliary Arteries, which, to the number of four or five, proceed from behind forwards to the anterior part of the ball of the eye, where they divide into several twigs which perforate the sclerotica or are distributed to the tunica conjunctiva. The first enter, therefore, into the eye at the distance of two or three lines from the circumference of the cornea, and lose themselves, for the most part, in the great arterial circle of the iris (2298). Some of them, however, gain the anterior part of the choroid membrane, while others throw themselves into the iris.