81 OF THE LACHRYMAL BONE. mimerary unciform boae, which unites with the upper maxillary hone, to the outside of the superior orifice of the nasal canal. The third edge, which is posterior andvr^y thin, joins the anterior edge of the orbitar surface of the ethmoid bone. The fourth, which is anterior, is marked with a small groove, into which is received one of the portions of the posterior edge of the fronto-nasal process of the upper maxillary bone. 280. Structure, Development, Articulations. The lachrymal bone is entirely compact, extremely thin, and even transparent. It is developed by a single point of ossification ; and is articulated to the frontal and ethmoid bones, the upper maxillary bone, and the inferior turbinated bone. OF the malar bone.- 281. Form. The Malar or Cheek Bone (os Malae) is of an irre- gular square form, and is situated on the upper and lateral parts of the face, forming the orbit externally, and constituting the region of the cheek. 282. Its 07iter surface, which is convex anteriorly, flat behind, smooth, quadrilateral, and covered in a great part of its extent by the skin and the orbicularis palpebrarum, gives attachment below to the two zygomatic muscles, and presents in its centre one or more small holes, named malar, for the passage of vessels and nerves. These holes are the orifices of a canal whose course is very vague, and very little known. 283. Its upper surface is smaller, concave, and smooth, and constitutes part of the orbit. It forms a right angle with the outer smface, behind and above which it is situated. The poste- rior orifice of one of the malar holes is observed upon it. It is circumscribed posteriorly by an edge which is ragged above, where it is articulated to the frontal and sphenoid bones, and below, where it unites with the upper maxillary bone, but smooth in an angle formed at its middle part, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure. This edge is inclined backwards at its upper part, forwards and inwards at the lower, and is verti- cal in the middle. 284. The posterior surface, which is also concave, is smooth behind, where it forms part of the temporal fossa; but anteriorly it presents a rough triangular surface, by which it is articulated to the malar tuberosity of the upper maxillary bone. In its posterior half, there is observed the orifice of a small malar canal. 285. Of its four edges, two are anterior and two posterior. Of the two anterior, the zipper is smooth, concave, rounded, and forms part of the circumference of the orbit; while the lower is uneven, rough, and connected with the maxUlary bone. Of the two posterior, the upper is thin over the greater part of its extent, more or less twisted in the form of the letter s, and gives attach- G