70 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. with mania. In the collection of the Faculty of Paris there is a skull of enormous thickness. 'In 1742, Morand presented one to the French Academy, the walls of which were nine lines thick, without any diploe, and uniformly compact. Thomas Bartholin* mentions one of which the walls were also formed of a single layer. M. Jadelot some years ago described a very thick and solidified skull, in which all the holes which commonly give passage to nerves were obliterated. Various authors*]' also mention that ex- crescences resembling horns of greater or less size, sonietimes rise from the surface of the skull. 3. USES OF THE SKULL. 235. The uses of the skull are numerous and varied. Wfe have already pointed them out in describing that cavity. It will, there- fore, be sufficient here to say in a general manner, that the skull lodges the brain and most of its dependences ; that it guards them dgmhst external injuries, and sustains aU their parts, whether by itself or by the points of attachment which it furnishes to the menyni; that it serves for the articulation of the head with the ti'unk pro- perly so called; affords a fulcrum for the motions which the lower jaw performs on the upper ; transmits externally nerves and ves- sels ; allows others to enter into its interior; gives attachment to a great number of muscles ; contains the organs of hearing, &c. II.—OF THE FACE. 236. The Face is aU that part of the head which is situated be- fore and under the skull. It is limited above by that cavity, later- ally by fhe zygomatic arches, behind by an empty space, in which is lodged the upper part of the pharynx. Its form is symmetrical, its directioti vertical, its figure triangular, and its structure very cdmplex. We have already taken occasion to point out its princi- pal divisions, and to mention the names of the bones which enter into its composition. Thfese bones are much more numerous than those of the cranium. A. OF THE BONES WHICH COMPOSE THE UPPER. JAW. OF THE SUPERIOR MAXitLARY BONE. # 237. Form. The Svperior Maxillary Bones are to the face what the sphenoid bone is to the skull: they articulate with all the piefces of which it is composed, determine its figure almost of them- • Anatome, p. 700. -|- Ambrose Pare, Fabricius of Hilden, Severino, Th. Bartholin, &c.