COSTAL CARTILAGES. SI extremely short, in wanting the angle entirely, and in having its anterior extremity attenuated. cl. OF THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. 92. These cartilages correspond in number to the ribs, which they prolong anteriorly, affecting the same form and direction. They are the longest and thickest in the body, and their dimen- sions vary according to the rank which they hold. Their length increases from the first to the seventh, and then diminishes pro- gressively to the last two, which are extremely short. Their breadth diminishes in a uniform manner from the first to the last. In the two upper cartilages, the breadth is generally equal in their whole extent; the rest become narrower as they advance toward the ster- num. The sixth, seventh, and eighth form the only exceptions to this rule, touching each other at one part of their edges, where they are obviously enlarged. 93. The first cartilage, which might be considered as a cartila- ginous, anto'ior or sternal rib, descends a little; the second is ho- rizontal ; the third is slightly inclined upwards; the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh, have at first the same direction as the rib, but quickly incline upwards to reach the sternum, their inclination being greater in the lower than the upper. The cartilages of the first three false ribs present this disposition still more evidently; but in the two last, the direction is the same as that of the ribs them- selves. 94. The middle part, or body of these cartilages is slightly convex anteriorly, where it is covered by the great pectoral muscles, the obliquus externus and rectus of the abdomen, and moreover, in the first only, by the subclavius muscle and the costo-clavicular ligament which are inserted into it. Posteriorly, the body is a little concave. In the upper cartilages, it corresponds to the pleura and the triangular muscle of the sternum; in the rest, to the transverse muscle and the diaphragm. The upper edge is concave, the lower convex, both give insertion to the intercostal muscles. The great pectoral muscle also is inserted into the up- per edge of the sixth. The edges by which the sixth, seventh, and eighth cartilages unite, present an oblong smooth surface at the points of articulation, where there is a general enlargement of their substance. 95. The outer ewtremity of all the costal cartilages presents a small convex uneven surface, intimately connected by union of substance, and like the synarthrodial cartilages, with the osseous portion of the rib. The inner ewtremity, in the true ribs only, is furnished with a convex, angular and projecting articvdar surface, which is received into the retiring angle formed by the cavities in the edges of the sternum. The first is evidently continuous with that bone; the six following are articulated to it by contiguous