SACRO-LUMBAR AND SACRAL NERVES. 505 then follows the lateral and superior part of the excavation of the pelvis, running a little below the line of the upper strait, (407), accompanied by the obturator artery and vein, and placed under the former and above the latter. On arriving at the upper part of the obturator foramen, it gives off a twig which loses itself in the two obturator muscles. It then passes through the foramen, and ar- rives at the upper and inner part of the thigh, concealed by the pectineus and adductor longus. There it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The (interior descends between the adductor brevis and adductor longus, and separates into two twigs, of which the inner gives filaments to the first of these muscles, and loses itself in the upper part of the gracilis, while the outer be- longs entirely to the latter muscle. Both also give off cutaneous ramifications, and furnish one or two anastomoses to the inner saphenus nerve, (1742.) The posterior directs itself between the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, and loses itself in the latter after giving filaments to the obturator externus muscle. OF THE SACEO-LUMBAR NERVE. 1744. This nerve is double the size of the crural, and is formed by the anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, to which is united a large twig of the fourth. It descends into the pelvis before the sacrum, near the sacro-iliac symphysis, and unites with the sciatic plexus. In its course it furnishes a single branch, which is the glutaeal. 1745. Glutaeal Nerve. It derives some roots from the sciatic plexus, issues by the sciatic notch above the pyramidalis muscle, and divides into a multitude of twigs, some of which enter the glutsCus minimus, and the others the glutaeus medius. The latter frequent- ly reach as far as the tensor vaginae femoris, by curving forwards. OF THE SACRAL NERVES, OR THOSE WHICH ISSUE FROM THE SACRAL CANAL. 1746. The sacral nerves are commonly six on each side, often five, and rarely four only. The first issues by the upper sacral holes, and the last by the notches which are observed at the upper part of the coccyx, or when there are only five, it escapes between that bone and the sacrum Their size diminishes successively, so that the last two arc very slender. 1747- These nerves arise from the lower part of the bulging which terminates the spinal marrow, by a double cord of filaments, as is the case with the vertebral nerves in general. These ditterent cords descend vertically in the vertebral and sacral canals, form with those of the last lumbar pairs, the bundle known by the name of Cauda equina., and in other respects arc precisely similar to