OP TtlE EYE AND ITS APrENDAGES. 541 < A. OF THE EYEBKOWS. 1863. The Eyebrows or Superrilia are two arched eminences, convex above, differing in their degree of prominence, breadth, thickness, and elongation in different individuals, and generally larger in old people. They lie upon the superciliary arch of the frontal bone, (151), which forms their basis, extending above the eyelids, from the sides of the root of the nose to the temples. Their inner extremity or head is more prominent than the outer, which is named the tail, and which is slender and elongated. They are separated from each other by a greater or less interval in most subjects, but in many cases also they unite and are confounded above the root of the nose. 1864. The eyebrows are covered with short and stiff hairs di- rected obliquely outwards, much more numerous internally than externally, generally of the same colour as the hair of the head, and commonly thicker in dark than in fair persons. The portion of skin in which the bulbs of these hairs are implanted is pretty thick, and applied upon a layer of adipose cellular tissue which it- self rests upon some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles, beneath which occurs the corrugator supercilii. 1865. The nerves of the eyebrows are furnished by the internal and external frontal nerves, (1582), and by a filament of the tem- poral branches of the facial nerve, (1613). Their arteries come from the ophthalmic and temporal arteries, and their veins pass into the corresponding venous trunks. B. OF THE EYELIDS. 1. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1866. The Eyelids (Palpehrce,) are two kinds of moveable veils lying upon the anterior part of the ball of the eye. They arc separated above from the forehead by the eyebrow, and con- founded below with the cheek, and are distinguished into upper and lower. 1867. The Upper Eyelid, which is very broad and possessed of great mobility, descends below the transverse diameter of the eye. It is chiefly by it that the eye is closed, for the lower eyelid does not rise high upon it. Both arc convex before, and present a great number of transverse wrinkles, more numerous, however, on the upjier than on the lower, and more distinct in old age than in youth. These wrinkles are semicircular and concentric, those on the upper eyelid are concave downwards, while those of the lower are concave upwards. 1868. The two eyelids are united at the extremities of the trans- verse diameter of the orbit, forming two angles, of which the inner