OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 7^5 parately on the right side into the subclavian and internal jugular veins. 2767. Lymphatics of the Diaphragm. Confounded in a great measure with the intercostal and hepatic lymphurics, they give rise to several principal trunks which proceed forwards, above the pleu- rae, upon the eonvex surface of the diaphragm, unite and divide several times in succession, pass through the inferior ganglia of the mediastinum, and at length join the preceding behind the ster- num. 2768. Lymphatics of the Thymus and Pericardium. The former are much more numerous and larger in the child than in the adult. Both are confounded witli the substernal and pulmon- ary lymphatics. 2769. Lymphatics of the Heart. They have their roots distri- buted over the whole surface of the heart, and especially towards its summit. They follow pretty accurately the course of the coro- nary vessels, and ultimately unite into two principal trunks. One of these trunks accompanies the right cardiac artery, ascends upon the anterior side of the aorta, inclines to the left, and terminates in the upper part of the thoracic duct. The other, which is larger, and frequently formed by the alternate anastomoses and divisions of three or four large branches, glides obliquely between the aorta and pulmonary artery, traverses some small ganglia, and gains the thoracic duct or the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Near its termination, it frequently divides into three or four distinct branches. Some lymphatic vessels of the heart unite separately with those of the lungs. 2770. Lymphatics of the (Esophagus. They form a kind of plexus around that canal, anastomose with those of the heart and lungs, and enter the predorsal ganglia. 3. SUPEEFICIAL LYMPHATICS OF THE SUPEEIOK, EXTREMITIES. 2771 • Their first roots surround the fingers, at the posterior surface of which they are especially very numerous. Collected in- to bundles on the sides of each of them, they gain the metacarpus, on which they remain isolated, or anastomose to give rise to some trunks, which direct themselves particularly over the posterior sur- face of the fore-arm, along which they are enlarged by the addition of a great number of twigs coming from that part of the extremity. They then turn a little inwards, and near the elbow-joint, place themselves upon the anterior surface of the fore-arm. There, they unite with several other trunks which come from the anterior sur- face of the fingers and palm of the hand, and which accompany the subcutaneous veins. In this manner they arrive at the bend of the arm, and there sometimes meet with one or two small ganglia.