STJIUCTUIIE OF THE BUAIN. 419 nerves, the fibrous bundles of the corpora olivaria meet a new mass of cineritious substance, are expanded and acquire a fresh augmen- tation from it, and form together with it the Corpora Striata, of which there are two, one on each side of the brain. These bodies are pyriform eminences, broad before, contracted behind, and placed obliquely, so that while they are very near each other anteriorly, they are widely separated posteriorly. Their colour at the outside is gray, somewhat tinged with brown. There are observed at their surface very remarkable venous ramifications, which are the radi- cles of the Ve?ice Galeni. The corpora striata form part of the floor of the lateral ventricles. They are contiguous with the cor- pus callosum by their upper surface, and with the septum lucidum by the inner. On cutting them obliquely and at different heights, the cineritious and medullary substances are seen disposed in their interior in alternate streaks, of variable form and breadth. With a little care, it is observed that all the white bands are continuous with the original bundles of the corpora olivaria. 1465. Between the optic thalami and the corpora striata, in a groove by which they are separated, there is observed a small slip of thin, fibrous, semi-transparent whitish substance. This is the Tcenia semicircidaris. It commences at the anterior extremity of the optic thalamus, sometimes by several filaments, sometimes by a single cord. At this place, its fibrous texture is very apparent, and it is a line and a half or two lines in breadth. From thence it ascends over the thalamus, passes over several of the veins which come from the corpus striatum, and allows them to be seen on ac- count of its transparency. It then proceeds backwards, gradually contracts, is curved downwards, and loses itself towards the Corpus peniculaturn externum (1463.) Anteriorly, it is itself covered by a small transparent and very delicate lamina of a yellowish colour. This is the Horny Lamina of the Tcenia semicircidaris, beneath which there is often observed a little serous fluid of the colour of amber. 1466. On leaving the corpora striata, the bundles of the olivary eminences expand into layers like those of the pyramidal bodies. Like them also, they form circumvolutions, and it is of these cir- cumvolutions collectively that the posterior lobes and the vault of the hemispheres of the cerebrum are composed. Each circumvo- lution is not formed by a single bundle, but consists of two differ- ent layers which touch each other, and are but very slightly agglu- tinated. The cineritious substance invests its periphery. With a little care and patience, the presence of these two layers and their separation in the median line of each circumvolution can be de- monstrated. It is in this that the art of unfolding the brain con- sists. 1467- We have seen how the cerebral hemispheres are formed by divergent bundles of fibres ; but all the parts of one of these hemispheres are made to communicate with the corresponding parts of the other by a new order of white medullary convergent fibres.