158 PASSIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE FIRST PHALANGES OF THE TOES. 537- These phalanges are much longer than the others. They are much more slender and rounded than the corresponding pha^ lunges of the fingers, with the exception of that of the great toe, which is flattened and of great size. The rest gradually diminish in size. Their Body is very slender anteriorly, thicker behind. Its upper surface is convex, and corresponds to the tendons of the extensors of the toes ; the lower is concave, especially towards the extremities, and corresponds to the tendons of the flexors. The lateral parts of this surface give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of these tendons. The lateral surfaces are concave, and corres- pond to the tendons of the interosseous muscles and lumbricales. Their Posterior Extremity, which is larger than the anterior, and which presents posteriorly a concave rounded surface, articulat- ing with the head of the corresponding metatarsal bone, pre- sents on each side a tubercle for the attachment of the lateral Hga^ ment. Their Anterior Extremity, which is much smaller, is formed by two condyloid prominences, which are close together above and separated below, with an intervening groove, and having their greatest convexity directed downwards. On the sides of this extremity are observed the impressions of the lateral ligaments. OF THE SECOND PHALANGES OF THE TOES. 538. They are very short, and of a cubical form. The great toe has none. Their upper surface is convex in the transverse direction, concave from before backwards, and corresponds to the tendons of the extensor digitorum pedis. The inferior surface, which is uneven and concave, gives attachment to the tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral edges are concave from before backwards, and give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of the tendons of the flexor muscles. Their Posterior Extremity presents a concave articular surface, of which the greatest diameter is transverse, and which is marked, in its middle part, with a verti- cal prominence. It is articulated with the condyles of the first phalanges. Their Anterior Extremity bears two small condyles, somewhat less prominent than those of the anterior extremity of the first phalanges. OF THE THIRD PHALANGES. 539. The third or extreme phalanges are all very small. That of the great toe is much larger than the rest. Their form is some- what pyramidal. Their Body, of which the superior and inferior surfaces are concave from before backwards, and convex in the