ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXJl'REIVIl 1 Y. capsule belong to this articulation, in which there arc observed, moreover, two of those cellular masses which have been taken for synovial glands. These are very distinct. 752. Ligament between the Scaphoid Bone and Astragalus. It arises from the upper part of the neck of the astragalus, and passes to the upper part of the scaphoid bone. It is a broad, thin, horizcmtal fasciculus, with parallel fibres, which are greeted a little obliquely from within outwards, and of which the inner are longer than the outer. It is covered by the tendons of the extensor digitorum, and sends some fibres to the cuneiform bones. 753. Synovial Membrane. Forming a cul-de-sac between the astragalus and calcancum, it invests the head of the former of the.se bones, then the ligament of the scaphoid bone and astragalus at its lower surface, the posterior surface of the scaphoid bone, and the two ligaments of the articulation of the calcaneum with the sca- phoides. It is strengthened externally at the inner part by bundles of irregular fibres. 8. ARTICULATION OF TUE CALCANEUM WITH THE CUBOID RONE. 754. This articulation is formed by an arthrodia which results from the contact of the anterior surface of the calcaneum and the posterior surface of the os cuboides, which are kept in connection by two ligaments, and lined by a synovial membrane. 755. Superior Ligament between the Calcaneum and os Cuboides. This ligament is broad, thin, divided into fasciculi by the interven- tion of much adipose substance, and formed of several superimpos- ed planes. Its fibres, which are rather short, originate from the upper and fore part of the calcaneum, and are inserted into the corresponding part of the os cuboides. They lie upon the synoyial membrane, and are covered by the tendon of the peroneus ter tins. 756. Inferior and Superficial Ligament between the Calcaneum and os Cuboides. (Ligamentum Longum Plantce, Weit. j. This is the longest and strongest of the ligaments of the foot. Its thickness, its pearly lustre, and the longitudinal direction of its fibres are very remarkable. It arises from the posterior and inferior part of the cal- caneum, and passing directly forwards, terminates in part at the oblique tuberosity which is observed at the inferior surface of the os cuboides. The rest of its fibres, which are much longer than the others, pass above the fibrous sheath of the peroneus longus, and divide into several fasciculi which go to the posterior extremi- ty of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and give insertion to muscular fibres. They correspond below to the deep-seated muscles of the sole of the foot. 757- Inferior and Deep Ligament between the Calcarmim and os Cuboides. This ligament, which is .shorter and situated higher than the preceding, and separated from it by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, arises from the calcancum before the superficial li-