OF THE LATERAL SACRAL ARTERY. 709 much in size. It ascends a little outwards and bac hwartis, before the lumbo-sacral nerve (174-1-), and behind the psoas muscle, which receives some ramidcations from it. Arrived towards tlie anterior edge of the base of the sacrum, it divides into two branches, the one ascending, the other transverse. 2498. Ascendin(j Branch. It ascends vertically between the psoas muscle, ossa ilii and last vertebra, and terminates by anas- tomosing with a branch of the fourth or fifth lumbar artery. It throws ramifications into the psoas, iliacus and quadratus lumborum muscles, and into the periosteum of the sacrum and the iliac bones. One of its principal twigs enters into the vertebral canal, under the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra, and is distributed to the dura mater and nerves which terminate the spinal marrow anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, the lateral sacral and the last lumbar. 2499. Transverse Branch. It directs itself outwards, between the psoas and iliacus muscles, and almost immediately subdivides into two orders of twigs. Some of these twigs, the superficial., spread out upon the anterior surface of the iliacus muscle, beneath the peritoneum, and go to anastomose anteriorly with the circum- flex iliac. The other, or deep twigs, penetrate into the muscles, and are distributed in all directions to its fleshy fibres and to the periosteum of the iliac fossa. One of them, of considerable size, in- troduces itself into the spongy tissue of the iliac bone, by the hole which is observed at the middle of the iliac fossa. h. OF THE SACHO-LATEKAL ARTERY. 2500. Sometimes there is only one on each side, and sometimes, and even more frequently, two are met with. It arises from the hypogastric artery itself, or from the ilio-lumbar or glutaeal. Di- rected obliquely inwards and downwards, it descends before the anterior sacral holes, and reaches the summit of the coccyx, where it anastomoses by an arch with the middle sacral artery. Some- times it does not go so far, but passes through the third or fourth sacral hole, and loses itself upon the spinal marrow and in the muscles of the sacral grooves. Its twigs are external and internal. 2501. E.xt.ernal ox Posterior Twigs. They are larger than the internal, and are commonly four in number, they introduce them- selves into the sacral canal by the anterior sacral holes, and pre- sently divide each into two secondary twigs, one of which passes over the anterior wall of the sacral canal, giving ramifications to the membrane which lines it, and to the gangliform bulging of the sacral nerves, while the other issues by the posterior sacral hole, and loses itself in the muscles of the vertebral grooves. Those of one side generally communicate with those of the opposite side. 2502. Interrud Twigs. Tiiey spread out their ramifications in the sacral nerves and ganglia, in the pyramidalis muscles, and upon 7