STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN. 421 receives the converging fibres of the inferior circumvolutions of the anterior lobe. Lastly, it terminates by a sort of white streak which loses itself in the fibrous tissue of the peduncles of the brain. 1472. At its posterior ecotremitu, the corpus callosum is also re- flected, from behind forwards. It there forms a white lamina which is prolonged into the lower part of the lateral ventricles, and which invests in particular, on each side, a kind of circumvolution formed by the cineritious substance. This is what is called the Cornu Ammmiis or Fes Hippocampi. This voluminous projection is curved upon itself, in such a manner as to present its concavity in- wards and forwards, and its convexity outwards. Arising from the place where the corpus callosum bends, it first proceeds outwards, then forwards, becoming continually broader, and at length ter- minates by a broad and thick bulbous extremity, turned inwards, and surmounted by two or three more or less prominent tubercles, which are separated by distinct but rather shallow grooves. The upper surface of the Cornua Ammonis is free in the bottom of the ventricles, and covered by the choroid plexus. Their conveoo edge is circumscribed by a very distinct groove, behind which the sub- stance which forms the bottom of the ventricles presents a bulging, which follows the direction of the cornua ammonis, and is some- times equally large. This bulging is named the Additamentum pedum Hippocampi. Their concave edge is covered by the cor- pus fimbriatum, under which there is found a denticulated cord, of a compact tissue, granulated appearance, and reddish colour, and of which few authors have made mention. It is named the Por- tion godronee by Vicq d’Azyr. The mass of cineritious substance which occupies the interior of the cornu Ammonis bifurcates at its posterior extremity, under the fold of the corpus callosum. One of its branches communicates with a circumvolution of the posterior lobe ; the other, which is shorter, is confounded in one of the circumvolutions of the middle lobe. In its course backwards, from the moment when it recurvates, the corpus caUosum receives the convergent filaments of the inner cir- cumvolutions of the posterior lobes of the brain. 1473. We have already mentioned (1469) that the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum bend over the sides of the raphe to proceed downwards. It is probable that by their still further pro- longation is formed the Septum lucidum or Septum of the Ven- tricles., a kind of thin, lamellar, soft production, which is continuous above with the middle part of the inferior surface of the coi’pus callosum, in its whole extent, and which, inferiorly and posteriorly, is connected with the fornix, and inferiorly and anteriorly, with the recurved lamina of the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum. It separates the two lateral ventricles from each other. It is very high at its fore part, and progressively diminishes backwards, so that its two lateral surfaces are triangular. They correspond pos- teriorly to the optic thalami, and anteriorly to the corpoi’a striata.