ORGANS OF GENERATION. 804 the contrary direction to that of the upper. It rests upon the scrotum, and presents a middle longitudinal prominence formed by the urethra and the continuation of the raphe of the perinmum (2893). This prominence is bounded on each side by a shallow groove. The two sides of the penis are rounded. Its posterior extremity or root is connected with the walls of the pelvis. Its anterior ex- tremity is free, and presents the glans, the prepuce, and the orifice of the urethra. h. ORGANIZATION OF THE PENIS. 2922. The penis is formed by the corpora cavernosa, the prin- cipal seat of erection; the urethra, destined for the transmission of the semen; corpus spongiosum iirethreB,tcxmmdi.tc(\.hy the glans; by vessels, neiwes, and a cutaneous envelope which gives rise to the pre- puce. 1. OF THE INTEGUMENTS OF THE PENIS, AND OF THE PREPUCE. 2923. The skin of the penis is continuous with that of the scro- tum and pubes. It is thin, less white than that of the other re- gions of the body, furnished with a great number of sebaceous fol- licles, especially at the lower part of the organ, and surmounted posteriorly with a few hairs whose extremity is turned forwards, it has below it a layer of cellular tissue, very loose at first, but which becomes dense, whitish, and as if membranous in proportion as it is examined nearer the corpus cavernosum. This tissue never contains fat. It is manifestly continuous with the suspensory li- gament of the penis and with the septum of the dartos. It is traversed by a very great number of veins and nervous filaments. 2924. At the free extremity of the penis, the skin forms a more or less considerable prolongation, terminated by an aperture vary- ing in width in different subjects. This is the prepuce, the use of which is to envelope and protect the glans. 2925. The prepuce appears composed of two membranous layers, between which is a plane of cellular tissue. The external layer is formed by the skin which we have just described. The internal which is of a mucous nature, lines the inner surface of the cutaneous prolongation, ascends a little beyond the glans, and is reflected over the latter, forming behind its base a small cul-de- sac applied against the corpus cavernosum. This cul-de-sac is in- terrupted, beneath the orifice of the urethra, by a fold which is named the Frenum preputii, and which, placed in the inferior groove of the glans, frequently ascends to the aperture of the urethra. The cutaneous layer of the prepuce is very fine and entirely des- titute of hairs. Its mucous layer, from being at first very pale, becomes of a rather intense rca as it .approaches the base of the