ORGANS OF SENSATION. adult than the bony portion. Its inner extremity is prolonged in- feriorly into a point and is only connected with the temporal bone by a fibrous tissue. Near the tragus, this fibro-cartilage presents a transverse fissure. A similar one is observed a little farther on; and sometimes, al- though rarely, there even exists a third. These fissures, which are named ^Qincisurce of occupy only a portion of the extent of the fibro-cartilaginous lamina, and are filled with a fibrous cellular tissue. Sometimes also they present muscular fibres ; but these cannot be considered as forming a separate muscle, as some ana- tomists maintain. 1929. Of the Fibrous Portion. It unites above and behind the two edges of the fibro-cartilage, and completes the canal in this place. Sometimes it is very indistinct, but it is always pro- longed between the fibro-cartilage and the circumference of the bony canal of the ear, and connects them with each other. 1930. Of the Skin of the meatus auditorius. It is a prolonga- tion of that which invests the auricle. Presenting at first the same tint and thickness as the latter, it loses its whiteness and be- comes thinner in proportion as it approaches the membrana tym- pani, over which it is reflected so as to form a kind of cul-de-sac. It is covered in its whole extent by a very fine down, and at its origin is furnished with pretty long and very apparent hairs. It presents a great quantity of porosities, which are the excretory ori- fices of the ceruminous glands. It adheres very feebly to the ad- jacent parts, and is connected with them by cellular tissue. Its adhesion, however, is more marked in the place where it invests the bony portion, and especially beneath; but it may be detached without effort from the membrana tympani. 1931. Of the Ceruminous Glands. They are met with under the skin, in the cellular tissue, at the upper and back parts of the canal, in the place where the fibro-cartilage does not exist. They have a spherical or elliptical form, a reddish-yellow colour, and a considerable density. Each of them has an excretory orifice of its own which opens into the meatus and pours out the cerumen there. Their intimate structure is very little known. 1932. The Cerumen is a thick, oily, very bitter fluid, of a yel- low colour, partly soluble in water under the form of an emulsion, little affected by exposure to air, not putrescible, and incapable of being acted upon by alcohol. This humour is inflammable.— When placed upon a piece of lighted charcoal, it quickly intu- mesces and exhales a dense smoke of an ammoniacal and slightly aromatic smell. The charcoal which forms the residuum is in too small quantity to be analyzed. M. Vauquelin thinks that tliree substances form the base of the cerumen : a fat oil, an albuminous animal mucilage, and a colouring matter. 1933. The arteries of the external ear are furnished by the jmsterior auricular, temporal, and stylo-mastoid branches. Its veins exactly correspond to tlie arteries. The lymphatics go to 3