PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 74 where the Buccinator muscle is inserted. It describes in its course a portion of a parabola, and is marked with deep conical cavities, which receive the teeth, and which are named Alveoli or Sockets. The form and dimensions of these alveoli vary according to the kind of teeth which they lodge ; and when the teeth have several roots, they are divided into a similar number of subordinate cavi- ties by particular septa. The alveolus of the first incisor is deeper and broader than that of the second, but much less so than that of the canine tooth, which is compressed, and ends in a very sharp cone. Two of the small molares are not so deep. The most va- riable is the last, which is commonly divided into three cavities, sometimes into two, and in some cases presents only one. Each maxillary bone has generally eight of these alveoli, the partitions of which are formed of a cellular tissue, which is examined poste- riorly, are found to be less and less compact. Externally, the edge in which they are formed presents corresponding prominences and depressions. On the inside, it is perforated with a great number of small holes which transmit vessels to the walls of the alveolar cavities. 248. Structure. In general, the upper maxillary bone is thick and cellular, especially toward its different processes, and in the alveolar margin. It is hollow, and as it were inflated in nearly its whole extent, on account of the presence of the sinus which is formed in its interior. 249. Articulations. The upper maxillary bone is articulated to the ethmoid, the frontal bone, the nasal bone, the lachrymal bone, the palate bone, the inferior turbinated bone, the vomer, the opposite maxillary bone, the teeth of the upper jaw, and some- times the sphenoid bone, by the different points mentioned above. 250. Development. The development of this bone takes place in a very complicated manner. At first there appear some osseous nu- clei, which commence the formation of the upper alveolar arch. Then the body of the bone is formed by one or two points of ossi- fication ; and in the latter case, there occurs in the fetus a small distinct osseous piece, which seems analogous to the inter-maxil- lary bone of quadrupeds. The sinus is only developed with age, and sometimes is not formed at all, of which Morgagni mentions an example.* The palatal process also arises from a separate germ, which forms the inner wall of the alveoli, excepting those of the incisors. The zygomatic and orbitar processes are also each pro- duced by a separate point. In many cases also an isolated small bone forms the upper part of the nasal canal.f OF THE PALATE BONE. 251. Form. The Palate Bone, (Ossa Palati,) which is of a very • Adv. Anal. p. 38. Adv. vi. p. 116. •f BeclaHU, Nouveau Journal dc Medicine, April, 1819, p. 332.