673 OF THE BASILAR ARTERY. They anastomose with those of the opposite side, or lose themselves upon the proper membrane of the spinal marrow, sending only some absolutely capillary ramifications to the pulpy membrane of the latter. 2323. Anterior Spinal Artery, (Artere mediane posterieure du rachis, Chauss.) It is a little larger than the preceding, and arises, internally, near the termination of the vertebral ar- tery. It even sometimes comes from the inferior cerebellar or basilar artery. It descends in a tortuous manner upon the anterior surface of the upper extremity of the spinal marrow, gives some ramifications to it, and unites angularly with that of the op- 'posite side at the level of the occipital foramen. There results from this union a very flexuous common trunk, which descends as far as the lower extremity of the spinal marrow, giving off to the right and left twigs similar to those of the posterior spinal arteries, and which is afterwards prolonged, without dividing, in the midst of the nervous filaments which form the cauda equina, as far as the articulation of the sacrum with the coccyx, where it terminates by anastomosing with the twigs of the lateral sacral arteries. 2324. Inferior Cerebellar Artery. It arises externally from the end of the vertebral or even from the basilar trunk. Its size is very variable, although almost always pretty considerable. It directs itself transversely outwards, crossing the corpus pyramidale, passes between the origins of the corresponding pneumo-gastric nerve and the spinal accessory nerve, and advances in a serpentine manner upon the inferior surface of the cerebellum. Its first twigs, which are very small, are distributed to the superior extremity of the spi- nal marrow, the origins of the pneumo-gastric and hypo-glossal nerves, and the walls of the fourth ventricle. But the last, which are much larger, creep under the hemisphere of the cerebellum, as far as its circumference, where they communicate with those of the superior cerebellar artery. There are only some which penetrate into the anfractuosities ; the rest subdivide at the surface, and form a very fine net-work in the pia mater. 2. OF THE BASILAU AllTEEY. 2325. The Basilar Artery (Arth'e mesocephalique, Chauss.) results from the union of the two vertebral arteries. Larger than either of them individually, it has yet a smaller caliber than that of the two together. It commences posteriorly towards the groove which separates the cerebral protuberance from the me- dulla oblongata, ascends, describing some flexuosities, in the oroove which run.s along the middle part of the protuberance, and ends anteriorly in the interval which separates the peduncles of the brain. It therefore corresponds above to a groove of the protuberance, and rests below upon the basilar groove. 2326. In its short course, the basilar artery gives off on each side a great number of small irrcgxUar and flexuous twigs, which