576 ORGANS OP SENSATION. But besides these variations in the general form, others occur in each individual part. Thus the nostrils are sometimes a mere slit, and in other cases much dilated. They may also be horizon- tal, or more or less oblique. The back of the nose is rectilinear in some persons, while in others it is gibbous, curved, hollow, &c. B. ORGANIZATION OF THE NOSE. 1979. Besides the bones which we have already seen entering into the composition of this organ, and which we have described (27O), there contribute to its formation a dermal layer, membran- ous libro-cartilages, a cartilage properly so called, muscles, vessels and nerves; and all these parts are so disposed, that its upper re- gion, which is more solid than the rest, more efficaciously protects the special organ of smell (1538), while the lower, which is less firm, but mobile, allows the apertures of the nostrils to be con- tracted, widened, or even closed, according to circumstances. 1980. Of the Dermal Layer of the Nose. Like that of the rest of the face, it is fine and smooth. No hairs are observed up- on it. Its reticular tissue is especially very apparent. It is but loosely attached to the subjacent parts above; but below, and on the sides of the wings, it adheres very firmly to them. There is very httle cellular tissue under the integuments of the nose. At the upper part of the organ, this tissue contains adipose vesicles ; but inferiorly it seems formed by a fibrous lamina which ascends towards the moveable aponeurosis of the pyramidalis and triangularis nasi muscles (496). 1981. The skin of the nose furnishes a kind of mUd and mu- cous oil, which diffuses itself in the groove by which it is sepa- rated from the cheek. This humour is produced by a multitude of small yellowish utricular follicles, which exist in the substance of the integuments, and especially in the groove of the wings of the nose. The sebaceous fluid which they contain may be squeez- ed out in the form of small worms, whether during life or after death. Their form is in general that of a small oval sac, whose aperture is shghtly contracted. They seemed lined in their interior by a kind of mucous membrane, and their orifice is furnished with four or five excessively minute hairs, and sometimes has a decided black tint. Their number is considerable, and their volume less than that of the ceruminous glands. 1982. For the Muscles of the Nose, see p. 279- 1983. Of the Cartilage of the Nose. It occupies the middle re- gion of the otgan, and is formed of three portions united at an acute angle, and distinguished by most anatomists into the Lateral Cartilages, placed anteriorly and externally, and the Cartilage of the Septum, situated posteriorly and anteriorly. The Cartilage of the Septum, Avhich forms the largest portion, is prolonged into the nasal fossae. It is of 'a triangular form, and