MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 501 tertlal jugular vein, the pncumo-gastric, hypo-glossal and spinal acces- sory nerves, and several filaments of the superior cervical ganglion. These different parts are contained in a triangular space filled with celJidar tissue, and which occurs between the constrictor pharyngis superior and pterygoideus internus. Its inner surface covers the palato-pharyngmus and levator palati mollis, and is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. 1051. From the description of these muscles, it will be seen that they all three cover each other, in such a manner that the lower only remains visible in its whole extent, and they also all unite in the middle of the pharynx with those of the opposite side by a sort of raphe. 1052. The constrictors of the pharynx contract that portion of the digestive canal when it is filled with alimentary substances. The constrictor medius moreover raises the os hyoides and the la- rynx, carrying them backwards, and the inferior raises a little the larjmx only. OF THE STYLO-PHARYNG^US.* 1053. The Stylo-pharyngcBus is narrow above, broad and flat' below, and of an elongated form. It is situated on the side and back part of the pharynx. It arises by short aponeurotic fibres, from the inner part of the styloid process of the temporal bone, near its base, and descends inwards and backwards toward the pha- rynx, passes under the constrictor medius, expands, confounds the greater part of its fibres with those of the other muscles of this region, and sends some to the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone. 1054. Its outer surface is covered by the stylo-hyoideus, con- strictor pharyngis meclius, and external carotid artery. The inner surface is in connection with the internal carotid artery, the inter- nal jugular vein, the membrane of the pharynx, and the constric- tor superior and palato-pharygaeus muscles. 1055. This muscle shortens the pharynx by raising its lower part. It also raises the larynx. 5. Posterior-Cervical Region. OF THE TRAPEZIUS OR CUCULLARIS. 1056. The Trapezius is a thin, membranous, triangular muscle,' situated at the posterior part of the neck and shoulder, and at the upper part of the shoulder. It arises from the inner third of the M. ClKiussier admits only a single mnsclc on each side of tlie phaiynx. It is formed of all those which wc have described above, and is nurned by him Stylo.pha- ryngetut. 4.