OF THE SUPRA-nENAL CAPSULES. 787 IV.—Oi?’ THE ORGANS OF SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE URINE. a. OF THE SUrnA-EENAL CAPSULES. 2856. The Supra-renal Capsules (Renes succenturinti, vel Cap^ sulce atrabiikince) are two small bodies placed in the abdomen, with- out the peritoneum, above the kidneys, of which they embrace the upper extremity. They are never wanting, but their uses are totally unknown. Hollow and oval in the adult, they are prismatic and granulated in the fetus, in which their volume is much greater than in the adult, on which account it has been supposed that they must have some connection with the exercise of nutrition in the first stages of life. These capsules, which are of a yellowish-brown colour, more or less tinged with red, present a posterior surface which corresponds to the ^aphragm and the upper part of the psoas muscle ; an an- terior surface covered on the right side by the vena cava inferior, the duodenum and the liver, and on the left side by the spleen and pancreas ; and an inferior surface, which is concave, and applied upon the summit, of the coiTesponding kidney. 2857- The left supra-renal capsule is commonly a little higher than the right, a difterence which depends upon the position of the two kidneys. Both are kept in position by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, by some denser filaments which are prolonged as far as the kidneys, and by tlie vessels which they receive or wliich emerge from their tissue. 2858. Each supra-renal capsule is only, properly speaking, a small bag with thick parenchymatous walls, formed of very small granu- lations, collected into lobules, and having but little consistence, es- pecially at the exterior. In its interior there exists a narrow, trans- verse, smooth, triangular cavity, without any known orifice, fur- nished in its inferior part with an eminence in the form of a ridge, and containing in the fetus a considerable quantity of a reddish, viscous fluid, coagulable by alcohol. In children, this fluid is yel- lowish ; in old people brown, and in very small quantity. 2859. The supra-renal capsules receive a great number of arteries which arise from the aorta, the inferior diaphragmatic and renal ar- teries, and which are larger in the child than in the adult. The veins of those of the right side pour their blood into the vena cava ; those of the left side open into the renal vein. Their lymphatics enter into the formation of the emulgent and inferior diaphragma- tic plexus. Their nerves come from the renal plexus (1851). 5