ORGANIZATION OF THE COLON. 2 s borum, with which it is connected by cellular tissue, or by a fold of the peritoneum named the Lt'ft Lumbar MetiocA>lon. 2125. The Siymoid Fle.vure of the Colon, which is of moderate size, very mobile, and in this respect similar to the small intestine, occupies the deeper part of the left iliac fossa, where it describes a double curve in the form of the letter S, whence its name. It commences at the end of the left lumbar region, and terminates at the upper strait of the pelvis, near the articulation of the last lum- bar vertebra with the sacrum. It is surrounded in nearly its whole circumference by the peritoneum, which fixes it above and behind, by means of a very extended and very loose fold, directed obliquely from left to right, and named the Iliac Mesocolon. An- teriorly it corresponds to the small intestine ; posteriorly, to the left psoas and Uiacus muscles, as well as to the spermatic vessels and ureter of the same side. 2126. From the above simple account, it is easy to see that the colon describes in the abdomen a circle which measures nearly its whole circumference, and which contains the circumvolutions of the small intestine (2106). In its whole extent, the colon, like the coecum, presents interrupted bulgings, produced by three lon- gitudinal and depressed bands; but these prominences, which are not quite so large as in the coecum, are almost entirely obliterated in the sigmoid flexure. It also presents a very great number of fatty appendages, owing to particular folds of the peritoneum, and so multiplied in its ascending and descending portions, that they seem to envelope it with a continuous layer. There are fewer upon the arch, and scarcely any upon the sigmoid flexure, where they are also much less voluminous. 2127. In its interior, the colon presents the same dispo.sition as the ccECum. b. ORGANIZATION OF THU COLON. 2128. Serous Membrane or Coat. It is formed by the peri- toneum, which, after having enveloped the intestine, fixes it to the neighbouring parts by different folds, which take their name from the portion to which they belong. The largest of these folds is the Transverse Mesocolon, which proceeds from the concave edge of the arch of the colon which it supports, and forms a horizontal and moveable partition, which separates the epigastric region from the umbilical, and the stomach, liver and spleen, from the small intestine. It is broader at the middle than at its two extremities, and has a nearly semicircular form. It is composed of two la- minae, an inferior and a superior. The former is continuous with the mesentery (2109) ; the other is prolonged into the jiosterior cavity of the peritoneum, and covers a part of the duodenum. In the interval of these two laminae are found the vessels and nerves destined for the arch of the colon, together with a great number of