OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. 56S tlic gangliu situated behind the ramus of the jaw, and upon the outer surface of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. Its newen are furnished by the superficial temporal (1600), and posterior auricular (160«) nerves, the temporal twigs of the facial (1613), and the mastoid (1673), and auriciUar (1674) twigs of the cervi- cal plexus. B. OF THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM^* 1. OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM, HAVING ITS SOFT PAKTS HEMOVEO. 1934. The Tympanum is a cavity of an irregular form, difficult to be described, situated in the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, between the meatus auditorius externus and the inner ear, properly so called, or labyrinth, above the glenoid fossa, before the mastoid process and its cells, and behind the Eustachian tube. Its breadth is but small; but it is liable to vary on account of the motions to which the membrana tympani is subject. It is always larger above than below. Its antero-posterior diameter is a little greater than the vertical diameter. A mucous membrane lines it over its whole extent, and it communicates with the exter- nal air by means of the Eustachian tube, placed between it and the pharynx. Six walls are distinguished in the tympanum. 1935. ' Outer wall. Directed somewhat obliquely from above downwards, from without inwards, and from behind forwards, it is formed almost entirely by the memhrana tympani.^ a kind of sep- tum which closes the lower extremity of the auditory canal, and Avhich is very chstinct from the mucous membrane of the cavity of the tympanum, and from the skin which lines the auditory canal (1930). The latter, in particular, may be detached from it with the greatest ease. The membrana tympani, presenting the obliquity which we have just mentioned, forms, with the inferior wall of the auditory canal, a very acute retiring angle, while it seems almost a conti- nuation of the superior. Its form is that of a circle. Its extent is a little larger than that of the aperture which it is destined to close, whence there results, that it is capable of experiencing very distinct alternate motions of relaxation and tension. For the same reason, it is commonly found convex in one or other chrection, but more commonly internally, where it always presents, moreover, a partial elevation produced by the presence of the handle of the malleus. 'I his elevation produces a corresponding depression on the side next the auditory canal. Ti/|K!r«K)v, Tifttipanum, a Drum.