ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 632 cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, is furnished with much fat, and presents a depression which marks the point of union of tlie two grooves, of which we made mention in describing its surfaces. 2178. The heart contains four cavities, which are named its veru- tricles and auricles. The two auricles occupy its base, or its su- perior and posterior region. The two ventricles are contained in its inferior part. An auricle and a ventricle are placed to the right, and to the left the same disposition is observed. On each side, the auricle communicates with the corresponding ventricle; but the right cavities never communicate directly with the left in the natu- ral state and after birth. In the right cavities there is found black blood, which is to be incessantly submitted to the action of the air in the lungs. In the left, there is found red blood, which has al- ready undergone this action. The former receive the blood from all parts of the body, and drive it into the lungs; the latter receive the blood from the lungs, and drive it through the whole body. It is from this important consideration that in our days there are pret- ty generally distinguished two principal parts in the heart, the one right and the other left. b. RIGHT PART OF THE HEART. RIGHT AURICLE. 2179. The right or anto'wr auricle occupies the inferior, right, and anterior part of the base of the heart, and rests upon the dia- phragm. Its form is very irregular and difficult to be described. Transversely elongated, it presents its greatest breadth to the right and behind, its narrowest part before and to the left, in which latter direction it is prolonged by a flattened loose appendage, terminating in a point, irregularly dentated on its edges, and placed transverse- ly between the aorta and the right ventricle. It is in general wider than the left auricle. 2180. Its outer surface is free externally ; but internally it is united with the left auricle, below with the right ventricle, behind with the orifices of the two venm cavae. Anteriorly, it is surmount- ed by the appendage mentioned above. 2181. Its inner surface presents four sides for examination. 1. Its posterior side presents at its upper part the orifice of the vena cava superior, directed obliquely forwards and downwards, and furnished with a rounded, thick, and fleshy projecting edge, more distinct and stronger posteriorly, and which is directed obliquely upwards and inwards. These two apertures are very close to each other, and are even continuous by a portion of their circumference. In this common portion there is sometimes observed a more or less distmct tubercle, to which the name of TuherculumLoweri has been given, and which is nothing else than a prominence formed by fat or by a fleshy bundle.