202 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. lages. That of the cavity of the radius is continued thinner over the cylindrical contour of the extremity of that bone. The carti- lage of the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna (460) is prolonged over the small cavity of the same name. It is interrupted at its middle part by a transverse depression, widened at its extremities, where it is converted into notches. Four ligaments serve to keep together the surfaces of this arti- culation, which is lined in its whole extent by a synovial mem- brane. 661. External Lateral Ligament. This ligament, which is not very distinct from a tendon common to the muscles situated at the posterior surface of the fore-arm, and is almost confounded with that of the supinator brevis, consists of a short fibrous fasci- culus, flat, triangular and vertical, broader above than below, and applied upon the synovial capsule of the articulation. Its upper extremity is attached to the external tuberosity of the humerus; the lower extremity loses itself in the annular hgament of the ra- dius, and seems to bifurcate to be equally divided between the an- terior and posterior parts of that ligament. Some of its posterior fibres pass over the annular ligament, and after minghng with the posterior ligament, are inserted into the outer edge of the ulna. 662. Internal Lateral Ligament. This ligament is longer, broader and stronger than the preceding, and like it is of a triangular form. But it is formed of two distinct bundles ; of which the anterior is attached to the internal tuberosity of the humerus, and terminates on the inside of the coronoid process of the ulna, concealed by the tendon common to the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, and ap- plied upon the synovial membrane, which it even pushes a little into the interior of the articulation. The other fasciculus, which is posterior, is formed of a great number of radiated fibres, which, al- so proceeding from the internal tuberosity of the humerus, are in- serted into the inner part of the olecranon, and are connected inter- nally with the triceps extensor and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and with the ulnar nerve, while externally they strengthen the syno- vial membrane. 663. Anterior Ligament. This is a kind of thin, irregular membrane, varying in its form, and composed of oblique fibres, se- parated from each other by intervals fiUed with cellular tissue. It covers nearly the whole articulation anteriorly. Its superficial fi- bres, which are very numerous, pass from the internal tuberosity of the humerus to the annular ligament of the radius, with which they are confounded. The middle fibres, which are vertical, arise from the humerus between its two tuberosities, and are lost among the preceding. The deep-seated fibres, which are also vertical, are collected into isolated fasciculi; they proceed from the coronoid cavity of the humerus, and gradually disappear upon the synovial membrane. The anterior surface of this ligament is covered by the tendon of the brachialis internus; the posterior is in connection with the synovial membrane, and with a mass of reddish and very