ACTIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 310 OK TIIK TllAKSVKRSUS AUljOMlNIS, Oil CUllIiO-ARDOMIXALIS. 1110. This muscle is nearly of the same form as the last de- scribed, and is situated behind it. It arises above from the inner surface of the cartilages of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and t6nth ribs, by digitations which are interlocked with those of the diaphragm ; then from the greater part of the lower edge of the eleventh and twelfth, by very distinct tendinous fibres; inferiorly, from the three anterior fourths of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, to the inside of the obliquus internus, and from the two outer thirds of the crural arch, by short aponeurotic fibres. At the mid- dle, its fleshy fibres arise from an aponeurosis which proceeds back- wards dividing into three laminae, of which the anterior, which is very thin, passes before the quadratus lumborum to be attached to the base of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The middle lamina, which is thicker, glides behind this muscle, before the sacro-spinalis, to terminate at the summit of the same processes; while the third or posterior lamina, whieh is confounded with the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus, is inserted into the summits of the spinous processes of the loins. From these different points of attachment, the fleshy fibres pro- ceed horizontally forwards and inwards, towards the deepest lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, (1102.) The middle fibres are the longest; the rest gradually decrease upwards and downwards. Some of the upper are inserted into the xiphoid cartilage. 1111. The fleshy portion of this muscle is covered externally by the obliquus internus, and, internally., covers the peritoneum.* Between the cartilages of the last three ribs, it is contmuous with the diaphragm ; and, near the ensiform cartilage, with the triangu- laris sterni. The spermatic cord simply glides under the lower edge of this muscle, without traversing its fibres, at about an inch from the place where it perforates the obliquus internus. Now, from what we have said of the connection of this cord with the three muscles of the abdomen, there results that the alleged ingui- nal ring is a true canal from two to three inches long, directed ob- liquely from the iliac region towards the pubes, of wliich the inner extremity corresponds to the point where the cord passes under the edge of the transversus abdominis, and the ou*er to the aperture of the lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis which belongs to the obli- quus externus. Formed anteriorly by the ligament of Fallopius, posteriorly by the crest of the pubes, externally by the psoas mag- • On the inner surface of the transyersus muscle, ami interposed betwixt it and the peritoneum, the student will observe the yhwia transxersalU. The anatomical relations of ibis fascia are most important; in it e.xists tlie opening by whicii tiie spermatic vessels j)ass from within the abdominal cavity, (o be lodged in the inguinal canal ])revious to their passage through the external inguinal ring. The 0])ening in the fascia has been called the internal ring, it being seated deeper than the other. But as the terms cxtaual, iulcrnal, are ecjuivoeal, it would bo better to denominate the opening in the fascia transversalis the ring of Ihcfisdu traii.'.vcr.sah.x; and to tlie o|)(-ning in the abdominal ai)oneurosis, by which the spermatic \essels pass out, iho name ol the ring of the cxkrnai obluine might be given,—K.