lyo PASSIVE ORGANS OP LOCOMOTION. dilation of the articular processes of the sacrum with those of tlie vertebra. In other respects we have no differences to point out, and these parts require no particular description. Cl9. Sacro-vertebral Ligament. This is the only organ pre- sented by the articulation in question, that is not equally observed in the vertebral column. It is a very short and strong fasciculus of fibres, which arising from the anterior and inferior part of the transverse process of the last vertebra, descends obliquely outwards towards the base of the sacrum, where it attaches itself, intermix- ing with irregular fibres placed before the sacro-ihac articulation. It rests upon the ligamentous fibres and cellular tissue behind; but is covered anteriorly by the psoas muscle. 2. ILIO-LUMBAR ARTICULATION. 620. Ilio-lumhar Ligament. This ligament is the only means of union which connects the fifth lumbar vertebra with the iliac bone, there being here no immediate connection between the bones. It is broad and thick internally, thin and narrow externally. Its form is triangular, and its direction horizontal. Its fibres, which are divergent, are pretty constantly separated into several fasciculi, by cellular tissue and vessels ; the superior are the longest. From the summit of the transverse process of the vertebra, it passes transversely outwards to the posterior and superior iliac spine, into which it is inserted, as well as into the most remote part of the iliac crest, being moreover continued in a pointed form toward the anterior part. Its anterior surface is covered by the psoas mag- nus; the ^sterior rests upon the common mass of the muscles which occupy the vertebral grooves. Its upper edge corresponds to the quadratus lumborum, and the lower to the sacro-iliac liga- gaments.^‘ ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS WITH EACH OTHER. 1. SACRO-COCCYGEAL ARTICULATION. 621. This articulation has a great similarity to that of the bodies of the vertebras with each other. It is an amphiarthrosis formed by the summit of the sacrum, which corresponds to the base of the coccyx by an oval surface. Two ligaments and a fibro-cartilage keep the surfaces in connection. 622. Anterior Saero-coccygeal Ligament. It consists of a small number of irregular parallel fibres, expanded into a thin membrane, which descends from the anterior part of the sacrum * Not unfrequcntly the ilio-lunilmr ligament .slmuIs a fasciculus to tlie transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra.