3 h4f ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. lActacarpi, and extensor primi intemodii pollicis muscles, the ten- don of the extensor secundi intemodii pollicis, and the skin. The hiner surface covers the supinator brevis and pronator longus mus- cles, the radius, and the articulations of the wrist. Its. posterior edge is intimately connected above with the extensor communis di- gitorum. 1222. Its uses are the same as those of the radialis externus longior. t D. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 1. External Palmar Region. OF THE ABDUCTOll TOLLICIS.* 1223. Short, triangular, flat, broader above than below, this muscle arises externally and by very short aponeurotic fibres from the anterior surface of the os scaphoides ; internally, from the up- per, anterior, and external part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and sometimes from a prolongation of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis (1199.) From thence, it descends a little obliquely outwards. Its fibres converge toward each other, and terminate by a short and flat tendon, concealed at first in their substance, afterwards receiving a portion of the flexor brevis poUi- cis, and going to be inserted at the outer edge of the upper extre- mity of the first phalanx of the thumb, over the back of which it transmits some aponeurotic fibres to the tendon of the extensor secundi intemodii pollicis. 1221. Its anterior surface is covered by a portion of the palmar aponeurosis and by the skin. The posterior covers the opponens and flexor brevis pollicis. 1225. It carries the thumb and the first metacarpal bone out^ wards and forwards. OF THE OPPONENS POLLICIS. 1226. This muscle is also triangular, but thicker than the pre- ceding, under which it is situated. It arises internally from the fore part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, by very long aponeurotic fibres; externally, from the outer edge of the groove which the trapezium presents for the tendon of the flexor carpi radi;i- lis; and posteriorly, from an aponeurotic septum interposed betiveen it and the flexor brevis pollicis. Arising from these diflerent places, the fleshy fibres, which arc so much the longer and more obli(|UC the lower they arc, proceed downwards and outwards, and termi- * Koemmering divides it into two distinct imisclo.s, which he designates hy the names of Abductorcs breves jwUieis muniis, iiUeriur el tw/itior.