ORGANS OF SENSATION. 452 of the brain, it proceeds obliquely forwards and outwards to the level of the point which the tentorium cerebelli forms anteriorly. There, it is lodged in a canal formed in the outer wall of the ca- vernous sinus of the dura mater (1491,) at the entrance of which it is left by the arachnoid membrane, which forms a cul-de-sac. It thus arrives at the sphenoidal fissure, being only separated from the internal carotid artery by a thin lamina of cellular tissue, lu this part of its course, that is to say, from its entrance under the dura mater, the common motor nerve of the eye is situated inter- nally of and above the pathetic nerve and the ophthalmic branch of the trifacial nerve; but under the anterior clinoid process, it is in its turn covered by these two nerves, which cross it obliquely, and which become internal with respect to it, 1565. A little before passing through the sphenoidal fissure, it divides into two branches, a superior and an inferior, which tra- verse the dura mater, and penetrate into the orbit by the broadest part of that fissure, passing between the two portions of the poste- rior extremity of the rectus externus oculi, along with the external motor nerve of the eye and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, to which they are united by cellular tissue. 1566. Superior Branch. It directs itself forwards and a little inwards, passes above the optic nerve and the nasal branch, imme- diately proceeds to the inferior surface of the rectus superior oculi, and furnishes it with a great number of divergent filaments. Ano- ther filament, a little smaller, follows the inner edge of this muscle, or even traverses it to be spread out in the levator palpebrm supe- rioris. This branch also receives one or two small twigs of the na- sal nerve. 1567- Inferior Branch. Much larger than the preceding, it advances between the lower and outer part of the optic nerve and the rectus inferior oculi, and, after a short passage of a few lines, divides into three twigs; 1st, an inner, which is the largest, and proceeds obliquely to the origin of the rectus internus oculi, in the substance of which it is expanded; 2dly, a middle twig, much shorter and smaller, which proceeds directly forwards, and ramifies in the rectus inferior; 3dly, an outer, much longer and more slen- der than the other two, which, at its origin, gives oft‘ a short and flat filament, ascending externally of the optic nerve, and going to be united to the posterior part of the ophthalmic ganglion, and which then proceeds between the rectus inferior and rectus externus, without furnishing them with any filament, passes under the ball of the eye, and at length penetrates nearly at a right angle into the obliquus inferior, near its tendon. 1568. This nerve, which has nothing peculiar in its structiure, gives motion to all the muscles of the eye, excepting the rectus ex- ternus and obliquus superior. It communicates with the ophthal- mic ganglion.