MUSCLES OE THE HEAD. 271 Other, to terminate on the outside of the cpieranial aponeurosis, near tlie frontal muscle. 898. Its outer surface is covered by the skin ; the inner h aj)- plicd upon the temporal muscle and artery. Its upper edge is con- founded with the prccctUng muscle, while the lower is lost in thq cellular tissue above the zygomatic arch. 899. It carries the car forwards and upwards. OF THE aiUSCULI UETHAIIENTES AUUICULAM, AUJIICULAUIS POS- TICUS. (Mastoido-oriculaire, Chauss.) 900. This muscle consists of one or more small bundles of fleshy fibres, thin, flat or fusiform, r4ther irregular, and situated behind the ear. They are attached by short aponeuroses to the mastoid process, whence they proceed horizontally forwards to terminate at the lower part of the convexity formed by the conch of the ear, by means of aponeurotic fibres or small tendons. They are covered by the integuments, and are separated from the temporal bone by cellular tissue. 901. This muscle, which has no connection with the epicranial aponeurosis, carries the ear backwards. 3. Anterior Occijpito-cervical Region. or THE EECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOE, OH TBACHELO-INFKA- OCCIPITALIS MAJOR. 902. This muscle, which is flat, elongated, and much broader and thicker above than below, lies upon the anterior and lateral part of the cervical column. Four small thin and flat tendons, fixed by a pointed extremity to the anterior tubercle of the sixth, fifth, fourth and third transverse processes of the neck, and so much the larger the higher they are, give origin to the fleshy fibres of this muscle, which arc united into so many imbricated bundles, behind which they are more or less prolonged. To these bundles there is frequently joined another which comes from tlie longus coUi. They all proceed from below upwards and from without inwards, becoming broader in their progress, and mingling toge- ther, to terminate, that of the fourth tendon at the basilar surface, near the occipital hole and that of the opposite side, the three first successively and in the order of their origin, at the posterior sur- face of a pretty strong, broad and thin aponeurosis, wliich is pro- longed very low upon the anterior surface of the muscle, and comes from the basilar surface also, before the fleshy fibres arising from the last tendon. 903. Its anterior surface corresponds to the carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneuino-gastric nerve, the superior cervi-