MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. 263 interlaced a thousand times with each other, and with more euper- licial and looser laininm, which occur at the upper and under sur- faces of the muscle, and which describe nearly transverse curves, an arrangement which is especially evident on the right side. They are white and shining, with a pearly and satiny lustre, and are denser toward the U2)per surface of the aj^oneurosis than toward the lower. IBetween the right and middle lobes, near the vertebral column, is an aperture of a square form, wdth unequal sides. It gives j^as- sage to the vena cava inferior, to which it adheres jiretty strongly. Its anterior side is the shortest, and is not very distinct from the right, which is the longest. Each of its sides is formed by a par- ticular layer of aponeurotic fibres, which are interlaced with the neighbouring layers at its extremities. 870. Besides this aperture for the vena cava inferior, there fre- quently occurs a hole for the diaphragmatic vein, and one or two other holes for the superior hepatic veins, which are also formed in the phrenic aponeurosis. 871. The fleshy fibres proceed from the whole circumference of this aponeurosis, to be directed forwards, laterally, and backwards. 872. The anterior fibres, which are very short and not nume- rous, are directed downwards and forwards, on the way to the xiphoid cartilage, where they terminate by short aponeurotic fibres. Between these fibres and those which come from the cartilage of the seventh rib, there is a triangular aperture with its base below, by which the cellular tissue of the thorax communicates with that of the abdomen. The size of this interval varies much, sometimes it is even wanting. 873. The lateral fibres are the most numerous. They arise from the right and left lobes, and proceed, diverging and curving backwards, toward the circumference of the base of the chest, and to be attached to the inner surface of the last six ribs, by digital tions which are interlaced with those of the transversalis abdominis. The first of these digitations is attached to the outer half of the posterior surface of the upper edge of the cartilage of the seventh rib. The second, which is the longest of all, is inserted into the corresponding parts of the eighth rib; the other four, which become gradually shorter, are moreover slightly attached to the bony por- tion of the four last ribs. Of these lateral fibres, the more posterior, which are the short- est, terminate in an aponeurotic bundle, extended between the ex- tremity of the last rib and the base of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. It has been named the Ligamentum arcua- tum Dia/phragmatis, and is nothing else than the upper edge and a replication of the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the trans- vcrsalis abdominis, which covers a little the quadratus lumborum and the last intercostal nerve. Lastly, in the two last intercostal spaces, the diaj)hragm-is con-