38 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. is remarked, posteriorly, iUhly, The anterior clinoid process, whicli is sometimes prolonged to the posterior, and also gives at- tachment to a fold of the tentorium cerebelli; and, anteriorly, dtldy, The optic hole, a sort of depressed canal for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthahnic artery, directed forwards and out- wards towards the orbit, beneath the wing of Ingrassias itself. Between this hole and the anterior clinoid process, there is observed a semicirerdar notch, which receives the internal carotid artery as it issues from the cavernous sinus. Sometimes, also, there is a par- ticular hole for the ophthalmic artery. It is proper to observe also, that, most commonly, the base of the orbital process con- tains a sort of sinus, or small cavity, which opens on the side of the orbit by a narrow orifice, into which a slender branch of the ophthalmic artery enters, as Berlin has observed. 117- Occipital or Posterior Surface. This surface is of very small extent, and presents, at its middle part, a quadrilateral, un- even, rugose space, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and at an early age. This space is destined to articulate with that which terminates the basilar process of the occipital bone; and, in the adult, it unites with it in an intimate manner, so that the two bones then form but one. In individuals in which this union has not taken place, there is observed, at each of the upper angles of this space, a small hook, which retains the basilar process. 118. On the sides, this surface is constituted by an irregular, thickish edge, presenting, near the quadrilateral surface, the pos- terior orifice of the vidian canal, narrower than the anterior, and surmounted by a small eminence, and continued toward the inner side, into a narrow groove, which is itself a continuation of the pterygo-palatine. A little to the outside, there are some asperities which, in conjunction with the anterior edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, form the foramen lacerum anterius. 119. Orhito-nasal or Anterior Surface. This surface is of greater extent than the preceding, and is vertically intersected in its middle by a thin prominent ridge, which is articulated with the ethmoid bone, and which forms a partition between two cavities, of which we shall presently speak. This ridge is snrmounted by a small depressed and very thin process, which also joins the ethmoid bone ; not unfrequently this eminence does not exist, and there is, on the contrary, a notch in its place. 120. On either side of this ridge, there is observed an apertine, with irregular lacerated edges, and varying in size in different sub- jects. These two apertures, which are articulated by their ciremn- ference, with the turbinated bones of the sphenoid, lead to two cavities formed in the interior of the bone, and named sphenoidal sinuses. These sinuses do not exist in young children, and are much larger in old people than in adults; for they then occupy all that part of the bone which is situated beneath the pituitary fossa, and the point of union of the processes of Ingrassias. The jseptum by which they are separated is sometimes incomplete, or