OF THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 439 then covers the circumference and inferior surtace of the cerebel- lum, between the two hemispheres of which it is isolated by its two surfaces over a greater or less extent. Anteriorly, the arachnoid membrane descends over the anterior lobes, and passes immediately from the one to the other inferiorly, near the commissure of the optic nerves, without penetrating into the fissure which separates them. It equally covers the inferior surfiice of the olfactory nerves, for wliich it forms a small sheath near their extremity. It also furnishes one to each of the optic nerves; but this sheath is conical, accompanies them to a great distance, and is only reflected upon their fibrous envelope in the orbit. It descends farther around the pituitary shaft, and is ex- panded over the pituitary body which separates it from the dura mater. It embraces the internal carotid artery at its exit from the cavernous sinuses. It then passes under the cerebral protuber- ance, being separated from the pia mater in all the space that ex- ists between that protuberance and the commissure of the oj)tic nerves, which is also separated from it, but by a less marked in- terval, at the level of the protuberance and the grooves which li- mit tlie anterior prolongations laterally. It also gives sheaths to the common motor nerves of the eye, the pathetic, trifacial, ex- ternal motor, facial and acoustic nerves. Lastly, it directs itself over the lateral parts of the cerebellum, the posterior prolongations, the pneumogastric, spinal, accessory, hypoglossal, and suboccipital nerves, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal marrow itself, with which it is only connected by a small number of cellular filaments, easily torn, and which in general scarcely exist, so that it may be very easily detached by insufflation. On the sides of the sjiinal marrow, the arachnoid membrane furnishes to each nerve a conical envelope, which is reflected upon the dura mater at the moment when the nerve penetrates it. It also furnishes an envelope to the vessels which creep upon its anterior and posterior surfaces. Lastly, on arriving at the lower extremity of the spinal marrow, it terminates by a sort of narrow and very long canal, of a cyhndi-i- cal form, which descends vertically in the middle of the bundles of the lumbar nerves, to the extremity of the sacral canal, where it is reflected upon the dura mater. It is by means of this canal, and of all tlie envelopes of the nerves and vessels, that it may be conceived how the arachnoid membrane covers in its whole extent the inner surface of the dura mater, a,nd gives it the smooth and polished appearance which it presents. It is pretty difficult to separate these two membranes from each other by the scalpel, excepting in the foetus or in very young children. 1520. Internal Arachnoid Membrane. In proceeding from the corpxis callosum over the cerebellum, the arachnoid membrane, which has here become extremely thin, dives into the middle ventri- cle by an oval aperture which Bichat first discovered. This aper- ture is the orifice of a canal formed in the portion of the pia mater which goes to constitute the tela choroidea (1516), and which em-