ORGANS OF SENSATION. 480 The two roots of the nerve converge and proceed outwards and backwards. The anterior receives a hlament from the first cervical nerve. They traverse the fibrous canal by which the vetebral ar- tery enters the skull in the reverse direction of that vessel, and place themselves between it and the groove of the posterior arch of the atlas, connected with these parts by a pretty dense cellular tis- sue. There, they unite, and form a very elongated ganglion, from which emanate two branches, an anterior and a posterior. 1655. Anterior Branch. Long and slender, and of smaller size than the posterior, this branch turns at first from within outwards, then from behind forwards, over the outer edge of the vertebral artery, passes above the transverse process of the atlas, and soon appears between the rectus capitis anticus minor and rectus capitis lateralis muscles. It then changes its direction, descends before the transverse process, and terminates by anastomosing with a filament of the first cervical nerve, so as to embrace that process by a kind of arch. This branch gives off successively in its course, 1st, one or tw» filaments to the rectus capitis lateralis, and rectus capitis anticus minor; 2dly, a very slender filament which accompanies the ver- tebral artery as far as the basUar trunk, and which is sometimes Avanting ; 3dly, another more constant filament, longer and equally slender, which descends to the inner part of the canal which lodge.s that vessel along the cervical column, and which there anastomoses with an ascending filament of the inferior cervical ganglion, and with the trunk of the first cervical pair at its passage between the atlas and axis ; 4thly, a twig to the upper part of the rectus capi- tis anticus major. From the arch which it forms with the first cer- vical nerve, arise several other small filaments, which communicate with the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves (1651,) and with the superior cervical ganglions. 1656. Posterior Branch. Thicker and shorter than the other, it ascends a little backwards through the adipose cellular tissue, which fills the triangular space comprised between the obliquus ca- pitis inferior and superior, and the rectus capitis posticus major muscles, and, after running a course of four or five lines, divides into three twigs which separate from each other in a radiating manner. The first, or superior and internal, directs itself trans- versely inwards, between the complexus major and rectus capitis posticus major, in which muscles it loses itself as well as in the rec- tus posticus minor. The second, or superior and external, ascends outwards, and is distributed to the obliquus capitis superior. It is sometimes double or triple, so that, in proportion to its size, this muscle receives a great quantity of nervous filaments. The third or inferior twig descends towards the middle part of the upper edge of the obliquus major, and subdivides into several filaments, some of which lose themselves in that muscle, while the others, which are often very slender, and most commonly tAvo in number, anastomose in their course, forming a kind of nervous arch, with