OilGANS OF SENSATION'. 404? which is much smaller, and is lodged in the inferior occipital fossae ; the tliird, which is situated at the base of the skull, is the Cerebral Protuberance or Mesocephalnu ; and the fourth is the Medulla Spinalis or Spinal Marrow. 1432. The brain is enveloped by three membranes, of which the outer is named the Dura Mater; the middle, the Tiinioa Ar- acfi7ioidea; and the inner, the Pia Mater. 1. OF THE BRAIN PROPER, OR CEREBRUM, CONSIDERED WITH REFERENCE TO ITS EXTERIOR. 1433. The Cerebrum, is the largest portion of the encephalon. It occupies the whole upper part of the cavity of the skull, extending from the forehead to the superior occipital fossae, and resting an- teriorly upon the orbitar arches, in the middle upon the middle fossae of the base of the skull, and behind upon a fold of the dura mater, named the Tentorium Cerebelli. Its form is that of an ovoid pretty uniformly convex above, slightly compressed on the sides, and flattened beneath. Its large extremity is cbrected back- wards, which corresponds to the figure of the skull, (221.) 1434. There are distinguished in the brain a superior region, convex and rounded, which corresponds to the bones of the vault of the cranium, and an inferior regio7i, unequally rounded on the edges, flattened in the middle, and moulded upon the base of that cavity. 1435. Upper surface of the Brain. It presents, in the median line, a deep fissure occupied by the fold of the dura mater, desig- nated by the name of Falx Cei'ehri. Anteriorly and posteriorly, this fissure, of which the upper edge has the form of a half eUipse, divides the brain in its whole height; but in the middle, it is hmit- ed by a white lamina which is named the Corpus Callosum or Mid- dle Lobe. There results from this that the organ seems to be se- parated by it into two parts, a right and a left. These are the He- mispheres or Lobes of the Brain, which have each the form of the fourth of an ovoid, are elongated from behind forwards, and present an imier surface, plain and vertical, corresponduig to that of the opposite lobe, seeming continuous below and in the middle with the corpus callosum, on the upper part of which it forms a longitudmal slit, analogous to the ventricles of the larynx, and in which are lodged branches of arteries; and an upper and outer surface which is convex and rounded. The whole surface of the cerebral lobes or hemispheres is re- markable for a gi’eat number of eminences, rounded on their edges, flexuous, undulated, penetrating each other by reciprocal inequali- ties, and having some resemblance to the disposition of the small intestine in the abdomen. These eminences are named the ('ir- cumvolutious of the Brain (Gyri,) while the depressions by which