588 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1. OF THE DERMIS.* 2020. This is the thickest part of the skin. It is of a white colour, and possesses great strength. It rests above the adipose cellular tissue, and is composed of lamellar fibres and alveoli. The latter are similar to those which are observed in the adipose cellu- lar tissue, and appear only smaller. The lamellar fibres are form- ed by cellular tissue, arteries, veins and nerves, intermingled in an inextricable manner. The tissue which results from this intermix- ture is firmer and denser externally, softer and looser internally. The thickness of the skin varies according to the regions of the body, the age and sex. In aU the posterior part of the trunk, it has nearly double the thickness that it presents at its anterior part. On the mammae, penis, scrotum, and labia pudendi, it is remarkable for its thinness. Its inner surface is distinguished from the cellular tissue only by a difference of density. Along the whole median line, excepting on the fore part of the neck, its adhe- sion is pretty firm, although less intimate than on the palm of the hand or on the sole of the foot. The inner surface also presents apertures by which hairs introduce themselves into the dermis to pass through it. They are nearly a third of a line in diameter, and are more or less numerous. In the adult there are commonly about a hundred of them in the square inch on the thigh, and two hundred on the arm. The outer surface of the dermis is, in all its regions, covered with more or less distinct prominences, which are separated in the palms and soles by irregular depressions. There these asperities are disposed in parallel, rectilinear, circular or spiral grooves, ap- pearing through the epidermis. Each of them is divided into two smaller ones by a slight longitudinal depression, formed by a series of small excavations to the number of four or five in the extent of a line. The asperites of the dermis are named PapillcB. 2. OF THE RETE MDCOSUM. 2021. It eonsists of four very distinct layers, which are from within outwards : 1st, a vascular tissue ; 2dly, a white tissue; 3dly, an assemblage of small granulations ; 4thly, another white tissue. 2022. The First Layer is essentially formed by the vessels of the skin, disposed in knobs which surmount the asperities of the dermis, to which they adhere, and which, in the sole of the foot and palm of the hand, are arranged in the order of the papillar grooves. Each of these knobs is formed of small reddish filaments, which issue separately from each of the asperities which exist on the back • Atpfia, Xofiit of the Greeks.