PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 50 deeply indented, and articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. 166. The SwpQTioT Edges present numerous points, together with deep, very irregular, and frequently very large notches, and articulate with the parietal bones. They also frequently present ossa Wormii entangled in their serratures. The angle which these two edges form by their junction is generally acute; it is often, however, truncated, and in that case a triquetrous bone of consi- derable size occupies its place. The two lateral angles resulting from their union with the lower edges are much more obtuse, and are articulated with the mastoid portions of the temporal bones. 167. A square rough surface, covered with cartilage, seeming to intersect the basilar process anteriorly for the purpose of articidat- ing it to the posterior surface of the sphenoid bone, is formed by the two inferior edges of the occipital bone, at the moment when they approach each other anteriorly. 168. Structure. The occipital bone is rather thin over the greater part of its extent, being only decidedly thick at the con- dyles, the basilar process, and toward the ridges and protuberan- ces. In these places also the tissue is cellidar, whereas in the middle of its fossae, it is entirely composed of compact tissue, and is there so thin as to be semitransparent. As in the other bones of the head, there is also a layer of compact tissue extended over both surfaces. This bone may nevertheless be considered as the hardest and thickest of those which enter into the composition of the cranium, at least next to the petrous bone. Its softer parts are effectually protected on the outside by a great depth of mus- cular substance. 169- Articulations. The occipital bone is articulated to the sphenoid bone, the temporal and parietal bones, and the atlas, by the various points already mentioned. 170. Development. In the fetus the occipital bone, whose ossi- fication is of the most complex nature, appears to be formed by four centres, which commence at the basilar surface, at each condyle, and at the external protuberance. These four pieces form at that period so many distinct bones, and have been described as such under the names of iheproral or squamous occipital, condyloid and basilar hones. From these different points the fibres radiate in all directions, and meet, on the one hand, behind the great occipital hole, and on the other, at the middle part of the condyles. But if the bone be examined long before birth, it is discovered that the occipital portion properly so called, or that situated above the con- dyles, owes itself its development to four osseous nuclei which unite at the protuberance, and which are but a short time distinct from each other, especially the two upper. At that period also, but only in some subjects, there occurs between the posterior extremi- ties of the condyloid points, in the inferior notch of the occipital portion, a particular nucleus which completes the vertebral ring behind.