ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 193 630. Inferior Sacro-ilinc, Ligament. This ligament which is situated over the portion of the great sacro-sciatic ligament that comes from the crest of the iliac bones, is attached on the one hand to the posterior and superior spine of the ilium, and on the other to the lateral and posterior parts of the sacrum, opposite the third posterior sacral foramen, and externally of it. It consists of a very strong, long, flat, nearly vertical fasciculus, broader above than below, with fibres so much the longer the more superficial they are. It is covered by the glutacus maximus, which even forms some points of attachment to it, and is strengthened by a shorter and less thick fibrous fasciculus, which intermingles with it upon the sacrum, after having risen from the posterior and infe- rior iliac spine. 631. Sacro-ilinc Ligament. It is very irregular, very short, and occupies posteriorly the space which the sacrum and iliac bones leave between them, before the common mass of the mus- cles of the vertebral grooves. The fibres which constitute it are much shorter before, near the articulation, than behind. They cross each other in a multitude of different directions, and are very close, and possessed of great firmness. They are attached on the one hand to the first eminences of the posterior surface of the sa- crum, and to the sides of that bone at their upper part; and on the other, to the internal surface of the iliac tuberosity ; and such is their adhesion to these parts, that if they are forcibly separated from the sacrum and iliac bone, the surface of one or other of these bones is detached along with them, without their being ruptured. 632. Besides these different ligaments, there are still several fi- brous bundles which concur to unite the sacrum with the iliac bone ; but they are irregularly disposed, and have nothing constant in their form or appearance. Some are situated behind the sacrum, and form a sort of membranous circle around each posterior sacral hole. Most of these are attached, by their extremities, to two separate tubercles, while their middle part is raised up so as to permit blood vessels to pass under them. The others, which only consist of some irregu- lar fibres, expanded into membranes, are placed before the sacro- iliac symphysis, and vary much in their length and direction. They present a very shining appearance, and are confounded with the periosteum of the sacrum and iliac bones. .3. AaTTCULATION OR .SVAIPHYSIS OF THE PUSES. 63.3. This articulation is formed by the contact of two slightly con- vex and uneven oval surfaces which the pubic portion of the iliac bones presents at the anterior and superior part of their lower edge (.396). There is observed between them a fibro-cartilaginous plate, thicker anteriorly than behind and in its middle. It is white, very dense, elastic, and formed of two distinct portions, of which one be- longs to the left pubis and the other to the right. But there arc dc- o