589 OF THE EPIDERMIS. of the grooves of the dermis. These filaments, which are twelve, fourteen, or eighteen in number, rise at a right angle, and veloped with a whitish, somewhat parenchymatous tissue, which unites them into a conical knob, divides to the base into two nearly equal parts. They are slightly flexuous, and much bent upon themselves, but are never interlaced. From the lateral parts of these knobs proceed small white pro- ductions, which penetrate into the second layer, h rom their sum- mit rise one or two small vessels, which pass through the epider- njis, and open at the surface of the skin. 2023. The Second Laijer rests upon the vascular knobs, and in the intervals of the dermis by which they are separated. In the depression of the grooves, there is seen, after a suitable maceration, a very great number of cylindrical prolongations, placed at regular distances from each other, which issue from this layer to penetrate into the substance of the dermis. Its outer surface presents the same eminences and depressions that are observed on the epider- mis. 2024. The Third Layer is charged with colouring matter, brown in the Negro, and of an opaque white in the Furopean. It seems composed of a series of small bodies, convex externally, concave internally, and contiguous to each other. Their number is equal to that of the vascidar knobs, each of them corresponding by intervention to one of these bodies. 2025. The Fourth Layer is white, and of extreme tenuity. It forms a general membranous envelope, perforated by the hairs, and adhering to the epidermis. 3. OF THE EPIDEllMIS OR CUTICLE. 2026. This is a dense impermeable envelope, entirely superfi- cial, and separated from the dermis by the rete mucosum, to the fourth layer of which it adheres by its inner surface. The epider- mis is of a variable thickness, always in relation to the volume of the vascular granulations, and appears formed of several superimposed layers. It is it that presents all the wrinkles and furrows of which we have spoken in describing the outer surface of the skin. It is thin and transparent, and Is not altered by exposure to the air. Its tissue is firm and close; but its intimate structure is yet little known. It seems externally composed of a great number of small scales, placed beneath each other. Fxhalant vessels pass through it, without ramifying in it. No nerves or blood vessels arc found in it. 2027. The arteries of the skin come by numerous and short ramifications from Sjcveral trunks concealed in the substance of the muscles or in their interstices, and anastomose in the subcutane- ous cellular tissue. They then penetrate into the dermis, to be distributed to the first layey of the rete mucosum (2022), whence