ORGANS OF SENSATION. 5‘U small round follicles, lodged in particular grooves, between the tarsal cartilages and the tunica conjunctiva. I’hey are disposed one above another, in such a manner as to represent two vertical and parallel lines of a yellowish colour, sometimes straight, some- times Ilexuous, sometimes ramified, more numerous and more distinet in the upper eyelid, where there are thirty or forty, than in the lower, where there are only about twenty. These which occupy the middle part are longer and narrower than those of the extremities. The intervals by which they are separated are larger in the upper eyelid than in the other, and towards their attached edge than towards the free edge. Each follicle is rounded, white or yellowish, hard, and pretty tenacious. They communicate with each other, and those nearest the free edge of each eyelid open externally by orifices which are searcely perceptible, and which are disposed in one or two rows on the side next the eye, behind the cilise (1869). There issues from them a sebaceous humour, which, on pressing the tarsal cartilages, may be squeezed out under the form of extremely minute cylinders. ' 1877- The arteries of the eyelids are furnished by the oph- thalmic, infra-orbitar, temporal and facial arteries. Their veins follow the same course, and pj^ss into the corresponding trunks. Their lymphatics, which are very numerous, terminate, as well as those of the eyebrow, in the ganglia situated on the parotid gland and near the angle of the jaw. We have already described the 7iervoics jilaments which ramify in them, and which come chiefly from the lachrymal (1578), facial (1613), infra-orbitar (1590), frontal (1582) and nasal (1585) nerves. C. OF THE TUNICA CONJUNCTIVA. 1878. The Tunica Conjunctiva (Memh'aoia adnata), be- longs to the order of mucous membranes. It is very thin and transparent, and lines the posterior surface of the eyelids, and the fore part of the ball of the eye, being always limited at the circumference of the cornea, as has recently been demon- strated by Dr. Ribes.* On the free edge of the upper eye- lid, it is obviously continuous with the skin, at the place where the ciliae arise. It then covers the edge of the fibro-cartilage, and is perforated externally by the orifices of the ciliary follicles. In- ternally, it introduces itself by the superior punctum lachrymale into the lachrymal duct. From thence it is reflected oyer the sclerotica, to gain the posterior surface of the lower eyelid, and terminate upon its free edge, where it is continuous with the skin, and dives into the inferior lachrymal duct. In leaving the eye- lids to be reflected over the eye, it forms a semicircular fold, which corresponds to the fat of the orbit. 187^' internal part of the ball of the eye, the tunica * Bulletin lie la Facultc de Medicine. 1811. N. 4.