jMUScles of the face. 275 the outside of the external commissure of the palpcbrne. The mid- dle fibres, which are less distinct, much less curved, and always very pale, are distributed into the substance of both eyelids, and also unite below the outer commissure by a tendinous line some- times of considerable size. All these fibres describe concentric curves, of which the centre corresponds to the aperture of the eye- lids, where they are much shorter. Those which are nearest the circumference are almost circular; the others desci’ibc a sort of ellipse, and the more central do not even go so far as the commis- sures of the palpebrm. 919. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the skin, to which it is intimately united above, while below it is sepa- rated by fat; and in the place which corresponds to the eyelids, it is in connection with a very delicate laminar tissue, which is con- stantly moistened with serum. The surface applied superiorly upon the corrugator supercilii, to which it adheres; lower down, uiion the ligamentum latum and the flbro-cartilage of the upper eyelid; externally, upon the external orbitar process, and the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle; below, upon the cheek bone, the zygomatic muscles, the levator labii superioris, the levator labii superioris almque nasi, from which it is sepa- rated by the fiicial vein, and upon the ligament of the fibro-car- tilage of the lower eyelid; internally, upon the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, and the lachrymal sac. Its cir- cumference is confounded, above and beloWj with the pyramidahs nasi, then a little more outwards, with the anterior edge of the frontalis (889). At its lower part, it is free, and some irregular bundles of fibres are detached from it, which are lost in the cellu- lar tissue of the cheek, and which describe curves whose convexity is below. Some of them unite with the zygomaticus minor. 920. The orbicularis palpebrarum carries the eyelids toward each other, bringing them over the fore part of the ball of the eye, upon which it is applied, wrinkling them more or less. It also de- presses the eyebrow at the same time that it raises the cheek, and renders it more prominent. It determines the course of the tears toward the inner angle of the eye. The cessation of its action allows the eyelids to open. It is the antagonist of the levator pal- pebrae superioris. OF THE COnaUGATOIl SUPEIlCII.il. (M. Fronto-sourcilier, Chauss.) 921. The Corrugator Supercilii is a short and thin muscle, which describes the same curve as the supercihary arch of the fron- tal bone, on which it lies. Internally, it is attached toward the nasal prominence of the same bone by an extremity which is some- times simple, but is most commonly divided into two or three por- tions. It terminates in a pointed form, about the middle of the orbitar arch, where it is confounded with the frontalis and orbicu-