418 ORGANS OF SENSATION. lume. Their outer edge corresponds to the optic nerve which turns rovuid tljem, and is attached to tliem anteriorly by a layer of soft substance. From this place the meduUary filaments of the peduncles of the brain separate from each other and expand. They form layers of unequal length, whose extremities are covered by cineritious substance, and which constitute the centre of each of the inferior, anterior, and external circumvolutions of the anterior and middle cerebral lobes. 1462. The olivary eminences emit from their upper part a fibrous bundle which unites with some other bundles arising from the sides of the spinal marrow, and ascends, like those of the an- terior pyramidal bodies, across the fibres of the anterior surface of tlie cerebral protuberance. During this passage, it does not in- crease in size in so distinct a manner as the preceding bundles, and it forms the posterior and inner part of the same cerebral pedun- cles. It there meets with a large mass of cineritious matter, re- ceives new filaments from it, which follow various directions in its interior, and constitute the Thalami Nervorum Opticm'um of au- thors, named by Soemmering the Colliculi Nervorum, Opticorum, and by Gall the Inferior Oreat Ganglia of the Brain. 1463. These thalami of the optic nerves are invested with a white substance. More voluminous behind than before, they cor- respond partly in the lateral ventricles, partly in the third, and partly at the exterior of the brain. Their figure is rounded and irregular. Their upper surface forms a part of the floor of the la- teral ventricles. It presents a slight depression in its longitudinal direction, and a small ovoidal tubercle at each of its extremities. The inferior surface presents externally two prominences, the Corpora Geniculata, which furnish several filaments to the optic nerves, and is seen at the inferior surface of the cerebrum, above the meninges. The inner surface constitutes the lateral walls of the third ventricle. It is flat, directed obliquely from within out- wards, and from above downwards, and is connected anteriorly with that of the opposite side by a transverse band of a gray colour, very easily broken, varying in form and size, and to which the name of Commissura MoU^s has often been given. The oiiter surface is confounded with 1-:e corpu s striatum, of which we shall presently speak. Their an-^erior extremity contributes to the aperture of communication of the lateral ventricles and third ven- tricle. The posterior, which is free, and contiguous to the fimbri- ated body, corresponds to the curve of the lateral ventricles. It is between the bundles which proceed from the corpora pyra- midalia and ohvaria, in the very midst of the peduncles of the brain and optic nerves, that the upper part of the canals is observ- ed, wlfich prevail along the spinal marrow (1459;) and as these bundles change their direction in the course of their progress, the anterior passing outwards and the posterior inwards, the direction of this part of the canal also experiences a marked deviation. 1464. Before and to the outside of the thalami of the optic