600 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. when it leaves that cavity. It then directs itself again to the left, passing into the abdomen, where it terminates after a very short course. 2066. This canal is cylindrical and slightly compressed from before backwards whilst empty. It is connected with the neigh- bouring parts by an extensile cellular tissue, which is very loose, and contains some lymphatic ganglia. 2067. its cervical portion, the oesophagus corresponds, an- teriorly and from above downwards, to the larynx, the left lobe of the thyroid body, the left half of the trachea, the left inferior thy- roid vessels, whose direction it crosses, and the sterno-thyroideus muscles ; posteriorly, to the anterior common vertebral ligament and the longus colli muscle of the left side ; laterally, at first to the common carotid arteries and internal jugular veins, and after- wards on the right side to the trachea, and on the left to the re- current nerve and carotid artery of that side. 2068. In its thoracic portion, the oesophagus, which is here en- tirely contained in the posterior mediastinum, corresponds anteri- orly, in part to the trachea, then entirely to the left bronchus, whose direction it crosses, and lastly, to the base of the heart and the posterior part of the pericardium ; posteriorly, to the vertebral column, the curve of the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, and at its lowest part to the aorta; while laterally, it lies near the lungs, having the aorta to the left. 2069- This canal is a little wider at its origin than in the rest of its extent, excepting however at the moment when it joins the stomach. Its outer surface is smooth in its whole extent; red- dish above, and assuming a white tint as it descends. It presents numerous parallel longitudinal striiE. Its inner surface is much whiter than that of the pharynx, and always presents longitudinal folds. b. ORGANIZATION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 2070. Like the pharynx, the oesophagus is composed of a mus- cular coat and a mucous membrane. 2071. Muscular Coat. It is thicker and stronger than the fleshy coat of the pharynx, and especially than those which are observed in the stomach and intestines. It is obviously formed of two planes of fibres, an external and internal. The fibres of the former are longitudinal, and seem to come in part from the sides of the cricoid cartilage, so that, superiorly and behind, they pre- sent a separation in which those of the inner plane are seen expos- ed. These last are transverse, annular, frequently interrupted in the circle which tliey describe, and not so close as the preceding. The highest arc disposed in small distinct bundles connected by cellular tissue. They are of a red colour. But in the rest of the canal, the fibres of tho two orders are placed close upon each other, 5