OIIGANS OF SECRETION. 786 company the vessels in the interior of the spleen, and whose num- ber is consequently indeterminate. It is of a grayish white colour, pretty thick, strong, clastic, scantily supplied with vessels, and destitute of nerves. 2d50. Blood-vessels. No organ has more blood-vessels, in pro- portion to its size than the spleen. Its principal artery, which is furnished by the coeliac trunk, is remarkable for its size, the thick- ness of its walls, its numerous windings, and the manner in which it divides in the fissure. But it receives, moreover, some branches which come from the capsular, diaphragmatic, first lumbar and spermatic arteries of the left side. Its veins are not larger than the arteries, and are especially remarkable for the thinness and extensibility of their Walls. They have no internal valves, and form one of the princip£vl roots of the vena portae. 2851. Nerves. They separate from the solar plexus under the name of splenic plexus (1858), and are furnished by the solar ganglia and by the left pneumo-gastric nerve. 2852. Lymphatic Vessels. The lymphatics of the spleen we have already described (2754). 2853. Cellular Tissue. There occurs a rather tliin layer around the splenic arteries and veins, and it may be followed pretty deeply into the substance of the hver, but not between the se- condary divisions of the vessels, the interstices of which are filled with serum. 2854. Granulations. I give this name to a certain number of soft, grayish, semi-transparent, and as it were gelatinous corpus- cles, of the size of a pin’s head and sometimes almost imperceptible, which are disseminated irregularly in the tissue of the spleen. Their nature is entirely unknown. Malpighi considers tliem as su)all glands. 2855. Parenchyma of the Spleen. It is of very variable con- sistence, although in general soft and as it were spongy. Its co- lour is deeper than that of the spleen at its interior. It always contains a very great quantity of blood, which seems to be identi- fied with its tissue, and which is met with in three dilfereut states, viz. in the arteries and in the veins, as takes place in other organs, and in a sort of intimate combination with the other organic ele- ments and with a certain quantity of albumen. The latter is thick, slightly viscous, opaque, of a livid red colour like wine lees. It appears to be contained in very numerous cellules or areolae des- tined for itself, of which the outer walls are formed by the prolon- gation of the internal surface of the fibrous envelope of the spleen. iSome anatomists think, however, that these cellules have no ex- istence, and that the parenchyma of the spleen is essentially form- ed of arterial and venous capillary vessels, with very thin and very extensible walls, and communicating immediately with each other.* 'I'liis much is certain, that the vascularity of all the apparent fibres of the spleen has been recently proved by injection. • Marjolin, Manuel d’Anatomic, T. ii. p. 449. Paris, 1815, 6vo.