^252 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. uuich higlier on the longissimus dorsi tlian upon the sacro-lum- l^alis, and divides into a considerable number of narrow bands, whose neighbouring edges are connected by a more or less thin and transparent aponeurotic membrane. 824. But the fleshy mass of which we speak does not derive its origin from this aponeurosis alone; it arises from tlie sacrum by a ])ointed prolongation which covers the posterior surface of that bone from the end of the sacral canal, and which is particularly attached to its three upper transverse processes. It arises also, by small tendons, from the spinous processes of the three or four last vertebras, from the sacro iliac ligament, and from the inner and poste- rior part of the crest of the ilium. From these different places the fleshy fibres ascend almost vertically. 825. Internal Branch or Longissimus Dorsi. This branch is extended at the posterior part of the trunk, from the preceding bundle to the upper part of the back, between the sacro-lumbalis and semispinaUs dorsi. It is elongated, a little flattened, very thick and somewhat square below, slender, and terminating in a point above. It divides, as it ascends, into a great number of fleshy tongues, ending in tendons, which form two distinct rows, one externally on the side of the sacro-lumbalis, the other inter- nally along the vertebral column. The tongues of this latter row, which are larger than the others, and more distinct in the back than in the loins, have tendons so much the longer and more slender the higher they are, and are at- tached, to the number of sixteen or seventeen, to the transverse and articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and to the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae of the back. The tongues of the second row, on the contrary, are thinner, flat, and so much the longer and less fleshy the higher they are. They are in number nine, eight, or seven, and are attached near the articidation of the ribs with the transverse processes, to the lower edge of the last ele- ven ribs, or to eight of them only, the first three and the last three excepted, &c. presenting, moreover, many individual anomalies in their insertion. This attachment to the ribs takes place by means of small flat and almost aponeurotic tendons, which are particularly thin below, in which direction the tendons are more distant from the articulation than above. Frequently also the longissimus dorsi sends a thin, slender elon- gated tendon, which ascends towards the neck and sometimes reaches the head,* or is confounded with one of the complexi or with the splenius. 826. The internal surface of the -longissimus dorsi covers the scmispinalis dorsi and multifidus spinae, and is in contact with the complexus magnus and transversalis colli; the external is contigu- ous to the sacro-lumbalis ; the anterior is applied upon tlic Icvatores costarum, the ribs, the transverse processes, the posterior costo- Morgiigiii. Adc. Anal. II. p. 38.