46 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 149. To tlie right and left of the ethmoidal notch, there is ob- served a triangular concave surface, which forms the vault of the orbit, and which presents, anteriorly and to the outside, a small cavity which receives the lachrymal gland ; in the same direction, and to the inside, a slight inequality to which is attached a carti- laginous pulley by which the tendon of the large oblique muscle of the eye is reflected. 150. Frontal^ Anterior^ or Pericranial Surface. Tliis surface is marked, in the median line, with a longitudinal depression, com- monly not very distinct, and occupying the place where the two portions of which the bone consisted at an early age are united. Previously to their uniting, a suture is always observed in this place; and not unfrequently the two pieces are not intimately united, so that the suture exists even at the most advanced age. At the lower part of this line is the nasal prominence, which is much larger in old than in young persons, and is generally perfo- rated by a great number of small holes. Farther down there is seen a notch of the same name, which is articulated with the nasal bones in the middle, and on the sides with the nasal apophyses of the superior maxillary bones. This notch itself surmounts the nasal spine, on the sides of which are two small longitudinal grooves, forming part of the nasal fossae. The nasal spine is arti- culated anteriorly to the nasal bones, and behmd the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone. 151. On either side, and proceeding from above downwards, we observe a broad and smooth surface, which is covered by the fron- tal muscle ; the frontal prominence, which is very distinct in chil- dren ; a slight depression ; a transverse eminence, slightly curved, more prominent mternaUy than outwards, named the superciliary arch, from its correspon^ng to the eyebrow, and giving attach- ment to its muscle; another prominent line, also curved, which proceeds from both sides of the nasal groove, and is named the orbital arch. It is terminated by two apophyses of the same name. The outer of these processes, which is thick and prominent, joins the malar bone; while the inner, which is thin and broad, is arti- culated with the lachrymal bone. On the inner side of this arch, there is observed a hole, or a notch converted into a hole by a h- gament, which is called the supra-orhital foi'ame7i, and which gives passage to the frontal vessels and nerves. On the margin of this hole, there is another much smaller, and formmg a mere pore, which allows an arterial branch to penetrate into the coronal sinus. 152. On the outside of this surface, above the external orbital process, there is seen a prominent line, which is curved, and runs in a direction upwards and backwards. It forms the limit of a small surface which constitutes part of the temporal fossa, and gives attachment to the temporal muscle. 153. Ceo'dwal, posterior, or mternal surface. This surflice is concave, being in contact with the dura mater, and is marked in