BONES IN THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. 567 well as to the spine of the sphenoid bone, by a dense and fibrous substance. Externally, it affords points of attachment to the pter)'goideus internus and circumHexus palati (1007). lower edge gives attachment behind to the levator palati mollis, which runs along it the rest of its extent (lOOG), and to the inner muscle of the malleus (1955). 1945. The memhrnno7(s portion of the Eustachian tube nearly forms of itself the outer half of that canal. It unites together the two edges of the libro-cartilage, and is essentially formed by a pro- longation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, which lines the whole internal surflice of the tube. It is merely strengthened ex- ternally by bundles of fibres which come from the spine of the sphenoid bone, and from the base of the pterygoid process. This fibrous layer then gives attachment to some portions of the circum- flexus palati mollis, and stops short at the level of the bony por- tion, where the mucous membrane alone introduces itself, and is applied upon a very thin layer of periosteum. This mucous la- mina is white, and is much thinner than the membrane of the pharynx, of which it appears to be an appendage. Towards the pharyngeal orifice of the canal, it forms a very thick prominent rim, and contains a great number of mucous crypts. 1946. The Eustachian tube is constantly open. Its nerves are furnished by the palatine twigs of the gangbon of Meckel (1741). Its vessels come from those of the velum palati and pharynx. 2. OF THE BONES CONTAINED IN THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. 1947. The cavity of the tympanum is traversed by a series of small bones, articulated with each other by diarthrosis, moved by muscles of their own, and extended from the membrana tympani to the fenestra ovalis, representing a kind of bent lever. They are named the malleus, incus, os lenticulare, and stapes. 1948. Of the Malleus. It is placed nearly vertically on the inner and upper part of the membrana tympani. It is the longest of the internal bones of the ear, and is divided into three parts, which are named the head, the neck, and the handle. The head forms its highest and largest part. Smooth over its whole extent, of an oval form, somewhat elongated, it corresponds externally to the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and is a little concave before. It is articulated posteriorly to the incus by means of two slight depressions separated by a promiuence, and covered by a very thin cartilage. The neck is a kind of contraction placed be- tween the head and the handle. It is very short, but pretty thick. Inclined outwards, it is free posteriorly and internally. Anteriorly, it supports a very elongated slender process, which traverses the glenoid fissure and gives attachment by its summit to the anterior muscle of the malleus. It is named the process of Raw. The 2 p