ORGANIZATION OF THB STOMACH. C05 middle part of its two surfaces, where there is an intimate adhei- sion. 2088. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is very thin, and differs essentially in this respect from the muscular coat of the pharynx and oesophagus. It is composed of fasciculi of soft whitish fibres, never red, placed beside each other, and running in three different directions. 1st, Some of these fibres, which are more superficial, are longitudinal. Less numerous and less uniformly diffused than the others, they form the continuation of the external muscular layer of the oesophagus (2071), which may be satisfactorily seen on examining them near the cardiac orifice, where they are found to separate from each other. The principal fasciculi form a bundle which runs along the small curvature as far as the pylorus. Another bundle descends on the great cul-de-sac, and is prolonged in the di- rection of the .great curvature. Those which are expanded over the two surfaces of the stomach are much shorter and irregularly dis- posed. Some of these latter collect, however, into two small bands, the one before, tlie other behind, which arrive at the pylorus after a course of about an inch. 2dly, The fibres of the second kind, lying immediately under the former, are circular, and belong pe- culiarly to the stomach. They appear to have no connection with tho^e of the oesophagus. Less numerous at the cardia than on the rest of the stomach, and especially at the middle, and running pa- rallel to each other, they never entirely encircle the stomach; but it is very difficult to assign their precise points of origin or termi- nation. 3dly, Lastly, the fibres of the third kind are oblique. They constitute two broad bands, one of which extends from the left side of the cardia over the two surfaces of the stomach, while the ether is prolonged from the right side of the cardia over the great extremity, where it seems to replace the circular fibres, which occur there only in small number. A layer of dense and close filamentous cellular tissue unites the muscular to the mucous membrane. This layer the older writers improperly named the nervous coat. 2089. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is of this membrane that the inner surface of the stomach is formed. Soft, spongy, of a reddish white colour, having a marbled appearance, covered with villosities which seem to constitute a downy and coloured tissue, continually covered with an abundant inodorous viscid fluid, it pre- sents numerous and purely accidental irregular wrinkles when the stomach is empty. When examined with a lens, especially at some cUstance from the orifices, it is found to be perforated with a mul- titude of holes disposed pretty regularly in quincuncial order, not more than a fifth of a line in diameter, and thus constituting a kind of reticular warp, the tissue of which recurs between the folds and villosities of the mucous membrane of the duodenum, and around Peyer 8 glands or follicles. It does not at all appear to be a con- tinuation of the outer membrane of the oesophagus, its appearance and tissue being entirely clifFejreat, and there being even a kind of