MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 247 which terminate it, are prolonged before the fleshy fibres or even in their substance, and the latter, which are placed obliquely between them, are very -short, notwithstanding the general length of the muscle. 805. The longus colli feebly bends the cervical vertebrae on each other and on the dorsal vertebrae. If the upper portion acts by it- self and on one side only, it determines a rotation of the atlas upon the axis, and consequently of the head upon the neck. OF THE PSOAS PARVUS. (M. Prelomho-puhien, Chauss.; M. Psoas Minor, Soemm.) 806. The Smaller Psoas does not always exist. It is situated to the outer and fore side of the psoas magnus, over which it is ap- plied. It is flat, thin, and narrow. Its upper extremity is at- attached by short aponeuroses, to the lower part of the body of the last dorsal vertebra and to the fibro-cartilage which separates it from the first lumbar vertebra, and it sometimes sends a small ten- don to the transverse process of the twelfth vertebra of the back. The fleshy fibres, which do not form more than the upper third of the length of the muscle, cease opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, after forming a bundle which is directed outwards and downwards, and are replaced by a flat tendon which becomes broader as it de- scends, and which turns over the psoas magnus, passing to its inner part. This tendon, which occupies of itself two-thirds of the ex- tent of the muscle, terminates at the ilio-pectineal eminence (398) and the neighbouring part of the body of the pubes, sending to the fascia lata a broad and thin membranous prolongation, which covers the imited tendon of the iliacus and psoas magnus. 807. The anterior surface of the psoas parvus is covered above by the diaphragm, afterwards by the renal vessels and nerves and by the peritoneum, and below by the external iliac artery. The posterior surface is united in its whole extent to the psoas magnus by cellular tissue. 808. When the two smaller psoae act simultaneously, they bend the vertebral column on the pelvis, or the latter upon the vertebral column. If only one of them contract, the same motion takes place, but obliquely. In standing, they prevent the trunk from falling backwards. They also strengthen the crural arch, and are capable of stretching it in a certain degree. OF THE I’SOAS MAGNUS. (Prelombo-trochantinien, Chauss.; Psoas Major, Soemm.) 809- The Psoas magnus is situated on the side of the vertebral column at its lower part, and along the upper strait of the pelvis, extending to the upper and fore part of the thigh. It is larger than the preceding, and is never wanting. It is of an elongated form, thicker in the middle than at the extremities. It is rounded at its