ORGANS OF SENSATION. 51G They receive a great quantity of blood-vessels which penetrate them on all sides, ramifying and anastomosing frequently in their interior. 1790. The nervous filaments which emanate from the ganglia adhere to them in an intimate manner, without appearing to be a continuation of their substance, and are surrounded by the same cellular substance as they. They communicate with the encepha- lic nerves a great many times, connect the ganglia themselves with each other, seldom penetrate the muscles, form very numerous plexus with each other, principally around the arteries, and even seem especiaUy destined to follow the arterial system in all its ra- mifications, being but very seldom observed around the veins. Some of these nervous filaments are white, composed of fibrils like the encephalic nerves, and like them also surrounded with a neurilemma. Others are reddish or gray, not fibrous, and desti^ tute of neurilemma, at least in so far as would appear. OF THE GANGLIA IN PARTICULAR, AND OF EACH OF THE NERVES WHICH ARISE FROM THEM. I. GANGLIA OF THE HEAD. OF THE OPHTHALMIC OR LENTICULAR GANGLION. 1791. This is one of the smallest ganglia of the body. It is placed against the outer side of the optic nerve, not far from its entrance into the orbit, and is always met with. Its form, although subject to vary, is yet frequently that of a square, elongated from behind downwards. Its oiiter surface, which is convex, corres- ponds to the abductor oculi muscle. The inrier is concave and applied upon the optic nerve. Its colour is reddish, sometimes white. Its volume differs much according to the individual. Lastly, it is immersed in a mass of soft, and as it were half-fluid fat. Its posterior and superior angle communicates with the nasal nerve of the ophthalmic (1582) ; the posterior and inferior with a filament of the inferior branch of the common motor nerve of the eye, (1567-) Its two anterior angles also furnish each a bundle of small nerves, the one superior the other inferior. These are the 1792. Ciliary Nerves. They are very slender, soft, flexuous, reddish, and constantly accompanied by one, two, or three fila- ments coming immediately from the nasal nerve, (1582,) and which have exactly the same distribution. The zipper bundle, which is smaller, is at first divided into three nerves, which bifurcate as they advance, so as to produce six, which proceed parallel to each other immediately above the optic nerve, which they accompany as far as the ball of the eye.