VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 17 consideration the age, and the peculiarities of the individual. In early cliildhood, a bone may consist of several pieees, which after- wards become united into one. 46. Man walks upright, supporting his body on the heel and the whole sole of the foot. The external conformation of his body is symmetrical: his head occupies the upper part; the breast and belly are placed before; and the back is situated behind. The line of direction of the human body is vertical, forming an angle of 90 deoTces with the ground on which it rests ; and this line, which is supposed to pass through the summit of the head, to terminate between the feet, serves as a basis for the application of regional names to the cUfferent organs, according as they are, with rc^ference to it, anterior, posterior, lateral, superior, kc. It is named the vertical median line, and divides the body into two similar halves. III.—OF THE TRUNK.' Is#, OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 47. The Vertebral Column, which is also named the Spinal Column or Spine, is a sort of bony flexuous shaft, placed at the posterior and central part of the trunk, and extending from the head to the sacrum. Although capable of bending in all direc- tions, it is yet very solid, and is excavated by a canal, bearing the name of Vertebral, which gives it lightness without diminishing its strength, and which runs along its whole extent. It is rounded before, elevated into an interrupted ridge behind, and perforated on the sides with a great number of holes. This part of the trunk is composed of twenty-four short and very angular bones, placed one above the other, and named Ver- tehrcE. ' A. OF THE VERTEBR.E IN GENERAL. 48. Form. In every Vertebra, which is symmetrical, and formed on each side of several very angular portions, there are dis- tinguished a body, seven processes, four notches, and a hole. The Body (Corpus) occupies the middle and anterior part. It is cylindrical or oval, thick and broad. Above and below, it is adapted to certain cartilages, which are placed between the verte- brae. Transversely convex before, it forms part of the vertebral hole behind, and in both these directions, but especially the latter, presents several distinct vascular apertures. I’he seven processes of each vertebra are ;—Is#, I’he Spi- nrms Apophysis, or Process, (Processus Spinosus,) situated be- hind and on the median line, most commonly terminating in a point, and bifureating at its base, to unite, by means of two c