ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 384< aj)oncurosis of the fore-arm, tlic annular ligament, the palmar apo- neurosis, the fibrous sheaths of the fingers, and lastly, by the ten- dons of the flexor profundus. Its posterior surface covers the flexor profundus, the flexor longus pollicis, the median nerve, the ulnar artery, the lumbricales muscles, and the phalanges. 1177- 'Adds muscle bends the second phalanges upon the first, the latter upon the metacarpal bones, and lastly, the hand upon the fore-arm. It can also move the fore-arm upon the hand. 2. Anterior and Deep Region of the Fore-arm. OF THE FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS OR PERFORANS. 1178. This is a thick, flattened, elongated muscle, bent upon itself so as to embrace the ulna, simple and fleshy above, separated into four tendons below. It arises from the three upper fourths of the anterior surface of the ulna, and from the interosseous liga- ment, from the impression which is observed below the coronoid process, where it bSurcates so as to surround the insertion of the brachialis internus (1150) sending at the same time a prolongation over the sides of the olecranon. It also arises from the aponeuro- sis which goes from the flexor carpi ulnaris to the ulna, and from the upper third of the inner surface of that bone. From these differ- ent origins, which are all aponeurotic, the muscle, thin at first, thicker in the middle, and becoming thin again, descends vertically, and divides into four portions, of which the three inner are not very distinct from each other. Each of these portions is termi- nated by a tendon, at first very broad, and separated into several slips concealed in the substance of the fleshy fibres, and appearing upon their anterior surface toward the middle of the fore-arm. These tendons do not become free until near the annular ligament, under which they pass along with those of the flexor sublimis, into the palm, where they descend, separating from each other. At first round and giving rise to the lumbricales, they become broader towards the articulations of the first phalanges with the metacarpal bones, present traces of a longitudinal division, are engaged in the fibrous sheaths of the fingers, pass through the fissure in the tendon of the flexor sublimis, lodged in the channels which limit it above and below, and are at length inserted into the fore part of the third phalanges of the last four fingers, after being enveloped by the synovial membrane of the fibrous sheaths. 1179. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the flex- or sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, the median and ulnar nerves, and the ulnar artery. The posterior surface is applied upon the fore and inner surfiiccs of the ulna, the interosseous liga- ment, the pronator q.uadratus, the anterior radio-carpal ligaments, the fore part of the metacarpus, the flexor brevis and adductor