299 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 1043- It acts upon the thyroid cartilage in the same manner as the preceding muscle docs upon the hyoid bone. OF THE THYRO-HYOIDEUS, OR HYO-THYROIDEUS. 1044. It is of a quadrilateral form, very short and thin, and is situated at the middle of the neck upon the larynx. It is often continuous with the preceding by its lower edge, which is attached to the oblique ridge of the thyroid cartilage, and which is conse- quently inclined downwards and inwards. It ascends from thence parallel to the muscle of the opposite side, and terminates at the lower edge of the body of the hyoid bone, and at the anterior half of the outer edge of its great horn. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, omo-hyoideus, and latissimus colli. The posterior lies upon the thyroid cartilage and the thyro-hyoid membrane. Its use is to bring the larynx and hyoid bone toward each other. 4. Pharyngeal Region, OF THE CONSTRICTOR PHARYNGIS INFERIOR. 1045. This is the largest and longest of the muscles of the pha- rynx. It is membranous, broad, and of an irregular quadrilateral form. It arises below, sometimes from the first ring of the tra- chea, by a small number of fibres only, but always from the outer part of the cricoid cartilage, the small horn"and the oblique ridge of the thyroid cartilage, behind the crico-thyroideus and sterno- thyroideus. From these different points of attachment, its fibres proceed backwards, inwards, and upwards, so much the shorter the lower they are, and becoming more vertical the higher their situa- tion. In the median line, they are confounded with those of the opposite muscle in a kind of raphe. 1046. Its outer surface is covered externally by the stemo- thyroideus, the thyroid body and the trunk of the carotid artery. Posteriorly, it is connected with the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, and with the anterior vertebral ligament, by very loose cellular tissue without fat. The inner surface is covered by the constrictor medius above; by the palato-pharyn- gaeus and stylo-pharyngaeus muscles, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx, in the middle; and by the thyroid and cricoid carti- lages below. The upper edge^ which is very oblique, forms an extremely acute angle with that of the opposite side, and ascends more or less high, sometimes to near the occipital bone. The lower edge, which is shorter, is nearly transverse. It is connected with the commencement of the oesophagus, and allows the inferior laryngeal branch of the pncumo-gastric nerve to pass under it an-