ORGANS OF SENSATION. 578 minates in the latter direction by an extremity rounded at the point, which loses itself in the membranous tissue by which it is connected with the lateral portions of the preceding cartilage. It is covered externally by the triangularis muscle and the integu- ments ; internally, by the pituitary membrane. The internal branch, which is contiguous to the septum, forms anteriorly part of the inferior extremity of that part. It is hori- zontal and sometimes situated a little lower than the first. Lined externally by the mucous membrane, and contiguous internally and posteriorly with the cartilage of the septum, it approaches that of the opposite side internally and anteriorly, and is connected with it by a loose cellular tissue never containing fat. Rather broad before, this internal branch terminates posteriorly in a point. It is its contiguity with that of the opposite side that gives the septum of the nose the thickness which it presents inferiorly. 1985. Of the Fibro -cartilages of the Wings of the Nose. In some subjects they are continuous with the external branch of the preceding. Their disposition is very irregular, and their form very liable to vary. Placed in the posterior parts of the wings, near their union with the cheeks, they are of inconsiderable size, and are often divided into several distinct and isolated nuclei. They seem immersed in a kind of fibrous membrane which fixes them to the preceding fibro-cartHages, the lateral cartilages of the nose, and the concave rim of the maxillary bone. 1986. These four fibro-carthages are thin, and allow a certain degree of mobility to the lower part of the nose. They are envel- oped by a very evident, thick, fibrous tissue, which adheres inti- mately to them. Their elasticity is great. C. OF THE NASAL FOSS.E INVESTED BY THEIB MEMBRANES. 1987- When these cavities are examined in a head of which the soft parts have not been removed, their form is found very differ- ent from that which we have described at page 100. All tho.se in- equalities, grooves, and small eminences which we have pointed out, are no longer seen. The meatus, under the form of three longitudinal channels, hmited by the three turbinated bones, are on the outer wall the only parts that can be recognised. Still the inferior edge of the turbinated bones descends much loArcr than in the dry head, because a membrane which invests them, as well as all the other parts of the nasal cavities, forms in passing over it a thick and very distinct fold. This membrane has received the names of Pituitary Membrane, Olfactory Membrane, and Schnei- derian Membrane.