85 OF THE TEETH. eminence is the condyle, and serves to articulate the lower jaw with the temporal bone, being for that purpose covered with cartilage. At the back part, it gradually loses its convex form. Anteriorly it is distinctly curved, and presents an uneven ridge at the place ■where the cartilage ceases. Externally, it presents a small tubercle which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the joint. The condyle is supported upon a sort of pedicle named its Neck, which is marked anteriorly by a depression into which the ptery- goideus externus is inserted, and also gives attachment, externally and above, to the external lateral ligaments. The condyle is se- parated from the coronoid process by the sigmoid notch, which is traversed by the masseteric nerve and vessels. 295. Structure. The lower maxillary bone is formed of a thick plate, bent upon itself, compact externally, ceUiilar within, and traversed in the greater part of its extent, by the inferior dentary canal. This canal, whose position varies at different periods of life, passes obliquely through the substance of the bone, gradually di- minishing in size as it proceeds, at the base of the coronoid pro- cess and under the summits of the alveoli, from the middle of the inner surface of the branches of the jaw to the incisors ; after which it turns back upon itself, forming an angle, and terminates at the mental hole. From the angle formed by its reflection there arise two small subordinate canals, one inferior, the other superior, which lose themselves in the cellular tissue of the jaw. It is lined in its whole extent by a plate of compact tissue, which is especially apparent near its orifices, for in the middle part it is so perforated with holes as to appear cellular. Of these holes, some which are larger penetrate into the alveoli so as to perforate their summit; the others transmit vessels into the areolar tissue of the bone which is very abundant. Sometimes the partition which separates the canal from the alveoli happens to be wanting, in which case the canal is exposed when the teeth are taken out. The walls of the alveoli and their partitions are very spongy. It ought also to be remarked, that the dentary canal is nearer the inner surface of the jaw in the two posterior thirds of its course, and approaches the outer surface in the remaining third. 296. Development and Articulations. The lower jaw-bone originates by two centres of ossification, which unite at the sym- physis of the chin. In very young fetuses, there is observed, moreover, a bony plate which forms the lower edge of the bone, and a separate nucleus for the coronoid process. It is articulated to the temporal bones by the condyles, and to the sixteen lower teeth. C. OF THE TEETH. 297. The Teeth {Dentes; oSomg,) are small bones, extremely hard and compact, implanted in the alveoli of both jaws, which, in their