32 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. cliarthrosis. In the three first false ribs, this extremity is united to tlie cartilage which immediately precedes it. In the last two, it is isolated, pointed and thin, and is lost in the intermuscular cellular tissue. The upper part of the sternal extremity of the first of all these cartilages gives attachment to the lower portion of the fibro-carti- laginous ligament of the sterno-clavicular articulation. 96. These cartilages seem at first sight to be homogeneous. They are white, very compact, somewhat flexible, and highly elas- tic. They dissolve with difficulty into gelatin. They have a great tendency to become ossified ; and when this ossification, which is announced by the opaque tint which their perichondriuln assumes, takes place, they present the same organization as the ribs them- selves, only their substance is much more compact than that of the other bones of the skeleton. The cartilages of the asternal ribs ossify more slowly and less completely than the others. 97- By maceration during several months, they divide into oval laminae or plates, separated by circidar or spiral lines, connected by a few oblique fibres which they send off to each other, and subdi- viding into radiated fibrils, which are themselves iiltimately sepa- rated into small fasciculi which at length dissolve into mucus. They present neither cavities, canals, areolae, fibres, nor laminae, nothing in short indicative of an organic texture. They also ap- pear, to be destitute of nerves and vessels. 98. They are everywhere, excepting at their two extremities, enveloped by a somewhat vascular fibrous membrane or perichon- drium, which is continuous with the periosteum of the ribs and ster- num. OF THE CHEST IN GENERAL. 99. General Form. The figure of this part of the skeleton is that of a truncated cone, somewhat flattened before and behind, and having its base below, excepting in some women, in whom the use of stays has much contracted this part of the body, and whose thorax then projects in the middle. This figure is very different from that which the chest presents when covered with its soft parts and connected with the shoulders, the upper part having then the appearance of being the broadest. In general, the pectoral cavity is symmetrical, or, in other words, perfectly similar on both sides. 100. Outer Surface of the Chest. Anteriorly it is contracted, more or less flat or prominent in different individuals, and general- ly better developed in women. It is somewhat oblique from above downwards, and from behind forwards. In the middle, may be ob- served the anterior surface of the sternum and the xiphoid carti- lage ^ on the sides are seen the sterno-costal cartilages, which become longer the lower they are situated, and circumscribe spaces filled