ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 654 lacerum anterius. Another passes through the anterior comlvloid foramen. BRANCHES WIUCII TERMINATE THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. a. OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY. 2260. Not SO large as the internal maxillary artery, from which it separates opposite the neck of the condyle of the jaw, and fol- lowing the original direction of the external carotid, this artery ascends at first a little obliquely outwards between the ramus of the jaw, the auditory canal, and the parotid gland which covers it as far as the zygomatic arch. But above the latter, it glides in a tortuous manner under the anterior and superior muscles of the car, and becomes subcutaneous. Arrived at the middle of the temporal region, it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. 2261. Anterior Twigs. The temporal artery gives off a cer- tain number of twigs which direct themselves forwards toward the masseter and the articulation of the lower jaw. Among these there is to be distinguished the Transverse Artery of the face, which arises from the temporal immediately after its origin, varies much in size, passes over the neck of the condyle of the jaw, gives off a twig which is distributed in the masseter, and there anastomoses with a division of the internal maxillary artery, crosses the direction of that muscle, proceeding under Steno’s duct, and terminates op- posite its anterior edge, ramifying to infinity on that d^ict, in the parotid gland, in the two zygomatici and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, as well as in the integuments. Several of its twigs anas- tomose in the substance of the cheek with those of the facial, buccal, and infra-orbitar arteries. 2262. Posterior Twigs. They are of considerable size and vary in their numlrer. They are caSiedi the Anterior Auricular Arteries, and are distributed to the external auditory canal and to the auricle. 2263. Internal Tivig or Middle Temporal Artery. It comes from the temporal artery immediately above, and sometimes under the zygomatic arch. It almost immediately perforates the aponeu- rosis of the temporal muscle, into vdiich it dives, and where it se- parates into a great number of ramifications, of which several are seen to communicate with the deep temporal arteries. 2264. Of the two branches by which the temporal artery termi- nates, the anteriof" ascends in a serpentine manner towards the forehead, and subdivides into a grlat number of twigs which run in all directions, and diffuse themselves in the frontalis and orbi- cularis palpebrarum muscles, and in the integuments. Of these twigs, some which are transverse, anastomose with the frontal and