ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 598 2058. The cavity of tlic pliarynx, which is of a form that can- not be precisely described, has no wall anteriorly, at the level of the nasal fossae and mouth. Vertically elongated, it is narrow above, where itds limited on each side by the pterygoid processes. In the middle, it becomes much wider, extending there as far as the great horns of the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. Be- low, it gradually contracts until opposite the trachea, where the oesophagus commences. From this disposition, the pharynx, really exists only behind. It is therefore in reality rather a mere half cavity than an entire cavity. From the base of the skull to below the aperture of the larynx, its walls are always separated, while farther down they are in contact with each other. 2059. The Inner Surface of the pharynx may be viewed as con- sisting of several walls. The posterior, which is flattened, pre.sents nothing remarkable, and may be perceived at the bottom of the mouth when the latter is opened. The anterior presents above the posterior apertures of the nasal fossae, at the middle the poste- rior surface of the velum palati and uvula, farther down the gut- tural aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, the entrance of the larynx, and lastly the posterior surface of that organ. The two lateral walls are narrow. There is observed the pavilion of the Eustachian Tubes (1943), close upon the aper- tures of the nasal fossae. 2060. Above, the pharynx is attached in a solid manner to the basilar process by the cephalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis, to which are attached some of the fibres of the superior constrictors of the pharynx (1049). Stronger and denser at the middle than on the sides, it there constitutes of itself the firm part of the organ. It is gradually confounded below with the mucous membrane. 2061. Inferiorly, the separation of the pharynx from the oeso- phagus is indicated by a sudden contraction at the exterior, and rendered very remarkable by a change in the direction of the mus- cular fibres. b. OEGANIZATION OF THE PHARYNX. 2062. Muscular Layer. The muscles of which it is composed are the six constrictors, the two stylo-pharyngei (1053), and the two pharyngo-staphylini (1014), all which have been already de- scribed. We only observe that their fibres, which differ in their obliquity, form planes which cross each other in difierent direc- tions. 2063. Mucous Membrane. It is continuous above with the pituitary membrane, in the middle with the membrane ot the mouth, below with those of the larynx and oesophagus, and on the sides with those of the Eustachian tvdms. After coA'^cring the ce- phalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis and the posterior wall ot tlie pha-