PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 51. jugular fossaand lodges the commencement of the jugular vein. It is limited externally by a small quadrilateral surface, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulated with the jugular process of the occipital bone, which presents between it and the mastoid process, a hole named the stylo-masUnd foramen. This hole is round, and placed in a very distinct cavity, which often partly conceals it. It terminates the Fallopian canal and trans- mits the facial nerve from the brain. Before this aperture, and a little to the inside, there is observed a slender elongated and pointed eminence, more or less curved, twisted, or knotty, descend- ing obliquely forwards. This is the styloid process, which derives its name from its form, and gives attachment to the stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and to the stylo-max- iUary and stylo-hyoid ligaments. This process, which in early age is not united to the rest of the bone, and is then articulated to the petrous process by the intervention of a cartilage, is surrounded at its base by a bony lamina, which is most prominent on the inside. This is called the vaginal process, and forms the posterior limit of the glenoid cavity. 178. Such are the various objects presented by the lower sur- face of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, which is separat- ed from the upper surface by a very short edge, articulated witli the sphenoid bone, and not very distinct on account of its irregu- larity, and from the posterior by an unequal edge, in which there is seen posteriorly a notch, frequently divided into two portions by a small bony plate, and concurring with the occipital bone to form the foramen lacerum posterius. At the middle of this edge is a triangular aperture, which is the external opening of the canal of the cochlea, and which also sends a groove toward the jugular fossa internally; this edge is connected with the occipital bone. 179. The summit of the petrous process is formed by the union of its three surfaces. It is very uneven, obliquely truncated, and sometimes partly formed by a triquetrous bone. A portion of the circumference of the anterior lacerated hole belongs to it. Lastly, it presents the internal orifice of the carotid canal, which is still more uneven at its margin than the outer, and varies much as to its form in different subjects. This canal gives passage to the in- ternal carotid artery, together with several small nerves. At its commencement, it is directed vertically upwards, then bends, and proceeds horizontally inwards and forwards toward the internal orifice. 180. The Aqueduct of Fallopius, whose commencement we have already pointed out in the bottom of the internal auditory canal, and which we have seen terminating in the stylo-mastoid fora- men, is a narrow canal, remarkable for its length, which transmits the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves. Immediately after its commencement, it ascends outwards and backwards, to the up- per part of the petrous process, where it is perforated J)y the hia- tus fallopu ; it then proceeds directly backward over the cavity of