OF THB DIAPHRAG-MATIC AND CCELIAC ARTERIES. 697 seems to be the continuation of the original trunk, turns over the central aponeurosis, and anastomoses with the left diaphragmatic. 2439. E.xternnl Branch. Directed transversely outwards, above the liver, behind the right lobe of the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, it terminates in the digitations by which the diaphragm is attached to the ribs. It furnishes two or three twigs to the renal capsule, and by those which arc diffused in the muscle it anastomoses with the other branch, and with the inferior intercostal and lumbar ar- teries. h. OF THE LEFT INFERIOR DIAPHRAGMATIC ARTERY. 2440. Arising at the same point as the preceding, it ascends outwards, before the left pillar of the diaphragm, to which it fur- nishes some twigs. It also sends one of somewhat larger size over the oesophagus, which ascends upon that canal into the thorax, and communicates with one of the oesophageal arteries. It also gives three or four small branches to the left renal capsule, and reaches the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, where it divides into two branches, above the oesophageal aperture of the diaphragm. 2441. Anterior Branch. Directed obliquely from behind for- wards, it gains the anterior region of the muscle, after giving off a twig which anastomoses with the opposite artery at the fore part of the oesophagus (2438). On the diaphragm itself, it separates into a great number of secondary branches. One of them directs itself to the right, and communicates, as we have said, behind the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, with the opposite artery. The others are distributed precisely as on the right side. 2442. External Branch. It is larger. Directed transversely behind the left lobe of the phrenic aponeurosis, it ramifies in the fleshy fibres of the muscle, and anastomoses with the anterior branch, the last intercostal and the lumbar arteries. Some of its ramifications go to the spleen. C. OF THE CCELIAC* ARTERY. 244.3. The Coiliac (Art. Opisto-gastrique, Chauss.) is the short- est of the arteries which the abdominal aorta furnishes. It comes off at a right angle, between the crura of the diaphragm, opposite the union of the last vertebra of the back with the first of the loins. It is directed horizontally forwards and to the right, in the poste- rior separation of the two laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum. It corresponds, above, to the left side of the small lobe of the liver; below, to the upper edge of the pancreas, on which it rests ; to the laff, to the cardia; to the right, to a pretty considerable space which separates it from the pylorus. • Kii\la, venter, vciilriculiis.