ORGANS OF SENSATION. 556 and anteriorly some ramifications of the vessels of the ciliary pro- cesses. Its veins and nerves are unknown. 1911- The crystalline lens is fixed and kept in its place by very numerous delicate, fascicular, transparent filaments, of a peculiar nature, which pass from the intervals of the ciliary processes to the circumference of the capsule of the lens. 1912. Between the lens and its membrane occurs the Liqmrr Morgagni, a kind of peculiar transparent, slightly viscous fluid, ex- isting in small quantity, and escaping the moment the capsule is opened.* 10. OF THE VITREOUS BODY AND HYALOID MEMBRANE.f 1913. The Vitreous Body is a soft, perfectly transparent, tre- mulous mass, occupying the three posterior fourths of the cavity of the ball of the eye. It has a spherical form, but presents a very distinct depression at its fore part for lodging the crystalline lens. It is invested in nearly its whole extent by the retina, with which it contracts no adhesion, so that it is connected with the rest of the eye only by the middle branch of the central artery of the optic nerve, which passes through it to ramify in the posterior half of the capsule of the lens.J Its translucency and limpidity experience no alteration from the advance of age ; but in the fetus it has a reddish tint. The vitreous body is composed of two distinct parts, the vitre- ous humour and the hyaloid membrane. 1914. The Vitreous Humour mingles readily with water, and has the appearance of a solution of gum in that fluid. It is not coagulated by boiling, only it receives a slight opaline tint, an ef- fect which alcohol and concentrated acids also produce upon it. M. Nicolas found its specific gravity to be 1.0009- It is conse- quently a little denser than the aqueous liumour: but it appears, in a chemical point of view, to contain the same principles as it (1903). On leaving it exposed to the air, it equally putrefies. The quantity of this humour is proportional to the volume of the vitreous body. It is not less than 100 grains, and frequently exceeds that number. 1915. The Hyaloid Membrane, which is excessively thin and transparent, constitutes a mass of cellules of a form and size which it is very difficult to determine, and in which the vitreous humour is contained. They all communicate together, so that by making a single aperture in the hyaloid membrane, the whole humour may be drained off. * Many anatomists consider this liquor as a, post~inortcm appearance.—K. f Takos, vilrum ; atof, figura. I See tins statement corrected at page 552, note •.