ORGANIZATION OF THE SMALL INTESTINE.’’ C09 come from the superior mesenteric, pyloric, pancreatic, and gastro- epiploic arteries. Its veins exactly correspond to the arteries. Its lacteals and lymphatics go to the ganglia situated above the pan- creas. Its nerves come from the solar plexus (1844). 3. Of ihe Small Intestine. a. CONI-'OUMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2105. The Small Intestine (Intestinvm tenue), in which the duodenum terminates, is the longest portion of the digestive canal. It forms a general great curve, of which the concavity is connected with the mesentery, while the convexity is free and floating, and it is moreover folded upon itself in different directions a great number of times, which produces turns to which the name of Circumvolu- tions is given. 2106. AU these circumvolutions, of which the convexity is di- rected forwards, and whose concavity faces backwards towards the vertebral column, are placed close together, and constitute a consi- derable mass, which occupies, in the abdomen, the umbilical and hypogastric regions, and a portion of the lumbar and iliac regions, as well as of the excavation of the pelvis. This mass is circum- scribed on all sides by the large intestine, that is to say, superiorly, by the transverse mesocolon, which separates it from the stomach, the pancreas, the liver and the spleen ; to the right, by the coecum and ascending colon; to the left, by the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. 2107. The small intestine commences under the superior mesen- teric vessels, on the left side of the transverse mesocolon, and ter- minates in the right iliac region, opening into the coecum. There results from this that its general direction is inclined from above downwards and from left to right. Its length is great, being about four or five times the total length of the body. Many anatomists have divided it into two portions. Although they have failed to assign fixed and distinct limits to each of them. Of these two por- tions, the upper is named Jejunum, on account of its being com- monly found empty ; the other is called Ileon. The jejunum oc- cupies the two upper fifths of the small intestine, and the ileon the rest of its extent. It is easy enough to see that such a division ia arbitrary and has no sufficient foundation. 2108. The small intestine has a much smaller calibre thap that of the other parts of the digestive canal. It appears cylindrical when distended, but its transverse section is elliptical when it is empty. It is wider above than below. Its whole outer surface is perfectly smooth, excepting on its posterior edge, where it is des- titute of peritoneum and lodged between the two laminm of the mesentery. It is seldom that it presents fatty ajipendages, as are