398 OilGANS OF TIIK VOFC'K. proceed transversely IVoin the middle part of one of the cartilages to the same part on that of the opposite side. Certain obhque fibres may sometimes be followed in the substance of the mucous membrane, as far as the sides of the epiglottis. I’liey have been designated by some autliors under the name oi Aryteno-ejnyl'Ot- tidei. Its posterior surface is invested by the membrane of the pharynx, while the anterior is applied upon that of the larynx, and upon the artytcnoid cartilages. IV. Of the Mucous Membrane mul Glands of the J-,arynx, OF TllE COUKSE OF THE MUCOtTS MEW15UANE OF 'rifE I.AIIYNX. 1417. This membrane is continuous at its upper part in an obvi- ous manner with that which invests the interior of the mouth, and below with that which lines the trachea anci^'ronchi. Com- mencing at the base of the tongue, it proceeds at first over the an- terior surface of the epiglottis, where it forms three folds, which have erroneously been considered as ligaments. Of these folds, the middle one, which is more distinct than the others, ascends towards the summit of the fibro-cartilage, and is stretched when the epiglottis is depressed, while those which are upon the sides lose themselves on the edge of the epiglottis, and appear loose in all cases. Arrived at the circumference of this fibro-cartilage, the membrane of the larynx is reflected from above downwards over its posterior surface, lines-it without forming folds, and penetrates into the larynx ; but on the sides it leaves the circumference, and is applied upon itself so as to form, on either side, a fold which proceeds directly to each of the arytenoid cartilages, covering a part of the thyro-arytenoidei muscles. It is then continued back- wards and outwards into the membrane of the pharynx, and pene- trates inwards into the larynx. Towards the base of the arj^tenoid cartilages, it forms, on either side, another fold, which proceeds horizontally forwards toward the retiring angle of the thyroid car- tilage. Farther down, it lines a depression which is named the ventricle of the larynx ; and still lower, it embraces the thyro- arytenoid ligament, under which it covers the internal surface of the cricoid cartilage and crico-thyroid membrane. OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. 1418. This membrane is of a rose colour, very different from the deep red tint which.the mucous membrane of the mouth pre- sents. Although it is soft, spongy, continually moistened, and