MUSCLES OF THE FACE. TjfJ 937. 1 here results from the description of the four recti muscles small indistinct synovial capsule, the walls of which arc soft, and as it were downy. 928. Its uj)j)er mirface is covered by the levator palpcbr.TC su- perioris, from which it is separated by some nervous filaments and by the conjunctive membrane; the inferior surface rests, poste- riorly, on the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery, and the nasal brancli of the ophthalmic nerve, and, anteriorly, upon the eye it- self. 929. It raises the eye. OF THE DEPllESSOR OCUEI, Oil RECTUS INFERIOH. 930. This muscle is of the same form as the preceding, and lies upon the floor of the orbit. It arises posteriorly from a tendon which is common to it with the internal and external recti, and proceeds horizontally towards the ball of the eye, on which it ter- minates in the same manner as the rectus superior and the two fol- lowing muscles. 931. Its inferior -surface is separated from the floor of the orbit by a quantity of adipose tissue, and is covered anteriorly by the conjunctiva. The uj)per surface is in connection with the optic nerve, a branch of the third pair of nerves, and the eye. 932. It is the antagonist of the attollens oculum, and draws the eye downwards. I OF THE ADDUCTOR OCUH ; OR RECTUS INTEllNUS. 1 933. It resembles the two preceding muscles and the abductor^ and ocedpies the internal region of the orbit. Posteriorly, it is at- tached to the small tendon of which we have spoken, and a little to the margin of the optic hole, and proceeds horizontally forwards to the inner side of the eye. Its internal surface corresponds to the orbit; the external to the optic nerve. 934. It carries the eye inwards. OF THE ABDUCTOR OCULl, OR RECTUS EXTERNUS. 935. It is situated at the outer side of the orbit, and arises from the tendon already mentioned, and from the outer part of the circumference of the optic hole, by short aponeuroses. Between these two origins pass the third pair of nerves, the sixth pair of nerves, and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The muscle then proceeds horizontally outwards and forwards, to the outer part of the eye. It corresponds by its external surface to the periosteum of the orbit and to the lachrymal gland ; by its internal surface to the optic nerve and sixth pair, as well as to the lenticu- lar ganglion. 936. Its action is to draw the eye outwards.