OF THE PATHETIC NERVES. i-53 OF THE PATHETIC NERVES, OR NERVES OF THE FOURTH PAIR. 1569. These nerves, which are the most slender of all those fur- nished by tlie brain, have a considerable course within the skull, and only give off branches at tlie moment of their termination. Their origin is perceived, sometimes higher sometimes lower, be- hind the posterior pair of the tubcrcula cpiadrigemina (the testes), on the lateral parts of the valvula Vieusenii (1443.) The num- ber of their roots varies from one to four, and is not always the same on both sides. Sometimes the roots of one of the nerves arc united to those of the opposite nerve by a transverse band ; some- times they are not even on the same level. They are soft and des- titute of neurilemma, and break with the greatest facility. 1570. They unite almost immediately into a single, very thin, rounded, strong cord, which descends outwards and forwards, turns over the peduncles of the brain, between the cerebrum and cerebel- lum, passes above the arachnoid membrane and along the small circumference of the tentorium cerebelli, and arrives at the poste- rior clinoid process. There it enters a canal with which the dura mater furnishes it (1491), is abandoned by the arachnoid mem- brane, which is reflected over the latter, and is separated internally from the cavernous sinus by the thin cellular lamina which also se- parates the preceding from it. From being at first horizontal and placed beneath the latter and above the ophthalmic branch, it changes its direction near the sphenoidal fissure, and ascends obliquely above the common motor nerve of the eye along with the ophthalmic branch, to the inner side of which it proceeds. It then penetrates into the orbit through the widest part of the sphe- noidal fissure, passing through the dura mater. On arriving in the orbit it proceeds forwards, along with the frontal twig of the ophthalmic nerve, above the rectus oculi superior and levator pal- pebrae superioris, and beneath the periosteum. Lastly, it directs itself inwards, passes into the middle part of the obliquus oculi su- perior, after sensibly increasing in size, and terminates entirely in it, dividing into several filaments. OF THE TRIFACIAL NERVES, OR NERVES OF THE FIFTH PAIR. 1571. The first origin of these nerves occurs at the upper ex- tremity of the spinal marrow, between the corpora olivaria and res- tiform body. It is a bundle of white fibres which ascends outwards in the substance of the cerebral jirotubcrance, above the posterior part of the pons Varolii (1442,) receives in this course a consider- able number of new white fibres, is thus increased in size, and, seems henceforth divided into three branches. Arrived at the outer and lower part of the peduncles of the cerebellum, near the outer edge of the protuberance, it becomes free, leaves the encephalon, and forms a very large flat cord, composed of a verv great number