OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STOMACH. 60S 2079. Its posterior surface, which is flat, oblique, like the pre- ceding, but of less extent than it, and directed downwards when the organ is full, is always entirely concealed in the posterior cavity of the omentum, and is in connection with the transverse mesocolon, and sometimes even with the arch of the colon and the duodenum. 2080. These two surfaces are smooth and polished, continually moistened, traversed by a great number of blood vessels, and of a whitish colour. 2081. Great Curvature of the Stomach. This name is given to the place where the two surfaces of the stomach meet externally down- wards and forwards. The kind of edge here produced is convex, and extends from the one orifice to the other. In the vicinity of the spleen, and to the left, its convexity is greater than elsewhere. It corresponds to the transverse mesocolon and to the arch of the colon. It is as it were lodged in a separation of the lamellae of the anterior lamina of the great omentum, so that, in the empty state, the peritoneum is not exactly applied upon it. It is to this space that the right and left gastro-epiploic arteries, and a certain number of lymphatic ganglia correspond. To the right, the great curvature of the stomach forms a kind of bend, which corresponds to an internal depression, which is named the Small Cul-de-Sac. To the left, it presents a considerable prominence, named the Tuberosity or Great Cul-de-Sac of the Stomach, which, placed beneath the oesophageal orifice, is pro- longed into the hypochondrium, and diverges from the general di- rection of the viscus. It increases its length in a decided manner, and corresponds to the anterior half of the internal surface of the spleen, with which it is connected by a fold of the peritoneum, which lodges the vasa brevia. 2082. Small Curvature of the Stomach. It is concave, and unites the two surfaces of the stomach above and behind. It corresponds to the aorta, the great fissure and lesser lobe of the liver, and ex- tends from the one orifice to the other, without presenting either dilatation or cul-de-sac, on which account its dimensions are smaller than that of the great curve. But, like it also, it is not immechately invested by the peritoneum. It in fact sinks between the two laminm of the hepato-^astric omentum, and is coasted by the coronary artery. OF THE INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE STOMACH. 2083. It is of a reddish white colour, having a marbled appear- ance, constantly covered with a thick mucosity, and lined by the mucous membrane. Its form corre.sponds perfectly to that which the VISCUS presents at its exterior ; only, there arc observed upon it numerous and irregular wrinkles, which disappear when the or- gan is full. It is covered with a very abundant viscid humour.