ORGANIZATION OF THE EYELIDS. 5iS the eyelids. It is applied upon a layer of loose cellular tissue, with very slender filaments and compressed arcohu, never charged with fat, but capable of being filled with serosity with extreme fa- cility. 1«73. Mnscular Lni/er of the Eyelids. It is formed by that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum in which the fleshy fibrc.s arc as it were deprived of colour (918) and widely separated from each other. However, towards the free edge, they approach each other, so as to form a distinct bundle above the tarsal cartilage. 1874. Fibrous Membrane of the Eyelids. It exists behind the muscular layer, from which it is separated by a lamellar cellular tissue, and occupies only^ the external part of each eyelid. The portion which belongs to the upper eyelid is placed between the orbicularis muscle and the expanded aponeurosis of the levator pal- pebrae ; that of the lower eyelid is immediately applied upon the tunica conjunctiva. These two portions have their fibres mutually interlaced from the angle of union of the tarsal cartilages to the outer angle of the orbit, and proceed from thence to the corre- sponding part of the chcumference of that cavity, as well as to the edge of the cartilages, diminishing progressively in st-engtb and thickness, so as to be internally replaced by a lamellar tissue loaded with fat. Apertures are observed in several places of it for the passage of nerves and vessels. Moreover, the upper eyelid presents a second fibrous layer which crosses the direction of the above, and which is constituted by the aponeurosis of its levator muscle which attaches itself to the corresponding fibro-cartilage (923). 1875. Tarsal Fibro-Cartilages. These are two small laminae placed in the substance of the free edge of each eyelid, on the same level as the fibrous layer. Each of them commences at the bi- furcated extremity of the tendon of the orbicularis muscle (918), and terminates externally, by uniting with its fellow opposite the crossing of the two fibrous layers. They are much broader in the middle than at the extremities, and differ in their form as well as size, 'i’he tipper, which is larger, is about six lines broad, and is very contracted at the two ends, while the lower is only about two lines in breadth, and ])resents nearly the same dimensions in its whole extent. Their anterior surface is convex, and is in connec- tion with the orbicularis muscle ; the posterior is concave, lined by the tunica conjunctiva, and marked with several vertical grooves, which lodge the Meibomian glands. Their adherent edge gives attachment to the fibrous layer of each eyelid; but in the upper eyelid it is strongly curved, and affords insertions to the levator muscle, while in the lower it appears rectilinear. Tl'heir free or ciliary edge is broad and thick, rounded, and slantingly cut (1869). These two fihro-cartilages are rather thin, very flexible, highly elastic, and of a slightly yellowish tint, but presenting uotliing pe- culiar in their structure. 187I>- Meibomian Glands or Ciliary Follicles. These are