ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 298 of the inferior cervical nerves, the trunk of the carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the superior thyroid vessels, and the sterno- hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus muscles. 1037. This muscle lowers the hyoid bone, carrying it a little backwards and to a side. When it acts along with its fellow, it lowers the bone directly and carries it backwards. OF THE STEENO-HYOIDEUS, 1038. The Sterno-hyoideus, which is placed at the fore part of the neck, and represents a long narrow band, arises behind the clavicular extremity of the sternum, from the posterior sterno- clavicular ligament, and also sometimes from the cartilage of the first rib. It ascends obliquely inwards, contracting a little, and approaching that of the opposite side, as far as the middle of the larynx. It then directs itself a little outwards, and terminates at the lower edge of the body of the hyoid bone, internally of the preceding muscle. It commonly presents, at a variable height, an aponeurotic intersection more visible before than behind, somewhat tortuous, and often only existing on the inside. Its various inser- tions are effected by means of small aponeuroses. 1039. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the clavicle, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, platysma-myoides, and omo- hyoideus muscles, and by the skin. The posterior surface is ap- plied upon the sterno-thyroideus, crico-thyroideus and thyro- hyoideus muscles, the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyroid body, and the superior thyroid vessels. A small synovial bursa exists between it and the crico-thyroid membrane. 1040. It depresses the hyoid bone, and consequently the larynx, and thus furnishes a fixed point to the depressor muscles of the jaw. OF THE STERNO-THYROIDEUS. 1041. This muscle, which is of the same form as the preceding, and situated behind it, but a little shorter and broader, arises from the upper part of the internal surface of the sternum, opposite the cartilage of the second rib, from whence it ascends, directing itself a httle outwards, and contracting, to the thyroid cartilage, on the oblique ridge of which it terminates by short aponeuroses. It also sometimes presents, at its lower part, an oblique or transverse apon- eurotic intersection. 1042. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and omo-hyoideus muscles. The covers the subclavian and internal jugular veins, the trunk of the carotid artery, the trachea, the thyroid body and its vessels, the crico-thyroideus muscle, and a part of the constrictor pharyngis inferior.