OF THE IRIS. 551 go to the vasa vorticosa of the choroid membrane and long ciliary veins. We shall speak of them afterwards. In the fetus, up to the seventh month of gestation, the pupil is closed by a grayish membrane,provided with very apparent blood vessels, much thinner than the iris, transparent, colourless, and disappearing towards the period of birth. It is named the Membrana pztpillaris, after Wachendorf, who first tUscoyered it in 173fh So long as the membrana pupillaris is entire, it forms with the iris a complete septum, which separates the two cham- bers of the eye, and prevents all communication between them. It is besides fiat and attached to the whole circumference of the pupil, so as to be continued over the anterior surface of the iris. 'I'he membrana pupillaris is evidently formed of two diaphanous lamiiicC placed back to back. The posterior belongs to the cor- responding chamber of the eye, and arises from the circumference of the pupil. The anterior depends from the membrane of the acjueous humour which lines the posteidor surface of the cornea, and the whole anterior chamber of the eye.^ 6. OF THE CILIAllY PKOUESSES. 1899. The Ciliary Processes (Processus Ciliares,) Vixe small vasculo-membranous prom’nent bodies, placed beside each other in a radiating manner, so as to form a ring like the disk of a radiated flower, which surrounds the crystalline lens in the manner of a crown placed behind the iris and the ciliary circle, in partierdar depressions of the fore part of the vitreous body. This ring, which results from the union of the ciliary processes, is called tlie Ciliary Body. The number of ciliary processes varies from sixty to eighty, and is even frequently greater. Each of them is about a line and a half in length, but they are alternately longer and shorter. They are triangular, very pale and thin behind, becoming more promi- nent, thicker, and whiter before. Their posterior edge, which is concave, is received at the circumference of the crystalline lens into a groove of the vitreous body. The ariterior is applied upon the ciliary circle and the iris. The inner.) which is much shorter than the others, is free, and measures the space comprised between the crystalline lens and the posterior surface of the iris. It is denti- culated. The angle by which it is terminated posteriorly does not adhere to the capsule of the lens, but the anterior angle is con- nected Avith the iris by cellular filaments and vessels. There pro- ceed from it straight lines Avliich converge towards the pupil on the posterior surface of that membrane, (1894). By their posterior extremity, the ciliary processes separate in a • .fiilos (Jloquet, Mt'mwre sur la Menihrune puj/illmre, I’aris, 1818, 8vo. with fi- gures. 'I lie admiralilo memoir of Dr. William Hunter on tho JiictiiLiana pujiillarls left nothing to he desired on this suhject. 2 o