ORGANS OF CIRCULATION, 633 tlie right ventricle (2184), but less numerous and more irregularly disposed. Two of these fleshy bundles, whicli are larger than the others, and free at their circumference, arise the one before, the other behind, and a little beneath the middle part of the wall of the ventricle, by several distinct and smaller bundles, ascend ob- liquely towards the base of the heart, and terminate by a rounded or bifurcated extremity, from the summit of which proceed a mul- titude of very slender divergent tendons, frequently crossing each other, which attach themselves to the free edge of the mitral valve. 2197- base of the left ventricle presents two apertures. One of these, the Left Auriculo-ventricular Orijice, which is posterior and larger, loads into the auricle, and is nearly elliptical. Like that of the right side, it is margined with a whitish zone, and fur- nished with a membranous fold which is called the Mitral Valve, because its free edge is divided into several slips, to which are at- tached the cordse tendineas, and of which one is applied upon the mouth of the aorta, which it almost entirely closes when the ventri- cle is dilated. This valve is thicker than the tricuspid valve, and frequently contains small hard fibro-cartilaginous tubercles, and sometimes even bony plates. The other aperture is to the right and anteriorly of the latter. It leads into the aorta, and is furnished with three Semilunar valves, similar to those at the entrance of the pulmonary artery (2186). It is above their free edge that the orifices of the two coronary arteries of the heart are seen. This orifice of the aorta is margined with a callous ring, forming the true boundary between the tissue of the heart and that of the artery. It is right to observe also, that in the places which correspond to the sigmoid valves, the walls of the aorta are depressed and form three prominences at the exterior. /. ORGANIZATION OF THE HEART. 2198. Muscular Tissue of the Auricles.—The walls of the au- ricles are much thinner than those of the ventricles, which evidentr ly depends upon the smaller quantity of muscular fibres which en- ter into their formation. In the Right Auricle, the muscular tissue constitutes a pretty thick layer of longitudinal fibres towards the point of union of the two venas cavse, where it is separated from the serous lamina of the perigardivim by a considerable quantity of fat. In the rest of the auricle, this tissue only presents itself in the form of bundleTs crossing each other, projecting at the anterior and thinner, in the interval of which the serous lamina of the pericar- dium is in immediate contact >vith the inner membrane of the cavi- ty. These bundles, although smaller, are more numerous in the appendage. One of them surrounds the orifice of the vena cava superior in a circular manner. The disposition which we have just pointed out causes a part of the right auricle to appear transpar- ent.