329 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. C. MUSCLES OF THE FORE-AIIM. 1. Anterior anil Superior Region of the Fore-arm. OF THE PRONATOR TERES. 1158. Tills muscle is extended obliquely at the upper and ante- rior part of the fore-arm. It is rather short, broad at its com- mencement, then thicker, and at last obviously contracted, but still broader than thick. It arises from the inner condyle by a tendon •which is common to it with the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum sublimis; from the coronoid process by another small distinct tendon, Avhich permits the radial nerve to pass between it and the first; from an aponeurotic septum which separates it internally from the flexor carpi radialis ; from a si- milar partition placed between it and the flexor sublimis, and lastly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its fleshy fibres, which are all parallel, descend from thence obliquely outwards, to the middle of the outer surface of the radius, where they are attached by means of a broad and thick tendon, at first concealed in their substance, and afterwards expanded in the form of a membrane over their an- terior surface. 1159. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered, in its two upper thirds, by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm and by the skin; in the lower third, by the supinator longus, the radial nerve and vessels, and the radial extensor muscles. The posterior surface covers the brachialis internus and flexor sublimis muscles, as well as the median nerve and ulnar artery. Its outer edge is separated above from the supinator longus by a triangular space in which are lodged the tendon of the biceps, the brachial artery and the me- dian nerve. Inferiorly, it is parallel to the anterior edge of the supinator brevis, which it covers a little. 1160. The pronator teres turns the radius upon the ulna from without inwards, and thus turns the palm of the hand backwards. If the radius is kept back by the supinator muscles, it can bend the fore-arm upon the arm, or the latter upon the former. OF THE FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS. 1161. This muscle, which is long, fusiform, thick and fleshy above, thin and tendinous below, is situated internally of the pro- nator teres. It arises above from the inner condyle by the common tendon of which we have spoken (1158) ; anteriorly, from the apo- neurosis of the fore-arm ; posteriorly, from an aponeurotic septum which separates it from the flexor sublimis, and which afterwards descends some way upon its posterior surface; externally and in- ternally, from two similar partitions which separate it, in these two