OF THE BONES OF THE TOES. 157 OF THE FIFTH METATARSAL BONE. 533. Next to the first, this is the shortest of all the metatarsal bones. Its Body, as in most of the others, is prismatic, triangu- lar, strongly curved inwards, and much larger posteriorly than an- teriorly. Its upper surface is convex, and inclined outwards. The Imcer is concave, and inclined inwards. It gives attachment to the third plantar interosseous muscle, and is partly covered by the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The inner surface, which is narrow and convex, receives at its upper part, the fourth dorsal interosse- ous muscle, and, at the lower, the third plantar. The Posterior or Tarsal Extremity is very large, and of a pyramidal form. It presents, posteriorly, a triangular convex surface, directed inwards, which articulates with the os cuboides; internally, a somewhat convex surface, united to the fourth metatarsal bone; externally, a very prominent tubercle, inclined downwards, outwards and backwards, to which are attached the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and a portion of the abductor minimi digiti; superiorly and infe- riorly, insertions of ligaments. The Anterior or Phalangeal Ex- tremity is much smaller than that of the other metatarsal bones. Its convexity is more prolonged downwards and outwards. It articulates with the first phalanx of the fifth toe, and gives inser- tion to part of the transversalis pedis 534. Structure and Development. The metatarsal bones are precisely the same, as to structure and development, as the meta- carpal. Like them, they have a medullary canal, cellular extremi- ties, and a body chiefly composed of compact tissue. The first has an epiphysis commencing at its posterior extremity, and the other four have one at their anterior extremity. 535. Articulations. The first metatarsal bone articulates with the large cuneiform bone, and the first phalanx of the great toe; the second is united to the three cuneiform bones, the third meta- tarsal bone, and the first phalanx of the second toe; the third is connected with the third cuneiform bone, the second and fourth metatarsal bones, and the first phalanx of the corresponding toe; the fourth is articulated with the os cuboides, the third cuneiform bone, the third and fifth metatarsal bones, and the first phalanx of the fourth toe; lastly, the fifth is connected with the os cuboides, the fourth metatarsal bone, and the first phalanx of the little toe. V.—OF THE BONES OF THE TOES. 536. The Toes, like the fingers, are five in number, and are distinguished individually by their numerical names, counting from within outwards. The first is also called the Great Toe, and the fifth is designated by the name of Little Toe. The first only is formed of two phalanges; all the others have three.