561 OF TH1£ MEATUS AUDITOllIUS EXTERNUS. for the space of a few lines the origin of the helix above the tragus. It is directed obliquely forwards, and is thinner anteriorly than posteriorly. 4. Small Muscle of the Helix. Very thin, and commonly wanting, it is much more slender than the preceding, and is situat- ed heneatli and behind it, on the prominence of the helix which divides the concha into two parts. 5. Transverse Muscle, or Transversus Auriculce. Placed behind the auricle, it arises from the convexity of the concha, and loses itself upon the prominence which the groove of the helix forms posteriorly. It is frequently divided into three or four dis- tinct fasciculi. 2. Of the Meatus auditorius externus, or Auditory Canal. a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1926. Placed between the tempero-maxillary articulation and the mastoid process, this canal extends from the bottom of the concha to the cavity of the tympanum, from which it is separated by the membrana tympani. Its length, which is about ten or twelve lines in the adult, is always a little greater below than above. It is directed obliquely from without inwards and from behind forwards; but it is curved in the direction of its length so as to present a convexity above and a concavity beneath. Broad- er at its extremities than at the middle part, its transverse section is of an elliptical form. Its inner extremity is limited by the mem- brana tympani, and it is upon this that the greater extent of its lower waU depends. h. ORGANIZATION. 1927. The meatus auditorius is formed by a bony portion which belongs to the temporal bone, by a prolongation of the flbro- cartilage of the concha, and by a kind of fibrous membrane. The skin of the auricle is continued into its anterior, and lines it. Its homj portion has already been described (1172) ; we shall there- fore pass to the other parts which enter into its composition. 1928. Of the Fihro-cartilage. It is a pretty broad triangular lamina, of which the base is continuous with that of the tragus (1920), and with the anterior and inferior part of the concha. Ir- regularly curved from below upwards and from before backwards, it does not describe an entire circle, and forms a portion of canal completed by a fibrous membrane, and which is less long in the