DIMENSIONS OF THE SKULL AND FACE. 105 broad above, and narrow below. It unites in the former direction, nearly at a right angle, with the spheno-maxillary lissurc ; and be- low, It is continued into two small vertical sutures, very close to each other, only separated a little below, and formed by the arti- culation of the palatal bone with the pterygoid process on the one hand, and the maxillary tuberosity on the other. The pterygo- maxillary lissure leads into: ,. - , . , . , 366. The Spheno-maxillary Fossa. This fossa, which is deep and narrow, and is continued behind the orbit, is formed by the sphenoid bone behind, the upper maxillary bone before, and by the palate bones to the inside. The sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary, and pterygo-maxillary lissures terminate in it, the whole appearing to form but one fissure. There are moreover observed five aper- tures upon it, which are, posteriorly and from above downwards, the anterior orifices of the maxillary foramen and of the vidian and pterygo-palatal canals ; to the inside, the spheno-palatal hole, and At the lower part, the upper orifice of the posterior palatal canal. OF THE llESPECTIVE DIMENSIONS OF THE SKULL AND FACE. 367. The two organs of taste and smell occupy the greater part of the face. The more these two senses are developed, the greater size does it acquire, and this at the expense of the skull, which is so much the larger compared with the face, the greater the deve- lopment of the brain is. It is also observed, that anteriorly the face has not a vertical direction, it being sensibly inclined forward. It is obvious that the more the skull is increased in size, the less marked does this inclination appear; and that the larger the cavities for lodging the organs of taste and smeU are, the greater, on the other hand, must be the obhquity of the face. Now, as the nature of each individual depends in a great mea- sure upon the relative energy of each of its functions, and the senses in question are those of the brutal appetites ; as the brain, on the other hand, is the seat of the intellectual faculties, there results that the form of the head, and the proportions of the two parts of which it is composed, may form an indication of the general consti- tution in this respect, and this so much the more distinctly tlie more that it has a given magnitude, and a determinate destination ; that it has to lodge, on the one hand, the centre of the sensations and volitions, and, on the other, the organs of smell, mastication,, and taste ; that the skull and face are respectively appropriated to this twofold purpose, and that the given volume of the one cannot be diminished without inducing a corresponding augmentation of tlie other. We see, in fact, that the animals whose muzzle is most elongat- ed, are of all others the most stupid, of which kind arc cranes, geese, and snipes ; while, on the other hand, a high degree of in-