684 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Pretty frequently, instead of losing itself in the deltoides, the anterior circumflex artery ascends in the bicipital groove and is expanded over the capsule. or THE BRACHIAL OR HUMERAL ARTERY. 2373. Placed at the inner and fore part of the arm, from the axilla to a finger’s breadth beneath the bend of the humero-cubital articulation, it forms the true continuation of the subclavian and axillary arteries. Pretty deep, and altogether internal above, it becomes more superficial and anterior as it descends. 2374. Anteriorly, the brachial artery is successively covered from above downwards, by the coraco-brachialis muscle, which is separated from it by a considerable thickness of cellular tissue, the brachial aponeurosis, and the skin along the inner edge of the bi- ceps muscle, and lastly at the bend of the elbow, by the inferior aponeurosis of the biceps, the median basilic vein and the skin, from which it is separated by a pretty thick layer of cellular tissue. 2375. Posteriorly, it is free in its upper third, which is sepa- rated from the triceps extensor muscle by a great quantity of fat; but, in the rest of its extent, it is applied upon the brachialis in- ternus muscle. 2376. Ititernally, it is coasted by the brachial vein and median nerve (1693), and covered by the integuments. 2377- Eflaternally, it is applied, in its upper third, upon the inner surface of the humerus, from which it is only separated by the lower extremity of the coraco-brachialis muscles. Farther down it is lodged in the groove between the biceps and brachialis internus muscles; and at its lowest part, corresponds to the ten- don of the biceps. 2373. The brachial artery gives off a great number of branches, which are distinguished into anterior, posterior, internal and ex- ternal. Inferioily, it bifurcates and gives rise to the radial and ulnar arteries. OF THE ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 2379. They are all distributed to the biceps flexor or the inte- guments. They are in general very slender, and their number is indeterminate, as well as their place of origin and their disposition. Most commonly however there ai*e two constant branches towards the upper third of the arm, which descend forwards in the sub- stance of the biceps muscle, and subdivide as far as its lower part.