37^ PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. not containing fat, but very susceptible of serous infiltration. This cbsposition is especially apparent at the lower part, for at the upper the dura mater is pretty intimately united to the ligament. The anterior surface corresponds to the bodies of the vertebrae and to the posterior part of the circumference of the intervertebral flbro- cartdages, and adheres much more firmly to the latter than to the former, to which it is even only attached at their upper and lower parts. In the middle, it is separated from the bone by an interval in which are lodged the vessels which ramify in the spongy tissue of the vertebra. Its lateral edges are in connection with the ve- nous sinuses of the vertebral canal, and are raised to allow the vessels to pass, at the separation of the preceding ligament. This ligament, like the anterior, is composed of superficial fibres, occupying the interval of four or five vertebrae or fibro-cartilages, and of deep fibres, extended over two vertebrae only, or even over a single vertebra and its fibro-cartUage. 576. Inter-vertebral Fibro-cartilages. (Ligamenta interverte- hralia, Weit.J These organs resemble sections of cylinders, of a whitish colour, firm, and possessed of flexibility. They are situated between the bodies of the vertebrae, from the interval which separates the second and third, to that which exists between the last vertebra and the sacrum. Their form corresponds to that of the bodies of the vertebrae with which they are connected, being oval in the neck and loins, while in the dorsal region they are circular. The fibro-cartilages of the neck and upper part of the back are much thinner than those of the lower part of the back and loins, the latter having a thickness of half an inch. But each of them has not an equal thickness in all parts of its extent. In the loins and neck, they are thinner behind than before, and the reverse in the dorsal region ; which constitutes one of the principal causes of the triple curvature of the spine. By their upper and under surfaces, the fibro-cartilages, closely adhere above and below to the corresponding surfaces of the verte- brae ; and in subjects which have not exceeded twenty years, they are united to two layers of the cartilage of nutrition of these bones, with which they are pretty easily removed; but at a later period, the osseous fibres and those of the intervertebral substances are so united as no longer to be separable. Their circumference corres- ponds at the fore part to the anterior vertebral ligament, and at the back part to the posterior, contracting strong adhesions with their fibres. It forms part of the intervertebral foramina, and in the back, contributes moreover to the formation of the small articular cavities which receive the posterior extremity of the ribs. The intervertebral fibro-cartilages are formed in their contour by very close fibres and laminae of the nature of ligaments. They are concentric and disposed nearly vertically. The fibres of which they arc composed never direct themselves perpendicularly from one vertebra to another; but the outermost ascend from left to right, and cover a layer Avhich has an opposite direction, and which