OF THE HEART. 629 actly moulded upon the heart. Its size is proportioned to the vo- lume of the organ ^vhich it incloses. 21CG. Anterutrhj^ the pericardium is covered by the pleura, ex- cepting in its middle part, where it corresponds to the separation of the mediastinum and to the thymus gland, and by intervention to the sternum and cartilages of the last true ribs of the left side, from which it is separated laterally by the fore part of the lungs- Posteriorli/, it is of very small extent, and rests upon the bronchi, oesophagus, and descending aorta. To the right arid left, it is in connection with the pleune, the plirenic nerves (1667), the in- ternal surface of the lungs. Inferiorly, it corresponds to the apo- neurotic centre, and a little to the left, to the fleshy fibres of the diaphragm. 2167. The pericardium is composed of two membranes, an outer and fibrous, and an inner and serous. 2168. Fibrous Membrane. Intimately united below with the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, it ascends around the heart, which it embraces as far as its base, and there is continued to a greater or less distance upon the great trunks of the vessels, dividing into several distinct sheaths which accompany them to a certain distance. The pericardium, therefore, is not perforated to allow these vessels to pass, as many anatomists have alleged; but its fibrous lamina loses itself insensibly on their walls, and even seems to be thus united with them. These sheaths are eight in number: one, which is very short, for the vena cava superior; four, stiU shorter, for the pulmonary veins; one, which is indefinitely prolonged, for the aorta; two for each pulmonary artery. The vena cava inferior })cnetrates into the pericardium through the centre of the dia-^ phragm, and has no fibrous sheath. This fibrous membrane corresponds directly to the pleurae by the greater part of its outer surface. It is separated from them by a layer of more or less thick adipose tissue, excepting in its middle, where the contact and adhesion are more intimate. Its inner surface is lined in nearly its whole extent by the serous membrane, excepting when it is continued upon the vessels. 2169. This membrane presents the greatest resemblance to the dura mater in its structure, only it is not so thick. Its colour is pearly and aponeurotic. It fibres are sometimes isolated, often brought together in distinct bundles, of variable thickness and breadth, irregularly disposed, and crossing each other in all direc- tions. The greater number, however, ascend vertically and pa- rallel to the axis of the pericardium, being continuous below with the phrenic aponeurosis, and separating above upon the vessels. 2170. Serous Membrane. It has a much more extended course than the fibrous membrane, as, after lining its inner surface, it is reflected over the heart and covers it entirely, without, however, containing it in its interior, in which respect it is similar to the other serous membranes wliich we have already examined, as the aracli-