MUSCLES OF THE FORE-AUM. 313 1216. The Bupinator brevis turns the radius upon its axis from before outwards, and brings the hand into supination. OF THE EXTENSOE CARPI RAUIALIS LONGIOR, OR RADIALIS EXTERNUS LONGIOR. 1217. Nearly of the same form as the supinator longus, beside which it is situated, this muscle arises beneath it, from the outer edge of the humerus, and from the aponeurosis which separates it from the triceps brachialis. It also receives some fibres from the upper part of the outer condyle. It forms a bundle at first fiat, then larger and rounded, which descends vertically outwards of the fore-arm, and about a third down the radius terminates in a tendon at first thin and broad, then narrower and thicker, which at its lower part turns backwards, glides beneath the extensor ossis metarcarpi, and extensor primi internodii poUicis, and eovers the tendon of the radialis externus brevior, with which it is connected by cellular tissue. Both tendons enter a particular groove which is formed behind the lower extremity of the radius, and where they are fixed by the posterior annular ligament of the earpus. A synovial membrane, toleralily supplied with moisture, lines the groove, is reflected over them, and descends nearly to their inser- tion. On emerging from this groove the two tendons separate. Tliat of the radiahs externus longior passes over the articulation of the carpus, and is inserted at the upper and outer part of the upper extremity of the second metacarpal bone. 1218. The anterior surface of this muscle, which is inclined outwards, is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, the supi- nator longus, extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi inter- nodii pollicis. The posterior covers the elbow joint, and the supi- nator brevis and radialis externus brevior muscles. At its upper part it is firmly united to the latter. 1219. It extends the hand upon the fore-arm, and the latter upon the hand. OF THE EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR, OB RADIALIS EXTERNUS BREVIOR. 1220. This muscle is precisely similar to the preceding, behind. which it is placed. It arises from the outer condyle by means of the common tendon (1186), which sends an aponeurotic prolonga- tion over its inner surface, and of an apoiieurotic partition lying between it and the extensor communis digitorum. It descends in the same direction as the radialis externus longior, degenerates in- to a tendon of the same length and form, which passes into the same groove (1217), which is attached to the posterior and outer part of the upper extremity of the third metacarpal bone. 1221. Its outer surf ace is covered above by the radialis exter- nus longior and supinator longus, below by the extensor ossis