27 STERNUM. it is sometimes large enough to admit the end of the little finger. Du Laurens, Riolan, and some other anatomists, have erroneously considered this hole as occurring more frequently in women than in men ; an opinion which experience does not confirm. 77. Its posterior, inner, or medinstinal surface, is porous, somewhat concave, and also presents the four lines mentioned above. At its upper part it gives attachment to the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles; on the sides, to the triangular muscles of the sternum; its middle part corresponds to the me- diastinum, especially to the left. 78. The xipper or clamcidar extremity of the sternum (manu- brium) is very thick, having a notch in the middle, in which the in- terclavicular ligament is situated, and is hollowed out on either side for the articulation of the clavicles, with a sigmoid cavity, which is lin- ed with cartilage, shallow, and inclined outwards and backwards. It extends a httle beyond the articulation of the first costal cartilage. 79. Its lower or abdominal extremity (corpusor body) bears a car- tilaginous prolongation, which is subject to great variation of form in different individuals, being simple or bifurcated, pointed or obtuse, curved or straight, long or short, thick or thin, not unfrequently per- forated by a hole for the passage of vessels and nerves, &c. This appendage, which is seldom wanting, is sometimes ossified. It is named the xiphoid, or ensifm'm process, or appendage. Its sides give attachment to the transverse muscles and the aponeuroses of most of the abdominal muscles, and at its anterior surface is in- serted the costo-xiphoid ligament. The lower extremity of the sternum descends far beyond the ar- culation of the seventh costal cartilage. 80. The lateral edges of this bone are thick, and present each seven articular cavities which receive the cartilages of the true ribs. The uppermost of these cavities is rounded and shallow. Its substance is evidently continuous with the first costal cartilage, over which the two compact laminae of the sternum even project a little. The rest arc angular, and correspond, by their bottom, to the lines of which we have spoken, which makes them appear deeper in the child than in the adult, because the bones of the sternum are not yet united. They are covered with articular car- tilages, and separated from one another by notches, which are larger above than below, and which hmit the intercostal spaces be- fore. A portion of the seventh articular cavity commonly occurs in the ensiform appendage; and this cavity is so close upon the sixth as to be nearly confounded with it. 81. The sternum which is covered with a thin layer of compact tissue, of a spongy and cellular structure internally, perforated by many vessels which constantly pour into it a great quantity of blood, and not unfrequently formed of two pieces united by a car- tilage, and capable of moving slightly on each other, even at an advanced age, is articulated to the clavicles and to the cartilages of