ORGANS OF SENSATION. 44^2 upper are shorter and transverse; the lower become gradually more oblique and longer. The first is attached, by a very sharp filament, to the edge of the great occipital hole, between the hy- poglossal nerve and the vertebral artery. The last is fixed to the upper part of tlie twelfth dorsal, or first lumbar vertebra, and se- parates the dorsal from the lumbar nerves. By its inner edge, this ligament adheres to the proper mem- brane of the spinal marrow, by means of a dense cellular tissue, without any continuity of substance taking place. 1527. It must not be confounded with* the arachnoid membrane which covers it, and from which it may be separated by insuffla- tion. Its intimate structure is entirely unknown. Its use appears to be to keep down the .spinal marrow In its canal. II. Of the Encephalic Nerves, or Conducting Organs of the Sensations and Volitions. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 1528. The Encephalic Nerves are white, generally cylindrical cords, commonly communicating with each other in. various parts of their course, arising, symmetrically and in pairs, from the brain and spinal marrow, and formed of a more or less considerable num- ber of interlaced filaments connected together by cellular tissue. They vary in their direction, being parallel, perpendicular, or inclined to the axis of the body; but, whatever this direction may be, they almost always proceed in a direct line, in place of being tortuous like most of the arteries. As they recede from the place of their origin, the nerves divide into branches and twigs which terminate by filaments, which again subdivide into very delicate fibrils. The separation of the branches and twigs takes place at angles more or less acute with relation to the trunk, and is indi- cated long before by a groove which results from a mere juxta-po- sition of the branch against the trunk, a circumstance which is not observed in the divisions of the vessels. In general, the nervous trunks traverse the great cellular inter- stices of the trunk and extremities. Most commonly they are cy- lindrical ; but sometimes also they are flat, as is observed in the sciatic nerve. Their length varies much ; but it is greater in the extremities than in the trunk or upon the head. They may be isolated on their passage, or accompanied by blood-vessels. It is also to be remarked that the sum of the united diameters of the different branches of the same nerve is much greater than the diameter of its principle trunk, so that every nerve may be said to represent a cone whose base is at the periphery of the body or organs, and the summit at the brain or spinal marrow. 5