ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4.56 oculi Kupei-ior, proceeds obliquely forwards and outwards, in the direction of the axis of the orbit, and passes to the upper part of the levator ])a]j)cbrae superioris, where it divides into two twigs, an inner and smaller, and an outer and larger. Sometimes, how- ever, their size is the same. The internal frontal branch is di- rected a little inwards toward the cartilaginous pulley of the obli- quus superior oculi, and furnishes at first a filament which de- scends to anastomose by arches with a filament of the nasal nerve. It then gives off", at the level of the cartilaginous pulley itself, se- veral other twigs which proceed from within outwards into the up- per eye-lid, in the substance of which they frequently anastomose by arches with those which terminate the lachrymal nerve. Some- times these anastomoses are not visible. Several of these same filaments also lose themselves in the anterior surface of the corru- gator supercilii and frontalis muscles. One of them penetrates in- to the frontal sinuses by an aperture of its own, and is distributed to the membrane by which they are lined ; but the twig, continu- ing its course, issues from the orbit between the pulley of the ob- liquus oculi superior and the superior orbitar hole, is reflected from below upwards, ascends behind the corrugator supercilii and fron- talis muscles, gives filaments to their posterior surface, and ends with expanding in the subcutaneous cellular tissue towards the top of the head. The external frontal branch proceeds directly for- wards, passes through the upper orbitar hole, and most commonly gives off immediately a filament which directs itself transversely outwards, subdivides in the upper eye-lid, anastomoses with those of the facial nerve, and ascends behind the corrugator supercilii. An- other filament separates from it at the same level, and gains trans- versely the root of the nose, where it appears to unite with a fila- ment of the internal frontal nerve. In the interior of the supra- orbitar foramen, sometimes sooner, the nerve itself divides into two ramifications which are reflected over the forehead, behind the cor- rugator supercilii, and subdivide hito a great number of deep and superficial filaments. The former are distributed in the corruga- tor supercilii and integuments. The latter, which are much longer, extend over the top of the head, as far as the occiput, anas- tomose internally with those of the opposite side, externally with those of the facial nerve, posteriorly with those of the first cervical nerves. They only become superficial after perforating the epicra- nial aponeurosis. Their last divisions have been asserted to have been traced into the bulbs of the hair. 1582. Of the Nasal Nerve. More voluminous than the lach- rymal, but smaller than the frontal, it penetrates into the orbit be- tween the two posterior attachments of the abductor oculi, situat- ed internally of the common motor, and above the external mo- tor nerve. From thence it proceeds obliquely inwards, forwards, and a little upwards, ascends between the optic nerve and the at- tollcns ocvdum, gains the inner wall of the orbit under the obli- quus superior oculi, and divides into two secondary twigs in the