PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 3G all the other bones of the skull, which it sustains and unites.* It is on this account that we commence our description of the indivi- dual bones of the skull with it. It is a single bone, symmetrical in its conformation, occupying the middle part of the base of the cranium. Its form is singularly irregular; the eminences and cavities with which it is marked are very numerous ; and its uses are manifold. It is divided into the following parts. 114. Guttural or Lower Surface. This surface is very unequal, and presents on the median line a ridge,-f rostrum,) more prominent before than behind, which enters into the upper edge of the vomer, and is continuous above with the septum of the sphenoidal sinuses. On each side, and from within outwards, it presents, Is/, A small groove which receives a plate of the vomer, and at the bottom of which is the orifice of a canal, very distinct in young subjects, which becomes obliterated with age, and which, passing obhquely through the wall of the sphenoidal sinuses, opens within the sphe- noidal fissure, and gives passage to vessels. Another small groove, which contributes to form the Pterygo-palatine canal, which also gives passage to vessels, and is completed by a process of the palate bones. 3dly, The Pterygoid Process,* an irregular projection, directed vertically downwards, contributing on the inside to form the posterior aperture of the nasal fossae by a straight and smooth surface, which is lined by the pituitary mem- brane, and giving attachment on the outside to the external ptery- goid muscle by a broader surface, which belongs to the zygomatic fossa. Anteriorly and beneath, it presents irregularities, which join the palate bones, and are surmounted by a smooth triangular surface, forming part of the same zygomatic fossa. Posteriorly, it is hollowed by the Pterygoid Fossa, broader below than above, into which is inserted the inner pterygoid muscle, and which in this direction divides the process into two laminae, one of which, on the inside, gives attachment below to the upper constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and above, in a particidar groove, called the Scaphoid Depression, to the external peristaphyline muscle. The pterygoid process is perforated above, from before back- wards, by the Vidian or Pterygoid Canal, by which the nerves and vessels of the same name receive a passage. It finally bifur- cates below, to receive the tuberosity of the palatal bones, and pre- sents at the lower extremity of the inner branch of this bifurcation, which is narrower but longer than the outer, a small incurvation, called the Pterygoid Hook, over which is reflected the tendon of the outer peristaphyline muscle, ^thly. Externally, and behind the pterygoid processes, the oval and small round holes, of which we shall presently speak. • Whence its name, from the Greek word which signifies a wedge, it being in fact pressed by them on all sides, lilce a wedge driren into a solid body. + ala ; iiios, forma.