VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 25 On the sides of the range of those spinous apophyses are the vertebral grooves, wide above, contracted in tlie middle, and very narrow below, formed by the series of vertebral laminae, and less deep in the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. They are filled by the longissimi dorsi, the sacro-lumbales, and se- mispinales dorsi and multifidi spinoe muscles, and disclose a series of apertures resulting from the separation of the lamina*. Of these apertures that which is situated between the head and the atlas is very large ; in the rest of the cervical region and the upper part of the dorsal, they are scarcely apparent; but below this, and especially in the loms, they become very distinct. They are all, in the fresh state, closed by ligaments of a yellow colour. At the outer side of these hollows, the posterior aspect of the vertebral column presents, in the neck and loins, the row of arti- cular apophyses, and in the back, that of the transverse apophy- ses. 70. The Lateral Surfaces are in general straight. There are observed upon them the transverse apophyses, which have not all the same direction. Thus, in the neck and loins, they are placed in a plane anterior to those of the back. In the former of these re- gions, also, they are further distinguished by the sort of small canal which is formed for the vertebral artery by the series of holes with which their base is perforated, and in the dorsal region, by the articular surfaces which they present to the ribs. The trans- verse apophyses of the second lumbar vertebra are longer than those of the first and fourth, but shorter than those of the third. Along the whole extent of the spine, these apophyses give attachment to a great number of muscles ; and they present holes between them, resulting from the union of the vertebral notches, which are named holes of conjunction. These holes, which afford a passage to the vertebral nerves, and which are proportionate in their diameter to the size of these nerves, are in the back and loins situated before the transverse apophyses, and not between them only, as in the neck. Their form is oval, and their passage very short. They are larger in the lower part of the spine. In the dorsal region, there is remarked before them the series of cavities which receive the heads of the ribs. 71. The Base is cut obliquely to be joined to the sacrum. With that bone it forms a sort of angle, named the promontory by accoucheurs, but which may with more propriety be termed the sacro-vertebral angle. This angle is salient anteriorly, retiring posteriorly, and straight on the sides. The Summit of the vertebral column, which is articulated with the occipital bone, forms laterally with it two right angles, and presents a large hole, which is the commencement of the vertebral canal. 72. Vertebral Canal. This canal extends along the spine in its whole length, following its various curvatures, and placed nearer its posterior than its anterior part. Above, it is continuous with the cavity of the skidl; below, with the sacral canal. From being