270 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. wrinkles the skin of the forehead transversely, ami may contri- bute to oi>eu the eye by its union with the orbicularis palpe- brarum. OF THE OCCIPITALIS. 892. The Occipitalis, wliich resembles the preceding, but is a little less adherent to the skin, is narrower and more regularly qua- drilateral. It is situated at the posterior part of the skull, behind the mastoid process and above the upper curved line of the occij)i- tal bone. It is attached by short aponeurotic fibres to the outer part of that line and to the neighbouring region of the tem- poral bone, above the splenius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus. Like the frontalis, it terminates in the epicranial aponeurosis. It is covered by the integuments and by some nervous filaments, and lies upon the occipital and temporal bones. 893. its action is less marked than that of the frontalis. It pulls backward a part of the skin of the head, without wrinkling it much, and stretches the common aponeurosis. 2. Auricular Region. QF THE ATTOLLENS AUEICULAM. (Tempm'O-oriculaire, Chauss.) 894f. This muscle is situated on the temple, above the ear. It is thin and membranous, broad above, narrow below, and of a tri- angular form. It is attached by its summit to the fore and inner part of the fibro-cartUage of the ear, on the convexity wliich is formed by the upper part of the concha, and ascends from thence, in a radiating manner, and expanding its fibres, to the epicranial aponeurosis, where it terminates. It is entirely fleshy, excepting at its summit, where there are observed soine fibrous parts. 895. Its outer stirface is covered by the skin, while the inner covers the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. Its posterior edge is very short and oblique. The anterior is confounded with the next muscle. ' 896. It raises the ear, and stretches the epicranial aponeurosis. ' OF THE PEIOE AUEICUL^E, AUBICULAKIS ANTICUS. (Zygomaio-oriciUaire, Chauss.) 897* It of the same form as the attollcns auriculam, but less apparent, and is situated on the temple, before the car. Its sum- mit is attciched to the fore part of the helix, and it is from this point that its fibres proceed, separating considerably from each