PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 16G called Synchondroses.* These synchondroses may be only tem- porary, as that which exists at an early age between the sphenoid hone and the basilar process of the occipital; or they may be met with at all periods of life. The latter may permit pretty distinct motions, as is the case in particular with the sterno-costal carti- lages ; or are entirely fixed, as the articulations of the pelvis are, to which the name of symphyses is peculiarly applied. The articula- tions which are eftected by means of ligaments, like that of the knee, are called Synneuroses ,-j* those in which the bones are kept in place by muscles, as is observed in the os hyoides, are called Syssarcoses ; J those in which membranes are employed, are called Meningoses,§ of which examples are presented in the skulls of chil- dren, at the places occupied by the fontanelles before the bones are completely ossified. III.—OF THE PARTS WHICH ENTER INTO THE STRUCTURE OF THE ARTICULATIONS. 559. Cartilages. The surfaces by which two or more bones come into contact to form a moveable articulation, are always covered with a cartilage which forms a sort of polished crust, more oi less thick, of a pearly white colour, remarkably hard and elastic, and possessed of a pliancy which greatly facilitates the play of the pieces of the articulation. This cartilage, which resembles a layer of wax imposed upon the bone at the place where it exists, is al- ways much broader than thick. It adapts itself perfectly to the articulating parts, and adheres, by one of its surfaces, to the bony tissue in a manner as yet little understood, but extremely firm. There is, however, no continuity of substance between it and the cartilaginous parenchyma of the bones ; and on removing, from a recent borie, by means of an acid, the phosphate of lime which it con- tains, there is perceived no intimate connection between the tissues, and the cartilage then separates spontaneously from the bone. No vessel appears to pass directly from the interior of the latter to the surface of the cartilage; and after a careful injection, it is observ- ed, on dividing the bone longitudinally, that aU the arteries lose themselves in its spongy tissue. The surface of the cartilage opposite to the bone is exactly co- vered by the synovial membrane of the articulation, which gives it a smooth and polished appearance, and which adlieres so closely to it, that it might be supposed to be perfectly bare. It is so dis- posed, that, in general, in the intermediate situation of the articu- lation, it corresponds in all its parts to the cartilage with which it is connected. * CHIU { cai tilogo. + 2wv, cum ; nu^ov, ncnus, ligamenium. J cum : caro. ^ metnirana.