muscles of the inferior extremities. 359 tendon of the psoas magnus, and the posterior part of the small trochanter, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. Its uses are the same as those of the gemeUi. 4. Anterior Crural Region. OF THE SAllTOKIUS. 1282. The sartorius is the longest muscle in the human body, and resembles a kind of ribbon, a little broader at its middle part than at the extremities, and lying obliquely along the inner part of the thigh. It arises, by a short tendon, equally expanded over its two surfaces, from the anterior and superior iliac spine, between the tensor vaginae femoris and iliacus, and a little from the notch which separates the two anterior spines of the ileum. From thence it descends, becoming broader, and passing obliquely inwards and backwards, as far as the upper third of the thigh. It then pro- ceeds vertically, preserving the same breadth to the distance of a third from the lower extremity of the bone;, and lastly, opposite the knee, it contracts, and passes obliquely forwards and outwards, to the inner part of the upper extremity of the tibia, where it is in- serted by a pretty long flat tendon, of which the anterior edge, arising very high upon the fleshy fibres, is confounded with the por- tion of the fascia lata which surrounds the knee, while the poste- rior contributes to form the aponeurosis of the leg. At its lower extremity, this tendon expands into a strong aponeurosis which passes over the tendons of the semi-tendinosus and gracilis, uniting with them, and terminates upon the tibia before them. 1283. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata. The posterior is applied, from above downwards, upon the united psoas magnus and iliacus internus, the rectus femoris, triceps extensor cru- ris, adductor longus, adductor magnus and gracilis muscles, the cru- ral artery about the middle of the thigh, and, at its lower part, the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Its inner edge forms above with the adductor longus, a triangular space, in which is lodged the crural artery, with the vein and nerve of the same name. 1284. It bends the leg upon the thigh, and brings its inferior extremity toward that of the opposite side, so as to make them cross each other. By continuing to act, it bends the thigh upon the pel- vis. If the leg cannot be bent, it draws the whole inferior extre- mity upon the pelvis, turning it outwards in rotation. It prevents the pelvis from falling backwards, or bends it upon the thigh. OF THE KECTUS FEMOlUS. 1285. The Rectus Femoris, is an elongated muscle, flattened at its extremities, sbghtly rounded and broader at the middle, and