265 MUSCLi'^S 01' TIIK CHEST. tlie iTuisclc is placed between two serous membranes, Init is not tiirnislicd witli a special envelope, as Bartholin has asserted. On these two surfiices are distinctly seen vessels and nerves of considerable size which belong peculiarly to the diaphragm. The rirrumference of the diaphragm, at the back part of the chest opposite the ensiform cartilage, is fixed by very narrow in- sertions ; but on the sides, these insertions are about two inches and a half in breadth, whence there results that the upper surface of the diaphragm is really much smaller than the lower. This cir- cumference corresponds, anteriorly, to the ensiform cartilage and the triangailaris sterni; on tlie sides to the ribs and internal inter- costal muscles ; posteriorly to the vertebral column, the aorta, the thoracic canal, and the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. ii'jG. The diaphragm separates the thorax from the abdomen, and serves to support the viscera which these great cavities con- tain. But it also performs motions, which, by varying the dimen- sions of these cavities, have the greatest influence upon many func- tions. When it contracts, the convexity which it forms in the tho- 3’ax disappears; its fibres, from being curved, become straight; tlie aponeurotic centre acquires more obliquity ; the thorax is thus enlarged, and the abdomen thminished. It is therefore in this case essentially a muscle of inspiration; and, in ordinary circumstances, it is even the only one that acts to produce inspiration. If its contraction is carried farther, it draws the ribs toward the vertebral column, which diminishes the transverse diameters of the thorax. When it relaxes, on the other hand, it resumes its former dimen- sions, ascends in the thorax, forms there the same arch, compresses the lungs, and thus contributes to exspiration. During contrac- tion, the lateral parts of the chaphragm descend much more than the middle part, which is retained by the pericardium and medias- tinum. During the same action, the oesophagus is compressed, because the aperture through which it passes is entirely fleshy; but this does not happen to the vena cava, vena azygos, aorta and thoracic duct, the circumference of their apertures being aponeurotic. The motions of the diaphragm also produce various remarkable phenomena, as ahjliinfj, yawninij, couglimy, sneezing, lavg^itng, sohinng, and hic(mj), which are all more or less connected with the motions of inspiration and exspiration. It is also subservient to smell in the action of snuffing odoriferous effluvia, and contributes to the formation of the voice in crying, singing, &ic. By con- stantly pressing upon the abdominal viscera, it subjects them by its motions of elevation and depression to a tossing wliich is favoura- ble to their functions. It also contributes essentially, when it con- tracts strongly, to vomiting, the excretion of the feces and urine, and the expulsion of the fetus. Lastly, the diaphragm has been considered by many physiologists as the principal scat of the pas- sions.