SUl’ERlOli MESENTERIC AND RIGHT COLIC ARTERIES. ^01 d. OF THE SUI’EUIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 2460. It arises from the anterior and right part of the aorta, very little below the cocliac, which it almost equals in size, but which it greatly c.\ceeds in length. It immediately ascends a little to the left and forwards, behind the pancreas and before the third portion of the duodenum, and passing behind the transverse me- socolon and to its left side, goes to gain the upper extremity of the mesenter)’^, between the two folds of which it enters, directing it- self downwards and to the right, and describing a very elongated curve, the convexity of which is turned to the left and forwards, and approaches so much nearer the intestine the lower it is exa- mined. Towards the end of the ileum, the superior mesenteric artery, now become very slender, anastomoses with the inferior branch of the inferior right colic artery. 2461. NeRr its origin, it gives off some very small branches, which go to the duodenum and pancreas, and communicate with twigs of the splenic and hepatic arteries. But, in the mesentery, it furnishes a great quantity of large branches, which may be dis- tinguished into those which come from its concavity, and those which emanate from its convexity. BRANCHES WHICH THE SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY GIVES OFF BY ITS CONCAVITY. RIGHT COLIC ARTERIES. 2462. Swperiar Right Colic Artery. (Artere meso-coliqtte, Chauss.) It arises from the right and somewhat anterior part of the superior mesenteric artery, at tire moment when the latter passes along the transverse mesocolon. It immediately directs itself from behind forwards, between the two laminae of that repli- cation, and runs horizontally to near the middle part of the arch of the colon. There, it divides into two branches, which separate from each other to right and left, forming a more or less open angle. Tlie right branch runs along the right part of the arch of the colon, and presently anastomoses with a twig of the middle right colic ar- tery. The left follows the corresponding part of the same intestine, and in the lumbar region inosculates with the ascending branch of the superior left colic artery. 2l6o. Middle Right Colie Artery (Artere colique droitey Chauss.) It arises a little beneath the preceding, which sometimes furni.shcs it, and directs itsejf obliquely to the right, forwards and fi little u)iwards in the mesocolon. On arriving near the upper part of the right lumbar colon, it divides, like the preceding into two branches, one of which bends to the left and inosculates with thp right branch of the superior colic artery (2462), while the other descends to unite with the ascending twig of the inferior right colic.