PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 100 319. The Circumference of the orbit, or its base, is irregularly quaclrilatei-al^ wider externally than within, directed obliquely downwards and outwards, and presents, at its upper part, the or- bitar arch and superciliary hole, and at its lower, the artieulatiou of the malar tuberosity with the cheek bone. It presents exter- nally a short, denticulated suture formed by tlie cheek bone and the external orbitar process of the frontal bone ; and internally the Lachrymal Groove, formed by the os unguis and the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, and consequently divided into twcj- portions by a longitudinal suture. This groove, which lodges the lachrymal sac, terminates below in the Nasal Canal. 'I'lie circum- ference of the orbit gives attachment particularly to the orbicularis palpebrarum. 350. The Axis of the orbit, which forms a slight angle with that of the optic hole, is however, like it placed so obliquely that it would meet posteriorly that of the orbit, but at a point posterior to the intersection of the axes of tliese two holes. The inner wall alone proceeds directly backwards, parallel to that of the other or- bit. The three others are inclined. 351. From what has been said, it is seen that the bones which enter into the composition of the orbit, are the sphenoid, ethmoid,- frontal, upper maxiUary, palatal, lachrymal and malar bones. OF THE NASAL FOSS.E. 352. These cavities are of an irregular form, which however is nearly that of a parallelepiped. They are broader below than above, longer in the^contrary direction, higher in the middle thaxr before and behind, and present several appendages, which are formed by the different sinuses that exist in the bones of the head, and of which we have already spoken. They are not exactly simi- lar, the right to the left. They are separated from each other by an intermediate septum, formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone above, and the vomer below and at the back part; and occupy the space situated beneath the anterior part of the base of the skull, above the mouth, between the orbits, the canine, tem- poral and zygomatic fossae, and before the guttural cavity. Their walls, which are four in number, terminate anteriorly at the nose, and posteriorly at the throat. 353. The Upper Wall or Vault of the nasal fossae is disposed in three different directions. Anteriorly, where it is formed by the bones of the nose, it looks backwards and downwards ; in the mid- dle, where there is seen the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, it is horizontal; posteriorly, where it belongs to the body of the sphenoid bone, it is turned forwards and downwards. In the first portion, is observed the inner surface of the nose much narrower than the outer, surmounted by a crest towards the