bllGANS OF SECEETION. 782 nute researches have disclosed nothing further with respect to their intimate structure, Some anatomists, Huysch in particular, have supposed them to be formed by the interlacing of the different vessels of the liver, others, as Malpighi, have made utricles or a kind of vesicles of them ; but nothing can be more unsatisfactory than these hypotheses to those who do not entirely abandon them- selves to their imagination. 2. Excretory Apparatus of the Bile. 2832. This apparatus consists of the hepatic duct, which im- mediately issues from the liver, and after passing over a certain space, unites with the cystic duct, which ends in the gall-bladder, and of the ductus communis choledochus, which results from this junction, and terminates in the duodenum. HEPATIC DUCT. 2833. It takes its origin by a great number of very slender ra- dicles in the granulations of the liver. These radicles successive- ly unite into larger branches which accompany divisions of the vena portm and hepatic artery, and which are, like them, enveloped by the capsule of Glisson. These branches are then united into two principal trunks, one for the left lobe, the other for the right, which issue by the transverse groove of the inferior surface of the Ever, converge towards each other, closely connected with the cor- responding branches of the vena portm, and end at a right angle. At the very point of union, some small branches of indeterminate number and variable size join them. In this manner is formed the hepatic duct, which.' is about an inch and a half in length and about a line and a half in diameter, and descends obliquely inwards between the laminae of the gastro- hepatic omentum, and in the midst of a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue, before the vena portae, behind the right branch of the hepatic artery, to the left of the neck of the gall- bladder and cystic duct. GALL-BLADDER. 2834. The Gall-Bladder, (Oystis fellea), is a membranous, pyriform or ovoidal reservoir, situated in a superficial depression of the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. It is placed ob- liquely, so that its large extremity is directed forwards, to the right and downwai’ds, while its summit looks backwards, upwards, and to the left. When the body is upright, or when it lies upon the right side, this inclination is more marked than in any other