233 OF THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. Like the arteries alst), they communicate with the vessels of the neighbouring tegumentary membranes of the muscles. 786. The lymphatic vessels are not easily traced in the muscles ; but in the tongue, the diaphragm, and especially the face, some trunks are perceived which penetrate the fleshy libres. 787. The nerves of the muscles of voluntary motion are nu- merous and of variable size. Excepting the skin and the or- gans of sense, no part is so abundantly supplied with them. They come almost all from the brain ; a few, however, proceed from ganglions, and accompany the arteries. The small muscles have never more than a single nervous branch ; those of large size are penetrated by several branches at once; but, in general, few orsrans receive so many. In the extremities, the nerves enter the muscles, by following nearly the same direction, and at a point more or less near their upper extremity, and seldom beneath their middle part. In the trunk, on the contrary, they often introduce themselves into the muscle, by forming a more or less acute, or a right angle with them. In general, they penetrate the fleshy tissue at the same time as the vessels, and especially the arteries, with which they are closely connected by cellular tissue. After entering the muscles, the nerves divide and subdivide, un- til they at length entirely disappear. It has not yet been ascer- tained if each muscular fibrd receives a nervous filament; but it appears that before terminating they become gradually softer, so that the medullary substance of these nerves would be in immediate contact w’ith the muscular fibre. 788. When exposed to the air, after being cut into small pieces, the muscular tissue dries up ; but if it be submitted in mass to the influence of that agent, it putrefies. In the former case, it acquires a brown colour, and becomes hard, and to a certain degree trans- parent ; in the latter, it becomes green, livid, very foetid, and often phosphorescent. In cold water it loses its red colour, and imparts it to the liquid in which it is immersed; it assumes a straw-colour, softens at the end of a considerable period, and is converted into putrilage or adipocire. By repeated washings with softening, the muscular parenchyma is reduced to the state of nearly pure fibrin (8.) In boiling water, on the contrary, it crisps and acquires a greater den- sity. At the end of some time, however, it softens, and has lost all power of curling under the influence of caloric or concentrated acid, as it did before boiling; the downy part seems to dissolve, and there only remain fibres divisible to infinity, and by their tenuity escaping all calculation. The muscle has then lost the albumen, gelatin, fat and salts which formed part of its substance ; but it still retains its form. It also in general putrefies less readily under tliese circum- stances. 789. By the action of fire, the muscles are more deeply colour- ed, become denser at their outside, lose a part of their substance, which liquefies, and change their consistence and taste. Under the action of nitric acid, they are transformed into a yellow substance, G