685 Ol*' THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. OK THK KOSTKUIOU BRANCHES OK THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 2380. Very short and slender, and irregular as to number, they dive immediately after their origin into the brachialis internus muscle, subdividing there into radiating twigs. Some are seen which proceed downwards as far as the tendon of the muscle, and then change their direction to enter into the biceps ; others bend upwards, and send some ramifications as far as the deltoid muscle. OF THE EXTERNAL BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 2381. They are small and few in number. They divide into the coraco-brachialis muscles, or pass between the brachialis inter- nus and biceps to be distributed to the integuments. OF THE INTERNAL BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 1. OF THE SUPERFICIAL AND SUPERIOR INTERNAL BRANCHES. 2382. Their number is indeterminate, although always consid- erable. Some of them ascend towards the fore part of the axilla, and spread out anteriorly upon the pectoralis major, and externally upon the deltoides, anastorhosing with the thoracic and circumflex arteries. Others direct themselves transversely inwards and back- wards, along the long portion of the triceps extensor, in which they descend to a greater or less extent, ramifying much. Lastly, there are some wliich arise lower and descend, some backwards in the long portion of the same muscle, the others forwards in its in- ner portion. Among these latter there is commonly one wliich follows the ulnar nerve to the lower part of the arm, where it anas- toiposes near the inner condyle lyith the tiyigs of the inferior inter- nal branch. 2. OF THE DEEP HUMERAL OR EXTERNAL pOLLATERAJ. ARTERY. 2383. (Artere grande musculaire du hras, Chauss.) It is al- ways of considerable size, but does not always come from the brachial artery, being sometimes given ofl' by the posterior circum- flex, sometimes by the common scapular. When it is furnished by the brachial artery, it separates froni it above the inner iiortion of the triceps extensor muscle and at the level of the groo've of the humerus in which the musculo-spiral or radial nerve winds. It fol- lows the course of that nerve exactly, and is placed above it (I7O6). It therefore passes at first between the triceps extensor and the hu-