121 OF THE SCAPULA. OF THE SUPERIOR OR THORACIC EXTREMITIES. 1, OF THE BONES OF THE SHOULDER. 4'24. The Shoulder, which is situated on tlie upper, lateral and posterior parts of the chest, connects the thoracic extremities to the trunk, and forms the centre of their great motions. It con- sists of two bones, the Scapula and Clamcle. OF THE SCAPULA. 425. Form. The Scapula or Shoulder-blade is an irregular bone, situated at the posterior and upper part of the thorax, from about the seventh rib to the first, forming the posterior part of the shoulder, and loosely connected, by means of muscles, with the head, the ribs, and the spine. It has a triangular form, is flat and thin over the greater part of its extent, and is divided into the fol- lowing parts. 426. Posteriar or Dorsal Surface. It is divided transversely into two parts by a depressed, triangular eminence, situated about its upper third, and named the Spine of the Scapula. This spine is limited posteriorly by a long, uneven, rough and undulated mar- gin, and projects downwards at its commencement, where it is broad and thick. Near the inner edge of the scapula, it presents a smooth and pohshed triangular space, on which the aponeurosis of the trapezius slides. In the rest of its extent, it affords attachment at its upper and middle parts to the trapezius, and below to the deltoides. Externally, the spine of the scapula is terminated by a thick and short concave edge, which by its union with the former gives rise to a considerable eminence named the Acromion.* This process is flattened in a direction contrary to that of the spine, of which it is the termination, and which contracts a little before producing it. Its outer surface, which is directed upwards and backwards, is convex and uneven, and is covered by the skin. The inner surface is smooth and convex, and inclines downwards and forwards. Its upper edge, which is directed forwards, gives at- tachment to the trapezius, and presents anteriorly a small oval surface, covered with cartilage, with which the outer extremity of the clavicle is connected. The lower edge is uneven, and gives attachment to some fibres of the deltoid muscle. Lastly, its summit, which is rounded, affords insertion to the acromio-coracoid ligament. 427. Above the spine of the scapula is observed a slightly con- cave surface, broad internally, narrow to the outside, filled by the the supra-spinatus muscle, which attaches itself to its two inner thirds. This surface is named the Fossa S(upra-spinalis. ♦ .^unma scapula. ’A»f,;, sulhmus ; Z/xs, scapula.