OF THE DUUA MATEH. 433 ^vllich arc generally formed by fibrous bundles of the dura mater. It is into the sinuses that all the veins of this membrane and all those of the brain empty themselves. 1502. Torcnlar Heropftili. This is a smooth and polished cavi- ty, of irregular form, placed at the union of the three great folds of the dura mater, on the fore part of the internal occipital protu- berance. It is lined by the internal membrane of the veins, and presents six apertures ; a superior, of a triangular form, belonging to the superior longitudinal sinus; two inferior, of variable form and breadth, corresponding to the occipital sinuses; an anterior, rounded, belonging to the straight sinus; lastly, two lateral, broader, but generally of different sizes, transversely oval, furnish- ed with a thick rim in their contour, and leading into the lateral sinuses. The two last, and sometimes the two inferior, are destin- ed to transmit to the outside of the cavity the blood which is pour- ed into them by the others. 1503. Superior Lon ffifudinal Sinus, ( Superior Falciform Simis, Soemm.) This is a long triangular canal, convex above, presenting its acute angle below, occupying the whole upper edge of the falx cerebri (1497->) narrow before, broader behind, commencing by a ^ort of cul-de-sac at the fore part of the crista-galli of the ethmoid bone, and corresponding to the frontal ridge, the sagittal suture, and the vertical groove of the occipital bone. In its interior, it is smooth and polished in its whole extent, and presents a considera- ble number of those bridles, of which we made mention above, which are invested, like it, by the internal membrane of the veins. This sinus communicates above with the frontal veins by a certain number of little veins which pass through the sagittal suture, it also receives, in the same direction, veins which come from the diploc of the bones of the upper part of the skull. It also communicates, by means of a small branch which passes through the parietal hole, with the veins on the outside of the head. Lastly, it receives some trunks from those of the dura mater, and all those which are expanded over the convex and plain surfaces of the two cerebral hemispheres. They almost all open into its interior obliquely for- wards. In general, the mouths of the veins are covered in a great measure by membranous folds in the form of valvules, and whose free and concave edge is turned forwards. All these folds are form- ed by the internal membrane of the veins applied upon itself, and arc in general much less visible in the anterior region of the sinus than in the posterior. It is also probable that, by its anterior ex- tremity, the superior longitudinal sinus often communicates with a vein of the nose which passes through the foramen ca’cura (223.) 1504. Inferior LonpilutHnal Sinus (Inferior Falciform Sinus, Soemm.) Much narrower than the preceding, occupying the lower edge of the cerebral falx, from its anterior third to the tentorium cerebeUi, it seems to result from the union of several small veins of the falx itself, and generally terminates by two branches in the straight sinus. Of these branches, one is directly continuous with it above