ORGANS OF SENSATION. 47-t heart. The nerve of the right side gives off its twigs at about an incii above the origin of the corresponding carotid artery, to which they are attached, descending externally and prolonging themselves over the arteria innominata, to be hnally lost in the cardiac fila- ments of the inferior cervical ganglion. The upper is more con- stant and larger than the inferior twigs, of which there are two or three. The.nerve of the left side commonly sends off'only a single twig, which descends along the carotid artery, spreads out upon the arch of the aorta, and loses itself in the neighbouring cardiac plexus. It seldom furnishes any other twig. 1638. Inferior or Recurrent Laryngeal Twigs. These twigs present considerable differences in the different sides. They arise from the trunk of the pneumogastric nerve, in the mterior of the thorax, and ascend to be distributed to the neck. That of the right side comes off opposite the inferior edge of the sub-clavian artery, proceeds backv/ards and inwards, bends upwards behind that artery and in such a manner as to embrace it, places itself behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, is applied upon the side of the trachea, occupies the groove which separates it from the oesophagus, and arrives at the larynx. At the moment of its commencement, the inferior laryngeal nerve gives off two or three filaments vrhich unite v/ith the cardiac fila- ment of the pneumogastiic trunk and with those of the inferior cervical ganglion, and form with them a plexus betv/een the sub- clavian artery and the trachea. A little higher, it furnishes some others of variable number, which descend upon the fore part of the trachea, throw themselves in part into the plexus formed by the preceding filament, and accompany in part the right pulmonary arteries. Some of their ramifications lose themselves in the ante- rior cardiac plexus. Along the trachea, there come off' some others which are distributed in the walls of the oesophagus, where they anastomose with those of the opposite side and with those of the cervical ganglia, or which are spread out at the upper and super- ficial part of the thyroid gland, or which, perforating the posterior membrane of the trachea, ramify upon the internal surface of that canal, supplying its-mucous crypts. But at the inferior part of the larynx, the recurrent nerve sends filaments to the constrictor pharyngis inferior, under which it glides, and divides into two or three secondary twigs. One of them furnishes subdivisions to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, behind the larynx, the others give filaments to the posterior and lateral crico-arytenoidei, and passing through the crico-thyroid membrane, terminate in the thyro-arytenoideus muscle and the mucous membrane of the larynx, where there are some communications between them and the fila- ments of the internal superior laryngeal nerve (1635.) The other muscles of the larynx do not receive any. Tlic left inferior laryngeal nerve difl’ers from the jn-ecedmg, in having its origin much lower in the thorax, in describing at its