i PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 'I he study of tlic latter often tlirows mucli light on the former; but as it is with the anatomy of man that the physieian and surgeon are more particularly concerned, it being the basis of all their acquirements with reference to the science which they are called to profess, we shall in the present work coniine our attention solely to it. The numer- ous organs of which the human body consists, we shall consider principally with reference to the forms which they present, and the mutual relations which they possess; and this view of the subject is what constitutes Descriptive Anatomy, properly so called, which is itself capable of being divided into the Particular Anatomy of Organs, or Morphology, and the Anatomy of Regions or Topogra- phical Anatomy, if we may use the expression ; while that part of the science which treats of the structure and properties of the different tissues which are common to several organs, takes the name of General Anatomy or Histology. To the latter belongs the examination of the general characters of all the organs and humours. OF THE ORGANIC ELEMENTS. 5. When the analysis of the organs is carried to the highest pos- sible degree, in other words, when they are examined by the pro- cesses of chemistry, there are idtimately obtained the following elementary bodies: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, azote, phtore, phosphorus, sulphur, iron, manganese, calcium, sodium, potassium, sdicium, magnesium, and chlorin, forming so many inorganic ele- ments or constituent principles, independent of climate or the sort of food of the individuals in the organization of which their presence has been detected. Now, before arrivhig at this term, it is discovered that these principles, which are derived from in- organic bpdies, and which present no distinctive peculiarities, give rise, by their mutual combination, to what is called the organic elements, forming a kind of substances which may be extracted from the bodies of animals by very simple processes. These or- ganic elements are: gelatin, albumen, fibrin, fat, mucus, and cer- tain other substances less generally distributed, or only existing under particular circumstances, as urea, osmazome, picromel, picrocholine, the green matter of the bile, cholesterine, zoohe- matine or colouring principle of the blood which does not con- tain iron, water, sugar, resin, leucine, stearine, elaine, uric acid, caseum, lactic, hydro-cyanic, oxalic, benzoic, sebacic, margaric, purpuric, and rosacic acids, phosphate and carbonate of lime, &c. 6. Gelatin is a substance destitute of smell, taste, or colour, heavier than water, dissolving in that fluid when warm, and rendering it more or less viscid, forming what is called an animal jelly, which, on being left to itself, quickly turns sour, and passes into putrid decomposition. Acids favour the solution of gelatin. Chlorin, Avhich was formerly called oxygenated muriatic acid, forms with its solution, a white pearly precipitate. The alkalies do no render it turbid; but alcohol, and especially tannin, pre-