ORGANS OP SENSATION. 548 3. OF THE CHOnOIO MEMBUANE. 1833. T\ie Choroid* Membrane (Choridides) is of a dark brown colour, thin, soft, essentially cellular and vascular^ and lies upon the internal surface of the sclerotica, from the aperture of the optic nerve to the ciliary circle. Its outer surface is united to the sclerotica, posteriorly, by vessels, nerves, and loose and very delicate laminated cellular tissue; anteriorly, by the ciliary circle. Internally, it is merely contiguous to the retina, to which it does not in any way adhere. Posteriorly, it presents for the optic nerve a narrow aperture, the circumference of which presents a prominent rim, which is not connected with the nerve, so that no continuity can be here supposed with the pia mater, as some anatomists have alleged to take place. Anteriorly, it adheres strongly to the ciliary circle and processes. 1889. The outer surface of the choroid membrane is covered with a brownish substance, easily removed, and which is composed of an innumerable multitude of globules forming by their union an excessively dehcate net work or membrane, and leaving the scle- rotica, after death, tinged in a very distinct manner. The inner surface presents a similar layer, only more abundant and of a deeper colour, but which does not tinge the retina. At the back- most part, near the optic nerve, this substance is substituted by a whitish circle. The dark substance in question is named the Pig- mentum nigrum. On macerating the choroid membrane for some time, its covering is detached; it becomes transparent, loses much of its natural colour, and is covered with villosities. Per- haps the exhalation of the dark fluid is due to these. Its colour resists the action of air and of various chemical reagents, as docs that of China ink; and is more intense in the vicinity of the iris than any where else. From recent experiments of M. Michele Mondini, it would appear that the black colour of this substance is owing to oxide of iron, as on calcining the choroid membrane of an adult in a platina crucible, there were extracted from it par- ticles of that metal which were attracted by tlie magnet. 1890. The choroid membrane has nowhere a fibrous structure ; only, near its anterior aperture, there are seen some radiated stria? Avhich commence the ciliary processes. It appears entirely com- posed of a multitude of arterial and venous vessels, united together by a very delicate cellular web. The; arteries are princqial- ly distributed at its external surfiice; the veins at the internal. Posteriorly these vessels form tAvo superimposed planes, which may be separated from each other ; but this division does not take place anteriorly, although Ruysch appears to have discovered this • sccumlir. .11:11 chorion; forma; from its hciiig .suiiiio-ced to liavc some rcseiDblance to tho diorion which envelopes the fetus in the uterus.