792 ORGANS OF SECRETION. 2876. Stiperior Region. It is also named the mmmit of tite bladder. It is seldom entirely invested by the peritoneum, that membrane being only applied upon its posterior half. It is ha- bitually in contact with the inferior circumvolutions of the small intestine. From its centre there is seen rising the Urachus, a kind of fibrous cord which ascends between the peritoneum and the linea alba to the umbilicus, where it terminates % becoming confounded with the abdominal aponeurosis. It appears destined solely to fix the bladder. In man it never forms a canal excepting in cases when the urethra is wanting; but in the foetuses of quadrupeds, it esta- blishes a communication between the bladder and the Allantois. On the sides of this region of the bladder, are also seen the two umbilical arteries (2507). 2877- Inferior Region. It is limited anteriorly, but only in the male, by the base of the prostate gland, and posteriorly by a fold which the peritoneum forms in passing over the rectum or uterus. Laterally it has no determined hmits. This region, which is of greater extent than the superior, has very important relations, which dilfer in the sexes. Its most retired part is called the Fundus or Bottom of the Bladder. In the male, it is connected, by a cellu- lar tissue loose behind and dense before, to the vesiculm seminales and the end of the vasa deferentia. Between the two vesiculm, it rests upon the rectum, from which it is separated by an immense quantity of vessels and especially veins. Externally of the vesicu- lae, it is in remote contact with the levator ani. In the female, it corresponds solely to the levator ani and the vagina. 2878. Anteo'ior Region. It is not covered by the peritoneum. It is of great extent, and corresponds to the posterior surface of the body of the pubes through the intervention of a great thick- ness of adipose tissue. When the organ is distended by urine, it rests in its upper portion, against the anterior wall of the abdomen. From the lower part of this region, there is seen to arise a small depressed fibrous bundle, which directs itself horizontally behind the symphysis of the pubes, into which it is inserted, and which is named the Anterior Ligament of the Bladder. It is imraecUate- ly applied upon the prostate gland. 2879- Posterior Region. Smooth and entirely invested by thg peritoneum, it is limited inferiorly by the folds which that mem- brane forms as it passes over the rectum in the male, and the ute- rus in the female, and which are improperly called the Posterior Ligaments of the Bladder. It is contiguous, in the male, to the rectum, and in the female, to the uterus. Pretty frequently, there glide between it and these two organs, one or more convolutions of the small intestine. 2880. Lateral Regions. They are narrower above, where they are in relation with the peritoneum, than below, where they are coasted by the umbilical arteries and the vasa deferentia, and where they are immersed in the adipose cellular tissue of the pelvis.