OF THE RENAL AND SPERMATIC ARTERIES. 803 face of the verumontanum. By compressing the prostate gland, the fluid which it contains may be made to distil from the orifices of these ducts. 3. OF COWPKIl’s GLANDS. 2919. Cmvper's Glands, named also Accessory Glands, are two small granulated, obloiig or rounded, glandular bodies, placed pa- rallel to each other before the prostate, on the sides of the urethra, and above the bulbo-cavernosi muscles. They are' about the size of a pea, of a reddish colour, and of a tissue which is pretty firm and resembling that of the salivary glands. These glands, which are sometimes wanting, have each an excretory duct about six lines in length, which creeps obliquely inwards and forwards in the spongy tissue of the urethra, and opens before the verumontanum. A small gland of the same nature has sometimes been met with in the angle formed by the union of the two roots of the corpus ca- vernosum. 4. OF THE EJACULATORY DUCTS. 2920. The Ejaculatory Ducts (Ductus ejaculatorii) are form- ed by the junction at an acute angle of the vasa deferentia with those which terminate the vesiculae seminales. They are of a co- nical form, and about an inch in length. They proceed forwards, parallel to each other, in the substance of the prostate gland, unite with each other, contracting considerably, and open into the urethra by two small oblong orifices, situated upon the lateral and anterior parts of the verumontanum. Before their termination, they bend a little outwards. III.—OF THE PENIS, a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2921. The Penis or Membrum virile is destined to pour into the genital parts of the female the prolific fluid secreted by the testicles. It is a cylindrical, elongated, erectile organ, situated at the ante- rior, inferior, and middle part of the abdomen, beneath and before the symphysis pubis. In the ordinary state, the penis is soft arid pendent before the scrotum. Its volume then varies much, not only in different in- dividuals, but also in the same person, from a multitude of differ- ent causes. During erection, it elongates,' assumes a triangular form, and rises more or less upwards. Its upper surface or hack looks forwards in the ordinary state, and is directed backwards during erection. The course of the dor- sal vein is seen at its middle part. Its lower surface is turned in