ORGANS OF SENSATION. 568 Handle^ which is much narrower than the neck, forms with it an obtuse angle, retiring inwards. Its inferior extremity, which is thin and rounded, is inclined forwards, and corresponds to the cen- tre of the membrana tympani. From the superior there issues ex^ ternally a short and narrow process, which directs itself a little back- wards and gives attachment to the internal muscle of the malleus. In its whole extent the handle is slightly compressed from before backwards, and forms one of the radii of the membrana tympani, against which it is fixed by the mucous membrane of the cavity, which covers it internally. 1949. Of the Incus. Situated beside the malleus, and exter- nally of it, the incus corresponds to the posterior and external parts of the cavity of the tympanum, towards the orifice of the mastoid cells (1941). A Uttle thicker, but shorter than the malleus, it bears a considerable resemblance to a molar, tooth with two widely separated roots. There are distinguished in it a body and two branches. The Body forms its anterior part. It is directed a little upwards, and represents a transversely flattened ovoid, hav- ing its greatest diameter vertical. Its inner surface is a little con- cave, and the outer convex. The anterior, for its articulation with the malleus, presents two unequal tubercles, of which the upper is the larger, separated by an intermediate depression, and encrusted with a thin cartilage. The Superior Branch is horizontal, shorter, thick, conical and flattened. Its summit corresponds to the en- trance of the mastoid cells. The Inferior Branch, which is longer, more slender, descending vertically, rounded, nearly parallel to the handle of the malleus, and about half a line distant from the membrana tympani, presents at its summit, which is bent inwards, a sbght cavity which is articulated with the os lenticulare. 1950. Of the Os Lenticulare or Os Orbiculare. Much smaller than the other three, rounded, and slightly convex on its two sur- faces, it is interposed between the long branch of the incus and the head of the stapes, and is articulated with these two parts. 1951. Of the Stapes. It presents exactly the form of a stir- rup, and is placed horizontally between the os lenticulare and the fenestra ovalis. There are distinguished in it a head, two branches, and a base. The Head, which is very small, and situated exter- nally, is supported by a very short neck, which results from the union of the two branches, and gives attachment to a small muscle. Its summit presents a depression for its articulation with the os lenticulare. Of the two Branches, the one is anterior and the other posterior. They separate from the neck in a divergent man- ner, and circumscribe between them a parabolic space. The first is less curved and shorter than the second. Both present on their opposite sides a groove, which is continued over the outer surface of the base, and in which is attached a very delicate membrane, which fills up their interval. The Base, which forms the inner- most part of this bone, is a very thin and pretty broad plate, elongated from before backwards, continuous with the two branches