OF THE CUYSTALLINE LENS AND ITS MEMBRANES. ^55 The circumference of the crystalline lens is more (irmly attached to the vitreous body than its posterior surface. 1907. The crj'stalline lens, which is perfectly transparent in the adult, is a little reddish in the fetus, and yellowish in old persons. Its softness diminishes in the direct ratio of the age. In children, it is entirely pulpy; l)ut in grown up persons, it appears composed of two very dilferent layers, an external and a central. ^The former, which is pretty thick, is soft and easily removed; the other con- stitutes a kind of solid nucleus formed of a great number of con- centric superimposed lamina?. Kach of these lamina? itself ap- pears to present concentric fibres when the lens has been exposed to the action of certain reagents. Some of these fibres detach themselves from one lamina to go to the next, and are thus the only means by which they are united together. The number of these larainm is indeterminate. 'We also observe that the erystalline lens may be very easily di- vided into three pretty regular segments of a sphere, at the centre of which there exists a very small transparent globule. 1908. Chenevix has found that the specific gravity of the human lens is 1.0790. He thinks that it difters chemically from the aqueous humour only in having a larger proportion of gelatin and albumen, and in the absence of saline matters. It entirely loses its transparency through the action of caloric and after being boiled in Avater, as well as by desiccation. It putrifies under long maceration. 1909- It is not yet determined whether the lens has blood ves- sels or not. It appears probable that the arterial ramifications aie limited to its membrane. It is also pretty certain that it receives no nerves. 1910. The Membrane or Capsule of the lens has a form similar to that of the body which it contains. It represents a sort of sac without aperture, which sends no prolongation into its interior, and which is itself lodged in a reduplication of the hyaloid membrane, from which it may very easily be separated at the edges; but, an- teriorly and at the middle, these two membranes are entirely con- founded. By its inner surface it has no adhesion to the lens itself. At the place where the anterior and posterior portions of this capsule unite, there is perceived a series of transverse slits Avhich occupy its whole circumference. The capsule of the lens is much thicker and denser than the hyaloid membrane. It even seems, according to Haller’s observa- tion, to have some similarity of structure to the cornea; a disposi- tion which is especially manifest in its anterior half, for in the pof - terior it is much thinner. By the action of caloric and of boilino- in water, it hardens and assumes a milky tint, which also happois when it is immersed in acids. On being dried in the open air, it becomes yellowish. Its intimate texture is little known. It re- ceives posteriorly a small branch of the central artery of the retina;