OF THE INCISORS. 87 parabolic margin. The Root of these teeth is always single, very long, of a conical form, transversely compressed, slightly furrowed on 'each side in the longitudinal direction, pointed, and a little thicker before than behind. 300. The Incisors of the dipper jaw are stronger and larger than those of the lower jaw. They are also thicker and broader. Their axis, which is directed downwards and forwards, is a little inclined toward that of the neighbouring tooth, in such a manner that they tend toward each other, and are separated in pairs by a triangular space having its base directed upwards. Those which are situated in the middle are larger and more solid than the others ; their root is also more rounded; their free edge is sloped in the form of a chisel, at the expense of the posterior surface, and is perfectly straight. The lateral incisors, which are smaller, have their free edge oblique, with its more prominent angle toward the corresponding middle incisor. 301. The Lower Incisors are smaller than the upper; those which form the middle pair are surpassed in volume and extent by the lateral, and have their axis vertical, while in the latter it is in- clined upwards and outwards. The free edge of their crown is cut obliquely on the anterior surface. It is straight and horizon- tal in the middle ones, a little oblique in the lateral, but in such a manner that its more prominent angle is next the canine tooth. Their root is much more compressed and more deeply furrowed than that of the upper, and it is also longer. OF THE CANINE TEETH. 302. The Canine Teeth, (Dentes Canini, Cuspidati, Lani- arii,) are four in number, two in each jaw. They are situated laterally of the incisors, and present fewer differences than they. Their Crown is conical, very convex anteriorly, a little concave and uneven posteriorly, terminated by a blunt summit, which is pretty frequently surmounted by a sort of small pyramidal tu- bercle rising above the level of the other teeth. Their root is single like that of the incisors, but much longer and thicker. It is also, like theirs, compressed and furrowed on the sides. Not unfrequently it projects before the alveolus, beyond the parabolic curve of the dentary arch, especially in the lower jaw, where it sometimes appears partly bifurcated. The layer of vitreous mat- ter which invests its crown is thicker than in the incisors, and in the same manner describes two slight curves before and behind to- ward the neck. The Upper Canine Teeth are the longest in the jaws, and for this reason are vulgarly denominated Eye-teeth. The Lower Canine Teeth are situated a little more anteriorly, so that their summit corresponds to the space between the upper canine tooth and the lateral incisor.