650 OnOANS OF CIRCULATION. and with those of the inferior dentar artery which issue by the iiien- tal foramen. 2:243. InfcvioT Covonnry or I^dhiol Tivnnch. Tjarger than the preceding branches, it arises from the facial artery at a considerable distance from the commissure of the lips, passes under the trian- gularis muscle, and advances tortuously in the substance of the free edge of the under lip, on the middle of which it joins the op- posite coronary branch, after sending numerous twigs to the mem- brane of the mouth, and to the orbicularis, triangularis, quadratus and levator menti muscles. These last form a very complicated net-work in the integuments, by their numerous anastomoses with the ramifications of the submental and inferior dentar arteries. 2244. Superior Coronary or Labial Branch. It arises above and very near the commissure. Large and flexuous, it proceeds inwards in the substance of the edge of the upper lip, at the mid- dle of which it anastomoses with that of the other side by a parti- cular twig, ascending itself vertically towards the septum of the nose on which it terminates. Its ultimate twigs form a very com- plex net-work in the mucous membrane of the upper lip, in the integuments and orbicularis oris and depressor alae nasi muscles. Some of them go to the gums and unite with those of the alveolar artery. 2245. Dorsal Branches of the Nose. These vary much in number and disposition. Sometimes they terminate the facial artery, which then only communicates by a twig with the ophthal- mic. Frequently also they occupy only'the lower part of the nose; while, in other cases, they are uniformly distributed in its whole extent. But they always anastomose in the median line with those of the opposite side, and are distributed to all the parts of that or- gan, its muscles, cartilages, integuments, &c. Several of their ra- mifications turn over the edge of the nostrils, or pass through the fibro-cartilages, to gain the commencement of the pituitary mem- brane. 2246. Stiperior Muscular Branches. Their number varies much. They are very small and are distributed in an irregular manner to the levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, zygomaticus minor and orbicularis pal- pebrarum, as well as in the integuments. They communicate with the ramifications of the infra-orbitar and ophthalmic arteries. C. OF THE LINGUAL AKTERY. 2247* It arises from the fore part of the external carotid artery, between the two preceding arteries, and a little more deeply than they, behind the digastricus muscle. Not unfrequently it comes from a trunk which is common to it with the facial artery. It ascends at first a little, winding and directing itself inwards and forwards. It then enters between the hyo-glossus muscles, near its