ORGANS OF SENSATION, 5i20 ments wliich tliu auperior cervical ganglion sends to tlie external motor nerve of the eye, (1602) and cavernous ganglion. The KSi(])erior or Cranial Twig, by a rather complex course, forms a communication between the spheno-palatine and sub-maxillary ganglia. On leaving the vidian nerve, it enters into the skull be- tween the petrous process and the sphenoid bone, and proceeds backwards and outwards over the upper surface of the former, where it is lodged in a small groove, and covered by the inferior maxillary nerve and the dura mater, to the last of wdiich it firmly acUieres. There it sends into the cavity of the tympanum, by two canals whose very minute orifices are seen in the groove one above the other, two excessively delicate filaments, which anastomose with each other upon the promontory, and communicate with ano- ther filament of the superior cervical ganglion and with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. It then glides along with a small artery into the hiatus of Fallopius, and arrives in the aqueduct of the same name, where it is applied against the trunk of the facial nerve, without anastomosing with it, (1608). It accompanies it until opposite the base of the pyramid of the tympanum, beneath which it penetrates into that cavity by an aperture of its own, winding upwards and outwards. After sending a filament to anastomose upon the promontory with a filament of the internal carotid plexus, (1605), it traverses the tympanum from behind forwards, placed at first under the incus, then between its long branch and the upper part of the handle of the malleus, against which it is directly ap- plied. Above the internal muscle of the malleus, it increases a little in size and consistence, and its direction becomes horizontal, but presently after it descends forwards and issues by the glenoid fissure, beside the tendon of the anterior muscle of the malleus. It then directs itself downwards, inwards, and forwards, and be- comes attached to the lingual nerve of the inferior maxillary, (1598). From its entrance into the tyrhpanum to this union, the filament of which we speak commonly bears the name of Corda Tympani. It remains united to the lingual nerve until opposite the sub-maxillary gland, where it leaves it to go to the ganghon of the same name. OF THE NERVOUS GANGLIA OF THE HEAD. 1803. Besides those described above, the following ganglia are met with in the head. 1. The Cavernous Ganglion. Situated in the cavernous sinus of,the dura mater, this ganglion does not always exist, and is fre- quently substituted by a small plexus which the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganglion form around the internal carotid artery. Its colour is of a pretty deep reddish gray, its volume ge- nerally small, and its form variable. It is placed at the outer side of the internal carotid artery, towards the middle of the cavernous