224 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. mcnt of the articulation of the fibula Avith the tarsus, from the base of the external articular surface of the astragalus, to the outer sur- face of the calcaneum. It is not described by authors. The lateral ligaments of the articulation of the tibia with the tarsus also strengthen the union of the astragalus and calcaneum. 747. Synovial Membrane. Very loose and separated poste- riorly from the tendo Achillis by a great quantity of fat, it invests the posterior cartilaginous surfaces of the two bones, and is more- over prolonged a little backwards over a portion of the calcaneum, which does not belong to the articulation. In certain cases, the anterior articular surfaces of the calcaneum and astragalus are divided into two orders of surfaces, and then the posterior are furnished with a particular synovial membrane, and the anterior are the only ones that are continuous with the articula- tion of the scaphoid bone and astragalus. 6. articulation of the calcaneum avith the scaphoid bone. 748. In this articulation, there is no connection of surfaces be- tween the two bones, and they are merely kept together by two very strong ligaments. 749. Inferior Ligament between the Calcaneum and Scaphoid Bone. It presents itself under the form of a flat, very thick, almost fibro-cartilaginous fasciculus, formed of dense, compact, whitish fibres, directed obliquely inwards and forwards, from the anterior part of the small tuberosity of the calcaneum, to the inferior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is frequently divided into two fasciculi, the one external and thin, {lAgamentum planum, Weit.), the other internal and very strong {Ligamentum teres, Weit.) Inferior- ly, it is situated over the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and above, forms a cavity with the calcaneum and scaphoid bone for receiving the head of the astragalus. 750. External Ligament between the Calcane^im and os Sca- phoides. Like the preceding, it enters into the composition of the ca- vity which receives the astragalus, at the inside of which it is chiefly visible. It is a very short fasciculus, which, from the lower and outer part of the scaphoid bone, proceeds to the fore and inner part of the calcaneum. Its fibres are very numerous. 7* articulation of the scaphoid bone avith the astu.\galcs. 751. This articulation is an enarthrosis, Avhich is formed by the head of the astragalus entering into a cavity which the posterior surface of the scaphoid bone, a portion of the calcaneum, and the two preceding ligaments, eoncur to form. The bony surfaces are covered with a cartilage Avhich is i)rolonged upon the astragalus much fiirthcr bcloAv than above. A single ligament and a synovial