ORGANS OF RKSPIRATION. 62i< 2152. The anterior side of the trachea is convex, and is covered above by the thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, and sterno- hyoidei and sterno-thyroidci muscles, from which it is separated by a layer of pretty thick loose cellular tissue, Jnfcriorly, it corres- ponds to the thymus gland, the left sub-clavian vein, the brachio- cephalic artery, and the arch of the aorta. Its posterior side, which is flattened, covers the oesophagus, and a little to the right of the bodies of the vertebra;, which arises from the obliquity of the oesophagus (2065). Laterally, it approaches the common ca- rotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gastric nerves, and the communicating twigs of the cervical ganglia, which are se- parated from it by a mass of adipose cellular tissue. 2153. At its inferior extremity, the trachea bifurcates, and gives rise to two canals which penetrate into the lungs. These are the Bronchi, which are distinguished into right and left, and which separate from each other, directing themselves downwards and outwards, at nearly a right angle. The Right Bronchus is larger, shorter, and more horizontal than the left, and is a little anterior to it. It penetrates into the lung opposite the fourth dor- sal vertebra, is embraced in its course by the curve of the vena azygos, and by the arch which the right branch of the pulmonary artery forms. The left Bronchus, which is a little smaller, but longer and more oblique, is embraced by the arch and left branch of the pulmonary artery. Arrived in the lungs through the medium of their internal sur- face, the bronchi divide into two branches, which, after a very short course, bifurcate themselves, and thus give out branches be- coming gradually smaller, which take all kinds of directions, and present the same appearance as the arteries. These ramifications seem to divide the whole tissue of the organ into lobules separated from each other by cellular tissue, and absolutely exist in all points. It is extremely difficult to trace them to their termination. INIal- pighi thought that they end by rounded and membranous vesicles, which, according to Willis, are pedicellate. Senac imagines the lobules of the lungs to be composed of polyhedral vesicles, the sixth of a line in diameter, into each of which a twig of the bronchi opens. But it appears demonstrated, on the contrary, that the bronchi, ramified to infinity, ultimately terminate by' a small un- dilated cul-de-sac, and that it is from the union of several of these minute twigs, kept together by the cellular tissue in which they are immersed, that what is called the Pulmonary Lobule results. h. ORGANIZATION OF THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. 2154). The aeriferous canals of the lungs are composed of fibro- cartilaginous rings, membranes, arterial and venous vessels, lym- phatics, nerves, mucous follicles, and bodies of a peculiar nature, known by the name of Bronchial Ganglia or Glands.