757 LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HIPS, &C. 2730. Ail the deep lymphatic vessels of the leg and foot thus terminate in the popliteal ganglia, which are united together by a great number of short lymphatic vessels, which there form a true plexus, whence issue two, three, or four trunks, which ascend along the popliteal vessels, pass through the insertion of the adductor raagnus muscle, follow the femoral vessels, receiving all the deep lymphatics of tire thigh, and subdividing up to the deep inguinal ganglia, where they terminate. Some of them go to the first exter- nal iliac ganglia. 3. SUPEUFICAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HIPS, PEKIN.SCM, LOINS, EXTEllNAL PAKTS OF GENERATION, &C. 2731. Lymphatics of the Hips. They are immersed in a great quantity of cellular tissue, and communicate frequently together. They bend over the outer and inner parts of the thigh, to unite with the superficial absorbents and those of the perinaeum, and ter- minate at the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2732. Lymphatics of the Loins. They come from the posterior and lateral parts of the vertebral column, behind which those of one side communicate with those of the opposite. They then de- scend above the Uiac crest, and divide in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2733. Lymphatics of the lower half of the Walls of the Abdo- men. Their roots, which anastomose frequently together, com- mence at the level of the umbilicus, and form a net-work over the whole anterior region of the abdomen. They unite inferiorly into a few trunks which terminate in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2734. Lymphatics of the Perinceum, Scrotum, and Penis. Those of the scrotum are very numerous. They ascend on each side to the inner part of the thigh, where they unite with those of the perinmum and penis. The latter form two distinct bundles up- on the lateral parts of the penis, and subdivide to unite with the others, as well as with a single lymphatic which runs along the back of the penis, and bifurcates towards its root. They all ter- minate together in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2735. In the female, the lymphatics of the labia pudendi and clitoris have the same termination. 4. DEEP OBTURATOR, ISCHIATIC, GENITAL, &C., LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 2736. Obturator Lymphatics. They arise from the adductor muscles and neighbouring parts, and ascend along with the obtur- ator artery, through the obturator foramen, to end in the hypo- gastric ganglia. 2737. Ischiatic Lymphatics. Their roots are distributed in