ORGANS OF SENSATION. 448 reflected upon the fibrous canal and enter tlic skull, forming a kind of cul-de-sac. A gray, transparent lamina, and the pia mater, which descends to a greater or less distance in the nassal fossa?, also accompany them. 1549. The moment they are enveloped by the dura mater, the branches of the olfactory nerve become thicker, and harden to such a degree as no longer to resemble what they were at first. 1550. The external branches are prolonged into the canals which are observed upon the turbinated bones; they divide and subdivide, anastomosing with each other, without leaving these canals, which themselves anastomose. When they have emerged from them, their anastomoses become still more frequent, and they form a true plexus which may be distinctly perceived on dissecting under water. On the upper turbinated bone there are observed several, which curve backwards, so that their convexity is turned to- wards the sinus of the sphenoid bone. Those of the anterior part, which are more numerous, are nearly vertical. The middle ones are the longest of all. They curve backwards upon the ethmoidal turbinated bone and there ramify much, but without passing to the concave surface, the membrane of the ethmoid cells, that of tlie sinuses, or the inferior turbinated bone. 1551. The internal branches, already divided before leaving the cribriform plate, follow the septum, on which they divide anew into a great number of filaments between the two layers of the pi- tuitary membrane. Their number is at first from twelve to four- teen, each of them subdivides to such a degree as to appear peni- cilliforra, and to be the origin of a very compound bundle. Seve- ral of these filaments joined together form whitish bands of various length, of which one or two reach nearly as far as the bottom of the septum. Anteriorly, they do not extend beyond its middle; posteriorly, they are much shorter still, and are curved baek upon the convexity of the sphenoidal sinuses. 1552. The middle branches, on arriving in the nasal fossa?, almost immediately lose themselves in the portion of the membrane which lines their vault. 1553. There is much diversity of opinion about the manner in which these branches terminate. Many anatomists have thought that they formed the villosities or papillae of the pituitary mem- brane. The most careful dissections, aided by various reagents, have not afforded me any information on this subject. Scarpa has been equally baffled with the microscope. He merely saw them forming a kind of proper membrane, in which, according to Blu- menbach’s remark, they seem in a manner to be dissolved. 1554. In their trunk, the olfactory nerves receive arteries wliich arise from the anterior arteries of the corpus callosum, and which are expanded in the pia mater which covers its inner surface. 1 hey are very numerous, and follow the nervous filaments as far as the nose, where they sometimes appear through the pituitary mem- brane. Small veins arc also observed around their trunk, as well as some lymphatics.