ACTIVK ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 308 that intestine in a radiating manner. Some of the more anterior seem to be attached to the prostate gland or to be confounded with tlie sphincter ani. Others, proceeding from the angle of union of the corpora cavernosa of the penis with the urethra, expand poste- riorly over the bulb of that canal. The posterior descend inwards and terminate below the sides of the coccyx, forming a tendinous line. 1079. The outer surface of this muscle corresponds to the ob- turator internus, with which it is connected by a layer of cellular tissue, thin above and very thick below, to the glutaeus maximus and transversus perinaei, as well as to the fat which surrounds the anus. Its inner surface corresponds anteriorly to the bladder and pro- state gland, and embraces the lower part of the rectum. Its poste- rior edge is continuous with the coccygeus muscle.* 1080. In the female, this muscle adheres strongly to the vagina before arriving at the rectum. It is weaker than in the male, and its fibres, especially the posterior, are less purved. 1081. This muscle raises and carries forward the rectum, which it compresses, at the same time that it resists the action of the dia- phragm and abdominal muscles. It also favours the ejaculation of the spermatic fluid and the expulsion of the urine. In the female it contracts the vagina a little. OF THE COCCYGEUS, OE ISCHIO-COCCYGEUS. 1082. The Coccygeus is of a triangular form, thin, and flat, and concurs, with the preceding, behind which it is placed, to form the floor of the abdominal cavity. Attached to the inside of the sciatic spine, it descends enlarging to be attached to the whole edge of the coccyx and the lower part of the lateral surface of the sacrum. It is even prolonged a little upon the anterior surface of that bone. This muscle is a mixture of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres, which seem to be confounded in an intimate manner with those of the an- terior or sacro-sciatic ligament. It frequently receives, from the lower part of the sacrum, a small bundle, (the Curvator coccygis of Soemmering) thin, slender, descending over the middle of the coccyx, and uniting with the two muscles at once. 1083. Its posterior surface, which inclines downwards, is covered by the two sacro-sciatic ligaments. The anterior corresponds to the rectum and the cellular tissue which surrounds it. 1084. It retains the coccyx, and prevents it from being turned backwards during the excretion of the feces, Its motions are not very decided. OF THE SI’HINCTEU ANI, CONSTRICTOR ANI. {M. Coccygeo-Anal, Chauss.) 1085. This is an oval membranous muscle which surrounds the ' • Oil (he inner surface of (lie levator ani muscle, and betwixt it and the perito- neum an important fascia exists ; it is generally called the i>elvic lascia. its po.'ii- tion and general connections ought to be particularly attended to by the dissector.—K-