152 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, sents many impressions of ligaments. Externally, it is sometimes furnished with a small surface which articulates with the os cu- boides. At its lower part internally it is surmounted by a promi- nent and uneven tubercle, into which is inserted the tendon of the tibialis posticus. OP THE os CUBOIOES. 523. The Os Cuhoides is situated at the anterior and outer part of the tarsus. It is of a cubical form, as its name, which was given it by Galen, implies; although it is in reality somewhat longer and thicker internally than to the outside. Its wp'per stirface, which is covered by the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, is flat and rough. It looks outwards, and gives attachment to hgameiits. The lower surface is divided into two parts by an eminence di- rected obhquely forwards and inwards, which gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-cuboidal ligament, and which separates two depressions, of which the posterior is broader and rough, and also affords insertion to the fibres of this hgament, while the anterior is a true oblique groove in which slides the tendon of the peroneus longus. Its anterior surface is inclined a little outwards, and is formed of two distinct surfaces, of which the inner is square and articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone, while the outer, which is triangular, is joined to the fifth. Its posterioi' surface, which is convex from above downwards, and concave transversely, is' articu- lated with the calcaneum. The outer is very narrow. There is seen upon it the commencement of the groove which extends over the lower surface, and which forms in this place a sort of pulley for the reflection of the peroneus longus. Lastly, the inner surface, at its posterior part, which is uneven and rough, gives attachment to ligaments, and in some cases presents a small surface which is articulated with the os scaphoides; but in the middle, it presents a rounded, smooth, and plain surface, which unites with the third cuneiform bone, and which is limited anteriorly by impressions of ligaments. OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES. 524. The Cuneiform Bones occupy the anterior and inner part of the tarsus, between the scaphoid bone and the three first meta- tarsal bones. They are wedge-shaped, and of unequal size. They are designated by their numerical name, counting from within out- wards. Sometimes also they are distinguished, according to their size, into large, middle, and small.