BONES OF THE FACE. SUPEIUOil MAXILLARY. 71 selves, and assure its soUdity. Their size is large, their form very unequal. They occupy the middle and anterior part of the upper jaw, and their uses are very extensive. They enter into the com- position of the orbit, nasal fossm, and mouth, give passage to va- rious nerves and vessels, and afford insertion to numerous muscles, &c. We shall distinguish in these bones two surfaces, and a cir- cumference. 238. Outer or Orhito-facial Surface. The whole of this surface may be seen, without separating the bone from those in its vicinity. It is surmounted at the inside by an eminence laterally flattened, which rises above all the other parts of the bone ^ nasal process^ which is smooth and concave from above downwards externally, where it presents several holes through which the vessels which nourish the bone pass, and where it furnishes points of insertion for the levator labii superioris and the levator communis labii superioris alaeque nasi. To the inside, this process forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossae. There are observed at its upper part irregulari- ties which are connected with the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, beneath which is a channel belonging to the middle meatus of the nostrils, and farther down, a horizontal crest, united to the inferior turbinated bone. Arterial furrows also traverse this region • of the process, which terminates above in a truncated summit, fur- nished with denticulations, and articulated to the nasal notch of the frontal bone; below, in a thin oblique edge, which rests upon the nasal bones; behind, in a channel narrower and less deep above than below, articulating with the lachrymal bone by its posterior lip, which is more prominent than the anterior, and by the latter, which is free, giving attachment to the tendon and some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. This channel forms part of the lachrymal groove. 239. To the outside of the nasal process, and behind it, is a smooth triangular surface, inclined downwards, forwards, and out- wards, and forming part of the floor of the orbit. Toward the middle and outer region, it presents a channel which soon changes into a canal, named the infra orhitar, which lodges the vessels and nerves of the same name, and divides anteriorly and inwards, in which direction it runs into two subordinate canals. Of those canals, the posterior, which is smaller, descends, under the name of the superior and anterior dentary canal, in the anterior wall of the maxillary sinus, where it sometimes opens. It affords a pas- sage to nerves and vessels which bear the same name. The other, or anterior division, which is wider and shorter, follows the original direction of the canal, and ends at the infra-orbitar hole. 240. This surface, which gives attachment on the inside and before to the small oblique muscle of the eye, is limited behind by a rounded edge, which concurs to form the spheno-maxillary fis- sure ; internally, by another thin and uneven edge, which is notch- ed before and behind, to be articulated with the lachrymal and palate bones, and which is connected with the ethmoid; anteriorly.