366 ACTIVE ORGANS OI<’ LOCOMOTION. OF THE AOnUCTOU 8ECUNOU9, OU BHEVIS. 1313. Placed behind the preceding muscle, less voluminous than it, elongated, thick, triangular, flattened from within outwards in its upper third, and from before backwards in its two lower thirds ; this muscle arises, by short aponeuroses, from almost the whole space which separates the symphysis pubis from the obturator hole, whence it descends outwards and backwards, becoming broader and thin- ner, to terminate, by a less developed aponeurosis than that of the preceding muscle, and traversed by the perforating arteries, over the middle part of the linea aspera, for a length of about three in- ches, proceeding from the small trochanter. At this insertion, the adductor brevis is confounded with the adductor longus and ad- ductor magnus, and with the pectineus. 1314. This muscle is covei*ed anteriorly by the preceding, and by the pectineus. Posteriorly, it is applied upon the adductor magnus. Internally, it is connected with the gracilis, and exter- nally with the tendon of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus, and with the obturator externus. 1315. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. OF THE ADDUCTOR TERTIUS OR MAGNUS.* 1316. This muscle is triangular, like the other adductors, but is much more voluminous and of greater extent, filling nearly the whole inner and back part of the thigh. It arises, by a broad and thick tendon, which sends an aponeurosis behind its fleshy fibres, from the base of the tuberosity of the ischium, and by short apo- neuroses from the bony plate which unites that eminence to the symphysis pubis. The fleshy fibres which arise from these different origins become longer in proportion as they are examined more in- ternally. The upper are nearly transverse, and frequently seem to form a distinct muscle. They come from the bony plate of which we have just spoken, and are attached to the upper fourth of the linea aspera of the femur and to the ridge Avhich unites it to the great trochanter, passing before the rest of the muscle. The mid- dle fibres, which are longer and more oblique, terminate in the three inferior fourths of the linea aspera, by a pretty long aponeu- rosis, which is confounded with the insertions of the two other ad- ductors, and is perforated by several apertures for the perforating arteries ; but, at the end of the linea aspera, it bifurcates in such a manner, that one of its portions ends in a point between the triceps extensor cruris and the short branch of the biceps, while the other proceeds towards a tendon, which terminates the triceps. Between these two portions, there exists an interval which is traversed by • Soemmering unites the three adductors under the general name of Triceps femot is.