362 ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 1293. This muscle contributes powerfully to extend the leg upon the thigh, and the latter upon the former. 5. Posterior Crural Region, OF THE SEMI-TENDINOSUS. 1294. This muscle is very long, slender, tendinous, and round- ed below ; thin, fleshy, flattened, and broader above. It is extend- ed obliquely at the back part of the thigh, and arises behind the se- mi-raembranosus, from the tuberosity of the ischium, by a membra- nous tendon, which is at first common to it, along an extent of about three inches, with the long portion of the biceps, and from the anterior surface of which the fleshy fibres arise. I'hese descend in a converging manner, and a little obliquely inwards, the bundle which they form contracting and becoming thicker When it has arrived at the middle part of the thigh, after being generally tra- versed by an aponeurotic intersection, it changes into a tendon, at first concealed among the fleshy fibres, then appearing at the inner side, and at length becoming free, slender, and round, which de- scends behind the inner side of the knee joint, between the internal head of the gastrocnemius and semi-membranosus, turns forward upon the tibia, becomes broader, and is united to the posterior edge of the tendon of the gracilis, as well as with the inner surface of that of the sartorius (1282) to terminate with them upon the tibia. 1295. Its posterior surface is immediately covered by the fascia lata, and a little at its upper part by the glutaeus maximus. The anterior is applied upon the semi-membranosus and adductor magnus. 1296. A mucous bursa occurs between its upper part and the biceps and semi-membranosus, and another at its lower part between the internal ligament of the articulation and its tendon united with ® . those of the sartorius and gracilis. 1297. It bends the leg and turns it inward by rotation. It also bends the thigh upon the leg. In standing it keeps the pel- vis erect, and sometimes even contributes to draw it backwards. OF THE SEMI-MEMBKAXOSUS. 1298. Placed beneath the preceding muscle, fiat, thin, narrow, and aponeurotic in its upper third, broader, thicker, quadrilateral, and fleshy in the rest of its extent, excepting at the very lowest part, where it is rounded, this muscle arises from the tuber ischii, behind the quadratus and before the semi-tendinosus and biceps, by a flat tendon, of which the outer edge is much thicker than the inner, and which descends very low upon the outer and back part