ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 30(3 6. Lateral Cervical Region. OF THE SCALENUS ANTICUS, SCALENUS PRIOIl. {M. Costo-Trachelien,* Chauss.) 1071- The Scalenus Anticus is a long flat muscle, simple and broader below, narrow and divided into several portions above, si- tuated upon the lateral and inferior parts of the neck. It is at- tached by a tendon which expands over the fleshy fibres, to the outer surface and upper edge of the first rib, toward the middle of its length, and ascends a little obliquely inwards and backwards, dividing immediately into four fleshy tongues connected by their neighbouring edges, and giving rise to as many small tendons, of which the upper are longer than the others. Each of them is in- serted, by means of these tendons, into the anterior tubercle of one of the transverse processes of the neck, from the third to the sixth inclusive. 1072. The anterior side of this muscle is covered below by the subclavian vein ; higher up, by the transverse and ascending cervical arteries, the diaphragmatic nerve, and the omo-hyoideus and sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscles. Its posterior side forms with the next muscle a triangular space, broad below, contracted above, in which are lodged, inferiorly, the subclavian artery, and superiorly, the branches of the cervical nerves, which form the brachial plexus. Its inner side is separated from the longus colli by the vertebral artery and veins. 1073. This muscle bends the cervical portion of the spine late- rally and forwards. It also assists in inspiration, by raising the first rib. OF THE SCALENUS I’OSTICUS.-f-+ 1074. Longer and larger than the preceding, but of the same form, and placed farther back, the scalenus posticus arises below from the outer surface of the first rib, from a rough impression which is observed behind the passage of the subclavian artery, and from the upper edge of the second rib. These two origins take place by aponeurotic fibres which are prolonged to a great distance among the fleshy fibres. The second origin is sometimes wanting, and is always smaller than the first. The muscle which is here separated into two distinct bundles, soon unites, although it is sometimes separated in its whole length, ascends a little obliquely inwards and forwards, and terminates by six small tendons, of which • M. Cliaussier considers this muscle and the following ns only forming one and the same organ. f Soemmering divides this muscle into three, which he distinguishes by the names of Scalenus lateralis^ medius, and posticus. t The Scalenus fioslicus, as described by M. Cloquet, includes the Scalenus Me- dins, and Scalenus jiosiiciis of British writers.—K.