437 OF THE PI A MATER. each side, the convex surface of tlic two hemispheres of the brain, sinks into tlieir anfractuosities, is refected in the great longitudinal fissure, prolongs itself over the upper surface of the corpus callo- sum, and descends upon its anterior extremity. At the level of the posterior extremity, it also bends downwards, but it enters into tlie n>iddle ventricle. Infcriorly, the pia mater covers on each side the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes of the brain, sinks into the lissura Sylvii, is refected over the commissure of the optic nerves, after lining the kind of membrane which closes the third ventricle anteriorly, passes over the layer of gray substance which forms its floor, envelopes the pituitary shaft, invests the inferior surface of the cerebral protuberance, is engaged in'the groove which separates it from the spinal marrow, on which it presently ceases in an insen- sible manner, to be earned over the lower surface of the cerebel- lum, and from thence over the upper, as far as the posterior cere- bral Assure, by which it enters into the third ventricle. It sinks between the lobes of the cerebellum, and is engaged in all the an- fractuosities which separate its concentric laminae. By its outer mrface^ the pia mater is in contact with and ad- heres to the arachnoid membrane, upon all the cerebral promin- ences ; but it is entirely isolated from it opposite the depressions into which it penetrates by itself. They are then even frequently separated by a pretty large vacant interval, as may be easily seen in the fissura Sylvii, in the spaces which exist between the lobes of the cerebellum, between the brain and the cerebral protuber- ance, &c. Its inner surface corresponds everywhere to the cere- bral substances. 1515. Internal Pia Mater. The pia mater penetrates into the middle ventricle by the transverse fissure which exists between the corpus callosum and tire cerebral protuberance, and into the lateral ventricles by that which is met with on each aide between the optic thalamus and the fimbriated body. 1516. In penetrating by the transverse cerebral fissure, the pia mater forms, in the third ventricle, the Choroid Web, a kind of membranous prolongation which lines the posterior part of the corpus callosum and the inferior surface of the foriiix, to which it adheres by a great quanity of vascular twigs. Its form is that of a truncated triangle, whose base, which is very broad, is directed backwards. Its lower surface is free anteriorly in the middle ven- tricle, and, farther back, presents tbe orifice of the arachnoid canal, above the pineal gland, which is embraced in the folds of the cho- roid web. The latter, altogether posteriorly, is applied upon the posterior commissure and the tubercula quadrigemina. Laterally, if covers the upper region of the thalami of the optic nerves, passes into the fissures which separate them from the.fornix, and is con- tinuous with the edge of the choroid plexus. Anteriorly it is con- tinuous with these same plexus by the apertures of communication of the lateral and middle ventricles, 1517- The Chloroid Plexus arc a kind of flat, reddish membvano-