MUSCLES OF THE ARM. 325 to its middle part. When arrived near the humerus, they termi- nate in an aponeurosis, at first concealed among them, then ap- pearing externally, more distinct within and above than below and withoiU, and fixed to the middle part of the inner surface and edge of the humerus, between the brachialis internus and triceps. It is united to the latter muscle. 1142. The coraeo-brachialis is traversed at its middle part by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, which, however, does riot always happen. Its anterior surface is covered by the deltoid, pector- alis major and biceps. The posterior is applied upon the subsca- pularis muscle, the united tendons of the latissnnus dorsi and teres major, the axillary artery, the musculo-cutaneous and median nerves, and tlie brachial artery. 114^ Synovial Bursa. There exists a synovial bursa between the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint and the place of union of the short portion of the biceps and coraco-brachialis. 1144. It carries the arm forwards and inwards, and raises the humerus a little. WTien the latter bone is fixed, it turns the scapula by separating its lower angle from the chest. OF THE BICEPS FLEXOR CUBITI. 1145. This muscle is situated at the fore and inner part of the arm. It is elongated, much broader and thicker at its middle part than at the extremities, and is divided above into two portions. The outer is longer, and arises from the upper part of the edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a very long, slender, flattened tendon, which results from the junction of the two branches of the glenoid rim, (656.) This tendon turns over the head of the hume- rus, becoming broader, crosses the articulation obliquely inwards, and advances to the interval between the two tuberosities, sur- rounded by a sheath which is furnished by the synovial capsule, (6.59.) It then becomes rounded, contracts, and enters the bici- pital groove, stiU accompanied by the synovial membrane, and kept down by a prolongation of the fibrous capsule. Emerging from this groove, it continues to descend vertically, expands, and gives rise to flesliy fibres. The second or inner portion, which is shorter, is attached to the summit of the coracoid process, along with the coraco-brachialis muscle, as we have already said, (1142.) It de- scends a little outwards, approaching the other, and becomes fleshy much sooner than it. 1146. The two fleshy bundles of the muscle are fusiform, and are longer covered by the tendinous fibres externally than internal- ly. They approach each other as they descend, soon come into contact, unite by a very thin cellular line, and are at length inti- mately confounded toward the lower third of the arm, sometimes higher and sometimes lower. The bundle which results from this junction continues to descend diminishing in size, and near the