492 ORGAJSrS OF SENSATION. nally of tlie biceps and under the median vein. It then sinks be- hind the anti-brachial aponeurosis, between the brachialis internus and pronator teres, passe,s between the two origins of the latter muscle (11G8) and proceeds along the fore-arm between the flexor digitorum sublimis, and flexor profundus, between whose tendons it becomes apparent below. Lastly, it passes along with them under the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, adheres to them by a very delicate membranous cellular tissue, becomes broader and thicker than it was before, and on arriving in the palm of the hand towards the upper part of the metacarpal bones, divides into several twigs, which arc distributed to the fingers, and which are distinguish- ed numerically, counting from without inwards. 1694. As it proceeds between the brachialis internus and prona- tor teres, the median nerve gives off its first twigs in indeterminate number, fasciculate, and destined for the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, flexores digito- rum sublimis and profundus, and flexor longus pollicis. They pe- netrate by the inner surface of most of these muscles, and are lost in their fleshy fibres. 1695. Jnterosserms Twig. Larger than the preceding, and arising under them, this twig separates from the median nerve at a very acute angle, and gives off at its origin a filament which goes to the flexor sublimis, in which it loses itself. The interosseous nerve then passes between the two flexor muscles of the fingers, gains the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, accompany- ing the artery of this name, and gives off laterally several filaments which are destined for the flexor digitorum profundus and flexor longus pollicis. Arrived at the upper edge of the pronator qua- dratus, it dives under it giving it some filaments, and then emerges by the inferior aperture of the interosseous ligament (667) to expanded over the back of the hand, where it furnishes a great number of ramifications which become superficial, but which do not extend so far as those of the interosseous artery which they accom.- pany. 1696. Pretty frequently, after giving rise to the interosseous twig, the median nerve furnishes another which descends inwards, follows the course of the ulnar artery, and anastomoses with the ulnar nerve. It then sends some irregular filaments to the flexors of the fingers and flexor carpi radialis. But, at the lower part of the fore-arm, there separates from it cutaneous j^otniar twig, which is of considerable size, issues between the tendons of the flexor sub- limis, and loses itself in the integuments of the palm of the hand, after a short course. 1697- Tirst Digital Twig. Directed obliquely outwards, it immediately gives oft‘ several filaments to the abductor, opponens and flexor brevis pollicis, descends along the latter, to which it gives oft* a ramification, and following the radial edge of the thumb, arrives at its extremity. Opposite the first phalanx, it throws backwards into the integuments of the posterior surface of the thumb, a filament which also ascends outwards. Frequently