33 ^ THE THOllAX. up by the intercostal muscles. The two first of these spaces are broad—the rest gradually contract; but the two last resume a certain degree of breadth. 101. Posteriorly, this surface presents the two vertebral grooves, separated by the spinous processes, filled up by numerous mus- cles, and limited on the outside by the series of transverse dorsal processes, articulated with the tuberosities of the ribs. Still far- ther outwards, is a series of surfaces belonging to the ribs ; and, lastly, a line interrupted from one rib to another by the intercos- tal spaces, having an inclination downwards and outwards, and formed by the angles of the ribs. The obliquity of this line is caused by the circumstance that the angles are more distant from the tuberosities in the lower ribs than in the upper. 102. On the sides, the outer surface of the chest is convex, es- pecially at the back part, and presents the intervals by which the ribs are separated from each other. These intervals, from being short and broad above, diminish in breadth and increase in length, till we arrive at the one between the seventh and eighth ribs. Af- ter this they again diminish in length, to the last, which is very short. All these intercostal spaces are broader before than behind, and are occupied by muscles of the same name. 103. Inner Surface of the Chest. This surface, like the outer, presents anteriorly the posterior surface of the sternum in the middle, and the sterno-costal cartilages laterally. In tins direc- tion, it corresponds to the anterior mediastinum, and a little on the left, to the heart. Behind, it presents the bodies of the dor- sal vertebras, v/hich by protruding seem to form a sort of imperfect partition, concave in the vertical direction, and contracting much the antero-posterior diameter of the cavity; on either side of the dorsal vertebras, the ribs, by being much prolonged backwards, form a considerable elongated cavity, which is contracted above, broad beneath, and deeper in the middle. This excavation receives the posterior part of the lungs. Laterally, the inner surface of the thorax is concave, and formed by the ribs and intercostal spaces, as on the outside. Here it is contiguous \:ith the lungs. In general, the pleurae line almost everywhere the internal sur- face of the thoracic cavity. 104. The upper circumference of the thorax, which is usually called its summit, is small, transversely oval, ?and oblique in a di- rection from above downwards, and from behind forwards. It is constituted, posteriorly, by the vertebral column; anteriorly, by the sternum; on the sides, by the inner edge of the first rib. It is traversed by the trachea, the' oisophagus, the arteries, veins, and nerves, which go from the chest to the arms and head, or which descend from these parts to the thorax. The sterno-hyoidei and and sterno-thyroidei muscles are inserted into it. 105. The loiver circumference, or base of the thorax, is very arge, especially in tlie transverse direction. It presents, anterior- y, a considerable notch, in the middle of which is the xiphoid car- D