358 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. inserted into the cavity of the trochanter beneath the inferior ge- mellus, after contracting strong adhesions with the dio-feraoral capsule. 1277- Its anterior surface, which is inclined downwards, is covered by the pectineus, the adductors, and quadratus. The pos- terior is applied upon the iliac bone, the obturator ligament, from which it is separated by cellular tissue externally, and upon the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. Its ujjper edge corresponds inter- nally to the obturator nerve and vessels. The lower edge is placed, also internally, above the attachment of the adductor magnus. 1278. This muscle rotates the thigh inwards, and draws it to- wards the other. OF THE GEMELLUS SUPEIUOR.* 1279. Elongated, flattened, broader and thicker at its middle part than at its extremities, it arises from the outer hp of the sciatic spine, then proceeds transversely outwards, is confounded with the tendon of the obturator internus, and is inserted at the upper part of the inner surface of the great trochanter. Its posterior surface is covered by the sciatic nerve and glutaeus maximus ; the anterior covers the ossa ilii, and the capsule of the hip joint. It rotates the thigh outwards, and draws it from the other. OF THE GEMELLUS INFERIOR. 1280. It has the same form, connections, and uses as the pre- ceding muscle ; but it is attached on the one hand to the upper and back part of the tuber ischii, and, on the other, to the digital cavity of the great trochanter, above the obturator externus (I276.) The two tendons of the gemelli unite behind that of the obturator internus^ so as to present a kind of groove. OF THE aUADRATUS FEMORIS. 1281. This muscle is situated transversely at the posterior and ■yppgr part of the thigh. It is thin, flat, and quadrilateral, and arises, by pretty long aponeurotic fibres, from the outer side of the sciatic tuberosity before the semi-membranosus. It then proceeds horizontally, between the gemellus inferior and adductor magnus, to the lower part of the posterior edge of the great trochanter, where it is inserted by aponeuroses, which are also pretty long. Its posterior surface is covered by the sciatic nerve, and by the glu- t.TCUs maximus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus muscles. The anterior covers the obturator externus, the extremity of the * J\l. Chaussicr confounds tliis muscle witli tlic following under the general mime o( hr/iw-iiucliaiilcricn, and Soemmering also designates them collectively under that of inuiCuH ffcininh