462 ORGANS or blSNSATION. then passes, along with Warton’s duct, between the mylo-hyoideus and hyoglossus muscles, whence it goes to gain the inferior lateral part of the tongue, after ascending above the sublingual gland. 1597. 6iis course, the lingual nerve gives to the pterygoide- us internus muscle a filament which occasionally anastomoses with one of the pterygoid twigs (1595.) It furnishes two or three twigs to the tonsils and to the constrictor pharyngis superior. Farther down, there are detached from it two or three others which lose themselves in the posterior and internal part of the gum. Opposite to the submaxillary gland the corda tympani leaves it to enter into a particular ganglion, which is surrounded by a very small complicated nervous plexus with loose meshes. This plexus results from the reticular interlacing of several filaments which arise from the lingual nerve, and from the ganglion itself, and whose ramifications penetrate the gland on all sides. 1598. Beyond this gland, the lingual nerve sends off' several filaments which descend to anastomose with those of the hypoglos- sal nerve. It furnishes four or five to the sublingual nerve, and about as many to the anterior part of the gums, and to the mem- brane of the mouth. Then some more considerable twigs issue from its Tipper edge, and pass between the lingualis and genio-glos- sus muscles, to be distributed m the tissue of the organ. Lastly, it continues to subdivide in this organ, as far as its point, and as- cends towards its upper surface to be distributed by a great num- ber of fasciculate, penicilliform filaments, folded in the direction of their length, in its mucous membrane. Some of them have been traced into the papillm by which it is covered, particularly at its fore part. 1599. Inferior Dentar Twig. A little more voluminous than the preceding, from which it receives a filament (1596,) it descends by its side, at first between the two pterj'^goid muscles, then be- tween the pterygoideus internus and the ramus of the jaw. In this second part of its course, it is separated from the pterygoideus internus and lingual nerve by the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation (614). Arrived near the middle of the internal surface of the ramus of the jaw, this nerve gives off a twig, (the mylo-hyoid of Chaussier,) which descends forwards in a groove formed upon that bone, and in which it is retained by a fibrous expansion of the same internal lateral ligament. It is accompanied by a small artcr}^ and vein. After emerging from the groove, it places itself between the maxil- liiry bone and the mylo-hyoideus muscle, gives some filaments to the submaxillary gland, approaches the chin, separates into other four .nr five filaments, and is distributed to the mylo-hyoideus, genio- hyoideus and digastricus muscles. At the moment when it furnishes this twig, the dentar nerve it- self passes into the inferior dentar canal (290) along with an ar- tery and a vein. It passes through its whole e.xtcnt, furnishing twigs to all the roots of the teeth, from the last large to the first