758 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. the gemelli, pyramidalis, quadratus and glutcEus maximus muscles. They follow the ischiatic artery, and terminate within the pelvis, in the hypogastric ganglia. 2738. Glutceal LympkatAcs. They commence in the three glu- taei muscles, pass along with the glutaeal artery through the great sciatic notch, enter within the pelvis, and end in the hypogastric ganglia, along with some small vessels arising deeply from the anus and perinoeum. 2739. Deep Lymphatics of the Penis and Clitoris. They follow the course of the internal pudic artery (2492) and terminate in the hypogastric gangha. 2740. Lymphatics of the Testicle. They are very numerous and of great size in the adult. Arising from the coats and sub- stance of the testicle and epididymis, they unite upon the sperma- tic cord into a number of branches varying from six to twelve, and which ascend along with it, anastomosing very little, towards the inguinal ring, through which they pass to follow the spermatic ar- tery and terminate in the lumbar ganglia.- 2741. Lymphatics of the Prostate Gland and VesiculcB Semi- nales. They unite in part with those of the bladder, and throw themselves into the hypogastric ganglia. 2742. Lymphatics of the Uterus. They are of large size at the period of gestation, but appear very small during the empty state of the uterus. They arise from the surface, or in the sub- stance of that organ, and unite with those which come from the vagina, to terminate in the hypogastric ganglia. The highest pro- long themselves upon the broad ligament, and unite with those of the ovarium. The latter are very numerous, and form a kind of plexus. They ascend together, along with the spermatic vessel, toward the lumbar ganglia. 5. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 2743. Lymphatics of the Bladder. They arise from the whole extent of that organ, follow the course of its vessels, and open into the hypogastric ganglia. 2744. Lymphatics of the Kidneys. They are generally very small, and may be divided into superficial and deep. Their roots anastomose in the tissue of the organ, and their trunks unite to- wards its fissure. They then proceed, upon the sides of the aorta, to end in the lumbar ganglia. The ureters are also surrounded by a great number of lympha- tics which ascend upon them anastomosing together. 2745. Capsular Lymphatics (V. Lymphatiques surrenaiuv, Chauss.). They come from the supra-renal capsules, anastomose frequently together, and unite in part with those of the kidneys. Some of those of the right side terminate in tlie hepatic ganglia. I