OF THE CUNEIFOU.M BONES. 1.03 OF THE FIUST, I.ARGE OU INTERNAL CUNEIFORM BONE. 525. The First Cuneiform Bone is larger than the rest. Its vertical diameter is greater than its transverse. It is of the form of a wedge, with the base directed downwards. Its height is greatest at the fore part, and it is somewhat longer below than above. It is curved superiorly toward the second, and in surpassing it in this direction, is itself surpassed by the third, so that the three bones together form at their upper part a regularly transverse convexity. Its anterior surface, which is slightly convex and covered with cartilage, has the form of a crescent, with the convex edge turned inwards. It is articulated with the first metatarsal bone. The posterior surface is inclined a little outwards. It is triangular, smooth, and concave, and is connected with the internal articular surface of the anterior surface of the scaphoid bone. The inner surface is very large, nearly plain, and rough, and lies immediate- ly under the skin. The outer, which is also nearly flat, presents, at its upper part, two articular surfaces, of which the anterior and smaller is articulated with the second metatarsal bone, while the posterior, which is larger, is connected with the second cuneiform bone. The lower part of this surface is uneven, and gives attach- ment to ligaments. The Base of the first cuneiform bone is con- vex, rough, and directed toward the sole of the foot. It gives at- tachment to the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and to a portion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. It descends beneath the level of the'lower part of the middle cuneiform bone, and especially be- neath that of the small. Its Summit, which is directed upwards, is represented by a rather thin edge, which forms externally a small indistinct angle, arising from the union of the two portions of the outer surface. OF THE SECOND OR SMALL* CUNEIFORM BONE. 526. This is the smallest of the three cuneiform bones. It ap- pears as if wedged in between the first and the third. Its Base^ Avhich is quadrilateral, is directed upwards, and gives attachment to ligaments; as does its Summit, which is rather thin, and situat- ed below. Its anterior surface, which is triangular, and slightly convex, is articulated to the second metatarsal bone. The poste- rior, which is also triangular and somewhat convex, is connected with the os scaphoides. The inner surface, presents at its upper part a small oblong, smooth, flat surface, which articulates with the first euneiform bone. Inferiorly, it is rough, and gives attachment to ligaments. Lastly, the outer surface presents, above and be- hind, a smooth and somewhat concave surface, which is articulated to the third cuneiform bone. On the lower part of this surface are seen impressions for ligaments. * Or ^filhIle, with refc'reiicp to its position.