PASSIVE ORGANS OP LOCOMOTION. 2^8 the three cuneiform bones, and which unite by converging at the upper part of its posterior extremity ; the third has one which comes from the third cuneiform bone, and sometimes a second from the os cuboides ; lastly, the latter bone gives one to the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. All these ligaments are covered by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes, and applied over the synovial capsules. 7G8. Plantar Ligaments. These are equal in number to the dorsal ligaments and disposed nearly in the same manner. That of the first metatarsal bone is very strong. It is attached to the tuberosity which is observed at the lower part of its posterior extre- mity, and comes from the anterior part of the base of the first cu- neiform bone. The internal plantar ligament of the second me- tatarsal bone is also remarkable for its thickness and length. It sends some fibres to the third metatarsal bone. The two others are covered by a prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The other ligaments present nothing particular. I'he sheaths of the tendons which are observed in the sole of the foot, and especi- ally that of the peroneus longus, contribute much to strengthen aU these ligaments. 769. Synovial Membranes. The first metatarsal bone and the first cuneiform have one entirely separate, and strengthened inter- nally by a prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. An- other is common to the articulations of the second metatarsal bone with the three cuneiform bones, and of the first two of these bones with each other. There is one for the union of the third metatar- sal bone with the third cuneiform, which sends prolongations be- tween the surfaces of the two neighbouring metatarsal articulations. Lastly, a single synovial membrane serves for the articidation of the two last metatarsal bones with each other and with the os cu- boides. 14. ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSAL RONES WITH EACH OTHER. 770. These articulations have a great resemblance to those of the metacarpus. As in the hand, the first metatarsal bone is not immediately articulated with the next posteriorly; but anteriorly, the transverse ligament of the toes extends to it. The other four are directly articulated at their posterior extremities, by means of surfaces covered with cartilage and lined by prolongations of the synovial membranes of the preceding articulations. There are here dorsal and plantar ligaments, similar to each other, and to those of the metacarpus (698). They extend transversely in each region from the second to the third, from the third to the fourth, and from the fourth to the fifth metatarsal bones. There are, besides, inter- osseous fibres between the points of the surfaces which arc not ar- ticular.