ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. 750 b. OF THE TRUNK OF THE VENA POET/E AND ITS DIVISIONS. 2688. The trunk of the vena port£E results from the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins: but its diameter is much smaller than the sum of the diameters of these two veins. It ascends obliquely to the right, and has about four inches of extent from the vertebral column, where it commences, to the groove of the liver, where it terminates. Lying at first under the small ex- tremity of the pancreas and behind the second portion of the duodenum, the vena portae, united to the biliary vessels, and covered by the hepatic artery and cystic and hepatic ducts, sur- rounded by a great number of nervous filaments and lymphatic vessels, arrives near the right extremity of the transverse groove of the liver, and bifurcates. Its two branches separate nearly at a right angle, and seem to form under the liver a horizontal canal which some anatomists have called the Sinus of the Vena Portce. They are both united to the two divisions of the hepatic artery. The right, which is not so long as the left, but larger, introduces itself into the great lobe of the liver, and ramifies to infinity in its interior. The left, which is smaller and longer, proceeds horizon- tally as far as the ligament of the umbilical vein, and divides in the left lobe. It throws a principal branch into the lobulus Spigelii. 2682. All the branches of the vena portae are surrounded in the liver by a prolongation of the fibrous capsule of that organ. This is what was long designated by the name of Capsule of Glisson. We are unacquainted with the uses of this envelope, which equally belongs to the other vessels that are distributed to the liver, and which some have supposed to be of a muscular nature. 2690. Injections made by the vena portae penetrate into the other vessels of the liver, and vice versa. CLASS SECOND. ARTICLE FOURTH. ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. I.—GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 2691. The Orgayis of Absorption are arranged mto two per- fectly distinct orders. The Lymphatic or Absorbent vessels, and the Lymphatic Ganglia. The latter are also frequently named Ljymphatic or Conglobate Glands.