OF TliE SriNAL NERVES. 477 the second or Hrst. This Hrst filament, which is frequently larger on one side than the other, ascends, either between the two roots of each cervical nerve, or behind them, near the corresponding li- gamentum dentatum. At each origin of these nerves, it increases in volume, new filaments being then added to it. These seem themselves formed by the union of several filaments which issue from the spinal marrow, and direct themselves outwards and up- wards, bemg more oblique the higher they are. The last is very near the pneumo-gastric nerve. ■ i ■ 1646. Thus formed, the spinal nerve communicates in the inte- rior of the vertebral canal with the suboccipital nerve, and some- times with the first cervical nerve, and enters the skull by the occi- pital hole, behmd the vertebral artery, without producing a gang- lion, as is asserted. It then proceeds much more outwards and a little forwards, gains the foramen laceruin posterius under the pneumo-gastric nerve, introduces itself into the same canal with it, and is separated from it only by the arachnoid membrane. It even frequently adlieres so strongly to it, that they might be taken for a single trunk, and before emerging it sends it a pretty considerable filament. 1647. On emerging from the foramen lacerum posterius, the spinal nerve separates from the pneumo-gastric, to a^ere'strongly to the hypoglossal, which it leaves in its turn, to proceed towards the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, passing behind the internal jugular vein. It traverses the sterno-cleido-mastoideus at the level of its upper third, and passes under the trapezius, in which it is en- tirely lost. 1648. The first twig which it gives off in this course is the larg- est of all, and presents numerous variations. It appears solely destined to augment the size of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Aris- ing in the interior of the fibrous canal which is furnished by the dura mater, it sends one or two filaments to the pharyngeal twig of that nerve (1634,) then passes behind it, adheres intimately to it, and frequently gives a filament to the hypoglossal nerve. Then, arriving beneath the origin of the superior laryngeal twig (1635,) it appears to form a ganglion, and divides into several filaments which lose themselves among those which compose the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, which at this place presents a plexiform ap- pearance. 1649. In traversing the sterno-cleido-mastoideus musele, it sends off two or three filaments which lose themselves in its fleshy fibres, and one or two twigs, which go to the cervical plexus, and commu- nicate especially with the anterior branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves. The second and third, on the contrary, send each a branch to it, which increases its volume in a sensible manner, af- ter forming with it several anastomoses from which result triangular areolae which contri’outc to the formation of the cervical plexus. It then exhausts itself by expanding in the upper part of the tra- pezius muscle into a more or less considerable number of filaments.