ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTIOxV. 256 lowest part, the insertions of the pcctoralis major are confounded with the ohliquus abdominis externus and sometimes with the rectus. {139. Succeedingthcsc different aponeurotic attachments, which de- scribe internally a sort of curved line of great extent, the fleshy fibres approach each other, proceeding outwards, and following a different direction. Those of the clavicle, which are the shortest, are a lit- tle inclined downwards, and constitute a bundle, thick at its com- mencement, and separated from the rest of the muscle by a cellu- lar line. Those which arise from the upper part of the sternum, and from the cartilages of the five first ribs, are a little longer, and proceed horizontally. Lastly, the lower, which are the longest, proceed obliquely upwards, and approach the more to the vertical direction the lower they are. 840. These fleshy fibres, by gradually converging toward each other, render the muscle very strong and thick at its outer part. There they cover each other, in such a manner, that the upper are placed more superficially than the lower; and they give rise to a kind of tendon, which fixes the muscle to the humerus. This tendon, which is much broader than it seems to be at first sight, is folded upon itself from before backwards, and from below up- wards, and is thus composed of two laminae, placed one before the other, separated above, and united below. The posterior lamina, which is broader, receives the inferior fleshy fibres of the muscle, which cross the direction of the superior fibres. Above, it sends off an aponeurotic prolongation, wliich ascends before the bicipital groove of the humerus to unite, upon the larger tuberosity of that bone, with the tendon of the supra-spmatus, and it sends mto the same groove a fibrous lamina, which is confounded with that which lines it after being detached from the tendon of the teres major and latissimus dorsi. The two laminae of the tendon of the pectoralis major, are at first separated by cellular tissue, but afterwards inti- mately unite, and are inserted together into the anterior lip of the bicipital groove, sending off from their upper edge a considerable number of fibres to the brachial aponeurosis. 841. The anterior surface of the pectoralis major is covered above by the platysma myoides, at the middle by the correspond- ing mamma, and in the rest of its extent by the skin. Its posterior surface covers, from within outwards, a part of the cutaneous re- gion of the sternum, the cartilages of the true ribs, and a part of their bony portion, the thoracic vessels and nerves, the subclavius muscle, the pectoralis minor, inter-costales externi, serratus magnus rectus abdominis and obliquus abdominis. Toward the hollow of the axilla, this surface is in contact with a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue,, with lymphatic ganglions, the axillary ves- sels, and the nerves of the brachial plexus. Close to its insertion into the humerus, it passes before the coraco-brachialis and biceps. It is separated from all these parts by a layer of cellular tissue, which becomes so much the thicker the nearer it is to the axilla. The inner edge of tlie pcctoralis major is confounded with that of 3