OF THE ENCEFIIALIC NERVES. US 1529- The filaments which terminate the branches of the nerves end by being continued into other nervous filaments, or lose them- selves in the tissue of the organs, without our being as yet able to say exactly in what manner. The communication of the nervous filaments, or their continuation into each other, is named Anasto- inosis ;* and this mode of junction must be carefully distinguished from that of mere j uxta-position, which is sometimes observed.— The nervous anastomoses may take place in four different ways : 1st, By two branches which belong to different nerves, as is ob- served to take place between the hypoglossal nerve and the cervi- cal nerves. 2dly, By branches of the same nerve, as in those of the trifacial nerve or facial nerve. 3dly, By branches united in the median line of the body, and coming separately from each side, as may be seen in the superficial nerves of the neck and face.— These three modes of anastomosis take place between filaments of the same nervous system. But, 4thly, There is another in which filaments of the encephalic system are united with filaments of the system of the ganglions. 1530. If two or moi’e different nerves approach each other, if their different branches are confounded by a great number of an- astainoses, or even of juxta-positions, so that there results a sort of more or less complicated net-work with meshes more or less lax,' the name of Plexus is given to this interlacement. The different nervous branches which are spread out to form a plexus unite again, and give rise to trunks which pursue their course in the us- ual manner. Very distinct examples of this arrangement occur in the extremities. 1531. Every encephalic nerve is formed by a greater or less number of cords, placed in j uxta-position, which are themselves formed of several filaments of the same nature. The number of these filaments is always very considerable, and frequently even cannot be determined by optical instruments; but, with the assistance of acids and alkalies, the structure of the nerves, such as we shall presently describe it, is as it were laid bare. All these cords also, as well as their fibres, are connected by cellular tissue. On sepa- rating them, it is perceived that they send frequent branches to each other, so as to form a kind of plexus in the very substance of the nerve, on which account, the filaments that cornpose the cords are after a certain passage no longer the same as fit the commence^ ment of the nerve. 7’he disposition of the nervous cords presents numerous varia- tions. Their size is seldom the same in the different nerves; nor is if proportional to the volume of the nerve. Those of the sciatic nerve are smaller, for example, than those of the radial or ulnar nerves. Sometimes also a nerve is only formed of a single cord, divided by a great number of grooves : such is the pneumo-gas trie • 'Atariificariff InOiCulatiO,