103 (OF THE NASAL FOSSiE, are prolonged as for as its lower edge. It belongs to the ethmoid bone, and is terminated behind by free inequalities. It occupies only about the middle third of the outer wall of the nasal fossae, and principally forms their middle meatus. 359. This meatus is of much greater extent than the upper, and presents from before backwards, 1st, A portion of the inner sur- face of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone; 2dly, A su- ture whi^ch it forms with the lachrymal bone; 3dly, The anterior part of the inner surface of the latter bone, the pores with which it is perforated, and its union with the ethmoid bone; 4thly, A portion of this latter, which has a lacerated appearance, and is ar- ticulated to the upper maxillary bone ; 5thly, The infundibulum^ which leads into the anterior ethmoidal cells, and frontal sinuses ; 6‘thly, The entrance of the maxillary sinus, which is contracted by the ethmoid bone, the inferior turbinated bone, and the palate bone, and situated toward the posterior third of the wall, always above the floor of the sinus. This aperture is sometimes double, and is further contracted, in the recent state, by a glandular organ, lodged in the substance of the pituitary membrane. 360. Beneath the middle meatus is the inferior turbinated bone, which presents the greatest number of variations, and seems sus- pended by its unciform process, which penetrates into the maxil- lary sinus. Bertin, Cheselden, and Haller, are of opinion, that it is most commonly an appendage of the ethmoid bone. Whether it be so or not, it lies over the inferior meatus, which consists of a horizontal channel, concave from above downwards, and straight from before backwards, formed above by the inferior turbinated bone ; anteriorly, where it is broader, by the upper maxillary bone, and posteriorly, where it is contracted, by the palate bone. 361. The only thing remarkable that this meatus presents, is the 7iasal canal, which is situated anteriorly and concealed by the lower turbinated bone. This aperture is inclined a little obliquely backwards, and varies much as to its position with respect to the entrance of the nostrils, being sometimes but a line or two distant from it, and sometimes upwards of a finger’s breadth. The nasal canal itself is formed by the upper maxillary bone, sometimes by itself, but more commonly united with the lower turbinated bone and the lachrymal bone. It ascends towards the lachrymal canal by describing a slight curve, the convexity of which is turned for- wards and outwards. It is narrower at the middle than at the ex- tremities. Its diameters arc not all equal, it being a little com- pressed ; and it is lined by a mucous membrane. 362. We have already spoken of the anterior and posterior aper- tures of the nasal fossae. 9’he very numerous bones of which thase cavities are composed, arc, the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the sphenoidal turbinated Imnes, the frontal bone, the upper maxillary, palatal, and nasal bones, the inferior turbinated bones, and the vomer.