SKELETON IN GENERAL. 15 ty of the long bones and in the spongy tissue, but also fills up the interstices of the laminae of the compact tissue, and the porosities with which they seem perforated. The sinuses and air-cells of the bones of the skull, however, do not contain any. OF THE SKELETON IN GENEKAL. 42. I’he hard parts of the body taken collectively, bear tlie name of Skeleton, as we have already said. Almost all animals have a skeleton, but it does not exhibit the same arrangement in all. Of wdiatcver nature it be, its object is to sustain the other organs: it forms the steady foundation on which is erected the whole edifice of the living machine, constituting a solid frame-work, the various parts of which, connected by flex- ible ligaments, are, at the same time, capable of moving on each other, and of resisting the effects of a foreign motion. It is on it that the general form of the body depends, as well as that of its various parts; and it is by it that their proportions, figure, solidity, and principal divisions are determined. 43. When the bones are connected by their own ligaments in the cabinet of the anatomist, the skeleton is called a natural one, when, on the other hand, they are joined together by connections of a different kind, such as wires or plates of silver, iron, &c. it is denominated an artificial skeleton. Skeletons are also dis- tinguished into those of fetuses, children, adults, women, men, &c. 44. The primary divisions of the skeleton in man are into Trunk and Limbs. The trunk consists of a middle part and two extremities. The middle part is formed by the vertebral column and the chest united. TJie Vertebral Column, which is composed of twenty-four bones called vertebrae, is divided into three regions : the cervical, corre- sponding to the neck, which has seven vertebrae; the dorsal, which has twelve ; and the lumbar, which has five. ’ The Chest or Thorax, is formed anteriorly and in the middle by the Sternum, and on each side by the twelve Ribs, which are dis- tinguished into seven true or vertebrosternal ribs, and false or asternal ribs, the former being placed above the latter. The upper extremity of the trunk is the Head, which compre- hends the Cranium or Skull, and the Face. The Skull contains the following bones: the Sphenoid, the turlmiated bones oj the Sphenoid (or of Bertin), the Ethmoid, the h'ontal, the Occipital, the two Temporal, the two Parietal, t\\c Ossa JVormii, the Mallei, the Incudes, the Le7iticular Bones, and tlie Stapedes. I he Face, which is divided into the Upper Jaw and tlie Lorver Jaw, is composed of the Upper Maxillary bones, the Palatine, Malar, Nasal, and Lachrymal hones, the Lower L'urbinaf edhones.