OF Tllli: PNEUMO-GASTUIC NERVES. 471 (1608,) form around the tonsil a true plexus, the circulus lo7isiL- Inris, and furnish it with distinct filaments. The inferior descend into the hyo-glossus muscle and the glosso-cpiglottic mucous folds (1406*.) Those of the latter part send off one or two \yhich fiill uj)on the epiglottis, but can only be traced with great difficulty in- to the tissue of .that organ. The 7niddfe twigs, or those of the third order dive into the fibres of the tongue, under the hyo-glossus muscle, ascend to the upper surface of that organ, and lose them- selves in its mucous follicles, spreading but very little in its mus- cular tissue. 1(129. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is situated, in the tongue, above the hypoglossal nerve, and under the lingua) twig of the in- ferior maxillary nerve. It is smaller than these nerves, and does not appear to anastomose with their filaments. OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVES, PAR VAGUM, OR NERVES OF THE EIGHTH PAIR. 1G30. The Pricumo-gastric Nei'ves arise immediately under the preceding, behind the olivary eminences, and very near the restiform ihodies, by one or two rows of fdaments, from five to six lines in length, and regularly disposed. These filaments, which are very numerous, and more commonly bifurcated and very slender, are never prolonged so far as the ventricle of the cerebellum. They are from their commencement enveloped by the neurilemma, and present a remarkable degree of firmness. United at first into six, eight, or ten larger bundles, placed under each other, they form a broad and thin ribbon, in which they remain parallel without com- municating with each other. This ribbon, surrounded by the arachnoid membrane, directs itself outwards and forwards, arrives at the foramen lacerum posterius, and passes through it in a par- ticular canal of the dura mater, inferior to that of the glosso-pha- lyngeal nerve, which has thus no communication with the pneumo- gastric nerve. A very apparent fibrous septum in fact separates the one from the other in this part of their course. Another sep- tum, som.etimes osseous in whole or in part (210,) separates them both from the internal jugular vein, which is placed between them inferiorly. 1631. Immediately after issuing from the skull, the pneumo^ ga.stric nerve has the form of a round cord. All the filaments which compose it anastomose with each other for the extent of about an inch, and give it the appearance of a very close and dense ])lexus, and sometimes that of a ganglion. In this part, it is al- ways a little swollen, and has a grayish tint. It is also tliere inti- mately connected with the bypoglos.sal, spinal acccssoiy and glosso- ]>haryngeal nerves by a dense, firm, strongly adherent cellular tissue, destitute of adipose substance, and in winch arc also im- mersed the ascending filaments ot‘ the superii r cvrvical ganglion.