ORGANS OF SENSATION. 531. pilltir of the diapliragm and the vena cava abdominalLs, near the head of the pancreas. It is also commonly in contact above with the renal capsule, and below with the corresponding renal ar- tery. That of the left side is placed upon the left pillar of the diaphragm, and frequently covers the diaphragmatic artery, which evidently furnishes it with ramifications. The tail of the pancreas lies upon it. Its upper extremity is in contact with the splenic vein, and the lower with the left renal artery. 1841. The two semilunar ganglia, and especially the right, are surrounded by a multitude of other ganglia very distinct from each other, more or less voluminous, but varying as to number and form. They communicate with them by short filaments, which escape from all points of their circumference ; and these secondary ganglia themselves send to each other and in all directions a mul- titude of small twigs, and even sometimes seem to be continuous with each other, leaving always between them areolae more or less wide and irregular. 1842. It is this assemblage of ganglions and interlaced and an- astomosing filaments that constitutes the Solar Plexus. This vast nervous network, lying upon the vertebral column, the aorta and the crura of the diaphragm, and concealed by the stomach anteri- orly, by the liver and diaphragm above, and by the pancreas be- low, is so irregular in its form that an adequate idea of it cannot be conveyed in words. The ganglia and filaments of which it is composed are soft and reddish. It is strengthened by several twigs coming from the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and by some filaments only from the left. It appears essentially destined for the aorta, being distributed to all its divisions, and following its branches with a corresponding number of secondary plexus, wliich are as follows. 1. SUB-niAPHRAGMATIC PLEXUS. 1843. They proceed from the upper part of the common plexus, and are destined to accompany the inferior diaphragmatic arteries. They are composed of only a very small number of filaments which run beside each other, without presenthig the numerous anasto- moses which we find in the other abdominal plexus. Some of them lose themselves in the fleshy fibres of the diaphragm. Others ac- company the arterial twigs to a great distance ; while several, especially to the right, anastomose with the phrenic nerves, (1607). 2. C(ELIAC PLEXUS. 1844. 4'his is nothing else than an inferior prolongation of the solar plexus upon the tripod of the, coeliac artery. It is a true con-