188 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ticuliir in its fore part, which is covered with a very thin cartilage prolonged over the transverse process. The condyle of the jaw is ecpially covered with a thin cartilage, which is insensibly lo.st to- wards the neck. These surfaces arc kept in connection by several ligaments. 613. E;cternal Lateral Ligament. This is a thin, short, and narrow fasciculus, with nearly parallel fibres connected by a dense cellular tissue. It is a little broader at its upper part than below. It is attached above to the tubercle which separates the commence- ment of the roots of the zygomatic process (172), and descends from thence obliquely backwards, to terminate at the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxillary bone. Its outer surface is co- vered by the skin and parotid gland ; the inner is applied against the synovial capsules and inter-articular fibro-cartUage. 614. Internal Lateral Ligament. This is thinner than the outer ; its length is also much greater. It arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone and the parts in its vicinity, and des- cends obliquely forwards, becoming broader and even membranous as it proceeds, and is at length attached to the inner and fore sides of the orifice of the inferior dentar canal. Its fibres are divergent, especially beneath. Its outer surface corresponds above with the synovial capsules and external pterygoid muscle; the internal max- illary artery passes between it and the neck of the condyle; and the inferior dentar vessels and nerve have connections with it far- ther down, and separate it from the branch of the lower maxiUary bone. Its inner surface rests upon the internal pterygoid muscle, so that this ligament separates the two muscles of this name from each other. 615. Stylo-maooillary Ligament. This ligament appears less intended for connecting the maxillary bone with the temporal, than for multiplying the attachments of the stylo-glossus muscle. It is a mere aponeurotic cord, rather thin, which is attached above to the styloid process of the temporal bone, whence it descends to- wards the interstice of the angle of the jaw, where its fibres are im- planted between the masseter and pterygoideus internus. It re- ceives by its inner side a great part of the fibres of the stylo-glossus muscle.* 616. Synovial Membranes or Capsules. They are two in num- ber, because this articulation contains in its interior an interme- diate fibro-cartilage. The upper, after being expanded over tbe cartilage of the glenoid fossa and transverse process, is developed downwards over the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage; while the lower, after investing the inferior surface of the same organ, covers the condyle of the jaw, being a little more prolonged posteriorly than anteriorly. These two synovial capsules have no communi- • There is still pretty generally admitted in this articulation another ligament which is named the Intcr-maxiUury ; but as Boyer remarks, it is nothing but an aponeurosis common to the buccinator and constrictor pharyngis superior muscles.