285 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. tooth, it is obliquely traversed by the exeretory duct of the parotid gland. 980. It draws the commissure of the lips backwards, and con- tributes to mastication, by keeping the food between the teeth. If the mouth is filled with- air which distends the cheeks, it com- presses it and drives it out, as in the action of blowing, sounding a trumpet. See. OF THE ORBICULAIIIS OHIS. CM. Labial, Chauss.) 981. This muscle is formed by fibres which exist in the sub- stance of either lip, and by the terminations of the zygomatici, levatorcs labii, levatores anguli oris, depressores labii inferioris, levatores menti and buccinators, which are interlaced in a very complicated manner, and are confounded with its proper fibres. These latter correspond to the free edge of the lips. They are concentric, curved, and divided into two planes, of which one be- longs to the upper, the other to the under lip. Viewed in connec- tion, they present an oval form, and intersect each other at their two commissures. 982. This muscle is covered anteriorly by the skin, to which it firmly adheres. The posterior surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, to which it is more loosely attached. It is also in connection with the labial glands. free circumference is invested by the red membrane of the lips. Its great circumfe- rence is continuous on all sides with the muscles which we have just enumerated. Superiorly and in the middle, it is attached by some fibres to the lower part of the septum of the nose. 983. This muscle brings the lips toward each other, and con- tracts the aperture of the mouth, which it carries forward, making it represent a sort of rim with radiating wrinkles. It acts in suc- tion, in playing upon musical instruments, &c. It also acts as an antagonist to all the other muscles of the lips. 7. Pterygo-maxillary Region. OF THE PTEKYGOIDEUS INTEENUS. (M. Grand pterygo-maooillaire, Chauss.) 984. This is a strong and thick muscle, representing a sort of a somewhat elongated parallelopiped, and situated internally of and a little behind the branch of the inferior maxillary bone. It arises from the whole pterygoid fossa, and particularly from the inner surface of the outer wing of the pterygoid fossa, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, which partly pass in the form of pretty strong fasciculi among the fleshy fibres, and are partly applied over the inner surface of the muscle. It descends backwards and outwai’ds.