235 OF THE TENDONS. each other; but it is in their form that they exhibit the greatest number of varieties. There are, in fact, triangular muscles, as is the case with several of those that are observed in the hand ; cubi- cal, as the masseter and pterygoid muscles; square and flat, as the pronator quadratus of the fore-arm; rhomboidal, orbicular, serrated, and trapezoidal. In most cases, the muscles are in pairs, there be- ing very few single, &c. 796. In general, the name of Belly is given to the middle por- tion of a muscle, while its extremities are named the Head and 7'o?7, or more commonly the Origin and Insertion. Whence the names of gastrw'nemins, digastric., biceps, triceps, &c. according as they present two bellies, two or three heads, &c. 2. OF THE TENDONS. 797* The Te^idons (Tendines) are very elastic, tenacious fi- brous cords, of an intermediate nature between bones and muscles, transmitting to the former the motions of the latter, and absolutely passive in themselves. It would seem that these organs are for the most part true prolongations of the periosteum, for all their fibres appear to arise from that membrane, or at least to be confounded with it. They difter from the ligaments only in the circumstance that one of their extremities is manifestly continuous with the fleshy body of a muscle. They are sometimes concealed in the midst of the muscular fi- bres ; but they always terminate them, for a muscle is never fixed to a bone without their assistance or without that of aponeuroses, and they may even to a certain extent be considered as flexible ap- pendages to the bones, nearly as solid as themselves, and present- ing to the fleshy body a multitude of points of attachment. In most cases the tendons have a rounded cylindrical form. There are also some which are flat, radiated, bifurcated, digitated, perforated or perforating, &c. Some proceed in a straight line; others are reflected and deviate more or less from their original dh rection. They are all covered with a loose cellular tissue, which allows them to slide easily over the neighbouring parts, or over each other. This sliding is even not unfrequently favoured by a particular synovial membrane, or by a cartilage developed on the surface of the bone. Their organization is always the same. They are composed of very close, fine, white, glistening longitudinal fibres, not interlaced, but placed parallel to each other, incapable of being elongated, but susceptible of being extended into membranes. The resistance of these fibres is considerable; they support enormous weights with- out breaking, and their strength is much superior to that of metal- lic wires, so long as they are ke])t moist. The tendons have very few blood-vessels; in fact none arc ob- served in them in their ordinary state. Nor have any nerves been