ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 354 Its iipper edge, which is very thin, is connected with the glutaeus inedius by a prolongation of the fascia lata. I'he lower edge is the longest of all, and is free of adhesions. The outer is united in its whole extent to the fascia lata. 1258. Synovial Bursa. It is very thin, oval, always well sup- plied with synovia, and very frequently furnished with replications in its interior. It is expanded upon the outer surface of the tro- chanter, the neighbouring portion of the triceps, and the inner sur- face of the tendon of the glutaeus maximus, the motion of which it facilitates. 1259. The glutaeus maximus extends the thigh upon the pelvis, and the pelvis upon the thigh. It turns the thigh outwards by rotation, and acts very powerfully in standing and progression. OF THE GLUT/EUS MEDIITS. 1260. The Glutceus medius is a broad, strong, radiated, trian- gular muscle, with continuous fleshy bundles, much thinner than the preceding muscle, under which it is partly situated. It arises by short aponeurotic fibres from the outer surface of the iliac bone, between the two curved lines, from a kind of aponeurotic arch which prevails along the inferior curved line, from the three ante- rior fourths of the iliac crest, and from the inner surface of the portion of the fascia lata which descends from the superior and an- terior niac spine. Proceeding from these different points, the fleshy fibres descend converging, and following different directions, the anterior, which are short, obliquely backwards, the middle, w'hich are longer, vertically, and the posterior, which are still longer, ob- liquely forwards. They terminate upon the two surfaces of a broad aponeurosis, which they conceal for some time in their substance, and which is longer posteriorly than anteriorly. This aponeurosis contracts and becomes thicker as it descends. It is left by the fleshy fibres towards the great trochanter, where it is converted in- to a tendon thinner before than behind, which is inserted into the whole upper edge of that eminence, prolonging itself a little upon its fore and outer part, and uniting with the glutmus minimus. 1261. Its outer surface, which inclines a little backwards, is covered in its posterior half by the glutaeus maximus, and in its an- terior by the fascia lata. The inner surface is applied upon the iliac bone, the glutmus minimus, pyramidalis and triceps extensor muscles, and the gluteal artery. Its anterior edge is connected above with the tensor vaginae femoris, from which it is separated below by an interval in which there occur a great quantity of cellular tissue and branches of the external circumflex artery. The posterior edge is at its upper part parallel to the pyramidalis muscle, whose direc- tion it crosses below. The two tendons are here separated by a synovial bursa. 1262. This muscle draws the thigh inwards. By its anterior