ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. (Icr tlic coraco-acvomial ligament. It then forms a strong tendon, more apparent internally dian externally, almost always united to that of the infra-spinatus. Separated by the long portion of the biceps from that of the subscapularis, this tendon curves a little over the shoulder joint, becomes identified with its fibrous capsule, and is attached to the upper surface of the large tuberosity of the humerus. 1123. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the trapezius and dcltoides, and by the coraco-acromial ligament. The anterior is applied upon the fossa supra-spinata; from which it is separated, in its outer third, by much cellular tissue, and by the superior scapular vessels and nerve. It also corresponds to the capsule of the shoulder joint, the omo-hyoideus muscle, and the coracoid ligament, (651.) 1124. It assists the deltoid muscle in raising the arm. If tlie arm is fixed, it acts upon the scapula. OF THE INFEA-SPINATUS, 1125. This muscle is situated below the preceding, lying in the fossa observed on the posterior surface of the scapula beneath its spine. It is broad internally, narrow externally, thick and triangUr lar, and is kept down posteriorly by a thin aponeurosis, which is prolonged below over the teres minor, to be inserted into a bony ridge between that muscle and the teres major, is attached above to the spine of the scapula, where it is continuous with the insertions of the trapezius and deltoides, and internally to the spinal edge of that bone, and at length loses itself externally upon the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Its fibres cross each other and are very appa- rent. Some of the fleshy fibres come from this aponem-osis inter- nally ; but the greater number arise from the two inner thirds of the fossa infra-spinata. Of these fibres, tlie upper proceed hori- zontally outwards, and the rest ascend more and are longer the lower their position is. They go to a broad aponeurosis concealed beneath them, situated nearer the posterior surface of the muscle than the anterior, and which, towards the humerus degenerates into a strong and thick tendon, which is attached to the middle surface of the large tuberosity of that bone, after being identified with the fibrous capsule of the articulation, and in part confounded with those of the supra-spinatus and teres minor. 1126. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered externally by the deltoid muscle, internally liy the trapezius, below by the latissimus dorsi, in the middle by the integuments. The aiiterior surface covers the fossa mfra-spinata, from which it is separated, in its outer third, by much cellular tissue, and by the superior sca- pular nerve and vessels. It is also applied upon the capsule of tiie ihoulder joint. Its loiver edge, which is inclined obliquely upwards and outwards, is connected internally with the teres major by an aj)oucurotic partition, which presently divides into two lamina', one