410 ORGANS OF SENSATION. a great quantity of laminfE and lamelljc. It is terminated by a process which loses itself near the inferior median lobule. 3. OF THE CEIIEBRAT. PROTUBERANCE, OR PONS VAROLII, CON- SIDERED AS TO ITS EXTERIOR. 1441. This is the least voluminous portion of the brain, of which it forms as it were the centre, and of which it weighs only the sixtieth or sixty-fifth part. Its consistence is greater than that of the two preceding organs. Situated between the cerebrum and cerebeUura, it has intimate connections with both, by means of strong prolongations. It is limited above, on the side next the cerebrum, by a circular groove or depression, broad and deep ante- riorly, superficial and not very distinct posteriorly ; and below, by a semicircular contraction where the spinal marrow commences. It presents a pretty regularly quadrilateral form; its breadth is nearly equal to its thickness; and it is directed obliquely down- wards and backwards. 1442. Anterior Surface. The anterior surface of the pons Va.- rolii, which is named the Commissure of the Cerebellum by Gall, is directed downwards. It is convex, broader than the upper sur- face, and rests upon the basilar groove (228.) Like a portion of a ring, it embraces the peduncles of the brain, on which account it has been called the Annular Protuberance. It is marked along the median line by a broad groove, rounded at the bottom, and in which is placed the basilar artery. On each side, several other smaller grooves, approaching more or less the transverse direction, and more superficial, lodge the branches of the same artery. 1443. Posterior Surface. The posterior surface is directed upwards, and is almost entirely concealed by the inferior notch of the circumference of the cerebellum. It presents on its upper part four tubercles, which are white externally, gray internally, oblong, rounded, approaching each other in pairs, and separated by two grooves which intersect each other in a crucial manner. They are named Tubercula Quadrigemina. Of these four tubercles, which are seldom of equal size, the two upper, which are named Nates are larger, broader, and more prominent than the inferior, which bear the name of Testes. They are situated immediately behind the posterior commissure. The pineal gland corresponds to the point of the intersection of the two grooves. Below and without the inferior tubercles, there is observed, on each side, an elongated eminence which might be taken for a third pair of tu- bercles, and which is prolonged towards the root of the optic nerve. Behind the tubercula quadrigemina, is a pulpy lamina, of a gray- ish colour, very thin, and easily torn, which ascends towards the cerebellum and forms the vault of the fourtli ventricle. This is the Valcula Vieussenii. It appears composed of transverse fibrils and small laminm of a grayish colour, which are intersected in their