665 OF THE LONG CILIARY ARTERIES. These twigs anastomose with each other and there form a very apparent circular net-work, which is joined by some ramifications of tlie ophthalmic artery. 2297. Arrived at the posterior part of the ball of the eye, these arteries separately penetrate the sclerotica near the entrance of the optic nerve, and sometimes after bifurcating. Some of them re- main in that membrane, and there anastomose with the twigs which it receives from the muscular arteries; others supply it alone with very slender ramifications ; but the greater number pass between it and the choroid membrane, and divide into a very great quantity of twigs which come off at a very acute angle, and afterwards di- rect themselves forward, running neai’ly parallel to each other. All these twigs confine themselves in a great measure to the external surface of the choroid membrane, and form by their subdivisions and numerous anastomoses, a very delicate net-work, of which the areolae are quadrangular, and much looser before than behind. Some of these twigs communicate with those of the anterior ciliary arteries; others pass through the ciliary body and throw them- selves into the great arterial circle of the iris ; but almost all go to lose themselves in the ciliary processes, and in so great number, that twenty or thirty are counted for each of these small bodies. They proceed a short way in a tortuous manner in their substance, then unite into twigs progressively larger, which, behind the iris, bend to- ward each other, and anastomose in the manner of an arch. 3. OF THE LONG CILIARY ARTERIES. 2298. The Long Ciliary Arteries (Arteres iriennes, Chauss.) are a little larger than the preceding, and are generally two in num- ber, an external and an internal, l^hey pass through the sclerotica at a greater distance from the optic nerve than the posterior cUiary arteries, and, after giving some small twigs to that membrane, pro- ceed horizontally forwards between it and the choroid membrane, to which they distribute very few ramifications, they thus arrive at the ciliary body, where they divide each into two twigs which se- parate from each other at a very obtuse angle, unite with some small twigs of the anterior ciliary arteries, anastomose together, and form a very apparent vascular cu'cle upon the large circumference of the iris. 2299. From the whole inner side of the circumference of that circle, arise a great number of smaller twigs, each of which pre- sently bifurcates itself, and anastomoses with the neighbouring twigs so as to form a second vascular circle internally of the pre- ceding. From this circle, which is also joined by some rami- fications of the anterior ciliary arteries, proceed other twigs, which are extremely numerous, but of the greatest tenuity. These pro- ceed in a serpentine manner, under the form of radii, towards the small circumference of the iris, where they anastomose with each