729 OF THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. OF THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. 2601. This ought to be considered as the true continuation of the posterior tibial artery. It separates from the preceding, direct- ing itself obliquely downwards and outwards, in the groove of the calcaneum, and passes between the flexor brevis communis and ac- cessorius muscles. It then proceeds forwards, in the interval that exists between the first of these muscles and the abductor minimi digiti, after which it bends inwards towards the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone to dive between the abductor pollicis and interossei muscles, and the posterior extremities of the metatar- sal bones, describing a curve which brings it near the first of these bones, under which it anastomoses with the dorsal artery of the foot (2587). It thus forms with it the Plantar Arch, the con- cavity of which is directed backwards. From the course which we have described it as following, it is easy to perceive that the external plantar artery forms a great curve, whose convexity corresponds to the outer part of the sole of the foot, and that the point at which it terminates is nearly opposite that at which it commences. 2602. Before forming the plantar arch, this artery gives twigs to the superficial muscles of the foot and to the integuments. One of them, which is of considerable size, descends vertically upon the inner part of the calcaneum, and is distributed to the origins of the adductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles. The acces- sorius and abductor minimi digiti also receive twigs from it. 2603. The branches which arise from the plantar arch are dis- tinguished into superior, posterior, and inferior, and anterior. 2604. Supeinor Branches. They are three in number, and pass vertically through the interosseous spaces, bearing the name of Posterior Perforating Arteries. They give at first twigs to the interossei muscles and to the periosteum of the metatarsal bones, and anastomose on the back of the foot with the interosseous twigs of the metatarsal artery (2585). 2605. Posterior and Inferior’ Branches. They are very small, and are distributed to the interossei and lumbricales muscles, the cellular tissue and the articulations of the tarsal with the metatar- sal bones. 2606. Anterior Branches. These are the largest, and are com- monly four in number. The first directs itself forwards and a little outwards under the flexor brevis minimi digiti, to which it gives numerous twigs, and terminates on the outer edge of the little toe. The second, third, and fourth, follow the last three interosseous spaces, giving twigs to the muscles which occupy them and to the lumbricales. Near the anterior extremity of the metatarsal bones, they enter above the transversus pedis, sending each over the back of the foot an anterior perforating twig, which communicates with