142 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 496. The Upper, or Pelvic Extremity. This extremity which is angularly curved beyond its union with the body of the bone, and is of a very irregular form, presents three large processes. One of these, which is the largest and highest of the three, is called the Head of the Femur. It is of a spherical form, and is directed obliquely upwards, inwards, and a little forwards. At the middle, or a little below it, there is observed a small ragged and uneven de- pression, which gives attachment to the round ligament of the hip joint. This head is covered with cartilage, and is articulated with the cotyloid cavity of the iliac bone. It is supported by an elongated Neck, flattened from before backwards, which forms a more or less obtuse angle with the axis of the body of the bone.* This neck is thicker at the place where it joins the bone than any- where else, and there, in fact, appears to bulge out. It is longer and smaller below and behind than above and before. The head is separated from the neck, by a variously contorted line which cor- responds to the circumference of the cartilage by which the head is invested. Two other broad and scabrous lines, directed obliquely inwards and downwards, proceeding from the great to the small trochanter, and situated the one before, the other behind the base of the neck, indicate its junction with the body of the bone, and give attachment to the capsular ligament. The part of the neck which is next the head is rounded and smaller. In the rest of its extent it has the form of a triangular prism, with very blunt angles. 497- The second process of the upper extremity of the femur is named the Great Trochanter,'^ (Trochanter Major.) It is a broad, thick, rough, quadrilateral eminence, flattened from before backwards, occupying the outermost part of this region of the fe- mur, and situated at a lower level than the head. The Outer Sur- face of this process is broad and convex. It is covered by the ten- don of the gluteus maximus, from which it is separated by a syno- vial bursa. It is terminated below by a rather prominent ridge, which gives attachment to a portion of the triceps extensor muscle. Its Inner Surface presents at its upper part an irregular depres- sion named the Digital Cavity, which gives attachment to the ten- dons of the pyramidalis, superior and inferior gemelli, obtimator in- ternus, and obturator externus muscles. The Anterior Edge of the great trochanter is not very prominent, but is very broad and rough. It gives insertion to the tendon of the glutaeus minimus. Its Posterior Edge is rounded and more distinct, but narrower, and receives the tendon of the quadratus femoris. Its sjimmit, which is short, thick, and very rough, gives attachment to the glu- tasus medius. • This angle changes with age, until at last the head sinks below the level of the Trochanter Alajor: it changes also its level, the neck shortens and the head of the bone becomes sessile, to use the language of Botanists, from the disease termed by Mr. B. Bell “ Interstitial Absorption,”and has been in this condition, frequent- ly mistaken by Surgeons for cases of fracture in the neck of the bone which had healed by osseous union. See “ Remarks on Interstitial Absorption of the neck of the thigh bone. By Benjamin Bell, Surgeon.” Edin. lS2t.—K. -}- 'TfoxttvTi)f fiiyas of the Greeks, from 'Vfoxoi, a wheel.