114! PASSIVE ORGANS OE LOCOMOTION. farther down, and which is limited internally by the liio-pactineal Eminence, into which the psoas minor is inserted. The edge of which we arc speaking is terminated by a triangular horizontal sur- face, directed slightly downwards and forwards, broader externally than on the inner side, receiving the fibres of the pectineus muscle by its posterior edge, which is thin and uneven, and which forms part of the superior sinus of the pelvis, and continued by the an- terior edge into one of the lips of the sub-pubic channel. The spine of the pubes, to which are attached the pyramidal muscle and the outer pillar of the inguinal ring, occupies the summit of this surface near the union of the anterior edge with the lower. 399. Structure. The iliac bone is in general thick. Its cellu- lar tissue presents large inflated areolae, having the appearance of lace. Two layers of compact tissue, the one external, the other internal, cover it in its whole extent, and touch eacli other in the. centre of the iliac fossae, where the bone is thin and transparent. The bottom of the cotyloid cavity is also very thin. 400. Development. Several years after birth an osseous plate is seen to develope itself upon the upper edge of the bone, to form the niac crest; while a similar plate embraces the sciatic tuberosi- ty, and extends over the branch of the ischium. A third plate at the same time occupies the anterior and inferior tubercle of the ilium, and is more regular in its appearance in the male than in the female. Lastly, a fourth, which is less frequently observed in the male, is formed in the angle of the pubes. But in the fetus, long before this period, three principal centres of ossification are. developed at once in the iliac fossa, at the sciatic tuberosity, and near the spine of the pubes. These three points of ossification unite their fibres in the cotyloid cavity. Nor must we forget to mention, that in certain subjects, especially in females, a particular epiphysis constitutes the spine of the pubes, and forms a small lamina, which occasionally remains moveable on the body of the bone, so that it might be considered as the rudiment of the marsu- pial bone which exists in many animals. This opinion was that of Bedard, and I perfectly agree with him. 401. In consequence of this mode of development, the iliac bone has been divided into three portions, the Ilium,* Piibes,-\ and Ischium.\ The ilium is the uppermost, and forms the margin and prominence of the haunch. I'he puhes constitutes the anterior ])art of the bone, and sustains the external organs of generation. The ischium is the lower portion, and is that which supports the body when it is seated. But although these three regions are distinct in various respects, they must not be considered as constituting so many partievdar bones. We have also to observe, that the upper • Probably so named because it seems to support the intestine called the Ikon. f So named on account of the vicinity of the parts which are developed at pu- berty. J coxa, scu acclahnlum.