574 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4. OK THE SOFT PAUTS OF THE INTEUNAL EAll. 1973. All the cavities of the internal ear are lined by a very fine and very delicate membrane. There is observed, moreover, in each semicircular canal, a membranous tube of a diameter much smaller than the bony canal, and attached to the latter by a very fine cellular tissue. The isolated orifices of the vertical canals and the anterior orifice of the horizontal canal, are furnished each with an ampulla or membranous enlargement which sometimes disguises them. These three ampullae, as well as the opposite ex- tremities of those canals which are destitute of them, end in a com- mon sac which occupies a portion of the vestibule. These parts are filled with a humour which gives to the common sac the ap- pearance of an air-bubble, and to the membranous tubes that of lymphatic vessels, and the whole besides floats in the water of the labyrinth. Another small sac contiguous to the preceding, but not com- municating with it, immediately lines the vestibule, and adheres strongly to its walls. It is filled with a humour of its own, and is composed of thick and strong coats, in which the vestibular rami- fications of the acoustic nerve lose themselves. It sends a pro- longation into the aqueduct of the tympanum, and this prolonga- tion terminates by a small cul-de-sac under the dura mater. In the substance of this membranous sac, there sometimes occur small canals which are filled with mercury by pressure, when the cavities of the labyrinth are filled with that fluid. They communicate with each other, and open partly into the veins of the dxura mater, or form a small sinus of their own, which throws itself into the lateral sinus of that membrane. The membrane of the vestibule introduces itself into the cochlea by the orifice of the external scala. It passes along the latter in its whole extent, and descends again into the internal scala by the aperture of the summit of the spiral lamina, to the fenestra rotun- da, near which it sends a prolongation into the aqueduct of the cochlea. This prolongation also termmates by a cul-de-sac under the dura mater. 1974. The nature of this membrane is unknown; it is vascular in the child ; but in the adult it becomes much less so, and is so thin, and adheres so strongly to the bone that it can scarcely be perceived. It exhales a transparent, slightly viscid fluid, which fills all the cavities of the internal ear, and which is more or less abundant. 1975. The arteries of the internal car come from the meningeal, stylo-mastoid, internal carotid and basilar arteries. The vestibule has a vein which throws itself into the sinus of the internal jugular vein, after traversing the substance of the petrous process by a small canal whose orifice is near that of the aqueduct. Some of these roots come from the scmi-circular canals. 3'hc cochlea has