C(ELIAC PLEXUS. A' <*) A' 5o5 tinuation of it, and fiirnislics tlircc very remarkable seeomlary plexus, which accompany the coronary artery of the stomach, and licpatic and splenic arteries. IMany filaments of the phrenic and pncumo-gastric nerves especially terminate in it, and it also receives some from the last thoracic ganglion. It presents a considerable number of ganglia itself, which vary as to form and size. 1845. Cnronanj Ple.vus of the Stomach. Smaller than the two following, it embraces the artery near its origin by a circle of small ganglia. These ganglia, wliich are very numerous at first, become less frequent as they advance, so that at the place where the artery bends to gain the small curve of the stomach, the plexus is only composed of a few filaments. ^Vhen it sends a branch to the liver, the plexus divides for the ])urpose of accompanying it; but more commonly it continues, without interruption, its course along the small curve of the stomach, spreading successively over the two surfaces of that viscus filaments which anastomose fre- (jucntly with those of the pneumo-gastric nerves (iCiid). Near to the pylorus, the numoer of these filaments becomes much reduced. The upper join the hepatic plexus (1836), and the lower form a ])lexus which spreads out upon the fore part of the right gastro- epiploic artery. 1846. Hepatic plewus. This is much larger than the preced- ing. Belonging to the hepatic artery and vena portae, it directs itself along wdth it towards the fissure of the liver, and divides, above the pylorus, into two portions. The infenor gains the posterior side of the right gastro-epiploic artery, anastomoses with the filaments which the coronary plexus of the stomach sends before it (1845), and accompanies it in the manner of a nervous sheath. As it passes under the great carve of the stomach, there are detached from it numerous filaments which go to that viscus, while others penetrate into the pancreas along with the arteries which are distributed there, and some also go to the duodenum. The upper portion of the hepatic plexus, which is much larger than the lower, presenting very small ganglia in its whole course, expands on arriving at the neck of the gall-bladder, which is sur- rounded on all sides by its interlaced filaments, without their being much prolonged upon the organ itself, in the walls of which a cer- tain number of them are distributed. It forms a small secondary plexus around the pyloric artery, and thus communicates with the filaments which terminate the coronary plexus of the stomach above. Some of its ramifications accompany the ductus communis choledo- chus to the duodenum; but the greater number throw themselves into the substance of the liver along with the roots of the hepatic duct and the branches of the hepatic artery and vena portm. In the fetus, some filaments of this portion of the plexus are united to the um- bilical vein, and accompany it to the placenta. The hepatic plexus receives numerous filaments of the termina- tion of the right pneumo-gastric nerve; but it docs not itself fur-