OF THE HEPATIC AUTERY. 699 2450. Pyloric Artery. It arises from the anterior parts of the hepatic, on the right side of the pylorus, whence it ascends, from right to left, along the small curve of the stomach, to anastomose wfth the termination of the coronary artery of the stomach (2445), after a course of greater or less length. It ^ves to the two sur- faces of the stomach and to the pylorus twigs, which inosculate with those of the-right gastro-epiploic artery. 2451. Right Gaatro-epiploic Artery. It arises to the right of the pylorus and beneath it, and comes oft' from the lower part of the hepatic. Its size is considerable. It descends at first verti- cally behind the stomach as far as its great curvature, applied pos- teriorly upon the second portion of the duodenum, and covered to the left by the pancreas. It then proceeds from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, in the substance of the anterior lamina of the great omentum, as far as the middle part of that cur- vature, where it inosculates with the left gastro-epiploic artery. In its vertical portion, this artery gives off to the right twigs of indeterminate number, and inconsiderable size, which throw themselves into the walls of the duodenum, and to the left, a small branch, which runs transversely along the posterior surface of the pancreas, in which it terminates by anastomosing with the pan- creatic and splenic branches. In its horizontal pm-tion, along the great curvature of the stomach, it furnishes superiorly numerous twigs, which ascend in a fiexuous manner over the two surfaces of the viscus, and anastomose with those of the pyloric artery and coronary artery of the stomach. Inferiorly, it sends oft* some which descend vertically between the laminae of the great omentum, and gain, by being refiected in the posterior lamina, the edge of the arch of the colon, where they in- osculate with the colic arteries. 2452. When the hepatic artery has furnished these two arteries, it gains the groove of the liver, ascending to the right before the vena portae, and behind the hepatic duct, to the right side of the lobule of the liver, and there divides into two considerable branches, a right and a left. 2453. Right Branch. Directed upwards and outwards, it cross,- es the direction of the hepatic duct, beyond which it furnishes the Cystic Artery, which gains the neck of the gall-bladder, and spreads out in the lower part of the walls of that reservoir, where it winds for some time between the serous and mucous membranes of which it is composed. The cystic artery moreover sends a very consider- able twig between the Uver and gall-bladder, to be distributed in the substance of both. After the origin of the cystic artery, the right branch of the he- patic artery dives in the transverse grooye of the liver, and loses itself by ramifying in its right lobe. 2454. Left Branch. Proceeding obliquely upwards and in- wards, it dives in the transverse groove, and loses itself in the left