687 OF THE UADIAL ARTERY. 13IIANCUES BY WHICH THE BRACHIAL ARTERY TERMINATES, 2388. They are two in number, the ulnar artery and tlie radial artery, and separate from each other at an acute angle, under the bend of the arm, and at the place where the tendon of the biceps flexor dives between the anterior muscles of the fore-arm. 1 his division of the brachial artery is not always situated at the same pokit, and not unfrequently takes place about the middle of the arm, and even sometimes in the axilla. Before furnishing the ra- dial and ulnar arteries, this trunk sends in all cases some isolated and small twigs into the bundle of muscles which are attached to the inner condyle. ' OF THE RADIAL ARTERY. 2389* More superficial and smaller than the ulnar, it follows the original direction of the brachial artery, and extends at the fore and outer part of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the wrist joint, where it winds outwards, and dives under the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb, to place itself in the interval of the first two metacarpal bones. From thence it descends be- tween the second of these bones and the abductor indicis (1245), and passes into the palm of the hand, where it constitutes the deep palmar arch. 1. OF THE RADIAL ARTERY IN THE FORE-ARM. 2390. Before the radial artery arrives at the wrist, it has the following relations to the neighbouring parts. 1. Fo.^iteriorlj/, it is applied upon the anterior surface of the ra- dius, from which it is separated above by fat and by the'supinator brevis, in the middle by the pronator teres, farther down by the flexor longus pollicis, and still lower by the pronator quadi-atus muscle, under which it rests immediately upon the bone. 2. Jnterinrli/, it is covered by the radial vein, in its whole ex- tent, and in its two upper thirds by much adipose tissue, and by the supinator radii longus; but below, if becomes subcutaneous, and its pulsations may be very distinctly felt through the skin dur- ing life. 3. Internally, it is applied against the pronator teres above, the flexor carpi radialis at the middle, and flexor digitorum sublimis below. 4. Externally, it corresponds only to the supinator longus and the radial nerve. 2391. 4 he branches which the radial artery gives to the fore- arm arc distinguished into anterior, posterior, external and internal.