ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. C90 2401. Deep Palmar Arch. It is formed by the second branch of the radial artery, which passes transversely to near the ring linger, describing a slight curve having its convexity directed downwards. It is covered by the adductor pollicis, the tendons of the two flexor muscles of the lingers, and the lumbricales, and rests upon the extremities of the metacarpal bones and upon the inter- ossei muscles. The twigs which it furnishes are superior, inferior, anterior and posterior. 2402. Superior Twigs. They are very slender and not nume- rous. They ascend before the carpus and are distributed to its li- gaments and to the adductor, flexor brevis and opponens pollicis muscles. 2403. Inferio-r Twigs. More voluminous and longer, they are generally live in number. The first four descend in the interos- seal spaces, from the second to the fourth, and arrive at the articu- lation of the metacarpal bones with the lingers, where they divide into several small twigs which are distributed upon the lingers. The fifth is a little inclined downwards, and passes between the flexor brevis arid opponens minimi digiti, in which it loses itself. 2404. Anterior Twigs. Very short and small, they are en- tirely destined for the lumbricales muscles. 2405. Posterior. Twigs or Perforating Arteries. They are three in number. At the commencement, they pass through the corresponding interossei muscles, and go to anastomose on the back of the hand, with the twigs of the dorsal artery of the wrist (2393). 2406. The deep palmar arch terminates, toward the inner edge of the hand, by anastomosing wdth a branch of the ulnar artery, under the flexor brevis and opponens pollicis muscles. OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 2407- The Ulnar Artery \s\&T^er than the radial, and descends at the anterior and inner part of the fore-arm, from the bend of the arm to the palm of the hand. It is at first directed a little ob- liquely inwards, and enters between two layers of the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, whose direction it slightly crosses. At the middle part of the fore-arm, it becomes vertical and emerges from beneath the muscles, in the place where the flexor digitorum sublimis muscle separates from the flexor carpi ulnaris. It preserves its direction as far as the pisiform bone, where it is nearly as su- perficial as the radial artery. It then bends outwards, passes over the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and forms in the palm of the hand the supeidicial palmar arch. The ulnar artery, in this course, is a little flexuous. Its upper part describes a slight curve, of which the convexity is directed inwards and backwards. 2403. Its anterior side is covered above, at first by the median