ORGANS OF SENSATION, 4-78 one of wliicli traverses that muscle, ascending heliind it to a greater or less height. OF THE HYPOGLOSSAI, NEllVKS,* Oil NEIIVF.S OF THE EINXH PAIIE 1650. The Ih/poglossal Nerves arise hy ten or twelve very slen- der filaments, before which passes the vertebral artery, from the grooves which separate the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria. These filaments, which arc placed in the same line one above the other, and commence each by two or three roots, descend a little outwards, converging, presently unite into a single cord, sometimes into two, communicate frequently with each other, and issue from the skull by the anterior condyloid foramen, contained in a canal of the dura mater, immediately covered by the neurilemma, and enveloped in a sheath of the arachnoid membrane. 1651. As it leaves the condyloid foramen, the hypoglossal neiwe is united to the outer side of the pneumogastric nerve by cellular tis.sue, and sometimes by a nervous filament. It then descends for- wards and becomes more superficial, placed upon the two branches of the common carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the superior cervical ganglion, and covered by the stylo-hyoideus and digastricus muscles, the occipital artery, and the internal jugular vein. There, it communicates, by one or two filaments, with the nervous arch which the first cervical nerve and the sub-occipital nerve form around the transverse process of the atlas. It then ap- pears between the branches of the internal jugular vein, and imme- diately under the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. Arrived at the angle of the jaw, it changes its direction ; bends under the middle tendon of the digastric muscle, sends a consider- able branch along the neck, and ascends itself forwards towards the tongue, where it terminates. 1652. Descending Cervical Branch. It arises at the place where the hypoglossal nerve forms a bend around the digastric muscle, and is sometimes strengthened at its commencement by a filament from the pneumo-gastric nerve. It descends vertically along the anterior side of the internal jugular vein as far as the middle of the neck, where it bends backwards and up- wards to anastomose with the internal descending branch of the cervical plexus, under the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, and over the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein. This anastomosis forms a reversed arch, from the convexity of which proceed several filaments which constitute in this place a small plexus more or less complicated. From its commencement this branch furnishes no twig ; but, im- mediately before communicating with the cervical plexus, it gives off two anteriorly, which soon unite, to proceed under the omo- hyoideus muscle. There they separate again : one of them loses itself upon the inner surfricc of that muscle; the other traver.ses it. • Tre, sill); y\u<rca^ lilicfuil.