OF THE NOSE IN GENERAL. 575 another vein which issues from the internal scala near the aqueduct, traverses the petrous bone, and opens into the lateral sinus. We have described the acoustic nerve (1620), which is chiefly and solely destined for the internal ear. ARTICLE THIRD. OF THE NOSE AND NASAL FOSSJE, OR ORGANS OF SMELL. A. OF THE NOSE IN GENEBAL. 197^5- The Nose (Nasus^ * is a pyramidal eminence, which varies much in its form and cbmensions. It is placed above the anterior aperture of the nasal fossae (325), which it covers and pro- tects. It therefore occupies the middle and upper part of the face, between the forehead and upper lip, the orbits and the cheeks. Its lateral surfaces are separated from the cheeks by a semicircu- lar groove, and form, by thefr union, a kind of rounded line, more or less straight, and of variable length, which is named the back of the nose. This line is terminated by a prominent portion, which is named the lobe, and beneath which are two apertures se- parated by a partition which is continuous with that of the nasal fossae. Their form is oval, and they are always open. Their out- er sides constitute the wmgs of the nose, and their partition loses itself in the upper lips, forming a small groove in its middle part. They are named nostrils. 1977- more common direction of the nose is that of the me- dian line of the body. It is not at all rare to see individuals, how- ever, in whom it is more or less inclined to either side, whether this kind of deformity depends upon the bones, or only upon the soft parts. 1973. The form of this organ does not vary less than its direc- tion, and these variations de])end upon its general figure or upon that of some of its parts only. I’he variations which act upon the general conformation of the nose may be referred to three principal kinds, viz.: 1st, the aqui- line nose, elongated, a little pointed and inclined downwards ; 2dly, the flat nose, which is very thick, and has its apertures directed more or less forwards; 3dly, the turned-uy nose, in which the lobe is raised and more or less pointed. • V/n of tile Greeks.