78 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 2G4. Its guttural edge, whidi is posterior, is free, thin below, thick and bifurcated above, sometimes notched in the longitudinal direction, and separates the two posterior apertures of the nasal fossaj. 265. The ethmoidal or anterior edge, is marked in its whole extent, or at least in its upper half, by a deep irregular channel, which receives the lower edge of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone above, and the cartilage of the septum naris be- low. This channel is continued into that of the sphenoidal edge. Sometimes it is wanting, and then the cartilage slightly overlaps the vomer on each side. 266. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The vomer is thin, compact, and transparent in almost its whole extent, and presents some traces of cellules at its upper part only. It origi- nates by a smgle centre of ossification, which has the form of a channel. It is articulated to the maxillary and palatal bones, to the ethmoid and sphenoid, as well as to the turbinated bones of the latter. OF THE INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE. 267. Form. The Lower Turbinated Bone, named also Os Spon- giosum Inferius, is of a very irregular form, elongated from behind forwards, rolled up upon itself, wrinkled at its surface, differently formed in different individuals, and suspended over the inner sur- face of the upper maxillary and palatal bones of each side, in the nasal fossae, where it determines the limits of the middle and in- ferior meatus. Its inner or nasal surface is convex and prominent, especially in the middle. It is covered by the pituitary membrane, reticulated and traversed in its whole length by two arterial fur- rows. Its outer or mawillary surface, which is smoother than the other, and free like it, is concave and belongs to the inferior mea- tus of the nasal fossae. 268. The lower edge is free, spongy, rolled up upon itself from beneath upwards, thicker at the middle than at the extremities. The upper edge which is articular and uneven, presents behind a sort of spinous crest, which unites with a similar part of the palate bone, and before a small and very thin margin, furnished with minute asperities, which are articulated to the crest on the base of the fronto-nasal process of the upper maxillary bone. In the middle it is surmounted by a small pyramidal eminence, which ascends to- ward the lachrymal bone, and which completes with it the nasal canal, by some papyraceous laminae which unite with the ethmoid bone, and by a kind of scale curved downwards in the form of a hook, which contracts in part the orifice of the maxillary sinus, in which it is engaged. The two edges of this bone unite so as to form two angles, a posterior and an anterior. The former of these angles is sharper and more elongated ; but both are superficially impressed by ridges