Sis PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tilage, and which is formed laterally by the union of the cartilages of the false ribs, which constitute a sort of convex border, inter- rupted between the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs on each side. Posteriorly, the base of the chest has also two small notches, which arise from the inclination of the last rib upon the vertebral column. It also descends much less lower before than on the sides and be- hind. It gives insertion to several of the abdominal muscles, and especially to the transverse muscles and the diaphragm. 106. Direction of the Chest. The axis of the cone represented by the thorax, or the ideal line which falls perpendicularly upon the middle of its base, is oblique from above downwards, and from behind forwards. But all the walls of the chest do not equally concur to produce the obliquity, which especially depends upon the circumstance that the anterior wall retires from the spine in proportion as it descends. There results from this, that a line as- cending vertically from the centre of the base of this cavity, wovdd not pass through the middle of its summit, but would pierce the upper part of the sternum. 107. Dimensions of the Chest. In the skeleton, the height of this cavity appears much greater than in the body invested with its soft parts, because, in the latter state, the diaphragm ascends pretty high in its interior. It is measured by means of certain ideal lines, which are named its diameters^ and which pass from the sternum to the vertebral column, or from one side to the other. All the diameters are greater below than above. It is also ob- served, that the concavity of the vertebral column augments the dimensions of the antero-posterior diameters in the middle. It is far, however, from compensating the loss which they experience from the projection of the body of the vertebrae; so that these di- ameters are much greater laterally than in the median hne. The dimensions of the chest vary extremely in different indivi- duals. They also experience great variations with relation to age or sex. The height of this part of the trunk is smaller, but its breadth is greater, in woman than in man. 108. Although, as we have already said, the thoracic cavity is generally symmetrical, in otlier words perfectly similar on both sides, it yet sometimes happens that one of its sides is more capa- cious and stronger than the other, and even that it forms a re- markable projection, without this phenomenon being attributable to any original malformation or to disease. IV. OF THE HEAD. 109. The head, or cephalic extremity of the trunk, (caput,) is a spheroid, varying in size, more or less elongated and compressed in different individuals, which terminates the skeleton above, contains the brain and the principal organs of sense, and is articulated to the vertebral column. It consists of two parts, which arc mani-