315 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. space in which tlie obliquus internus appears a little. Its outer smrface covers the anterior part of the last seven or eight ribs and their cartilages, the corresponding intercostal muscles, and the ob- liquus internus. 1106. This muscle compresses the abdomen, depresses and car- ries backwards the ribs, acts in strong exspiration, and makes the thorax perform a rotatory motion which turns it to the opposite side. It draws up the trunk, when it has been bent backwards, or maintains it in its natural ercctness. When the two muscles act together, they bend the thorax directly. If they take their fixed point in the thorax, as when one is lying on his back, they raise the pelvis and inferior extremities. OF THE OBLIQUUS IXTEENUS ABDOMINIS, OE ILIO-ABDOMINALIS. 1107- The obliquus internus is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, like the externus, beneath which it is extended; It is distinctly narrowed behind, where it is attached to the upper part of the crural arch to near the inguinal ring, to the three ante- terior fourths of the interstice of the iliac crest, between the obli- quus externus and transversus muscles, and to a thin and pretty broad aponeurosis, with fibres running obhquely outwards and up- wards, situated behind the inferior bundle of the sacro-spinalis muscle, and before the aponeurosis, of the latissimus dorsi, from, which it cannot be separated, continuous also above with that of the serratus posticus inferior, and attached to the last spinous pro- cesses of the loins, to the sacrum, and to the most remote part of the iliac crest. The fleshy fibres which succeed to this aponeurosis; are not very numerous. They ascend almost vertically, and termi- nate by very short aponeuroses, at the lower edg6 of the cartilage of the last rib. Those which have their origin from the crest of the iliac bone pass obliquely upwards and forwards, and their obliquity, as well as their length, increases the more anteriorly they are exa- mined, so that when close to the superior iliac spine they are almost horizontal. The posterior fibres terminate by short aponeuroses, at the lower edge of the cartilages of the eleventh, tenth, and ninth ribs, where they are confounded with the intercostal muscles hi their interval; and the others are distributed along the middle la- mina of the abdominal aponeurosis, (1102.) Lastly, the fleshy fi- bres which rise from the crural arch, descend inwards, and also ter- minate in the same lamina. About nine lines from the summit of the inguinal ring, they open to allow the spermatic vessels to pass- Some of them pass through the ring, under the name of Cremaster muscle, and accompany the spermatic cord. This disposition is observed only in man, there being nothing of the kind in the fe- male. 1108. The obliquus internus is covered in its outer stir face by the externus, and posteriorly by the latissimus dorsi. Its inner surface is applied upon the sacro-spinalis and transversus abdo- minis.