714. ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. mus which covers it, gives off twigs to it, and arrives towards tlie coccyx, where it loses itself in the ischio-coccygeus and le- vator ani muscles, and in the fat of that part. Another branch is distributed in the lower third of the glutaeus maximus and in the cellular tissue which surrounds the sciatic tuberosity. The third which seems to continue the course of the artery, accompan- ies the sciatic nerve as far as the inferior and posterior part of the thigh, and gives twigs to the glutmus maximus, quadratus, gemelli, biceps, semi-tendino.sus, semi-membranosus and adductor magnus. It ends by anastomosing with the perforating and circumflex ar- teries. b. OF THE INTEENAL PUDIC OE GENITAL AETEEY. (Artere Sous-puhienne, Chauss.) 2522. A little smaller than the ischiatic, it is very often given off by it. It descends, vertically and slightly flexuous, before the sciatic plexus and pyramidalis muscle, and issues from the pelvis by the. lower part of the great sciatic notch, between the pyramid- alis muscle and the posterior edge of the levator ani, united to the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament, being only separated from the ischiatic artery by a layer of fat. Immediately after, it directs it- self downwards and inwards, passes between the two sacro-sciatic ligaments, bends over the anterior, which it embraces externally, places itself upon the internal surface of the ischium, between the obturator internus and levator ani muscles, proceeds nearly hori- zontally forwards and inwards to near the common origin of the ischio-cavernosus and transversus perinoei muscles, and there divides into two branches, which are differently distributed in the male and in the female, and of which one is inferior and the other superior. 2523. In the pelvis, the internal pudic artery sometimes gives rise to the middle haemorrhoidal, obturator, &c. But it always sends some ramifications to the bladder, the vesiculas seminales, the prostate gland, the commencement of the urethra, the rectum, and, in the female, to the upper part of the vagina. 2524. Before dividing, and after issuing from the pelvis, it gives off a great number of twigs, of moderate size, Avhich may be dis- tinguished into internal and external. The internal are spread out in the midst of the abundant fat which surrounds the rectum, and go to be distributed to the sphincter ani and levator ani muscles. The others, which are much more slender, descend towards the tuber ischii, and lose themselves in the origins of the flexor muscle of the leg and in the integuments. 2525. Inferior Branch (Arth'e pcrmeale^ Chauss.) Smaller than the superior, it runs from behind forwards, between the skin and transversalis perinei muscle, in the adipose cellular tissue which fills the triangular space left between the ischio-cavernosus and bulbo-cavernosus muscle. At first nearer the ramus of the ischium than the raphe, it approaches the latter as it advances, and gives