29 RIBS. themselves, for which latter reason one of their extremities always rises when they are placed on a horizonal plane. 84. The body of the ribs, or their middle part, is flat, thin, con- vex externally, and concave within. Its outer surface presents posteriorly a tuberosity divided into two portions. The inner por- tion, which is convex and smooth, is articulated to the transverse apophysis of the dorsal vertebrae; while the outer gives attach- ment to the posterior costo-transverse ligament. More anteriorly, there is observed a projecting line, which is named the angle of the ribs. It is oblique outwards and downwards, and in the lower ribs is more chstant from the tuberosity than in the upper. The sacro-lumbar muscle is inserted into it. Between this angle and the tuberosity, there occurs a rounded, unequal surface, directed backwards, giving attachment to the longis- simus dorsi muscle, and enlarging from above downwards. Anteriorly to the angle, the outer surface of the ribs is smooth, and inclines a little upwards. It gives attachment to various mus- cles, the small pectoral, the serratus magnus, the obliquus externus of the abdomen, &c. 85. The inner surface of the body of the ribs is contracted at its middle part and inclined a little downwards, excepting at the angle, where it looks upwards and forwards. It is covered by the pleura. 86. The upper edge is blunt, and gives attachment to the two planes of the intercostal muscles. The lower edge, which is sharp and thin, and less inclined inwards than the other, is marked with a groove, deep behind, where it commences near the tuberosity, becoming superficial and internal before, and ceasing about the anterior third of the rib. It lodges the intercostal vessels and nerves, and gives attachment by its two edges to the muscles of the same name. Close upon the vertebrm one of these margins forms a rather remarkable prominence. It is named the costal groove. In the first ribs, there is also observed, at the upper edge, a su- perficial vascular groove, which in like manner is obliterated as it advances forward, and wliich is wanting in the lower ribs. 87- The posterior or vertebral extremity of the ribs, is articu- lated to the spinal column, by means of a head, which is generally terminated by two cartilaginous facets, separated by a prominent line to which is attached a ligament, and corresponding to each of the half cavities in the body of the vertebrm. This head is supported upon a contracted and rounded neck, which rests upon the trans- verse apophysis, and gives attachment behind to the middle costo- transverse ligament. 88. The anterior or sternal extremity, which is thinner but broader than the posterior, and elongated from above downwards, is terminated by an oval surface for the reception of the cartilage, with which it is intimately connected. It is also softer than the other extremity, and presents a great number of vascular poro- sities.