292 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. backwards and inwards, becomes broader, and terminates at the middle part of the velum palati, becoming confounded with that of the opposite side, the palato-staphylinus, and a little with the pa- lato-pharyngeus and the aponeurosis of the circumflexus palati. 1011. Its outer surface corresponds above to the circumflexus palati, and below to the palato-pharyngeus and constrictor pharyn- gis superior. The inner is lined above by the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and below by that of the velum palati. 1012. It raises the velum palati so as to apply it against the posterior apertures of the nasal fossae. OF THE LEVATOE UVUL^, OE PALATO-STAPHYLINUS. 1013. This is a small elongated fusiform fleshy bundle, which occupies the substance of the uvula, and which is sometimes single, although in most cases it is distinct on both sides. It arises from the guttural spine and the aponeurosis common to the two circum- flex muscles, and descends vertically to the tip of the uvula. It is connected anteriorly with the levator palati mollis, and is lined pos- teriorly by the membrane of the velum palati. It raises and shor- tens the uvula. OF THE PALATO-PHAEYNG.EUS, OE PHAEYNGO-STAPHYLINUS.* 1014. This is a membranous muscle, broader at its extremities than at its middle part, vertically placed in the lateral waU of the pharynx and in the velum palati. From its origins being very dis- tinct from each other, it may be divided into three portions, which Winslow has described as so many separate muscles. The first or upper, the Peristaphylo-pharyngcBus, is attached to the posterior edge of the palatal vault, and to the aponeurosis of the circumflexus palati, confounding itself in the middle with that of the opposite side. It is broad and thin, and descends posteriorly in the velum palati. The second or middle portion, or Pharyngo-staphylinus, occupies the posterior pillar of the velum palati, and seems by its union with that of the opposite side and with the aponeurosis of the circumflexus palati, to form a sort of arch above the tonsils. It is very narrow. Both are continuous inferioiiy with the third or lower portion, the Thyro-staphylimes, which is laterally flattened, while the others were so from before backwards, and which descends vertically on the side of the pharynx, sending some fibres to the thyroid carti- lage, and intermingling with the stylo-pharyngaeus and the lower and middle constrictor of the pharynx. It is broader than the middle portion. 1015. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the • M. Chaussier has made it a portion of liis stylo-pharyngwus.