no PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. it is not more tliun six or seven lines; its thickness, measuTed from the middle and projecting part of its base to the first tubercle of its posterior surface, is two and a half inches. OK THE COCCYX.* 381. Form. The Coccyx (Cocajgeal Bone, Os Coccygis) is an assemblage of three or four, rarely five small bones, whose size gradually diminishes from above downwards, situated in the me- dian line, connected by interposed cartilages, and seeming as if suspended from the sacrum, to which they form a sort of moveable appendage, and whose curvature they prolong anteriorly. In the adult, these small bony pieces, which are analogous to the vertebrae, although they resemble them less than those of the sacrum, are* almost always united, and constitute a symmetrical triangular bone, which corresponds in man to the tail of quadrupeds, and in which the following parts are distinguished. 382. A Spinal or Posterioi’ Surface, convex, uneven, receiving the insertions of the aponeuroses of the large glutei and posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. 383. A Pelvic or Anterior Surface, concave, smooth, invested by the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. The rectum lies upon it. Like the posterior surface, it is intersected by transverse grooves, which correspond to the intervals by which the different pieces of the bone were for a long time separated. 384. Two Lateral Edges, which are uneven, and give attach- ment to the anterior sacro-sciatic ligaments and the ischio-coccygeal muscles. 385. A Base directed upwards, and presenting anteriorly an oval, concave surface, articulated to the summit of the sacrum, and jiosteriorly two small tubercular eminences, often continuous with the latter bone, and named the Horns of the Coccyx. In almost all cases there are observed upon it two eminences, which are notch- ed for the transmission of the fifth pair of sacral nerves. 386. A tubercular irregular summit, sometimes bifurcated or singularly contorted, which gives attachment to the levatores aiii. 387- Structure. The coccyx is almost entirely spongy. The tissue of which it is composed is commonly softer than that of the other bones. It is invested externally by a very thin plate of com- pact tissue. Its first piece is proportionally larger than the others, plain before, convex and uneven behind. The second is rounded, and has frequently two small processes behind, analogous to the horns of the first piece. The third, which is still more rounded, is broader above than below. The fourth is tubercular, uneven, and has in many cases a great resemblance to one of the last phalanges of the fingers. The first portion is frequently continuous with the • K«x*i/5, cuchIus, from its being supposed to resemble the beak of a cuckoo.