430 ORGANS OF SENSATION. wards leaves it to be reflected over the nerve, and tliere is no longer perceived a complete fibrous canal, but the lamina of the dura mater alone which forms the outer wall of the cavernous sinus is seen externally. Internally, the nerve is separated from the si- nus itself only by a thin and apparently cellular membrane. An- other canal belongs to the pathetic nerve. It is a little higher than the preceding, and much narrower, and like it is fibrous and lined by the arachnoid membrane in the first part of its course. Afterwards it is in like manner only formed by a single lamina of the dura mater applied externally upon the nerve, which is sepa- rated from the rest of the sinus by a thin and transparent mem- brane. Lastly, a little farther back and opposite the upper edge of the petrous process, the dura mater forms a canal for the trifa- cial nerve consisting of two laminae. The upper of these laminae is attached to the posterior clinoid process, and is continued over the upper edge of the petrous process. The other is placed be- tween the nerve and the cavernous sinus, and becomes so thin as to be converted into a cellular lamella, which is prolonged internal- ly of the ophthalmic branch. As it advances, the three nerves, the common motor, pathetic, and ophthalmic, are each engaged in a new portion of entirely fibrous canal, which is afforded them by the prolongation of the dura mater which passes from the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit. 1493. On the middle of the upper surface of the petrous pro- cess, the dura mater covers the superior filament of the vidian nerve, and may easily be detached from it. 1494. It then adheres pretty strongly to the upper edge of the petrous process and to the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone. It descends from thence into the basilar groove, and is intimately attached to the occipital bone over the whole circumference of the foramen magnum. A little laterally, it presents for the external motor nerve of the eye a hole which is not succeeded by a canal, and which transmits it again into the cavernous sinus. The arach- noid membrane descends in it as far as that sinus, which it closes. It is then reflected upon the nerve. Farther on, and upon the posterior surface of the petrous process, the dura mater penetrates into the meatus auditorius internus, seems to enter the aqueduct of Fallopius, but cannot be followed into the foramina which are traversed by the filaments of the acoustic nerve. Farther down, at the level of the foramen lacerum posterius, it envelopes the glosso- pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and is continued into the periosteum of the outer part of the base of the skull. A thinner lamina surrounds the internal jugular vein. It also sends into the anterior condyloid foramen a fibrous canal which is in like manner continuous with the periosteum. 1495. Through the great occipital hole the dura mater passes into the vertebral canal, in the interior of which it forms an in- fundibuliform membranous sheath, rounded in its whole extent, narrower than the bony canal, and on the other hand much wider