755 lymphatic vessels in particular. sents only two or three small ones behind the ear, upon the outer surface of the parotid gland. One or two are also observed behind the zygomatic arch. 2718. Ganglia of the Face. These occur only in small number. A few are observed upon the buccinator muscle. 1 he others pre- vail along the base of the jaw, and surround the anterior belly of the digastric muscles. 2719. Ganglia of the Neck. They are superficial or deep. The former are irregularly disposed beneath the platysma myoides, in the course of the external jugular vein and its branches. The others (glandtilcB concatenatce) occur in the vicinity of the inter- nal jugular vein and common carotid artery. Their number is very great, but their size is small. They form a kind of knotty cord, from the mastoid process to the superior orifice of the thorax, and are prolonged backwards between the pharynx and vertebral column. III.—OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS IN PARTICULAR. A. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH TERMINATE IN THE 4 THORACIC DUCT. 1. OF THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2720. They arise from the toes by very delicate radicles, which at the base of each phalanx form a net-work, from whence proceed twigs which cover the two surfaces of the foot. Those of the up- per surface, (Karnes sus-plantaires, Chauss.) form, by their suc- cessive union, from sixteen to twenty branches, which almost all gain the inner edge of the leg, where they meet the internal sa- phena vein. Those of the inferior surface, (Rames plantaires, Chauss.) collect towards the heel, and form two or three branches around the tendo Achillis. 2721. The first ascend along with the internal saphena vein up- on the anterior and internal sides of the leg. Some of them run upon its outer side, accompanying the external saphena vein; but at different heights, and especially near the knee, bend forwards and inwards, and anastomose with those of the inner side. A very small number also bend in the same manner behind the knee; and in general, all the lymphatics which arise upon the back of the foot, and along the anterior surface of the leg, occur collected at the inner part of the thigh, above the patella. 2722. I'hose which come from the sole of the foot and from the posterior surfaee of the leg ascend around the tendo Achillis, anas- tomosing inwards and outwards with the preceding. They then envelope the calf, and near the ham unite with the others after bending inwards. 2723. Thus united, all the superficial absorbents of the leg as-