A11T1CULAT10N8 OF THE TRUNK. 177 ing In the neck, ■where they seem to he substituted by the muscles uf’^the same name. They represent so many small membranes, whose form varies in proportion to that of the space which they occupy, so that they are narrow and somewhat elongated in the back, while they are .broad and quadrilateral in the loins. U hey also appear stronger and thicker, the lower their situation is in the spine. '^I’lieir surfaces.) which arc lateral) correspond on cither side of the median line, to the erector muscles of the spine generally. One of their edges is attached ahoee to the lower edge of the upper process, another heloW) to the upper edge of that situated beneath. Posteriorly) they are confounded with the ligament by which the apices of the spinous processes are connected, and anteriorly with the ligamenta Hava. They are composed of irregular bundles of fibres, wliich follow different directions, but generally proceed obliquely and in the opposite direction from the spinous ligament just spoken of and the inferior process, so as to cross each other. 580. Ligamentiim quo apices processimm spinosorum vei’teho’a- rtim connectuntur. It is situated behind the summit of the spinous processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, from the seventh cervical vertebra to the middle posterior tubercles of the sacrum. In the back, it is very narrow and much thinner than in the loins. In both regions, its fibres are elosely interlaced with those of the aponeuroses of the neighbouring muscles; but they may easily be distinguished on account of their longitudinal direc- tion. These fibres have not all the same length, but present an arrangement similar to that which we have already observed with respect to the anterior vertebral ligament: in other words, they extend to two, to three, to four, or to five spinous processes, accord- ing as they are deep-seated, intermediate, or superficial. Its pos- tsrior surface is covered by the skin, which strongly adheres to it by means of a dense cellular tissue. Its anterior surface sends fibres to the interspinal ligaments, while its edges confound theirs with the dorsal and lumbar aponeuroses. 581. These are not the only fibrous organs which the vertebral column presents at its surface for our examination. AVeitbrecht, Soemmering and Lauth admit inter-transverse ligaments, which ac- cording to them exist between the transverse processes, from the fifth dorsal vertebra to the eleventh. But these ligaments are no- thing but thin bundles of irregular fibres, which seem to be con- founded with the tendons of the muscles of the vertebral grooves, and which appear destined rather to give them insertion, than to connect the bones, so that we cannot admit, with AVinslow, that these ligaments are analogous to the interspinal, and represent membranes. Around each inter-vertebral foramen, there also occur circular and irregular bundles of fibres, frequently sending off a prolongation which divides the hole into two portions, and which are especially manifest in the lumbar region. N