30O ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. exactly fusiform. It lies vertically at the upper part of the thigh, and arises from the iliac bone by two tendons. One of them is narrow and embraces the anterior and inferior spine of that bone; the other, which is longer, broader, and curved, turns round the edge of the cotyloid cavity, to the u])per part of which it is at- tached, sending some fibres into the capsule of the articulatioji. These two tendons, after a short passage, unite into a single ten- don, which descends vertically, and almost immediately expands into an aponeurosis which occupies the fore part of the upper third of the muscle, and gives rise posteriorly to the fleshy fibres. These form a vertical and bulging bundle, and are inserted successively into the fore part of another aponeurosis which lies upon the pos- terior surface of the muscle, from the place where the other termi- nates. This aponeurosis, after becoming nanwer and thicker, se- parates and forms a flat tendon, which is confounded with that of the triceps extensor, (1291.) 1286. The anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata, and by the iliacus and sartorius muscles ; the posterior is appbed upon the ilio-femoral articulation, the external circumflex vessels, and the triceps extensor. 1287- It extends the leg upon the thigh, or the thigh upon the leg. If the leg is extended, it bends the thigh upon the pelvis, or the pelvis upon the thigh. When one is standing, it fixes the pelvis, and prevents it from falling back. OF THE TKICKl’S EXTENSOK. 1288. This muscle is extremely large. It is divided into three bundles above, and is simple at its lower part. It embraces the femur on all sides, from the base of the trochanters to the patella, and from the inner edge of the linea aspera to its outer edge. Its outer huoidle, (the Vastt/s externus of the older writers.) which is larger than the others, and thicker above than below, is attached to the base and fore part of the great trochanter, as well as to the outer lip of the linea aspera, and, together with the gluta?us maxi- mus, to the ridge by which it is connected with the great trochan- ter, by a broad aponeurosis, expanded over its outer surface to near the middle of the thigh, thick and dense at its upper part, thin and with separated fibres below. The fleshy fibres of the muscle arise from the inner surface of this aponeurosis and another aponeurotic lamina placed between it and the short portion of the biceps, and from the outer surface of the femur. They arc directed obliquely downwards and forw^ards, and are longer above than below, where they become nearly transverse. The last fibres even take their origin from the two upper thirds of the line which descends to the outer condyle of the femur. 'I’hey form together a mass broader and thicker at its middle part than at the extremities, which is at first separated from the middle bundle by a thin layer of cellular tissue, but which is presently so confounded with it as to be no longer separable.