819 OF THE MAM Mil-:. the Testicles of the. female, are two egg-shaped bodies, a little smal- ler than the testicles, placed in the substance of the broad liga;- ment, between the Fallopian tube and the round ligament. They are compressed from before backwards, of a pale red colour, and wrinkled and rough at their surface, which often presents a kind of cicatrices. Their outer extremity gives attachment to one of the fimbria; of the morsus diaboli. The inner is attached to the uterus by a small filamentous cord about an inch and a half long, entirely solid and called the Ligament of the Ovary. 2S82. The ovary is enveloped by a dense, cellulo-filamentous membrane, the inner surface of which sends a very great number of prolongations into the parenchyma of the organ. This parenchy- ma itself is soft and spongy. When torn, it appears composed of cellular and vascular lobules, of a grayish colour, gorged with a great quantity of fluid. In the midst of these lobules, are lodged small vesicles to the number of from fifteen to twenty, transparent, of the size of a millet seed, and formed by a very delicate pellicle, in which is contained a viscid fluid, of a reddish or yellowish colour. Around these vesicles the vascular ramifications are more numerous and more minute. III.—THE MAMMJE. a. GENEEAL DISPOSITION. 2938. Before the age of puberty, the Mamma, which are of very small size, scarcely contribute to determine the difference be- tween the sexes ; but in the adult and well formed woman, they present themselves on the lateral and anterior part of the chest, be- tween the axilla and sternum, under the form of two hemispheri- cal, somewhat conical, hard and firm eminences, slightly separat- ed from each other, covered by a fine, smooth, semi-transparent skin, softer to the touch and less coloured than that of the rest of the body. No wrinkle or fold is observed upon them in the- healthy state. 2984. Towards the central part of each mamma however, the skin is seen abruptly changing its colour and assuming a rosy tint in young girls, or a reddish brown one in women who have suckled several children. This circle of the skin, where the latter is re- markable for its extreme tenuity, presents however a wrinkled ap- pearance owing to the presence of sebaceous glands, and is called tlie Areola of the nipple. These glands, whose number varies from four to six, are irregularly disseminated over the whole areola, or form a regular circle near its circumference They present near their summit, two, three, or four small apertures, the orifices of I their excretory ducts. They seem destined to furnisli an unctuous I fluid calculated to protect the nipple against the action of the saliva ; of the child.