OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 691 nerve, after-wards by’the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, riexor digitorum subliinis and flexor carj)i ulnaris muscles. Infe- riorly, it is in relation with the aponeurosis and skin, from which it is separated only by the lateral projections of the flexor subli- mis and flexor carpi ulnaris. In the hand, it is entirely conceal- ed beneath the palmaris brevis and palmar aponeurosis. 2409. Its posterior side is applied, from above downwards, upon the brachialis internus, flexor digitorum sublimis and pronator quadratus muscles, the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the tendons of the two flexor muscles of the fingers. 2410. Its inner side is coasted by the ulnar nerve and flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. It corresponds below to the pisiform bone. 2411. Its outer side is applied upon the flexor digitorum sub- limis. 2412. Antei'ior Ulnar Recurrent Artery^ (Recnrrente de I'epi- troklee, Chauss.) It arises from the inner side of the ulnar artery, at the moment of its commencement, and descends at first a little outwards between the brachialis internus and pronator quadratus and flexor carpi radialis muscles. It then ascends towards the fore part of the inner condyle, where it anastomoses with the ra- mus anastomoticus (2S87). If of small size, and gives twigs to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis and flexor digitorum subli- rais muscles, the periosteum of the humerus and the integuments. 2413. In the fore-arm, the ulnar artery gives oft' branches which are distinguished into internal, external, anterior and pos- terior. 2414. Internal Branches. The largest and most constant is t\ie Posterior Ulnar Recur rent Artery, (Recurrente de lepitroklee, Chauss.) which much exceeds the anterior in size, and comes off from the ulnar artery a little lower than it. It descends at first inwards, behind the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis and flexor digitorum sublimis, and before the flexor digitorum profundus. It then ascends behind the inner condyle, between that eminence and the olecranon, beside the ulnar nerve, passes between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris (1166), and anastomoses with the deep humeral (2383) and the ramus anastomoticus (2387). If gives off a great number of twigs which are distributed to the flexor muscles of the fingers, flexor carpi ulnaris, and triceps ex- tensor muscles, to the ulnar nerve and the integuments. 24L5. Nothing can be less regular as to number and disposition than the other internal branches. One of them however, which is somewhat larger than the rest, separates from the ulnar artery at its lowest part, and goes to unite with the dorsal artery of the car- pus or to lose itself upon the corresponding edge of the hand. 2416, External Branches. Very numerous and small, they almost all throw themselves into the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris. One of them however is constant in its occur- rence. It follows the inferior edge of the pronator quadratus, and goes to communicate with a similar branch of the radial arterv (2395).