788 ORGANS OF SECRETION. h. OF THE KIDNEYS.* 1. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2860. The Kidneys (Renes), the secreting organs of the urine, are two glands deeply situated in the lumbar regions, on the sides of the vertebral column, opposite the last two dorsal and the two first lumbar vertebras, behind the peritoneum, one to the right, the other to the left. Their number sometimes varies. Thus indivi- duals have been seen to present three kidneys, and others a single kidney lying transversely upon the vertebral column. The kidneys are enveloped on all sides by a very solid and very thick mass of fat, in which they seem imbedded. It is also com- monly observed that the left kidney is higher than the right, on ac- count of the difference in size between the liver and spleen. The colour of the kidneys is a dark red, inclining to brown. Their form is that of an ovoid compressed on two surfaces, and notched on its inner edge, like a kidney-bean. Their volume is proportionally larger in children than in adults, in women than in men. 2861. The anterior surface of the kidneys is very convex and sometimes completely covered by the peritoneum. At other times it is more or less in connection, to the right side, with the vertical portion of the duodenum, the liver and the ascending colon, and to the left, with the spleen and the descending colon. 2862. Their j)osterior surface, which is almost flat, is applied upon a thick layer of fat which separates it from the diaphragm and the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle. 2863. Their circumference presents: 1st superiorly, a thick and rounded extremity, embraced by the corresponding renal cap- sule ; 2dly, inferiorly, a thin and somewhat elongated extremity, which approaches more or less the iliac spine ; 3dly, externally, a thick convex edge, inclined backwards ; 4thly, internally, a deep notch, more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly, and called the Fissure of the Kidney. 2. ORGANIZATION OF THE KIDNEYS. 2864. Each kidney receives from the aorta an artery of considei*- able diameter, although rather short (2483), and sends to the vena cava inferior corresponding veins (2680). A very distinct nervous plexus accompanies these vessels (1851), and around them there also occur lymphatic vessels (2749). We have already described all these organs, so that there only remains for us to examine the proper parenchyma of the kidney and its envelope. 2865. The parenchyma of the kidney is firmer than that of the • of the Greeks.