OF THE RENAL AND SPERMATIC ARTERIES. 705 left, moreover, gives some twigs to the colon and spleen; the right to the duodenum and liver. b. OF THE RENAL OR EWULGENT ARTERIES. 2478. Of large size, and very short, and generally two in num- ber, one on each side, they come off below the capsular arteries and the superior mesenteric, forming with the aorta an angle ap- proaching more or less to a right one. The left is commonly a lit- tle more anterior and higher than the right. Immersed in a very abundant adipose cellular tissue, directed transversely over the sides of the bodies of the vertebras, covered by the renal vein and peritoneum on both sides, and, on the right only, by the vena cava inferior, they arrive, after a rather short course, at the fissure of the kidney, where they divide into two, three, or four large branches. 2479. Before arriving at the kidney, they give off only very slender twigs and in indeterminate number, which ascend towards the supra-renal capsule, or lose themselves, under the name of Adi- pose Arteries, in the surrounding fat. They also, however, fre- quently furnish the spermatic arteries. 2480. The three or four branches which terminate each renal artery separate from each other, and introduce themselves into the kidney, between the pelvis, which is behind and below, and the roots of the renal vein, which are before. They presently divide into a considerable number of twigs which pass between the walls of the pelvis and parenchyma of the kidney, and subdivide around the calyces into a certain number of small twigs. These pass round each of the bundles of tubes which are to form one of the mammillae of the kidney, and anastomose with each other so as to constitute a distinct arch, the convexity of which is turned towards the cortical substance, which receives a prodigious number of rami- fications from it. 2481. In some subjects there are three or four renal arteries on each side; but this arrangement is not of frequent occurrence. C. OF THE SFERMATIC ARTERIES. (Arthe testiculaire et Art. de I'ovaire, Chauss.) 2482. Two in number, one on each side, very slender and of great length, they come off from the anterior or lateral parts of the aorta, and sometimes from the renal arteries. They do not al- ways both come off from the aorta at the same level, but pretty frequently one of them is higher than the other. In all cases, however, forming with it a very acute angle below, they descend almost vertically, and only a little outwards, over the sides of the