335 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. pollicis, and the last two palmar intcrossei muscles. Its outer edge corresponds above to the anterior interosseous artery. 1180. This muscle bends the third phalanges upon the second, the latter upon the first, the first upon the metacarpus, and the hand upon the fore-arm, or the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THK FLEXOR LOXGUS FOLLTCIS MANUS. 1181. This muscle is elongated, thin, flattened, thicker inter- nally than externally, and situated upon the radius, from the three upper fourths of which it arises by short aponeurotic fibres, as well as from the neighbouring portion of the interosseous ligament, and even frequently from the coronoid process of the ulna, by a partiL cular prolongation, fleshy in the middle, and tendinous at its es.- tremities. The fleshy fibres, which are all oblique and about an inch long, form a bundle which descends nearly vertically, and are inserted at the baek part of a tendon which they accompany until opposite the pronator quadratus. This tendon then becomes free and rounded, passes before the carpus, under the annular ligament, with the tendons of the two preceding muscles. It is there kept down by the synovial membrane which belongs to them (1174) and afterwards descends obliquely outwards between the two por- tions of the flexor brevis pollicis, then between the two sesamoid bones. It then passes into a fibrous sheath similar to that which we have described in the other fingers (1175), but whose fibres are very widely set and much larger. It is there invested by a syno- vial membrane which keeps it in place, presents the trace of a longitudinal division, and terminates by being expanded over the anterior surface of the last phalanx of the thumb. 1182. The anterior surf ace of the flexor longus pollicis is cover- ed by the flexor digitorum sublimis, flexor carpi raclialis and supi- nator longus muscles, the radial artery, and the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The posterior surface lies upon the radius, part of the interosseous ligament, the pronator quadratus, the wrist joint, the fore part of the carpus, and the flexor brevis polli- cis. Its inner edge, which is much thicker than the outer, lies upon the flexor digitorum profundus. 1183. This muscle bends the last phalanx of the thumb upon the first, the first upon the corresponding metacarpal bone, and the latter upon the radius. It can also bend the hand upon the fore- arm and the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE PRONATOR QUADRATUS. (M. Culnto-Radial. Chauss.) 1184. The pronator quadratus is, as its name implies, of a quadrilateral form, thin and flat. It lies upon the lower part of the