articulations of the superior extremities. by various irregular fibres. There are also observed some which pass transversely over the prominence which its fibro-cartilage forms behind. ... C37. Obturator Ligamenty (Memhrana ohturans foraminis thijroidis, Weit.) It is on account of its situation that we here describe this fibrous organ, for it docs not at all belong t;9 the articulations of the pelvis. It is a true membrane, which almost entirely closes the obturator hole, to the circumfer- ence of which it is attached, excepting at the upper part, where there remains a more or less distinct notch for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Its fibres are interlaced in various directions. They are always more marked toward the notch. They form, in places, small distinct, thin and flat fasiculi. Its a/nterior surface corresponds to the obturator externus muscle, and the posterior to the obturator internus, both of which are in part at- tached to it. B.—ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE EXTRE- MITIES. I. ARTICULATION OF THE BONES OF THE SUPERIOR EX- TREMITIES. 1. Sterno-Clavicular Articulation. G38. The clavicle is articulated by arthrodia with the upper ex- tremity of the sternum, which presents a concave surface (78) for the reception of the head of that bone (439). The two arti- cular surfaces, but especially that of the clavicle, are invested with a layer of diarthrodial cartilage, remarkable for its thickness. They do not exactly correspond in their dimensions, for the head of the clavicle exceeds in aU directions, and especially above and before, the circumference of the cavity of the sternum. Several ligaments serve to strengthen this articulation, and surround it on all sides, so as to bear, in their general capacity, some resemblance to the nature of fibrous capsules, and to have their neighbouring edges nearly continuous. 639. Anterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament.—This is a broad fasciculus, consisting of divergent fibres, separated by vascular in- tervals. It is fixed by its narrow extremity to the fore part of the head of the clavicle, whence it proceeds downwards and inwards over the edges of the articular cavity of the sternum, where it is attached by its broadest extremity. By its posterior surface it covers the two synovial membranes, and adheres strongly to the inter-articular fibro-cartUage, and by the anterior corresponds to the sterno-mastoideus and the integuments. 640. Posterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament.—This ligament is narrower and weaker than the preceding; its fibres are also lc.ss divergent. It is attached, on the one hand to the posterior part of