811 OF THE VULVA IN FAllTICULAR. iastfy between the entrance of the vagina and the fourchette, a small transverse depression termed the l^ossa navicularis. 1. OF THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE VULVA IN PARTICULAR. 2950. Mons Veneris. This rounded eminence, which is more or less prominent in different individuals, and situated before the pubes, is formed by a mass of fat upon wluch the skin is imme- diately applied. It is covered with hairs at the period of puberty. These hairs are not quite so long as those observed on the corres- ponding part in the male, and also occupy a more limited space,, although in some cases they extend to near the umbilicus. Their colour is very variable. They are almost all curled, especially in women wlio have abused coition. 2951. Labia Pudendi (Labia majora). These arc two mem- branous folds, thicker above than below, whose length is much about the same in aU women, but whose volume and projection are in the direct ratio of the degree of fatness of the individual. Their miter surface is contiguous to the upper and inner part of the thighs, and is furnished with a few hahs. It is formed by a prolonga- tion of the skin, beneath wliich there is found a considerable numbep of sebaceous follicles. The inner surface is red and lined by the mucous membrane of the other parts of the vulva. It is smooth and pohshed. Their edge is a little convex, thin or rounded, and is invested by the skin. The interval which exists between the skin and the mucous membrane of the labia pudendi is filled by an adipose tissue similar to that of the Mons Veneris, and traversed by some whitish and fibrous slips. There also occur in it some isolated fibres of the constrictor vaginae muscles, together with vessels and nerves. 2952. Clitoris. * This is a small elongated tuberdc, more or less prominent, generally concealed by the labia, and occupying the upper and middle part of the vulva. In some women this or- gan assumes an extraordinary development, and acquires a length of several inches. Such a conformation is generally in connection with a robust and masculine constitution. The clitoris has a great resemblance to the penis,. Its free ex- tremity forms a kind of rounded and imperforated glans, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane analogous to the prepuce, and laterally continuous with the nymphae. Above this glans, is a true corpus cavernosum, attached by its roots, like that of the male, to the rami of the ischia, and sustained, under the symphysis pubis, by a kind of transversely flattened sus}>cn- sory ligament. This corpus cavernosum has the same structure as that of the penis ; only its internal spongy tissue is denser. In proportion to its volume, it receives a great quantity of vessels KXftTojif of lUe Greeks.