MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 297 become longer the farther back they are situated, are less and less oblique, so as ultimately to become nearly vertical. They termi- nate by aponeuroses at the lower and fore part of the body of the hyoid bone. 1031. The obiter surface of the mylo-hyoideus, which inclines downwards and forwards, is covered by the digastricus and platys- ma myoides, and by the sub-maxillary gland. The mner surface covers the genio-hyoideus, genio-glossus, and hyo-glossus muscles, the sub-hngual gland, the duct of tlie sub-maxillary gland, the prolongation of that gland, and the lingual nerve. 1032. It raises the hyoid bone and carries it forward, or it de- presses the lower jaw. OF THE GENIO-HYOIDEUS. 1033. This muscle is situated behind the preceding. It is thin, short, flat, narrower above than below. It arises from a kind of small tendon inserted into the lower genial process (290), and descends backwards to be attached to the middle part of the ante- rior surface of the body of the os hyoides. Its anterior surface, wliich is inclined downwards, is covered by the mylo-hyoideus ; the posterior is apphed upon the genio-glossus and hyo-glossus. Its inner edge is contiguous to that of the opposite side, and is often confounded with it. 1034. The action of this muscle is to raise the hyoid bone, car^ rying it forward, or to depress the jaw. 3. Inferior Hyoid Region. OF THE OMO-HYOfDEUS, OK SCAPULO-HYOIDEUS. 1035. The Omo-hyoideus is a very long, slender, flattened, and very narrow muscle, situated obliquely on the sides and fore part of the neck. It arises below, by aponeurotic fibres, longer before than behind, from the upper edge of the scapula, behind the cora- coid notch (430), and often from the ligament which converts the latter into a hole. It ascends forwards and inwards, becoming nar- rower, passes behind the clavicle, sometimes attaching itself to its posterior edge, crosses the direction of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and, behind it, is converted into a very thin and narrow tendon, of variable length, always more distinct before than behind. It then becomes fleshy again, increases its breadth, and ascends nearly parallel to the sterno-hyoideus, to terminate by very short apon- euroses on the sides of the lower edge of the body of the hyoid bone. , 1036. Its outer surface is covered by the trapezius, platysma myoides and sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and by the clavicle. The inner surface corresponds to the two scaleni, the anterior branches