ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 200 of the transverse processes of the first three or four cervical verte- brae, by as many small tendons, frequently united with the splenius and scalenus posticus. Each of these tendons gives rise to a fleshy bundle. That of the atlas is the longest and thickest. The others become longer as they are more inferior. They are at first isolated, but unite below into a single bundle, which descends obliquely backwards and outwards to be inserted by short tendinous fibres, into the posterior angle of the scapula, and the inner part of its upper edge. There it is evidently confounded with the serratus magnus, which has induced M. Dumeril to consider it as a fourth portion of that muscle^ an opinion which derives additional weight from the anatomy of quadrupeds. 854. Its outer surface is covered at its upper part by the stemo- cleido-mastoideus, in the middle by the skin, and below by the trapezius. The inner surface is applied upon the serratus posti- cus superior, sacro-lumbalis, transversalis colli and splenius. Itspos- terior edge covers a portion of the upper edge of the rhomboideus. 855. This muscle depresses the tip of the shoulder by raising the posterior angle of the scapula, which it causes to perform a rotatory motion. When it acts in concert with the trapezius, the shoulder is directly raised. It may also incline the neck to its Si.le, or fix it in the erect position, when it acts in conjunction with its fellow, S. Intercostal Region* OF THE INTEECOSTALES EXTEENI. (M. Inter-costauw ewternes, Chauss.) 856. These muscles are twelve in number, and are situated in the intercostal spaces, from the vertebral column to the union of the ribs with their cartilages. They are thin, and borrow their form and breadth from each of the spaces which receive them. Their fibres, which seem to be continued anteriorly by very delicate aponeuroses, whose fasciculi are prolonged as far as the sternum, are attached above to the outer lip of the lower edge of the rib above, and posteriorly to the transverse process of the vertebra with which that rib is articulated. Tendinous bundles are pro- longed between them, and multiply their points of insertion. They descend from thence obliquely inwards and forwards, and terminate at the upper edge of the lower rib, partly in the periosteum^ and partly in small aponeuroses with which they are interlaced. Those of the upper mtercostal muscles are less oblique than those of the lower, and they are more so posteriorly than before. 857« Their outer surface is covered by the two pectoral muscles, the serratus magnus, obliquus externus abdominis, serratus posticus, superior and inferior, sacro-lumbalis, and longissimus dorsi. 1 he /??- ner surface covers the pleura from the tuberosity to the angle of the ribs. In the rest of its extent, it is applied upon the corresponding internal intercostal muscle, from which it is separated by a thin layer of cellular tissue, and above by the intercostal vessels and nerves.