ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 22,1 posterior surface covers the tibialis posticus and flexor longus pro- prius pollicis, which are also in part attached to it. At the upper and outer part, this membrane presents a pretty large aperture for tlie passage of the anterior tibial vessels. At the lower part, it is continuous with the interosseous lipment of the inferior articula- tion, and presents a hole, which gives passage to a branch of the peroneal artery. There also occur in various points of its surface, and especially internally, a considerable number of holes for vas- cular ramifications. IXrEmOR ARTICULATION OF THE TIBIA WITH THE FIBULA. 731. This articidation is manifestly continuous with that of the ankle, from which it borrows part of its synovial membrane, and is formed by means of a convex surface of the fibula, which is fitted to a concave surface of the tibia. Both are invested with a thin cartilage, but at their low'er part only. It is in faet only in an ex- tent of two or three lines that they are contiguous, and their car- tilage is merely a prolongation of that of the ankle joint. Four ligaments occur here. 732. Anterior Ligament. It is triangular, broader below than above, directed obliquely from without inwards, and a little from below upwards, and divided into several fasciculi by cellular tissue. Its base is attached to the fore part of the lower extremity of the fi- bula, and is partly confounded with the ligaments of the next arti- culation. Its summit is inserted into the fore part of the neigh- bouring portion of the tibia. Its anterior surface is covered by the peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the skin ; the posterior’ covers at its upper part the inferior interosseous ligament, and is in contact below with the cartilage of the astragalus. 733. Posteiior Ligament. This resembles the preceding, but is a little smaller. Its structure is the same. It is attached on the one hand, behind the tarsal extremity of the fibula, and on the other, to the neighbouring part of the tibia. The lateral peroneal muscles cover it, and it lies upon the inferior interosseous liga- ment and the astragalus. Its fibres, like those of the preceding, are longer the more superficial they are. 734. Posterior and Inferior Ligament. Continuous with the preceding, and with the posterior ligament of the articulation of the fibula with the tarsus, this ligament is inserted behind the mal- leolus externus, and directs itself transversely to that of the tibia, passing to the upper part of its articular surface, and forming a very distinct fibrous fasciculus. It forms part of the cavity which receives the articular pulley of the astragalus in the ankle joint. 735. hiferior Interosseous Ligament. It fills up the interval left by the osseous surfaces of the articulation above their cartila- ges. It is a dense tissue, intermingled with some adipose flakes.