ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 322 edge of tlic bicipital groove of the humerus, in the manner which we have already described. 1132. Its posterior surface is covered internally by the latLssi- mus dorsi, and in the middle by the skin. Externally, it corres- ponds to the humerus and the long portion of the triceps. The anterior surface is in connection with the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and with the axillary vessels and brachial plexus. Its lower edge, which is covered by the integuments, forms with the latissimus dorsi the posterior edge of the hoUow of the axilla. The upper edge, which is united to the teres minor internally, but separated from it in the middle by the long portion of the triceps, corresponds externally with the sub- scapularis muscle, and the circumflex vessels and nerve. 1133. This muscle rotates the humerus inwards. When its ac- tion is combined with that of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major, it applies the arm against the thorax. It is consequently an antagonist of the two preceding muscles. 1134. We have already several times made mention of the axilla or arm-pit, of which the teres major, as we have just said, forms the posterior edge. It is the angle or cavity that lies beneath the junction of the arm with the shoulder, and which is limited before by a portion of the pectoralis major, and behind by a part of the latissimus dorsi. The form of this cavity varies in the different positions of the arm. The skin by which it is lined is soft and delicate, covered with hairs, and attached to the adjacent parts by a loose filamentous laminar tissue, capable of great extension. It is filled with sebaceous foUicles which furnish an excretion having a strong smell and more or less coloured. Beneath the skin, and in the midst of the adipose tissue, there are seen several lymphatic ganglia, nerves, and vessels, which it is of great importance to know. 2. Anterior Scapular Region. OF THE SUBSCAPULARIS. 1135. The Subscapularis is a very thick triangular muscle, which occupies the whole of the subscapular fossa, from the three inferior fourths of which it arises, both from its periosteum, and from three or four aponeurotic partitions between the fleshy fibres, which are themselves attached to the obhque bony ridges presented by the scapula at this place. Some of its fleshy fibres also come from another aponeurotic septum placed between it and the pre- ceding muscle. They are disposed into five or six chstinct bundles which converge together, and proceed outwards, the upper horizon- tally, and the lower more and more obliquely. They are attached to the two surfaces of a broad and flat tendon, which appears to owe its first origin to the aponeurotic partitions of the muscle,