276 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, laris palpebrarum. Its anterior surface is covered by these two muscles, and, a little inwards, by the pyramidalis nasi. The pos- terior surface covers the frontal bone, the superciliary artery, and the frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. 922. It draws toward the nose the skin of the eyebrows, of which it raises the hairs so as to shade the eye. It acts especially in the malevolent and depressing passions. OF THE LEVATOR PALPEDR.E SUPERIOUIS. (M. Orbito-palpelrral, Chauss.) 923. This muscle, which is situated in the interior of the orbit, is long, slender, thin, and depressed, much broader anteriorly than posteriorly, and accompanies the rectus oculi superior. It is at- tached, by short aponeuroses, to the meningeal sheath of the optic nerve, and by a small tendon to the lower surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, not far from the optic foramen, from which it is only separated by the rectus superior. From these origins, it is directed horizontally forwards, until it arrives at the upper part of the ball of the eye, when it curves downwards, ex- panding and gradually losing its red colour, to descend as far as the fibro-cartilage of the upper eyelid, to the upper edge of which it is attached by a very thin and membranous aponeurosis, which sends some fibres to the outer part of the orbit, and which contri- butes to the formation of the palpebral ligament. 924. Its upper surface is in contact, posteriorly, with the vault of the orbit, and with the frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. More anteriorly, it is eovered by much adipose’cellular tissue; and at its foremost part, the palpebral ligament separates it from the orbicularis palpebrarum. Its inferior surface is in connection posteriorly with the rectus superior, and anteriorly with the tunica conjunctiva. 925. It raises the upper eyelid, and draws it backwards within the orbit. 2. Ocular Region. OF THE ATTOLLENS OCULUM, OB RECTUS OCULI SUPERIOR. 926. It is situated under the levator palpebrm superioris, and has the same form as that muscle, but is a little shorter. It is attached, posteriorly, between it and the optic foramen, to the pro- cess of Ingrassias and the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, ming- ling there a little with the abductor oculi. It then proceeds hori- zontally forwards to the upper part of the ball of the eye, where it degenerates into a thin aponeurosis, which transmits a part of its fibres to the sclerotic membrane. 927. This aponeurosis, as well as that which terminates toward the eye the three other recti, is separated from that organ by a