OF THE MIDDLE CEKVICAL GANGLION. .025 1. Some of them, which are superior and very short, go to anas- tomose immediately with the facial, pneumo-gastric and hypoglos- sal nerves. The latter communication however but very rarely ex- ists, perhaps even is never met with. One of these filaments, which is longer than the others and very slender, goes to unite with the stylo-hyoid twig of the facial nerve (1609), and sometimes sends a ramification into the stylo-mastoid hole, to form on the promontory of the tympanum the anastomosis of which we have already spoken (1725). This ramification then replaces one of those of the superior filaments, or it joins the trunk of the facial nerve itself. 2. Others, to the number of two or three only, of a reddish co- lour and soft consistence, leave the ganglion to proceed forwards, behind the point of division of the common carotid artery, where they form a plexus with numerous meshes, in conjunction with de- scending filaments of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (1627). Of the filaments which issue from this plexus some run behind the com- mon carotid artery, and accompany it as far as the arch of the aor- ta, or to the brachio-cephahe artery, crossing each other in a very intricate manner. They constitute the Common Carotid Plexus. The others turn over the external carotid artery, and envelope it with a plexus which divides into as many secondary plexus as the latter presents branches, and which are moreover joined by very slender filaments of the facial and pneumogastric nerves. Fre- quently at the origin of these secondary Ibigual, facial, occipital, temporal, inferior pharyngeal, and internal maxillary plexus, there are observed small white or gray ganglia which give out fila- ments to them like so many radii. The point at which these plexus terminate cannot be precisely determined; but it is more than pro- bable, that they accompany the arteries to their last ramifications. They have been traced as far as the middle of the face, towards the division of the labial arteries. The common carotid plexus sends some twigs to the pharnynx, the larynx and the trachea. That of the facial artery sends twigs to the submaxiUary gland, and communicates with those of its ganglion (1803), and with those of the lingual nerve of the infe- rior maxillary, and of the hypoglossal nerve (1653). That of the internal maxillary artery arrives at the dura mater, by following the middle meningeal artery. 3. The last anterior filaments of the superior cervical ganglion unite after a short course, to form the superior cardiac nerve, of which we shall presently speak. OF THE MIDDLE CERVICAL OR THYROID GANGLION. 1811. This ganglion, which is often entirely wanting, sometimes double, and which varies extremely as to size, is situated ojiposite to the fifth or .sixth vertebra, near the curve of the inferior thyroid