PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 120 thicker, the muscular impression more distinct, the articular sur- faces broader. Every thing, as Verrheien has remarked, seems to impress the idea of strength; while, in the female pelvis, every thing seems to indicate its adaptation to childbirth. 419. The stature has no decided influence upon the dimensions of the pelvis, and the differences existing in individuals are inde- pendent of it. It is well known that little women are delivered with as much ease as tall women, and bring forth children quite as large as theirs. VI.—OF THE TRUNK IN GENERAL. 420. We have already seen that the head bears a certain re- semblance to the vertebrae, and possesses aU their parts. The two other portions of the trunk, the thorax and pelvis, present a similar analogy. Thus the ribs appear to be nothing but transverse pro- cesses prolonged in an extreme degree; the sacrum and coccyx seem to be the continuation of the body and spinous and articular processes of the vertebrae, of which the iliac bones would also re- present the transverse processes, highly developed, on accoimt of certain particular purposes for which they are intended. This as- similation becomes still more evident when it is known that the muscles which are inserted into it are entirely analogous to those attached to the vertebrae,* differing merely as to form and length. 421. Between the head and chest, the trunk presents an empty space, the length of which is determined by that of the cervical region of the spine. This space is occupied by the Throat. An- other empty space occurs between the base of the chest and that of the pelvis, which is filled up by the Abdomen; this space, how- ever, is much larger than the first. 422. AU the regions of the trunk are not of equal breadth. J t is observed that, in the female, its broadest part is the pelvis; in man, the broadest part is at the base of the thorax. In both sexes, the head is the narrowest region of the body ; but in very young children, its dimensions are larger than those of the thorax and pelvis VII.—OF THE EXTREMITIES OR LIMBS. 423. The Extremities or Limbs are appendages of the trunk, four in number, disposed symmetrically in pairs, .inserted into it by one of the extremities, and composed of a series of bones re- presenting contiguous levers, all shaped obliquely at their extre- mities. * Dumcjil, loc. cit.