7 rUELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. They constitute what is named the flesh of animals. I. The Tendons, (Tendines,) white, glistening, librous cords, varying as to length and thickness, rounded or flat, very frequent- ly terminating the muscles, and fixing them to the bones by one of their extremities only. J. The Jpuneuroses, (Aponeuroses,) which arc fibrous mem- branes of a pearly white colour, iridescent, glistening, and sattiny, more or less broad and strong, of a dense, compact, elastic tissue, possessed of little extensibility. They envelope the muscles, or furnish a point of attachment to their fleshy fibres. K. The Adipose Tissue, an aggregation of very small and even microscopic vesicles, attached to each other by laminar cellular tissue, and forming a reservoir for the fat. L. The Elastic Tissue, which forms organs of a peculiar yel- lowish tint, possessed of extreme elasticity, and of an albuminous and fibrinous nature, and is always in a state of antagonism to the action of gravity and muscular contraction, as in the arteries, the vertebral column, &c. M. The Nerves, (Nervi,) soft whitish cords, of variable form, which divide into a great number of branches, which convey feel- ing and motion to all parts of the body, and which are formed of small filaments placed beside each other, and connected by cellu- lar tissue and vessels, and of microscopic globules differently ar- ranged from those which compose the muscles. N. The Glands, (Glandules,) organs varying much in respect to form, size, colour, consistence and structure, but all destined to separate from the mass of the blood a fluid peculiar to each of them individually, and which is immediately rejected by means of ramified excretory ducts, or retained for some time in isolated re- servoirs.* O. The Follicles, or Crypts, (Folliculi,) membranous, vascu- lar vesicles, of a rounded or lenticular form, in which is secreted a peculiar fluid, which is expanded over the surface of the part, and lubricates it. They are observed abundantly in the substance of the skin, in the mucous membrane, &c. P. The Lymphatic Ganylions, (Conglobate Glands of the old authors,) small bodies varying in size and form, of a reddish or grey colour, whose intimate texture has not yet been determined, of a firmer consistence than any other soft organ, receiving on the one hand some lymphatic vessels, and on the other transmitting some which proceed to join their common trunk. Q. Lastly, The Viscera, (Viscera,) which arc organs of a very complicated structure, formed of most of the tissues which we have enumerated, and situated entirely or in part in the cavities of the • Some bodies termed glands liave no excretory ducts ; as tlie tliyroid, tliyimi5, supra-renal, glands j the spleen, &c, K. 2