OF THE SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. .523 main applied to the walls of tlie artery, to whieh they form a kind of nervous sheath. There is detaehed from them a pretty large bun- dle wliich accompanies tlie ophthalmic artery, and subdivides into as many small Hexuous sheaths as that artery has branches. One of them follows the central artery of the optic nerve, and probably forms a communication between the retina and the superior cervi- cal ganglion.* Other fascicub accompany the other branches of tlie carotid artery which go to the pia mater, such as the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, &c. These latter are always pretty distinct. 2. OF THE INFERIOR FILAMENT. 1806. It comes from the inferior extremity of the ganglion, which seems to be prolonged downwards for the purpose of forming it, or wliich sometimes terminates in an abrupt manner and gives it oft* directly. It varies in size, is sometimes very slender and at other times double, but is never wanting. Its solidity gives it a resem- blance to the encephalic nerves, from which it differs only in its gray colour. It descends vertically before the rectus capitis anti- cus major and longus colli muscles, covered by the carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves. It is connected with these parts by a rather loose filament- ous cellular tissue. Opposite the fifth or sixth vertebra, it termi- nates in the middle cervical ganglion ; but when this latter is want- ing, it goes as far as the inferior, that is to say, to near the neck of the first rib. 1807- In its course, this nervous cord receives some long and slender filaments, which come from the third and fourth cervical pairs, increase its size a little, and join it at dift'erent angles, and jiretty frequently forming small gangliform bulgings. Some other filaments, stiU more slender, appear to separate from it internally to go to the oesophagus and neighbouring cellidar tissue. One of them anastomoses with the external laryngeal nerve of the pneu- mo-gastric, and seems to be especially distributed to the thyroid body (1636). Lastly, it sends into the thorax one, two or three twigs, which contribute to the formation of the cardiac plexus. 3. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1808. They are pretty numerous, and very distinct, and lie across the rectus capitus anticus major, more or less separated from each other, and frequently anastomosing in their course. The tico up])(>r, which are at first very close to each other, presently bifur- cate each on their own side, and thus anastamose by four points • Ribcs/HIcm. dc la Societd Medic, d’ E mil. T. vii. p. 07.