OF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. 97 whicli contri1)Utes to the formation of tlie Vterygo-maxillanj Fin- tture ; and behind it, there is observed a vertical suture, formed by the meeting of tluit bone and the palate bone. It is in this suture that the upper orifice of the posterior palatal canal is fornied. All this region is surmounted by a large oblique surface, which forms part of the orbit. 337. Among the canals formed upon the maxillary tuberosity under the name of posterior dentary, there is one which penetrates almost directly into the alveolus of the wisdom tooth. Another opens into the cavity of the maxillary sinus. A third, which is lodged in the substance of the wall of that sinus, divides into seve- ral branches as it passes above the roots of the grinders. 2. DIMENSIONS OF THE FACE. 338. The face is of much less extent than the skull, and does not form more than a third of the head in the adult. Its middle vertical diameter is much longer before than behind, where it is re- presented by the guttural edge of. the vomer, while in the former direction, it extends from the chin to the upper part of the nose. The breadth of the face is nearly the same before and behind, where it is limited on each side by the parotideal edge of the infe- rior maxillary bone; but anteriorly, it is greater above than below, as we have already said. The place where the transverse diameter is shortest, is between the two maxillary tuberosities. The longi- tudinal diameter has also nearly equal dimensions above, where it extends from the root of the nose to the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, and below, where it is carried from the chin to the middle of a line drawn from one angle of the lower jaw to the other ; but at the middle part it is much diminished, and is limited by the two nasal spines. III.—OF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. 339‘ We mentioned that the head is the upper extremity of the trunk, and that therefore it is properly speaking an appendage of it. This we hope to render evident by showing, with M. Dumeril, that the head is merely a vertebra of which the different parts are excessively enlarged and form separate pieces. In fact, the occi- pital hole may be considered as being the commencement of the spinal canal; the basilar process and the body of the sphenoid bone correspond, in their structure and uses, to the bodies of the vertebras, whose articular processes are represented by the occip tal condyles, while the external occipital protuberance and the bony spaces comprised beneath it, arc analagous to their spinous pro- cesses and plates, and, lastly, the transverse processes ai’e repre.. II