ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 2G6 5. Vertebro-costcil Region. OF THE SEIinATUS POSTICUS SUPEIUOn. (M. Darso-costal, Chauss.) 877- This muscle, which is situated at the upper part of the back, is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, flat and very thin. It is inserted below the superficial cervical ligament, into the spinous processes of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and sometimes the tenth vertebrae, by a very delicate aponeurosis, extending to the half of its length, that is to say, to the level of the outer edge of the sple- nius and sacro-lumbalis, and mingling a little with the insertion of the rhomboideus, trapezius and splenius. The fibres of this apo- neurosis are parallel and directed obliquely from above downwards and from within outwards. The fleshy fibres follow the same di- rection, and separate into four digitations, which are attached to the outer surface and upper edge of the second, third, fourth and fifth ribs, removing farther from their angle the lower they are. Some- times there are only three of these digitations; in other cases there are five. They always terminate by short aponeurotic fibres. 878. The posterior surface of this muscle is in connection with the rhomboideus, angularis scapulae, serratus magnus and trape- zius. The anterior surface is applied upon the splenius, longissi- mus dorsi, transversalis, sacro-lumbalis, the ribs and external inter- costal muscles. 879. It raises the ribs to which it is attached, and is consequent- ly subservient to inspiration. It also keeps down in some measure the vertebral muscles over which it passes. OF THE SERRATUS POSTICUS INFERIOR. (M. Lumbo-costal, Chauss.) 880. It is broader than the preceding, but is equally thin, and has nearly the same form. It is situated at the lower part of the back, in the lumbar region. Arising from the last two or three spinous processes of the back, and from the first three or four of the loins, as well as from the corresponding interspinal ligaments, by a broad aponeurosis, with parallel fibres directed obliquely up- wards and outwards, which is partly confounded with that of the latissimus dorsi, it divides, after a short passage, into four very distinct bundles. The first, which is very broad, is attached to the outer lip of the lower edge of the second false rib, over an extent of four or five inches, and by its lower border covers the upper edge of the third. The other three, which become successively narrower and shorter, are attached in the same manner; but they are di- rected upon the ribs farther from the angle than the first, so that the fourth is attached not only to the bony part, but also to the cartilage of the last rib. Their edges also overlap each other, pro-