552 0RGAN8 OF SENSATION. diverging manner, and are prolonged under the form of striae im- mersed in tlie choroidal fluid and applied upon the vitreous body, so as to leave blank traces on the hyaloid membrane, or rather on the retina, when they are raised. These striae are always multiple for each ciliary process, and constantly correspond to the intervals of these laminae.* The ciliary body, consisting of the united ciliary processes, therefore terminates posteriorly by a dentated and undulated edge, equally black in its whole extent; anteriorly it presents hnes which are the ciliary processes themselves, separated by dark intervals. The surface of the ciliary processes is reticulated and viUous. They receive almost as many vessels of themselves as all the other parts of the eye together. Dr. Ribes thinks they are destined for the reproduction of the humours of that organ -f-; their arteries come from the short ciliary arteries. Their veins empty them- selves into the vasa vorticosa of the choroid membrane. No lym- phatics have as yet been detected in them. The intervals which exist between these laminae are filled with a blackish tenacious substance, which resembles that on the inner surface of the choroid membrane, and which also serves to unite them to the anterior part of the vitreous body. Sir Everard Home mentions his having found in these intervals, bundles of muscular fibres, arising circularly from the hyaloid membrane, passing over the edges of the lens, and terminating at its capsule, without having any connections, either with the ciliary processes, or the iris. I have not yet succeeded in discovering them, although 1 have made a great many dissections for the purpose. 7- OF THE RETINA. 1900. The retina is a soft, pulpy membrane of a grayish colour, transparent, and extremely thin, extended from the optic nerve to * The author has omitted to describe the zonule of Zinn, or rather, in the fore- going paragraph, he has totally mistaken the connection between the coloured and colourless parts of the eye ; we may here briefly observe, that the pretended stria;, seen on the surface of the vitreous body, and which have usually been described as impressions left by the ciliary processes, are not mere makings, but a very compli- cated structure. On that part of the hyaloid membrane on which the cili.iry pro- cesses rest we find an equal number of folds or laminte, which, projecting outwards, are dove-tailed as it were with the ciliary processes. These membranous folds are vascular, the vessels pass in great numbers from the ciliary processes to them, and these vessels, together with the dove-tailing of the two sets of processes, form, as every anatomist ought to know, the bond of union between the choroid and hyaloid membranes, which otherwise would have no connection with each other. The stu- dent; is referred for a more particular account of the structure of the eye to the Tran- sactions of the Royal Society of Falinburgh, vol. -\. part 1st, and following—K. + Bullelindcla Faciilfe dc Medicine, loco cit. This opinion is contrary to that of Haller, who supposed them intended for keeping the crystalline lens in its place, and to those of many other anatomists who consider them as destined for the nio- tiotis of the iris, or the protraction of the lens.