20 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. verse apophyses, which are very long and large, are directed a lit- tle backwards. Excepting in the two last, their summit presents a rough tubercle, surmounted by a concave and cartilaginous facette, which is articulated to the tuberosity of the ril)s. This facet is placed sometimes above, sometimes below, according to the verte- brae; but in the upper vertebrae, it is generally directed down- wards, and the reverse in the lower. The superior articular apo- physes are directed backwards, the inferior forwards ; and are si- tuated vertically above one another. The notches are larger than in the cervical vertebrae, and placed before the articular apophyses. The hole is no longer triangular, but of an oval form from before backwards, and is also sma^^er than in the neck. Lastly, the /«- mince are broader and thicker. 54. Characters of the Lumbar vertehrce (vertebrce lumborum.) The lumbar vertebrae are remarkable for their great size. Their body is broader than high, more extended in the transverse than in any other direction, flat above and below, without lateral facets, concave from above downwards on its fore part, or rather bordered by two ridges, one above, the other below. The spinous apo- physis is very broad, horizontal, transversely flattened, and qua- drilateral. The transverse apophyses are very large and elongat- ed ; the upper are separated, concave, oval, and turned inwards; the lower close, convex, oval, and directed outwards. The notches are very large, especially below ; the lamince thick and broad, but shorter than in the other regions; the hole wider than in the back, and of a triangular form. 55. Development of the Lumbar Vertebrce. The transverse apophyses of these vertebrae are pretty frequently substituted by an elongated and pointed epiphysis, which occasionally remains for a long time moveable upon the body of the bone, and this bears more or less resemblance to a small rib. The upper articular apophyses are all in like manner terminated by a lenticular epi- physis in cliildren. PAETICULAR CHARACTERS OF CERTAIN VERTEBR.E IN EACH REGION. A. In the cervical region, the following vertebrae are distin- guished by peculiarities of form: 56. The Atlas, or First Vertebra, (Atlas,) which has no re- semblance to any other vertebra. In fact, it has neither body nor spinous apophysis, and merely presents the form of a ring, which is more or less thickened at the sides, and is formed anteriorly by a small compressed arch, which does not occupy more than a filth part of the circumference. It is convex and tubercular arteriorly, concave in the opposite direction, where an articular oval facet is observed, which connects it with the tooth-like apophysis of the second vertebra. This arch is thin above and below, and gives in- sertion to ligaments. Posteriorly, the ring is completed by a 1