ACTIVK OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. S04> whicli passes over the upper articulation of the tibia and fibula. The posterior branch contributes to the formation of the aponeu- rosis of the leg. 1302. The jjosterior surface of this muscle is covered by the glutaeus maximus and fascia lata. The anterior lies upon the semi- membranosus, triceps, and adductor magnus muscles, the sciatic nerve, the femur, and the external lateral ligament of the knee. The long portion moreover covers the short, which is applied up- on the external superior articular artery, and the external head of the gastrocnemius. Its inner edye concurs with the preceding muscle, (1298), to form the ham. 1303. This muscle bends the leg upon the thigh, or the latter upon the leg. Its long portion is capable of extending the thigh upon the pelvis, or of keeping the pelvis erect. It also turns the leg outwards by rotation. 6. Internal Crural Region. OF THE PECTIKEUS. 1304. This is an elongated, flat, triangular muscle, broader above than below, situated at the upper and fore part of the thigh. It arises by extremely short aponeuroses, from the upper edge of the pubes, between the spine of that bone and the ileo-pectineal emin- ence. It descends from thence obliquely outwards and backwards, contracts, and when it has arrived opposite the small trochanter, turns upon itself to be inserted, by means of a flat tendon, which forms sooner before than behind, into the ridge which descends from that process to the linea aspera, immediately beneath the in- sertion of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus. 1305. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata and the crural vessels and nerves. The posterior lies upon the body of the pubes, the upper articulation of the femur, the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the obturator vessels and nerve. Its inner edye is a little covered by the long adductor; the outer is parallel to the psoas. 1306. The pectinens muscle bends the thigh upon the pelvis. It brings it toward that of the opposite side, or turns it outwards in rotation. It also bends the pelvis upon the thigh or keeps it in its natural position. OF THE GRACILIS. 1307. Tlie Gracilis, which is situated on the inside of the thigh, is a long, flat, thin muscle, broader above than below. It arises, over a space of about two inches, by ajioneuroses much