PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 150 OF THE THIUD METATARSAL BONE. 531. It is a little shorter than the second, but presents nearly the same form. Its body, which is prismatic and triangular, and a little curved inwards at its anterior part, presents a convex mpe- rioT surface, divided into two parts by a prominent line, which gives attachment to the second and third dorsal interosseous mus- cles ; two lateral surfaces, which correspond to the same muscles ; and an inferior edge, which is thin, concave, and gives insertion to the first plantar interosseous muscle. Its posterior or tarsal ex- tremity is nearly of the same form as that of the preceding bone. It presents posteriorly a flat triangular surface, directed inwards, which articiiiates with the third cuneiform bone ; internally, two small surfaces, continuous posteriorly, but separated anteriorly by a slight depression, and which articulate with the second metatarsal bone; externally, a small concave surface which is connected with the fourth metatarsal bone, and which is limited below by impres- sions of ligaments. The base of this extremity is turned upwards, flat and rough; its summit, which looks downwards, gives attach- ment to ligaments. The anterior or phalangeal extremity of this bone resembles that of the preceding, and is articulated to the first phalanx of the third toe. OF THE FOURTH METATARSAL BONE. 532. The fourth metatarsal bone has nearly the same form as the third, but is a little shorter than it. Its Body, which is pris- matic and triangular, is curved inwards somewhat more decidedly than that of the preceding bone. Its upper surface is narrow and also divided into two by a prominent line. It gives attachment to the third and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles. Its outer sur- face is narrow and rounded; the inner presents the same disposi- tion. The former gives attachment to the fourth dorsal interosse- ous muscle, the latter to the second plantar interosseous muscle, as well as the inferior edge, which is thin, concave, and directed a little outwards. The Posterior or Tarsal Extremity of the fourth metatarsal bone is of a cubical form, and presents posteriorly a square surface, somewhat concave, which is connected with the os cuboides ; internally, two other surfaces, of which the anterior is convex, and articulates with the third metatarsal bone, and the posterior, which is very narrow, unites with the third cuneiform bone; externally, a somewhat concave surface, which articulates with the fifth metatarsal bone; superiorly and inferiorly, two rough surfaces, which give attachment to ligaments. The Ante- rior or Phalangeal Extremity difters in nothing from that of the other metatarsal bones. It is articulated with the first phalanx of the fourth toe.