595 OF THE CHEEPTS. other. They have a grayish colour, more or less tinged with red, and appear formed by a pulpy tissue resembling that of its follicles. They are filled internally by cellules which manifestly open on their inner surface, where their orifices, which are very large, are distinctly seen. These cellules, which vary much in their form and disposi- tion, are larger above than below. They communicate most com- monly with each other, but are also sometimes isolated. The mu- cous membrane of the mouth introduces itself into them and lines their wall. In their bottom excretory ducts are observed to open, which come from a mass of follicles which forms the substance of the tonsil externally. 2047. The arteries of the tonsils come from the lingual, inferior, palatine, and internal maxillary arteries. Their nerves are furnish- ed by the Circulns toftsill^arh., which is formed by the lingual and glosso-pharyngeal nerves (1628). The nature of the fluid sepa- rated by these organs is still unknown, although it appears analo- gous to the other mucous humours. The cellules of which we have spoken form reservoirs for it. e. OF THE CHEEKS. 2048. The Cheeks (Gence) form the lateral walls of the mouth, without, however, constituting a particular and distinct organ. Externally they have no precise limits; above, they are continuous with the prominence of the cheek and the lower eyelid; below, they descend as far as the base of the jaw; and, anteriorly, termi- nate at the wings of the nose and the parotid gland. Internally they are distinctly limited, above and below, by replications of the mucous membrane of the mouth, which leaves them to gain the maxillary bones; posteriorly, by the anterior pillars of the velum palati; and, anteriorly, by the commissure of the lips. Their thickness varies much according to the condition of the individual. Pretty frequently, they form a projection outwards, and .sometimes they seem to fall in on the side next the mouth. 2049. Dermal Layer of the Cheeks, The skin which covers the cheeks is very delicate, and, in the adult male, is covered with a great quantity of hair, which partly constitutes the Beard. We observe, however, that this hair does not exist in its middle region, so that there it is perfectly bare. It also appears in this place to contain a great quantity of blood-vessels, and is generally more co- loured than elsewhere. It is commonly separated from the buc- cinator muscle by a great quantity of fat, which even frequently forms an isolated mass. In old people and valetudinarians, the cheeks are frequently furrowed with wrinkles, which do not exist in young subjects or persons in good health. 2050. Muscular Layer. It is composed of the buccinator, maAsetcr, zygomaticus major and minor, and a portion of the pla- ysma myoides. Between the zygomaticus major and the buccin-