OF THIS GALL-BLADDER. 7^3 position. It diminishes, on the contrary, when the stomach and intestines are tilled with alimentary substances or gases. In the gall-bladder there are distinguished a body, a fundus, and a summit or neck. The My adheres above over a variable extent to the substance of the liver, through the intervention of a layer of lamellar cellular tissue, and through several ramifications of blood vessels, but no biliary ducts are observed to pass from the one to the other of these organs, as the older anatomists supposed, when they created the hepato-cystic ducts. Inferiorly, the body of the gall-bladder is free and covered by the peritoneum, which gives it a smooth and polished appearance. It lies in this direction upon the pylorus, the commencement of the duodenum, and the right extremity of the arch of the colon. The bottom is rounded, more or less broad in different subjects, and covered in whole or in part by the peritoneum. In general it passes beyond the circumference of the liver, and corresponds to the walls of the abdomen, and to the outer side of the correspond- ing rectus muscle. The neck or summit is a little curved upwards, and very nar- row. It is continued into the cystic duct. 2835. The internal surface of the gall-bladder is almost always tinged with green from the effect of the bile which it contains in its cavity. It is rough, reticulated, and plicate, presenting in its whole extent rounded or polygonal areolm of very variable breadth and depth, and more especially apparent towards its middle. In the vicinity of the neck of the gall-bladder, there are observ- ed several small valvular and prominent folds, to the number of three, four, six or seven, which appear destined to diminish the velocity of the bile in its passage. This is what M. Amussat pre- sented to the Royal Academy of Medicine of Paris, on the 25th March 1824, as a spiral valve, a sort of Archimedes’s screw. 2836. The gall-bladder has walls composed of three superim- posed membranes, a serous, a cellular, and a mucous. 2837- Sermes Membrane. This membrane belongs only to the free surface of the gall-bladder, and is formed by the peritoneum which is reflected from the lower surface of the liver, and which is continuous with the superior lamina of the gastro-hepatic omentum. 2838. Cellular Membrane. It is pretty compact. It is cliiefly in its substance that the blood-vessels and lymphatics creep. On the side next the liver, it is it that produces the adliesion of the gall-bladder; on the other surface, it unites the serous with the mucous membrane. It sometimes contains a little fat in such of its cellules as are near the neck. 2839. Mucous Membrane. Its thickness is pretty considerable. During life it is whitish, and it is only after death that it is tinged green by the transudation of the bile. Neither crypts nor follicles are perceived in it, there being only found in it some small grains analogous to these organs between the valvular folds of the neck.