451 COMMON MOTOR NERVES OF THE EYE. rior of the nerve into a great number of small canals filled with white substance, and give it the appearance of one of those Indian canes or rattans used for walking sticks. The optic nerve is not, therefore, like the other nerves, formed of an assemblage of fila- ments united into a cord, and its structure may be very well seen by leaving it to macerate for some time in a solution of deuto-hy- drochlorate of mercury, and by washing with a solution of deutox- ide of potassium the parenchyma which is obtained by this means, and which must be quickly dried after the two ends have been tied with a thread. By means of the microscope, M. Bauer has lately, (September 1820), found that the fibres whose assemblage constitutes the op- tic nerve are composed in a gi’eat measure of very minute globules whose diameter varies from to ^ooo of an inch. These glo- bules resemble those of the blood deprived of their envelope of co- louring matter, and are united together by a gelatinous substance very soluble in water and perfectly transparent. 1562. Besides these peculiarities of structure, the optic nerve is further distinguished from all others, by the circumstances, that it is enveloped by the dura mater to the place of its termination, that it unites with its fellow, and that a little before terminating it pre- sents a contraction. OF THE COMMON MOTOK NERVES OF THE EYE, OR THIRD PAIR OF NERVES. 1563. Intermediate in size between the optic and pathetic nerves, and generally equalling the acoustic, these nerves issue* from the peduncles of the brain, towards their inner edge, and receive fila- ments from the perforated cineritious space included between the two peduncles and the mammillary tubercles. At the moment when they appear, the filaments of the motor nerve of the eye are very soft, and break with the greatest ease. It may, however, with proper care, be discovered that they are arranged in a line which follows nearly the direction of the peduncles ; that the poste- rior are the longest, and that most of them may be followed under the cerebral protuberance, and as far as the central black sj)ot of the peduncles. 1564. At the moment of their union, these filaments form a flat cord, which is closely embraced by the posterior cerebral and supe- rior cerebellar arteries. Presently this cord contracts and becomes rounded, acquires more consistence, and is enveloped by a neuri- lemma and by the arachnoid membrane. Free at the under part • It is to be observed tliat we employ tliis and similar expressions for the purpose of accommodating ourselves to tlie language generally adopted, for it now appears demonstrated that the nerves isolated from the spinal marrow and brain, are, on the contrary, in coiisetpience of a concentric march, inscilcd into the tissue of these latter parts.