175 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. is itself applied against other layers having a different direction. These laininaj are numerous anteriorly and laterally, but rarer at the back part. They intersect each other, diminish in thickness, and leave between them wider intervals, in proportion as they ap- proach the centre of each hbro-cartilage. Their vacuities are filled with a soft, pulpy, homogeneous viscid substance, of a greyish co- lour ; and at the centre itself there is only a very soft, spongy, elastic areolar tissue, plentifully supplied with the substance in question. This disposition is much more apparent in the lumbar region than in any other part of the vertebral column. In children, this substance is whitish, transparent, and much less abundant than in adults, in whom it has more consistence and is of a yellowish colour. In old people, it diminishes still more in quantity, and the fibro-cartilages lose much of their thickness. These bodies when soaked in water, swell and augment their vertical extent in a very distinct manner, frequently acquiring a whole inch of thickness; but it is especially towards the centre that tlie increase is effected, and if one of them is cut horizontally be- tween two vertebrm, each portion, as Bichat observes, rises in the form of a cone which has its base toward the external laminae of the fibro-cartilage, which also acquire a red colour on remaining for some time in water. By desiccation, on the contrary, these organs are rendered much thinner, especially in the middle part, which is then reduced to a line of thickness. In the recent state the elasticity of these fibro-cartilages is ex- tremely remarkable, and restores to its direction the vertebral co- lumn after it has been variously bent in a dead body. If a verti- cal section is made of several vertebrae, the tissue of this body expands and surpasses the level of the osseous surfaces formed by the saw. Their tenacity or power of cohesion is also very great, and even exceeds that of the bones with which they are con- nected. ARTICULATIONS OF THE ARTICULAR PROCESSES. 577- In describing the vertebras, we pointed out the form and di- rection of the surfaces by which their articular processes correspond to each other. These surfaces are invested with a very thin carti- laginous layer, which is covered by a small synovial bursa reflected from the one over the other. This membrane is pretty solid, and contains scarcely any synovia. It is pretty constantly covered with small bundles of ligamentous fibres, more or less separated and ir- regular, which proceed from the articular process of one vertebra to that of the opposite vertebra, and are more distinct in the back and loins than in the neck. At the inner part, it has connections with the neighbouring ligamentum flavum.