324< ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. cliftercnt bundles, which are themselves formed of fleshy fibres dis- posed in secondary bundles, are united below into a very strong triangular tendon, broad and thick, little apparent externally, but prolonged to a great length upon the inner surface of the muscle, where each bundle furnishes a portion to it, and attached to the deltoid impression of the humerus, over an extent of about an inch and a half. At its termination, it is embraced by a bifurcation of the brachialis internus (1150.) 1139. The out&)' sw'face of the deltoid muscle is convex, and covered by the skin and platysma myoides above. The inner sur- face, which is concave, is applied from behind forwards, and from above downwards, upon the infra-spinatus, teres minor, and triceps extensor muscles, the tendon of the supra-spinatus, the acromio- coracoid ligament, the sub-scapularis, pectoralis minor, biceps, and coraco-brachialis muscles, the coracoid process, the capsule of tlie joint, the upper third of the outer surface of the humerus, the cir- cumflex nerve and vessels, and the tendon of the pectorahs major. Between the upper part of the deltoid muscle and the subjacent organs, the cellular tissue forms a sort of loose and very flexible membrane. The posterior edge of the muscle is very thin above, and very thick below. The anterior is separated above from the pectoralis major by a cellular interval occupied by the cephalic vein, (841); and below is parallel to the outer edge of the bi- ceps. 1140. When the shoulder is fixed, the deltoid muscle raises the arm directly, or carries it at the same time forwards or backwards, according to the direction of the bundles which act. When the arm is raised, its posterior fibres can lower it. If the arm is fixed, it depresses the shoulder. B. MUSCLES OF THE ARM. 1. Anterior JBrachial Region. OF THE COEACO-BRACHIALIS. (M. Coraco-Humeral. Chauss.) 1141. This muscle is long, thin, flat, and narro;w, especially at its extremities, and is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises from the summit of the coracoid process, between the short head of the biceps and the pectoralis minor, with which it is united. This origin takes place by means of an aponeurosis, which also belongs to the short portion of the biceps, is extended before their common fibres, is then interposed between the two muscles, and separates into two portions, one for each of them. It is from the posterior surface of this aponeurosis that the fleshy fi- bres arise. In their upper third they are confounded with those of the biceps, but are afterwards separated, and descend obliquely backwards and outwards, forming a bundle which increases in size-