151 OP THE SCAPHOID DONE. separated from each other by a very distinct groove, directed ob- liquely forwards and outwards, narrower behind than before, and into which are inserted ligaments which are attached on the other hand to the calcaneum. Of these surfaces, one is posterior and ex- ternal, large, eoncave, directed backwards and inwards; the other, anterior and internal, and slightly convex. Both are articulated with the upper surface of the calcaneum. The anterior surface of the astragalus is convex and rounded, and is articulated to the os scaphoides. It is formed by a very distinct prominence which the bone forms at this place, and is supported by a kind of neck. It is named the Head of the Astragalus. The neck of the astragalus, which is narrow above, where it presents a depression filled with a- dipose cellular tissue and ligaments, oblique below, where it pre- sents a groove, into which are inserted ligaments which are con.- nected with the calcaneum, as we have said, is very rough, uneven, perforated with a great number of vascular foramina, sinuous, and, as it were, twisted upon itself. It is longer, in fact, externally and above than inwards and downwards. Its posterior surface is very narrow and traversed obliquely, downwards and inwards, by a groove in which passes the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis, and which presents externally a pointed eminence to which a ligament is attached. Its outer surface is triangular, smooth, concave from above downwards, plain and even a little convex from behind forwards, and is articulated with the fibula. The inner surface, rough and uneven in the greater part of its extent, which gives attachment to ligaments, presents, at the upper part, a smaller surface than that of the outer, broader before than behind, where it terminates in a point, and is articulated to the malleolus inter- nus. It joins the upper surface of the bone nearly at a right angle. OF THE SCAPHOID* BONE. 522. The Scaphoid Bone (os scaphoides), occupies the middle and inner part of the tarsus, and is of an oval form, having its greatest diameter directed obliquely downwards and inwards. Its anterior surface, which is convex and smooth, is formed of three distinct surfaces, of which the inner is directed forwards and a little inwards, and is broader below than above, to be articulated with the first cuneiform bone; while the middle surface, which looks directly forwards, and is broader above than below, meets the se- cond ; and the outer, which is nearly of the same form, and in- clined forwards and outwards, articulates with the third. They are separated from each other by rather indistinct angular lines. The posterior surface of the scaphoid bone is concave and smooth, and articulates with the head of the astragalus. Its circumference is rough and convex at the upper, outer, and lower parts, and pre- • nnviciiht, a boat.