91 STRUCTURE OF THE TEETH. count, had all the crowns of the teetli united. Pliny relates the same of the son of Prusias, king of Bithynia. Soemmering* has in his cabinet two teeth united in this manner. The lateral in- cisors have been seen wanting, in which case the middle pair were so enlarged as to occupy their plaee. It is much rarer to see a supernumerary incisor; yet Plouquetf mentions his having seen five in the lower jaw, &c. 2d. Varieties of form. The upper incisors have been seen curved upwards in the form of a hook.t Cheselden speaks of a molar tooth which seemed to penetrate another.§ There are ex- amples of roots of incisors that were double or triple. Those of grinders are often undvdated or convergent. Bertin says, that sometimes the root of the canine tooth enters the maxillary sinus, where it appears exposed. || Sometimes, on the contrary, the upper incisors are destitute of roots and alveoli, &c. 3d. Varieties of Position. The teeth which in this respect de- viate least from the normal state are the supernumerary teeth, which are formed in the natural row, or nor far from it. But they may be developed in many other places. Thus teeth have sometimes been met with on the palate,^ and even in the pharynx.** Albinus mentions the case of two canine teeth of considerable length and size, which were concealed in the substance of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, and of which the body was directed upwards and the root downwards. Barnes found one in the orbit.-f"f- Those which have been observed in the ovaries were more probably the remains of extra-uterine conception.;|;J 4th. Varieties of stucture and consistence. These varieties are in general few in number, and are almost all dependent upon mor- bid causes. In the Ephemerides of the Academia Curiosorum Naturae, mention is made of cartilaginous teeth. The stories told of gold and iron teeth are not worth repeating. 314. The teeth, whose direction is in general vertical or nearly so, are articulated with the alveoli of the two jaws. Their develop- ment presents very remarkable phenomena, respecting which we cannot here speak at length. Let it suffice to say, that the bony substance is deposited not in but rather upon the germ of the tooth, and that its outer laminae are first formed. The incisors and canine teeth are produced from a single centre of ossification. The grinders have one for each tubercle. 315. By their continuous senes, the teeth form in the alveolar arches, two parabolic curved lines which are named the dentary • De Fahr. corp. hum. t. i. p. 204'. f Dissert, wtat. hum. carumtpuc jura sistens. Tub. 1778. p. 8. $ Soemmering, 1. c. p. 20. § Osteogr. t. ix. p. 7. II Osteol. t. ii. p. 241 ; Winslow, No. 372. ^ Pliny, lib. ii. 138; Eustacli. lih, de dentibus, c. xxix; Sabatier Anatom, t. i. p. 75. •• Sebenek de Grafenberg. lib. i. p. 189. tt Medical and Chirurg. Transact, vol. iv. no. 18. p. 316. ++ Tyson, Needham, Riiyscli, Cocchi, Raillie, Nysten, Blumenbacb, Dumas, J3au- delocque, &c. have observed this phenomenon.