PASvSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 218 posterior ligament, and by a great quantity of cellular tissue. An- teriorly, it is applied against the anterior crucial ligament. The two crucial ligaments {Ligamenta ci'uciata^ Weit.) are not contained within the articulation, as might at first sight be sup- posed. They are of considerable strength, are composed of dense fibres, and follow such a direction as to cross each other, the one passing before the other, like the two legs of the letter X. 722. Inter-articular Fibro-cartilages, or Semilunar Cartilages^ or Ligaments. They occur between the condyles of the femur and the cavities of the superior extremity of the tibia, presenting the form of two flexible, compressible, elastic crescent-shaped lami- nae, much thicker at their convex side than at the other, which presents a sharp edge. They only occupy about the two external thirds of the two concave and oval articular surfaces of the tibia, so that the middle of the upper extremity of that bone is free- One of them is internal. It is nearly semicircular, a little more elongated from behind forwards however, and broader posteriorly than anteriorly. Its convex margin, which is directed inwards, is partly united to the internal lateral ligament. Its anterior ex- tremity is attached to the fore part of the spine of the tibia, and is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. The 'posterior ex- tremity is attached behind the same eminence. The other fibro-cartilage is external. It forms nearly an entire circle. It is broader before than behind. Its convex margin^ which is directed outwards, is contiguous posteriorly to the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and more anteriorly, affords points of at- tachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. Its anterior extremity is attached to the rough depression which exists at the fore part of the spine of the tibia; but this insertion takes place much farther back than in the preceding cartUage. Its posterior extremity is attached behind the spine of the tibia, before the insertion of the other cartilage, posteriorly to that of the pos- terior crucial ligament, with one of the two fasciculi of wliich it is continuous. These fibro-cartUages .are composed of concentric fibres, longer externally than in the interior, less compact towards the extremi- ties than at the middle, and strongly penetrated with cartilaginous matter. They are connected anteriorly to each other by means of a small ligamentous fasciculus, sometimes wanting, about a line broad, and surrounded by soft and yellowish adipose substance. Their upper surface is concave, the lower nearly plain. Both are very smooth, and lined by the synovial membrane. Their concave edge is thin, sharp, and free, and their middle part is hollowed. 723. Synovial Membrane. This membrane has a very com- plicated course, and we shall consider it as arising from the poste- rior part of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, a place where it forms a very loose and distinct cul-de-sac, particularly ap- parent when that tendon is reversed from above downwards. It descends from this place over the posterior surface of the patella.