OF THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. 115 and horizontal portion of the pubes has received the name of the Body of that bone, while the lower portion is termed the Branch or Ramus: as to the ischium, it is its posterior part which forms the Body, and the anterior the Ramus. 402. Articulations. The iliac bone is articulated to the sa- crum, the other iliac bone, and the femur. 403. Uses. This bone forms the solid part of the haunch. It protects the viscera contained in the small or lower pelvis, sustains the abdominal viscera in part, and affords attachment to a great number of ligaments and muscles, belonging to the abdomen and thigh.* OF THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. 1. OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE PELVIS. External Surface. 404. Anteriorly, this surface, which is inclined downwards, pre- sents, in the middle where it is covered solely by cellular tissue, and by the skin of the pubic region, the junction of the two ossa pubis, wliich come into contact by a larger surface in the male than in the female; and on the sides, where it is broader, the rugosities into which the adductor muscles are fixed, the obturator holes, and the cotyloid cavities. The latter are placed at a greater dis- tance from each other in the female than in the male. Posteriorly the pelvis is longer but narrower than before, and is convex from above downwards, and transversely concave in the middle. There are observed upon it, in the median line, the pos- terior tubercles of the sacrum, the end of the sacral canal, the union of the sacrum with the coccyx, and the posterior surface of the latter bone. On each side, there occur the posterior sacral foramina, the insertions of the sacro-iliac ligaments, a broad and deep groove, extending vertically between the sacrum and iliac bone, and lastly, the posterior iliac spines. On the Sides, are the external iliac fossae, the curved lines to which the glutaei muscles are attached, the edge of the cotyloid cavity, and at the lower part, the great sciatic notches. In the whole extent of its lateral regions, the pelvis is separated from the skin by thick mu.scles. . Internal Surface. 40.5. The internal surface of the pelvis is divided into two dis- tinct parts, by a prominent rounded line which circumscribes a tri- • Mr. Cloquet has omitted the principal use of the pelvis ; as a powerful bony girdle it affords a solid articulation for the lower extremities ; when these extremi- ties are wanting, as in some animals, {the cctacca) the hones of the pelvis are more rudiments, and have no proper articulation with the spinal column. K.