Oi- THE OLFACTORY NERVES. 447 151'6. At the place of their union, the nerve presents a trian- gular bulging. It becomes presently flattenccl, contracts, and di- rects itself horizontally forwards under the anterior lobe of the brain, situated in a groove which is especially destined for it, which conccids its gray portion, and prevents its from projecting below, and from being compressed upon the bones of the base of the skull. This groove, which we have already described (1436,) is always prolonged farther forwards than the extremity of the nerve, and is much deeper at its middle part than at its two extremities. The inferior surface of this latter jiart, which presents seven longitudi- nal strim, of which three are cineritious and four white, is covered by the arachnoid membrane. It is manifestly flattened, while the upper surface presents a prominent ridge which penetrates into the groove; a disposition Avhich makes the nerve appear as if inclosed in a canal of which the upper part is formed by this groove of the brain, and the lower by the arachnoid membrane. As it advances, the olfactory nerve proceeds a little inwards, so as to approach its fellow, and to be only separated from it by the crista galli. Its prismatic form also changes insensibly, so that it does not present an equally triangular section in all its extent. It rests posteriorly upon the upper surface of the body of the sphe- noid bone, and anteriorly upon the ethmoid groove, where it be- comes larger, and even forms a prominence which it receives, and which is a kind of bulb or olivary ganglion, more rounded before than behind, which contains much gray substance, but resembles the other nervous ganglia only in colour. During this course, the olfactory nerve, which is sometimes larg- er on the right side, and sometimes on the left, is soft and pulpy, and is not enveloped by a neurilemma. Many authors have alleg- ed that it is hollowed by a canal in its whole extent; but the most careful examinations have failed to enable me to perceive it, nor have the most celebrated anatomists of our days been more success- ful. 1547. It is from the inferior surface of the bulb which fills the ethmoid groove, that the branches proceed which are to be distri- buted in the nasal fossae and which pass through the apertures of the cribriform plate. They vary much in their number, form, and direction. Frequently the largest holes receive two or three; but they may always be distinguished into external, internal, and mid- dle. 1548. Their number differs much in different subjects. Some- times they are very small and very numerous, Avhile at other times there are very few of them, and they are much larger. Each of them is embraced by a small funnel-shaped fibrous canal furnished by the dura mater, which stops short a little beyond the hole, and is continued into the outer layer of the pituitary membrane. They are also enveloped by the arachnoid membrane, which adheres loosely to them, and which leaves them after a short passage to be