ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. G92 2417- Anterior Branches. They are very numerous, and are all distributed to the superficial and anterior muscles of the fore- arm. One of them only, which is longer and larger than the others, and sometimes arises from the interosseous artery, descends behind the median nerve as far as the lower part of the fore-arm, and gives off laterally a great number of small twigs to the flexor digitorum sublimis. 2418. Posterior Branch or Interosseous Artery. It comes from the posterior part of the ulnar, a little beneath the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, and is always of considerable size. It di- rects itself horizontally backwards, and almost immediately divides into two branches which are named the anterior and posterior in- terosseous. 2419. Anterior Interosseous Artery. It descends vertically before the interosseous ligament, between the flexor longus poUicis and flexor digitorum profundus muscles, which conceal it by their approximation. Arrived at the upper edge of the pronator qua- dratus muscle, where its size is already sensibly diminished, it passes behind it, perforates the interosseous ligament near the in- ferior articulation of the radius and ulna, descends in the groove which lodges the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis muscle, passes over the carpus, and then divides, anastomosing with the dorsal artery of that part. In its course the anterior interosseous artery gives off on each side numerous twigs, which direct themselves transversely or des- cend obliquely in the flexor longus pollicis and flexor digitorum sublimis. Anteriorly and inferiorly, there also separate from it some twigs for the pronator quadratus muscle. Those which come off posteriorlv pass through the interosseous ligament, and go to lose themselves in the posterior and deep muscles of the fore-arm, or to anastomose with the branches of the posterior interosseous artery. 2420. Posterior Interosseous Artery. It passes above the in- terosseous ligament, and appears at the posterior and upper part of the fore-arm, under the anconeus muscle, where it divides into two branches of nearly equal size. 1. One of these, named the Posterior Radial Recurrent Artery, (Recurrente olecrdnienne, Chauss.) ascends between the anconeus and extensor carpi ulnaris muscles as far as the back part of the outer condyle, where it anastomoses with the twigs of the deep hu- meral artery (2387) radial recurrent (2394). It distributes its divisions to the extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus and triceps ex- tensor muscles, the elbow joint, and to the periosteum of the hu- merus and bones of the fore-arm. 2. The other branch, or Posterior Interosseous Artery, pro- perly so called, descends vertically between the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscles, and afterwards between the two layers of the posterior muscles of the fore-arm, as far as the posterior surface of the carpus, where it anastomoses with the an-