511 OF THE EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. twigs go to the long portion of the biceps muscle. One of them accompanies it as far as the knee, and sometimes becomes cutane- ous. Another is destined for the short portion of the same muscle. The last twigs are expanded in the semi-tendinosus, semi-membra- nosus, and adductor magnus muscles. Among these twigs, there are many which extend as fiir as the skin, in which they terminate, whether on the thigh or on the leg. 1. OF THE EXTEHNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. 1772- The external popliteal, Fihular or Peroneal Nerve, which is smaller than the internal, descends obliquely outwards along the inferior extremity of the biceps muscle, behind the outer condyle of the femur and the tendon of the corresponding head of the gastrocnemius ; then, bending a little forwards and inwards, passes between the upper part of the fibula and the peroneus lon- gus muscle, and there divides into two branches, the musculo-cu- taneous, and the anterior tibial. 1773. At its origin, and sometimes even a little before, this nerve gives olF a long and slender filament, which glides between the femur and the inferior extremity of the biceps, gives some ra- mifications to the latter muscle, and then expands upon the fore and outer part of the knee joint, and upper articulation of the tibia and fibula. Before arriving at the condyles of the femur, it gives off another twig of remarkable size (the peroneo-cutaneous twig of Chaussier,) which sends a great number of filaments to the outer head of the gastrocnemius, over which it descends, keeps along the outer and back part of the leg, beneath the aponeurosis, and sepa- rates into many other filaments which lose themselves in the inte- guments. One of them, however, which is larger than the other, and frequently arises separately, unites at the outer edge of the tendo Achdlis with a twig of the internal popliteal nerve, to form the external saphenus nerve.. 1774- Musculo-cutaneous Branch or External Fihular Nerve. It descends at first a little obliquely inwards and forwards between the peroneus longus and extensor communis digitorum pedis, then between the latter and the peroneus brevis, to all which it sends filaments, as well as to the peroneus tertius. Towards the middle of the leg, this nerve becomes more superficial, and is situated un- der the aponeurosis, behind which it creeps for some time. It perforates it about two thirds down, sends outwards some filaments into the integuments which cover the low^er extremity of the fibula, and divides into two twigs which direct tlicmselves superficially over the liack of the foot, diverging from each other, the one in- ternal and larger, the other external and smaller. 177''5- Internal and Superjicial Twig of the Back of the Foot. It directs itself inwards, and gives at first several filaments to the integuments, w hich communicate witli those of the internal saplic-