S04< ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. scalenus posticus, and first inter-transvcrsus colli. The other por- tion, which is superior and internal, and is called the splenius ca- pitis, is larger, continues to ascend, and terminates, by short apo- neurotic fibres, at the outer half of the rough impression which is observed between the two curved lines of the occipital bone, at the mastoid portion, and the whole outer edge of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, below the insertion of the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus. 1063. The posterior surface, of the splenius is covered above by the stemo-cleido-mastoideus; in the middle, by the trapezius and levator anguli scapulae ; below, by the serratus posticus supe- rior, and rhomboideus. The anterior surface lies upon the com- plex!, longissimus dorsi, and transversus colli. 1064. The splenius extends the head, inclining it laterally, and impresses upon it a rotatory motion which turns the face to one side. When the two muscles act together, they extend the head directly. OF THE COMPLEXUS* MAJOR. (M. Trachelo-occipital, Chauss.) 1065. The Complexus major IS, a pretty thick elongated muscle, much broader at the middle part and above than below, where it is prolonged into a very slender point. It is situated under the splenius. It arises from the transverse and articular processes of the last six cervical, and from the transverse processes of the first four or five dorsal vertebrae, by as many small tendons whose fibres are strongly interlaced with the fleshy fibres, and much more dis- tinct below than above. They are frequently confounded with those of the transversus colli. It also frequently arises, by other small tendons, from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first two dorsal vertebrae. To aU these tendons succeed the fleshy fibres, which, from being at first disposed in isolated fasciculi, are soon intimately confound- ed. Those which come from the third, fourth, and fifth transverse processes of the back, form a separate band, which ascends ob- liquely inwards, and terminates anteriorly by a small tendon broader at its extremities than in the middle, which occupies the middle third of the inner edge of the muscle, and sends from its upper part other fleshy fibres which ascend to the occipital bone. The fleshy fibres which proceed from the six transverse processes of the neck and the two first of the back, ascend less obliquely, and are arrested by an aponeurotic intersection in the form of the letter V, more distinct internally than externally, and directed transversely, which occurs about the middle of the muscle and oc- cupies its whole breadth. From the upper edge of this intersec- tion proceed other fleshy fibres which ascend a little inwards, and Compkxus, embracing several things, complicated.