OF THE RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY Oi* THE HEART. C43 wards, and whicli extends as far as opposite the fourth or third dor- sal vertebra. It there entirely disengages itself from the pericar- dium, in order to occupy the middle of the vertebral column. It then continues to bend, directing itself a little backwards and to the left almost transversely, opposite the second dorsal vertebra, and as far as above the left branch of the pulmonary artery. I'his second curve is called the Arch of the Aorta. In subjects advanced in age, it presents at its commencement a certain enlargement which appears owing to the force of the blood, and which some authors have named the Great Sinus of the Aorta. It ends on the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. Proceeding from this point, the aorta entirely changes its direction, and becomes vertical. It descends in the posterior mediastinum, upon the anterior and left part of the other dorsal vertebras, arrives at the diaphragm, en- ters along with the thoracic duct, between its two pillars, by means of an aperture which belongs peculiarly to itself (874), and intro- duces itself into the abdomen, where it terminates, bifurcating at the level of the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra. From the end of the arch to its division, the aorta assumes the name of descending, and is distinguished into Thoracic Aorta and Abdominal Aorta. 2212. While within the pericardium, the aorta is embraced, to the left and posteriorly, by the pulmonary artery and its right branch. To the right it corresponds to the vena cava superior and lung. Anteriorly, the mediastinum separates it from the sternum. In its arch, this artery is at first immediately applied upon the trachea, a little before the commencement of the bronchi, and af- terwards upon the bodies of the second and third vertebrae. So long as it remains in the posterior mediastinum, the aorta lies upon the left part of the vertebral column, to the left of the oesophagus, thoracic duct and vena azygos, covered at first by the origin of the bronchi and afterwards by the pericardium. The pleura covers it on its left side. In the abdomen, it corresponds posteriorly to the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, to the right to the vena cava inferior, to the left and before to the peritoneum, the stomach, and the small intestine. 1. OF THE AJlTEniES WHICH THE AORTA GIVES OFF AT ITS ORIGIN. OF THE RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY OF THE HEART, OR POSTERIOR CARDIAC ARTERY. 2213. It arises from the aorta immediately above the free edge of one of the semilunar valves (2197)? to the right side of the pul- monary artery, and opposite the base of the right ventricle. It presently proceeds from within outwards, in the groove which se- parates the right auricle from the corresponding ventricle, the aorta.