MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 305 arc attached to the inner part of tlic impression wliich is observed between the two curved lines of the occipital bone, by aponcuroSes which are prolonged very far among the fleshy fibres. lOGG. The pnsterioi- surface of tlic complexus major, which is turned a little outwards, is covered successively, from above down- wards, by the trapezius, splenius, complexus minor, transvers.us colli, and longissimus dorsi. The anterior surface is applied, from below upwards, upon a part of the semi-spinales colli, upon the deep cervical artery, the posterior branches of tlie cervical nerves, and the posterior recti and obliqui of the head. Its inner edge is removed to a distance from that of -the opposite muscle, but it ap- proaches it as it ascends, and from about the middle of the neck, is only separated by a line of cellular tissue. The outer edge is free, from the second vertebra to the occipital bone. 10G7- This inusclc prevents the head from being bent, or raises it wheii it has been bent. When it acts by itself, it extends the head, inclining it to its own side, and turning it by rotation to the opposite side. When the two act together, the head is directly extended. OF THE COMPLEXES MINOR, OR TRACIIELO-MASTOIDEUS. 1068. The comple.vus minor is much smaller than the preced- kig muscle. It is situated externally of it, and lies upon its outer edge, like a fleshy tongue, at the back part and on the sides of the neck. It is long, slender, flattened, broader above than below, and arises from the last four transverse processes of the neck, some- times from the first of the back, by tendinous and fleshy tongues which ai’c almost immediately confounded together. These small tendons, which vary very much in size, are the more distinct the lower they are. The fleshy fibres by which they are succeeded, form by their union a bundle which ascends vertically, becoming broader, to the mastoid process, behind which it is inserted by a flat tendon which exi.stcd for some tinje previously in the substance of the muscle. The muscle is also frequently intersected by apo- neuroses, varying much in their number, direction, and position ; or it receives, in the middle of its inner edge, a fleshy band which is sent off by the longissimus dorsi. 10G9- The posterior surface of the complexus minor, which in- clines outwards, is covered above by tlic splenius, and below by the transversus colli, witli which it is united. The anterior sur- face is applied upon the complexus major, in almost its whole ex- tent, and especially at its inner part. It also covers, at its upper part, the obliqui capitis, the posterior extremity of the digastricus, and the occipital artery. 1070. 9’his muscle inclines the head a little without rotation, when it acts by itself, or reverses it slightly when both muscles act. X