570 ORGANS OF SENSATION. in the vestibule, while the anterior is raised in the cavity of the tympanum. 4. OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM. 1956. This is what most authors designate by the name of pe- riosteum. It evidently comes from the mucous membrane of the pharynx along the Eustachian tube, whicli it lines in its whole extent, (1933). On arriving in the tympanum, it lines all its walls, extending over their eminences and diving into their de- pressions. It contributes to close the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda, is applied against the membrana tympani, from which it is separated by the handle of the malleus ; embraces the pyramid, and loses itself around the tendon of the stapedius, giving also in this place a very delicate envelope to the corda tympani (1802) ; enters the mastoid cells, and separates them from the diploe of the temporal bone, lining them closely ; appears to be reflected over the processus cochleariformis to embrace the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle; closes the glenoid fissure, and surrounds the process of Raw; and lastly, is deflected over the bones of the ear, which it fixes to each other. 1957- This membrane, which is extremely thin, appears some- what fibrous externally. It is perhaps united to a lamina of the periosteum ; but internally, it is assuredly mucous. In the adult, and in old age, it is white, dull, firm, with little appearance of vas- cularity, and bears a great resemblance to the mucous membrane which invests the sinuses of the nasal fossae. In children, it has a reddish tint, and is traversed by a great number of blood-vessels. It constantly exhales a mucous fluid, which flows into the pharynx by the Eustachian tube; but neither crypts nor viUosities are ob- served in it. 1958. The arteries of the middle ear are furnished by the stylo- mastoid, middle meningeal and internal carotid arteries. Its veins are very difficult to be traced. The nerves that are met with be- long to the spheno-palatine ganglion. 6. OF THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. 1959- This portion of the organ of hearing, which is situated between the tympanum and the meatus auditorius internus (177)» is composed of several cavities which communicate together in the dry bone, and which are designated by the names of vestibule, co- chlea and semi-circular canals. 1. OF THE VESTIBULE. I960. The Vestibule is a cavity of an irregular form, approach-