OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF GANGLIA. 515 ciclvtinCGS between tlie tliircl unci lovirtli mctuturscil boncs^ und is dis- tributed to the corresponding toes. 1786. Of the Eccternal Plantar Nerve. This proceeds ob- liquely forwards and outwards, between the flexor brevis digitorum and ac-cessorius muscles, to which it gives filaments, and in the kind of groove situated near the large tuberosity of the calcaneum. Arrived at tlie posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, it divides into two branches, the one superficial, tlie other deep.— But before this, it generally sends a pretty large twig to the abduc- tor minimi digiti. 1787. Saperfcial Branch. It advances under the outer edge of the foot, and soon divides into two twigs ; an oiiter, which gives a filament to the flexor minimi digiti, and loses itself on the cor- responding edge of the little toe ; and an inner, which directs it- self between the last two metatarsal bones, gives a filament to the fourth lumbricalis, communicates with the preceding twig, and subdivides on the contiguous sides of the fourth and fifth toes. 1788. Deep Branch. At its commencement it furnishes a fila- ment to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and dives, ascending in- wards and fcffwards between the interossei muscles and abductor pollicis pedis, forming a kind of arch of which the pqsterior side, does not give off* filaments, while the anterior sends some to the in- terossei and transversus pedis. III. OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF GANGLIA, OR OP THE GREAT SYMPATHETIC AND INTERCOSTAL NERVES OF MANY AUTHORS. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. ] 7119. The Ganglia are small nervous centres, from the circum- ference of which proceed filaments which anastomose with the neighbouring nerves, or lose themselves in the tissue of the or- gans. They are only met with in the trunk, the limbs being en- tirely destitute of them. They all communicate with each other, and are possessed of a peculiar stricture. They invariably present themselves under the appearance of small reddish or gi’ayish bodies, always deeply situated in the midst of cellular tissue, destitute of any particular envelope, and varying considerably in form and mag- nitude. Their tissue, which is soft and sjiongy, is homogeneous, and presents no traces of fibres or filaments at first sight. From careful dissection, however, it is thought to be composed of a mul- titude of nervous filaments. This is at least Scarpa’s opinion, and as such deserves attention. It hardens by boiling, at least when not long continued. When this is the case, it, on the con- trary, gradually softens and becomes pulpy. It is partly dissolved by alkalies, and long resists putrefaction. The ganglia contain very little cellular tissue in their interior.