OF THE TIBIA. U5 dense cellular tissue, traversed by longitudinal bony fibres, and co- vered with a very thin layer of compact tissue. It appears to bor- row this peculiar structure from the fibrous basis in which it is de- veloped. It in fact originates in the midst of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, which then seem to become incrusted with phosphate of lime. 506. Development and Articulations. The patella originates by a single centre of ossification. It remains long cartilaginous, and only becomes entirely osseous at a pretty advanced age. It is articulated with the condyles of the femur, and is connected with the tibia by the ligamentum pateUaj. OF THE TIBIA.* 507. Form. The Tibia is the largest and longest of the two bones of the leg, of which it occupies the inner and fore part. Next to the femur, it is the largest bone in the body. It is divided into the following parts. 508. Body. This part is prismatic and triangular. Its thick- ness diminishes from the upper part to the lower in a general man- ner, but the place where it is smallest is below the middle third. Independently of its being twisted upon itself, like all the long bones, it presents a double curvature, which is such that internally its two upper thirds are slightly convex, while the lower is a little concave. Its Inner Surface, which is directed a little obliquely forwards, slightly convex, and broader above than below, is covered at the upper part by the tendinous expansions of the sartorius, gra- cUis and semitendinosus muscles, while in the rest of its extent it lies immediately under the skin. Its Outer Surface, which is al- so broader above than below, is concave in its two upper thirds, where the tibialis anticus is inserted, and convex in the remaining third which is covered by the tendons of that muscle, of the exten- sor communis digitorum, extensor proprius polhcis and peroneus tertius. Its Posterior Surface is also broader above than below, and is slightly convex in its whole extent. Its upper part is tra- versed by a prominent line which directs itself obliquely down- wards and outwards, and into which are inserted the popliteus, so- leus, tibialis posticus, and flexor communis digitorum pedis. The portion of the posterior surface of the tibia which is situated above this line, is of small extent, of a triangular form, and covered by the pophteus muscle ; that which lies beneath it, being of greater size, is covered by the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, to which it gives attachment. In the upper part of this surface is seen the orifice of the canal for the vessels of the bone, the direc- tion of which is obliquely downwards and forwards. It is the • TiUa, a pipe or flute. It is affirmed that tlie first instruments of this sort were made by shepherds of the leg bones of animals. L