OF THE VESICAL AND OBTURATOR ARTERIES. 71 1 cend beliind the anterior wall of the abdomen, where it is contain- ed in a fold of the peritoneum, and whence it directs itself towards the umbilicus, approaching the urachus and that of the opposite side. 2508. In the adult, the artery is in a manner obliterated. Be- yond the bladder, it no longer receives blood, and is converted into a true ligament as far as the umbilicus. Even at the first portion of its course its walls are so thick, that the colour of the fluid which they contain cannot be perceived through them. 2509- But in the fetus, it is of large size, and appears to form the true, continuation of the trunk of the hypogastric artery. On arriving at the umbilicus it issues by that aperture, forms part of the umbilical cord, and gains the placenta, twisting upon itself a great number of times. It then seems to furnish all the other branches of the hypogastric, while near its commencement it gives off only a few very slender twigs to the bladder and uterus. h. OF THE VESICAL ARTF.RIES. 2510. They present many variations as to number and origin. The umbilical artery always furnishes three or four, which ramify in the walls of the bladder, and anastomose there with each other, and with the neighbouring branches. The middle hsemorrhoidal, internal pudic, and obturator arteries furnish others. But the hypogastric produces one a little larger, (Arth'e vesico^prostati- que, Chauss.) which gains the fundus of the organ, and sends it numerous twigs, as well as to the commencement of the urethra, and in the male, to the prostate gland, vesiculm seminales and vas deferens. Its last ramifications reach as far as the rectum. C. OF THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. (Art. Sous-puhio-femorale, Chauss.) 2511. It arises most commonly from the hypogastric or glutaeal, but is also sometimes produced by the epigastric; and, in the lat- ter case, descends vertically behind the iliac bone as far as the ob- turator hole. In the former case, which, as we have said, is the most common, it directs itself forwards and outwards, then turns horizontally into the excavation of the pelvis, over the obturator internus muscle, under the nerve of the same name, along with which it issues from the pelvis through the empty space left by the obturator membrane. In this course it is slightly flexuous. 2512. Near its origin, it gives off a pretty large twig which as- cends under the obturator nerve, arrives in the iliac fossa, and is distributed deeply in the iliacu« internus muscle. It then throws a great number of small twigs into the obturator internus muscle, upon the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia, and sometimes upon the bladder. Immediately before entering into the obturator hole, it 3 A