90 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tlicy seem to converge into the axis of the tooth, while toward its base they become more and more curved, and sometimes even cross each other in this direction. Tlie fibres of the enamel are perpenclicular to the surface of the tooth, and consequently have a direction the reverse of that of the fibres of the bony portion ; for which reason, when seen with the microscope, they have the ap- pearance of velvet. They are also laid very close together, and are connected by one of their extremities to the bony portion, from the surface of which they seem to rise. By the action of caloric, the enamel blackens, on account of its containing a small quantity of gelatin, but more slowly than the bony portion. It then cracks, and at length melts, if the tempera- ture is elevated to a high degree. It dissolves in nitric acid, where it leaves light flakes of a whitish colour, but never a parenchyma retaining its form. According to Berzelius, it is composed of phosphates of lime and magnesia, carbonate of lime, membranes, soda and water. Like most calcareous substances, it may be artificially made to assume various colours. The natives of the Pelew Islands stain their teeth black with the juice of certain plants. It is well known that they become livid for some time when mulberries are eaten, and Loeseke* asserts that the use of madder reddens them in a very permanent manner; but this is doubtful. The enamel contains no vessels, and is not renewed when de- stroyed ; the opinion advanced by the celebrated Mascagni, that it is entirely formed of absorbent vessels, cannot be admitted. 312. The summit of each root or of its divisions is perforated by the orifice of a canal, which enlarges at the same time with the root, and penetrates into a considerable cavity formed in the crown, and like the hole at the summit of the root developed in the inverse ratio of age. The walls of this cavity are smooth, and it is filled with a soft gelatinous-looking substance, which is named the micle- ous or pulp of the tooth, and in which there occur many nervous and vascular ramifications, to which the name of dentary or alvte- olar is given. 313. The teeth, which present no particular differences in the sex- es, but which vary much according to age, as well as in different races and even individuals, present a multitude of anomalies and varieties in their number, form, positions, consistence, and structure. JMany authors have collected examples of these variations, which it is more curious than useful to know. I shall mention a few of them. 1st. Varieties of number. The cases in which more than six- teen teeth occur in each jaw, are extremely rare, it being more fre- quent to find the number incomplete, although this is almost always owing to the last tooth remaining concealed in the alveolus. Borellij* saw a woman, however, who lived to the age of sixty without ever having teeth. Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, according to Pliny’s ac- Obs. .\Ivi. and .xlvii. •[• Obs. cent. ii. p. 11.