2‘i PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. These three curvatures, moreover, are so disposed that a verti- cal line passing through the centre of the summit and base of the vertebral column, would pass before the body of the dorsal ver- tebrm behind that of the cervical and lumbar. There is also commonly a curvature observed on the sides of the dorsal region, which is much more frequently to the left. It has been attributed to the presence of the aorta; but Bichat imagined it with more probability to arise from the circumstance, that most exertions are performed with the right handl Bedard has con- firmed this opinion by recent observations. In left handed per- sons, the lateral curvature of the spine is on the right side, and consequently in the opposite direction to what it is in most other incUviduals. In the sound state, the vertebral column inclines to neither side, so that a vertical line wordd divide it into two equal lateral por- tions. 67. Gmeral form. Considered as a whole, the vertebral co- lumn presents an anterior surface, a posterior, two lateral, a base and a summit. 68. The anterior surface, in the neck, where it is broad, is named tracheal. It contracts in the dorsal region, and is again enlarged in the lumbar, bearing successively the names of predorsal and jjre- lumbar. Viewed in its longitudinal direction it is convex in the neck and loins, and concave in the back. A series of transverse hollows, more or less deep in the different regions, formed by the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, limited above and below by projecting margins, and extending toward the lateral parts in the back and loins, occupies the whole length of this sur- face, which is covered by the anterior vertebral ligament from above downwards, and which corresponds in the neck to the large anterior recti muscles of the head and the longi coUi; in the back to the last mentioned muscles at first, then to the vena azygos on the right side, and the thoracic aorta on the left; and in the lum- bar region to the crura of the diaphragm, the abdominal aorta, the vena cava abdominalis, and the nervous gangha of the loins. 69- The posterior surface (cervical in the neck, dorsal in the back, lumbar in the loins,) presents in the median line, the row of spinous apophyses, which are horizontal above, inclined and imbricated in the middle part, and again horizontal in the loms. Their extremities are pretty generally placed in the same line; not unfrequently, however, one is inclined to the left and another to the right. The intervals by which they are separated are larger in the neck, and especially in the loins, than in the back. The spi- nous apophyses of the five last dorsal vertebras gradually diminish in length, and become more and more horizontal; on which account tlie spine is more easily bent backwards at this place than at the up- per part of the back. At the summit of the bony apparatus of which we are speaking, there occur in the place of one of these spines two small tubercles which give attachment to the small pos- terior straight muscles of the head.