ORGANS OF SECRETION. 774 wards. Its orifice is besides very contracted, and furnished with a small fold of the mucous membrane, so that it is not easily per- ceived. It very frequently receives, about the middle of its length, ano- ther duct which proceeds from a glandular body placed in its vici- nity, and which appears to be an accessory gland to the parotid. This body is in fact placed before the masseter muscles, either above or beneath the duct, sometimes even in its course. Its surface is commonly smoother than that of the gland itself. Steno’s duct is but loosely connected with the neighbouring parts. It is accompanied by several branches of the facial nerve, and by some arteries which furnish ramifications to its walls. Placed im- mediately under the skin, it is only separated from it internally by some fibres of the platysma myoides, and by the zygomaticus ma- jor, which crosses its direction obliquely. It is about a line in diameter, but its cavity is very narrow. Its walls are composed of two distinct membranous layers. The outei’ is firm, strong and thick, of a whitish colour, and fibro-cartdagi- nous appearance. It acquires still greater density towards the end of the duct, which without increasing in capacity, becomes conical. Near the buccinator muscle it gives rise superficially to a thin apo- neurosis which covers its fleshy fibres, while it also gives attach- ment to some of the fibres of that muscle as it passes into the aper- ture of which we have spoken above, and by which these fibres are actually interrupted and not merely separated. The other mem- branous layer of the duct is internal. It is essentially mucous, and very delicate, and appears to be continuous with the membrane which lines the cheeks, differing from it only in whiteness. 2806. There are always found, in the substance of the parotid gland, a great number of branches of the facial nerve, the trans- verse artery of the face, the posterior auricular artery, and the vein which forms a communication between the internal and exter- nal jugular vein. It thus receives the greater part of its vessels and nerves ; but a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve and one of the ascending branches of the cervical plexus furnish it with a few additional nerves. Its lymphatic vessels are pretty numerous, and pass into the ganglia situated at its surface or behind the angle of the jaw. Its parenchyma differs in nothing from that of the other salivary glands. 2. OF THE SUB-MAXILLARY GLAND. 2807- This gland is smaller than the parotid, and is situated at the inner edge of the ramus and body of the inferior maxillary bone, in the triangular space which the two bellies of the digastric muscle leave between them. Irregularly ovoidal and flattened on these surfaces, frequently bifurcated at its fore part, it is prolonged ex- ternally as far as the angle of the jaw, and is sometimes confound-