OF THE ANTERIOR ILIAC AND CRURAL ARTERIES, 717 tus muscle, ^nd outwards to the broad muscles of the abdomen. They furnish numerous ramifications to the peritoneum, and anas- tomose with the lumbar and last intercostal arteries. The termi- nating twigs go to communicate with those of the internal mam- mary artery. b. OF THE CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC OR ANTERIOR ILIAC ARTERY. (Art. Circonflexe de Villum, Chauss.) 2537. It comes off from the outer part of the external iliac, sometimes beneath, sometimes opposite the preceding, which it commonly equals in size. Immersed in an abundant cellular tissue, and concealed by the peritoneum, it ascends obliquely outwards, curving a httle along the outer edge of the iliacus internus muscle, until above the anterior and superior spine of the ilium. Then chrecting itself backwards, it separates into two branches, after giving off external twigs, which lose themselves in the transversus abdominis muscle, and internal twigs, which are spread out upon the iliacus muscle, anastomosing with the ileo-lumbar artery, 2538. Of the two branches which terminate this artery, the ex- ternal, which is smaller, ascends between the transversus and ob- liquus internus abdominis muscles, in which it loses itself. The internal, which is larger and transverse, runs for some time along the iliac crest, and afterwards ascends a little obliquely backwards, between the transversus and obliquus internus abdominis muscles, in which it divides, as well as in the obhquus externus, anastomos- ing with the internal mammary artery, the lumbar and inferior in- tercostal arteries. OF THE FEMORAL OR CRURAL ARTERY. 2539- Immediately succeeding the external iliac artery, it com- mences under the crural arch, nearly at the middle of the space which separates the anterior and superior spine of the ossa ilii from the spine of the pubes. Directed at first a little obliquely at the inner and upper part of the thigh, it bends backwards descending, and, above the lower third of the thigh, enters into the aponeu- rotic groove of the adductor magnus muscle (1315), on emerging from which it assumes the name of popliteal artery. It therefore extends from the middle of the crural arch to the end of the fleshy body of the adductor magnus. 2540. Its anterior side corresponds to the crural aponeurosis, and to the inguinal lymphatic ganglia, in a triangular space which is formed above by the crural arch, externally by the sartorius .muscle, internally by the adductor longus and gracilis, that is to say, in an extent of about four inches. It is separated from all these parts by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Farther