OF THE DUKA MATER. 4'Sl tlian the spinal marrow. Its external surface docs not adlierc to tlio vertebraj, from wliich it is separated by a reddish, adipose, loose, and filamentous cellular tissue, excepting anteriorly, where it contracts a pretty intimate adhesion to the posterior vertebral ligament (575.) On the sides, this membranous sheath furnishes a small canal for each nerve, at the moment when it issues through the corresponding hole of conjunction. These small canals are so much the longer, wider, and more oblique the lower they are ex- amined. They are all obviously dilated in the interior of the hole of conjunction, on accoimt of the small ganglion which is observed there. At the outside of the vertebral column, they lose them- selves in the neighbouring cellular tissue, without being continued into the periosteum, as is the case around the skull. The menin- geal sheath of the spinal marrow terminates inferiorly by five liga- mentous filaments which fix it to the sacrum and coccyx. 1496. hiternal stirface of the dura mater. It is lined in its whole extent by the arachnoid membrane, which gives it a smooth polished and glossy appearance, and which adheres intimately to it, excepting at the middle of the sphenoid bone, where it is sepa- rated from it by the pituitary body. It gives rise to several folds, which are the Falx Cerebri, Tentorium Cerebelli, and Falx Ce~ rebelli. 1497- Falx Cerebri. This is a kind of lamina which extends from one extremity of the skull to the other in the median line, broad behind, gradually contracting as it advances forwards, hav- ing a considerable resemblance to the blade of a sickle, and occu. pying the great interlobular fissure of the brain, so as to separate its two hemispheres fi-om each other. Its upper edge, which is thick and convex, corresponds anteriorly to the frontal ridge, then in the middle to the sagittal suture, and posteriorly to the middle groove of the occipital bone. It lodges the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower edge is free, concave, thin, and of much less extent. It is placed above the corpus callosum, v/hich it touches posteriorly, and contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. Its anterior extre- mity embraces the crista galli; the posterior is continued into the tentorium cerebelli, and contains the straight sinus. In some sub- jects, the tissue of the falx is interrupted in its continuity, so that there are observed perforations in it varying in size and more or less irregular, and which seem to form meshes between its liga- mentous bundles. 1498. Tentorium Cerebelli, or Septum Transversum. This is a kind of membranous vault which separates the cerebrum from the cerebellum, limited behind by the posterior fossae of the base of the-skull, and leaving anteriorly a semilunar aperture corre- sponding to the cerebral protuberance. Like the falx cerebri, it is in a state of continual tension, and is covered by the arachnoid membrane, which gives it a smooth and polished appearance. Its outer circumference, which is of much greater extent than the iti- ner, corresponds posteriorly, where it is hoUowcd for the lateral si*