ANTERIOU BRANCHES. 4-99 tal muscles, perforates the external, descends in the lower part ot the axilla, and loses itself on the inner part of the arm, less low than the brachial twig of the second pair. It is also less volumi- nous than it. 1720. Anterior Branches of the Fourth, Fifth, Siooth, and Seventh Dorsal Pairs. They run along the lower edge of the corresponding ribs, as far as its middle, where, after sending nu- merous and pretty long filaments into the intercostaT muscles, they divide into tAvo orders of twigs. The inner follow the original course of the branch, give ramifications to the intercostales and triangularis sterni, pass under the latter, and emerge by one or two filaments on the sides of the sternum, to be distributed to the pectoralis major, the mamma and the integuments. The outer )>erforate the external intercostal muscles and separate into fila- ments, one of which proceeds backwards into the integuments of the lateral parts of the thorax, while the other ramifies in the ob- licjuus abdominis externus and the skin of the lower belly. 1721. Anterior Branches of the Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Dorsal Pairs. They follow the same course as the last; but their division happens so much nearer the anterior extremity of each intercostal space the lower they are examined, because it al- ways takes place at the same distance from the intervertebral hole, although the spaces are successively shortened. The inner twigs follow the lower edge of each of the ribs, and leave it passing over the insertions of the diaphragm (873), which receives no filaments from them, to pass into the walls of the abdomen, between the transversalis and obhquus internus muscles, into which they send some divisions. Then, arriving at the outer edge of the rectus muscle, they separate into deep filaments which penetrate its fibres by its posterior surface, and superficial filaments which lose them- selves in the integuments of the anterior region of the abdomen. The outer twigs perforate the external intercostal muscles, and se- parate into filaments which, like those of the preceding branches, are distributed, on the one hand, in the integuments of the lateral parts of the thorax, and on the other, in the serratus magnus and obliquus externus, and in the integuments of the loAver belly. 1722. Anterior Branch of the Twelfth Dorsal Pair. At the mo- ment when it commences, it sends a filament of communication to the anterior branch of the first lumbar nerve. It then separates from the twelfth rib, directs itself outwards and downwards, passes behind the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle, and before the quadratus lumborum, gives some filaments to the latter as well as to the diaphragm, and divides into two twigs opposite the anterio;- extremity of the rib. One of these twigs passes between the two oblique muscles of the al demen, gives then some ramifications, becomes superficial, and lost-.s itself in the integuments descending as far as the iliac rest. 9 l:c other insinuates itself l)elwcen the obliquus internus and transversus