OF THE rXEUMO-GASTKIC N'EUVES. AT/5 commencement a much Larger arch, as it turns round the arc!i of the aorta, and in the circumstance that its pulmonary and cardiac lilaments belong to the posterior part of the pulmonary artery and heart. 1639. After giving rise to the inferior laryngeal twigs, the pneu- mo-gastric nerve, in the interior of the thorax, gives off numerous filaments opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. 1 hrce .or four descend upon its anterior surface, subdivide and anastomose a great many times with those of the inferior laryngeal twig and inferior cervical ganglion, with which they concur to form the imlmonary •plexus. Some of these ramifications lose themselves separately upon the pulmonary artery and the anterior part of the bronchi, which they accompany for some time. Three or four other fila- ments direct themselves behind the trachea, and are partly distri- buted to its membranous portion and mucous crypts, and partly ramify on the oesophagus. They also throw some subdivisions in- to the pulmonary plexus. 1640. Immediately before arriving at the bronchi, the trunk of the nerves increases considerably in volume. Its filaments se-. parate from each other, and form a kind of areolar web, with meshes more or less wide and numerous,- in which are lodged ves- sels enveloped by a great quantity of cellular tissue. This dispo- sition of the filaments of the nerve has here the appearance of a true plexus, and is in fact the commencement of the pulmonary plexus. It is from hence that most of the ramifications proceed which the pneumo-gastric nerve gives to that plexus, one of the most complicated in the body ; for, besides the different filaments which we have already seen to enter into its composition, it receives others still from the inferior cervical ganglion and the first thoracic ganglia. It occupies the posterior part of each lung, where it forms a network in which are contained many lymphatic ganglia of the bronchi. This network sends off on all sides slender fila- ments, having few ramifications, but communicating pretty fre- quently together, which appear destined for the mucous membrane and crypts of the bronchi, on which they subdivide to infinity, without appearing to belong to the parenchymatous tissue or blood- vessels of the lung. 1641. After separating from each other opposite the pulmonary plexus, the different filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerves reunite, and form two elongated cords which descend along the oesophagus, and which, for this reason, are called the cesophageal cords. The oesophageal cord of the right side seems formed by four or five principal twigs, which issue from the inferior region of the cor- responding pulmonary plexus, and descend over the lateral and posterior parts of the oesophagus. Before finally uniting, these twigs, at first very distant from each other, have frequent commu- nications together. The oesophageal cord of the left side is constituted by two or three twigs only, which come in tlie same manner from the left