ORGANS OF SENSATION. 440 braces on all sides tlie venoe Galeni and their numerous roots, to which the arachnoid membrane furnishes an envelope. This ca- nal is afterwards prolonged under these veins, between the pineal gland and the tubercula quadrigemina, and opens into the third ventricle, beneath the choroid web, between the masses of granula- tions of the pineal gland (14-7().) It is from thence that the arachnoid membrane proceeds to line the walls of the third ven- tricle, and the lower surface of the choroid web. It then passes, by means of the communicating apertures, into the lateral ven- tricles, where it covers the choroid plexus, closing the fissure which exists between the fornix, the corpora fimbriata, and the optic thalami. Lastly, by the aqueduct of Sylvius (1480) it descends into the ventricle of the cerebellum of which it closes all the aper- tures. 1521. Red vessels have not yet been observed in this mem- brane, even when it is inflamed. Mascagni and Ludwig assert their having seen lymphatic vessels in it, but no nerves have been discovered. 10. GRANULATIONS OF THE ENCEPHALIC MEMBRANES. 1522. There are observed, in various parts of the extent of the dura mater and pia mater, certain small bodies of a whitish or yel- lowish colour, sometimes isolated, sometimes collected together in the form of a bunch of grapes, which receive vessels, but are des- titute of nerves, of whose intimate texture and uses we are entire- ly ignorant, and which are not met with in children or in all sub- jects. The superior longitudinal sinus contains a remarkable quantity of them, particularly at its middle and posterior parts. They were formerly designated by the name of Glands of PaccMoni, al- though they are very different from glandular organs. These gra- nulations generally occupy in this sinus the circumference of the orifices of the veins, where they form a more or less distinct pro- minence between the internal bridles. Very few of them are iso- lated, almost all being agglomerated into small masses, and inti- mately connected with each other. They are covered by the in- ternal membrane of the sinus. In the torcular Herophili very few of them are observed. But there are some at the mouths of the veins, in the occipital portion of the lateral sinuses. In the straight sinuses some are occasion- ally found at the orifices of the venae Galeni. All the other si- nuses are destitute of them. 1523. In the external pia mater graniform bodies resembling those of the sinuses are also met with. They are especially ob- served along and to the outside of the superior longitudhial sinus, around the cerebral veins. Here they are enveloped by the arach- noid membrane, and their size is so much the larger the nearer they