MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. S17 nus and iliacus intcrnus, and by the fascia iliaca, intci'iially l)y Gim- bernat’s ligament, the upper orilice of this canal is rounded, cover- ed by the peritoneum, closed by a cellular or ligamentous septum, and commonly perforated by several apertures for the lymphatic vessels of the thigh. The canal itself is formed a7iteriorly by the supcrlicial lamina of the fascia lata ; itostcriorly and internally liy the pectiucus and the deep lamina of the femoral aponeurosis ; in the same direction m\<\.eii'teTnally, by the psoas and iliacus muscles and the fascia lata. Its inferior orilice has a very irregular spiral form, and corresponds to the inguinal ring, properly so called. 1112. The transversus abdominis contracts the lower part of the belly, and brings forwards the ribs to which it is attached. OF THE RECTUS ABDOMINIS. 1113. This is a long, flat, and pretty thick muscle, broader above than below, extended vertically, like a sort of fleshy band, nn each side of the linea alba, from the pubes to the base of the thorax, and contained in a kind of fibrous sheath, formed by the two principal laminae of the abdominal aponeurosis. The anterior lamina is, as we have said, composed of two laminae above, and of three below. The posterior, wHch is entirely wanting below, has only two. Ther rectus muscle arises by two tendons which are attached to the symphysis of the pubes, and rarely to the bone itself. One of these, the internal, is slender, and interlaced with that of the op- posite side in the median line ; the other, which is external, broader and stronger, comes from the outer part of the upper edge of the symphysis. Both ascend converging, and soon unite to give rise to the fleshy fibres. These ascend vertically towards the thorax, but are interrupted from space to space, in their passage, by apo- neurotic intersections, whose number varies from three to five. There are always more of them above than below the umbilicus. When there are three, one is situated at the level of that cicatrix, and the other two above it; if there happen to be four, one of them is below it; lastly, if there are five, three are above and two be- neath it. They arc all transverse, and have a zig-zag direction ; but their breadth and length are not the same. They frequently intersect the muscle only in a half or third of its breadth ; their anterior part is much more distinct than the posterior, and adheres intimately to the lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis which forms the anterior wall of the sheath. They are also frequently ob- lique. We have .still to remark that the muscular fibres which arise from an inferior intersection, do not all terminate in that which is placed immediately above, but tliat a great number of these fibres pass behind it without being interrupted, and pass on to a more remote intersection. There results, however, from sucli an arrangement, tliat these fibres are evidently much shorter than the muscle itself.