ORGANS OF SENSATION. 49C dialis longior, and descends between the integuments and the ten- dons of tlic extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi intemodii pollicis. Presently after, it divides into two twigs, an outer and smaller, and an inner and larger. The outer descends upon the dor- sal surface of the thumb, and divides into two filaments, one of which ramifies along its inner edge, while the other bifurcates to be distri- buted to its inner side and to the outer side of the fore-finger. The inner proceeds over the back of the hand, and divides into two filaments, one of which belongs to the inner side of the fore-finger, the other to the outer side of the middle finger. All these fila- ments, before terminating at the extremities of the fingers, furnish many ramilications to the abductor and adductor indicis, interossei muscles, the integuments, and the parts about the first metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. 1710. Posterior Branch. It directs itself obliquely outwards, passes under the supinator longus and extensores carpi radiales mus- cles, gives off several filaments to them as well as to the anconeus, enters between the fleshy fibres of the supinator brevis, furnishes it with several filaments, passes through it in the longitudinal di- rection, winding obliquely downwards over the superior extremity of the radius, and arrives at the posterior surface of the fore-arm, divided into several twigs varying as to their number and origin. Some of these, the postei'ior, lose themselves by being more or less prolonged downwards, in the supinator brevis, extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor muscles of the fingers and index. The anterior belong to the muscles of the deep and posterior layer of the fore-arm. One of them, which is larger and longer than the others, descends behind the interosseus ligament, gives some ramifications to the neighbouring muscles, passes over the wrist-joint under the pos^ terior annular ligament of the carpus, and divides on the back of the hand into a great number of filaments which lose themselves in the interossei muscles and cellular tissue. OF THE AXILLARY OR CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. 1711- Arising from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, in certain subjects, it appears to be but a branch of the radial nerve, but in general, it is particularly produced by the last two cervical nerves and the first dorsal. Immediately after its origin it descends before the subscalpularis muscle, which receives a considerable twig from it, then dives between the two teretes muscles, turns from before backv/ards and from within outwards between the capsule of the shoulder-joint and the long portion of the triceps extensor, and at length gains the posterior edge of the inner surface of the deltoid muscle, after giving some filaments to the teres minor. 1712. Opposite the triceps extensor muscle, this nerve divides into two branches. 'I'he upper, which is shorter, sends a twig into the infra-spinatus, and tlicn loses itself in the deltoid muscle,