ORGANS OF SENSATION. 550 mour, the convexity of which gives it the form of n circulur prism with three faces. 1893. 1 lie (intcYiov suyfucB of the ins is covered hy the mem- brane of the aqueous humour, which however is only traced with mucli difhculty. It is differently coloured in different subjects, and presents two very distinct circular and concentric hands, an inner, near the pupil, and an outer, of which the former is narrow- er and deeper, the latter broader and less intensely coloured. In some cases, the colours of the iris are distributed in patches, which gives it a marbled appearance. On this surface there are observed many prominent and radiated stria?, more or less flexuous, which, commencing at the great cir- cumference of the iris, terminate at the pupil, where they bifurcate. Their number varies from seventy to eighty. They are much more distinct during life than after death. In their intervals there are many nerves and vessels, as well as very minute villosities. 1891'. The posterior surface of the iris has sometimes received the name of Uvea, on account of a very thick and adherent black varnish which covers it, and which, in the intervals of the ciliary processes, is continuous with that of the inner surface of the cho- roid membrane (1889). This surface is in the most immediate connectioil with the ciliary processes, and when it has been wiped there is observed upon it a great number of straight, convergent, prominent lines, blending into a membr?/nous zone near the pupil, and appearing to be the continuation of these small membranous bodies. There are also seen upon it numerous very distinct viUo- sities. 1895. The great circumference of the iris corresponds from without inwards to the ciliary circle (1892), the choroid membrane and the ciliary processes. It may easily be detached from these various parts. Its small circumference forms the limits of the pupil. 1896. The iris is composed of two laminae intimately united near the pupil, but which may be separated towards its great cir- cumference. Several anatomists of great merit have admitted mus- cular fibres in the iris, and recently Dr. Maunoir, of Geneva, a very distinguished surgeon, seems to have confirmed their exis- tence, which however is denied by most authors of our day. He discovered, by means of a strong lens, that these fibres form two kinds of planes ; an outer, radiated, broader, corresponcUng to the outer coloured ring, and dilating the pupil; an inner, narrower, composed of circular fibres, corresponding to the inner coloured ring, and contracting the pupil in the manner of a sphincter. I have observed the disposition pointed out by M. Maunoir in the dead body, and M. Bauer has since confirmed it (November 1821), as well as Sir Everard Home. 1897- We have already described tlu? nerves of the iris, (1792). Its arteries arc furnished it by the long ciliary arteries. Its veins