ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. G34 (Foramen of Botalf and wliicli sometimes remains open after birth. Its use is to transmit, before the period of birth, the blood of the vena cava inferior directly into the left auricle. 2182. There are observed moreover in the whole extent of the inner surface of the right auricle a great number of small orifices not furnished with valves. They belong to the veins of the walls of the heart. EIGHT on ANTERIOR VENTRICLE. 2183. Wider and broader, but less extended in length than the left, at the right and anterior part of which it is situated, the right ventricle has a considerable resemblance to a triangular pyramid, of which the base is turned upwards and backwards, and is confound- ed with the corresponding auricle. It has more extent on the an- terior surface of the heart than on the posterior. 2184. Its anterior and outer wall is rather thin and very con- cave. The posterior and inner is formed by a septum, which equally belongs to the left ventricle, and constitutes a semi-ovoidal ■projection. Their thickness is unequal in the different parts of their extent. Both are pretty smooth towards their base ; but, in the rest of their extent, they present a great number of musciilar bundles, commonly designated by the name of Columnce carnece^ and which vary much as to size, length, and direction. Their dis- position is in general rather irregular, some directing themselves vertically from the summit to the base, while the others cross them in all sorts of directions, and form with them a very confused network. Of these columns some are much larger than the others. Their -number varies from three or four to eight or nine. They are rounded, and differ so much in length, that there are some of them which resemble mere tubercles, while others have an extent of nearly an inch. AU arise from some point of the walls of the ventricle, direct themselves, becoming larger, from its summit to- wards its base, and terminate abruptly, each by several small ten- dons, (cordcB tendinece) which are inserted into the points of the tricuspid valve, diverging sensibly from each other, and sometimes anastomosing, as it were, with each other. Some of these tendons are bifurcated, and most of them are enlarged at the moment of their termination. OtheT fleshy columns of the right ventricle, more numerous than the preceding, are attached to its walls by their two extremities, but are free in their circumference. Others again are attached to the walls in their whole extent, and in the manner of pilasters. These are the most numerous and the thinnest. They follow all kinds of directions, and are interlaced with each other, so as to represent net-work, leaving between them depressions, differing in form and dimensions. 2185. The base of the right ventricle is perforated by two aper- tures.