9'^ PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. longitudinally concave in the former direction, convex in the latter, and much prolonged below by its lateral parts, which are directed outwards. This vault is formed by the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the maxillary bones. It is intersected in the middle by a longitudinal suture, which is sometimes inflected on one or other side, or may even present sinuous curves, and which results from the union of the nasal bones by mere juxta-position without denticulations. On the .sides of this suture are the insertions of the pyramidal muscles of the nose, and one or more small vascular apertures, as well as another longitudinal suture formed by the nasal bones and the nasal process of the maxillary bones, which is also commonly the result of a mere apposition of surface, although in many cases one of the surfaces presents small straight projec- tions, which are received into cavities formed in the other. 324. The denticulations at the top of the nose are contuiued la- terally over the summit of the nasal processes of the upper maxil- lary bones, and seem intersected by the lower and lateral parts of the margins of the orbits, which present below, the articulation of the malar tuberosity with the cheek bone, and outwards and a lit- tle upwards, inequalities which occupy the upper angle of the latter bone. Behind, and a little above these margins on each side, are the malar holes and the insertions of the large and small zygoma- tic muscle into the cheek bone, which, a little to the inside, forms a suture with the maxillary bone. This suture limits the canine fossa above, and terminates at the concave ridge which descends from the malar tuberosity, and which limits that fossa behind. Above the canine tooth is the infra-orbitar hole, and below, the insertion of the canine muscle. 325. Between the two canine fossae and under the nose, is ob- served the anterior orifice of the nasal fossce, which is heartshaped, broader below than above, and formed by the nasal and upper maxillary bones. It is sharp and uneven in its upper part, and rounded below. Above and in the middle, it presents a promi- nence formed by the union of the nasal bones, and limited laterally by the small notches which give passage to the nerves distributed to the lobe of the nose. Below, it presents the anterior nasal ' spine, surmounts a vertical suture, without denticulations, on the sides of which are the myrtiform fossae, and which is pro- duced by the articulation of the upper maxillary bones with each , other. This suture forms a right angle with the upper alveolar '■^border, under which are seen the aperture of the mouth and the two dentary arches. 326. These two arches, which are formed by the teeth arranged in continuous series, are, as has already been said, most commonly of a parabolic form! Sometimes their curve belongs to the half of an ellipse or oval; and occasionally they form angles at the part where the incisors meet the canine teeth. The upper arch is a lit- • tie wider than the under, on which account, the latter appears em- braced by it, Avhen the jaws are brouglit together.