STRUCTURE OF THE TEETH. 89 crown has a rhomboidal form, and where the two external branches of the root have a vertical direction, are placed close together, and are smaller than the third, which is internal, and diverges much from the others. The latter character is common to it with the preceding tooth. 309. The third large grinder does not make its appearance un- til long after the others, on which account it is called the Wisdom Tooth. It is smaller than the second, and its axis is still more directed inwards. Its crown is rounded, and furnished with three or four tubercles. Its root is generally simple, short and conical; but in the upper jaw it is sometimes quadrihed. 310. The crown of the teeth increases in breadth from the in- cisors to the first large grinder, and then diminishes to the last. Their roots diminish in length from the canine tooth to the wis- dom tooth. Lastly, from the first tooth to the last, the part ex- posed beyond the alveoli and gums, diminishes also. STRUCTURE OF THE TEETH. 311. The teeth appear to be formed of a harder and more com- pact bony tissue than any that enters into the composition of the other parts of the skeleton. The part of them which rises above the alveoli is covered with a still harder layer, having a vitreous aspect, to which the name of Enamel is given. The hony portion of the teeth, or the Ivory, forms a very dense mass which constitutes the whole of the root and the centre of the crown, and which is less brittle and more tenacious than the ena- mel. By chemical analysis, it gives nearly the same results as the other bones, with the exception of some traces of fluate of lime; yet its tissue never contains areolae or medullary cellules, and whatever may be the size of the tooth, neither vessels nor injec- tions can penetrate into it. Its fractured surface is commonly sUky or lustrous like satin. There are perceived in it, although with dif- ficulty, concentric fibres, which seem parallel to the surface of the tooth. It strongly resists the action of the air, and it is well known that in sepulchres which are discovered after a long series of ages, the teeth present themselves untouched in the midst of the remains of tlie skeleton reduced to powder. Once formed, this substance is perfect, and undergoes no sensible change. The enamel of the teeth is of a milk-white colour, and is hard enough to strike fire with steel. Its surface is extremely smooth and polished. If it be separated from the bony portion, it loses part of its lustre, becomes semitransparent, and seems to present a fibrous texture. The layer which it forms is thicker in the places where the teeth rub upon each other, and much thinner toward the alveoli; seeming to terminate gradually toward the neck, as may be especially seen in the incisors. Hunter observed that its fibres are straight and radiated toward the summit of the crown, where