189 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. cation too'cthcr, unless the libro-cartilage is perforated at its centre, which sometimes liappcns. Externally, they correspond to the external lateral ligament; posteriorly, to the parotid gland ; ante- riorly, to the external pterygoid muscle ; internally, to adipose cel- lular tissue. Their posterior part is very loose, and strengthened hy an irregular lihrous layer, which is perforated hy a great num- ber of holes for vascidar twigs. CI7. Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage. It presents the form of a thin lamina, transversely oval, separating from each other the two synovial membranes, to which it adheres strongly hy its two sur- faces. Its upper surface is concave from before backwards, a little convex transversely at its anterior and posterior parts, and thus ac- commodates itself to the disposition of the glenoid cavity. The infenor surface is concave, and covers the condyle. Its cir- tncmference lies between the fold of the two synovial mem- branes. It adlieres externally to the external lateral ligament; gives attachment anteriorly to some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle; and, posteriorly, is penetrated by a considerable number of small vessels. It is thicker throughout, and especially behind, than the middle part, whieh is often perforated with a hole, as we have said, (616.) The fibres of this cartilage are concentric and very close. They are better seen at the circumference than at the centre. D. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS WITH THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 1. ARTICULATION OF THE SACRUM WITH THE VERTEBR.E. 618. The articulation of the sacrum with the fifth lumbar verte- bra, is in general perfectly similar to those of the vertebras, and takes place by three different points; viz. by the oval surface which is observed at the middle of the base of the sacrum, and which is con- nected with the inferior surface of the body of the last vertebra, forming an amphiarthrosis ; and by the two articular surfaces whicli are seen behind the entrance of the sacral canal, which constitute a double arthrodia with the inferior articular surfaces of the last ver- tebra. The means of union which are met with here are also the same as in the vertebral column, and are as follows :—A fibro-car- tilage, (576) ; the end of the anterior and posterior common verte- bral ligaments, (574, 5^5) ; an interspinal ligament, the termina- tion of the ligament by which the apices of the spinous proeesses are connected, (579? 580); and, lastly, an interlaminar ligamcn- tum flavum, (578), which descends from the laminm of the last lumbar vertebra to the posterior part of the orifice of the sacral canal. There is also observed a synovial membrane in the arti-