CHARACTERS OF THE VERTEBRAE. 10 brjc of each region is also more dcpided in the middle part of that region than at its extremities, where they pass into those of the next region. In this manner, the last cervical vertebra forms a transition to the first dorsal, and the last dorsal has the greatest resemblance to the first lumbar. B. CIIAllACTEUS OF THE DIFFEnE'NT ORDEllS OF VEllTEBK.E. 52. Characters of the Cervical Vertehren, (Vertebree Colli.) The vertebrae of the neck are smaller than the others. They have their body transversely elongated, a little thicker before than be- hind, which is also the case with the j^des compared with the mid- dle. It is concave above, and surmounted latterly by two small projecting laminae; convex below, and presenting two superficial notches on the sides, which correspond to the laminae of the upper surface. Another peculiar character which the body of these ver- tebrae possesses, is that its upper surface is broader than the under, in which respect they differ from the other vertebrae. The body is also lower than in the dorsal and lumber vertebrae. The spinous process is bifurcated, horizontal and short. There is a hole for the passage of the vertebral artery at the base of the transverse processes, which are short, bifurcate at the summit, and present a channel above, the edges of which give attachment to the inter- transversal muscles. On account of the hole which passes across their base, these processes seem as if they had two roots, one of which arises from the body itself. The lower articular processes are of an oval form, somewhat concave, and are dfrected forwards and downwards; the upper are also oval, but present opposite characters. The Lamince of the cervical vertebras are longer and narrower than those of the others, and concur to render the hole proportionally larger, and of a triangular-form, with the angles rounded. Its upper circumference is formed by a sharp edge, and is smaller than the lower, which seems to embrace the vertebra situated beneath. The notches are anterior to the articular pro- cesses. 53. Characters of the Dorsal Vertebree, (Vertebree Dor si,) The dorsal vertebrae diminish in size from the last to the fourth or fifth, and then increase to the first, so that the fourth and fifth are always smaller than the rest. Their body has a greater diameter from before backwards than latterally, is thicker behind than be- fore, flattened above and below, with its upper surface narrower than the under, and is very convex at its middle and fore part. At its sides it generally presents two demi-facettes, covered with cartilage, of which the upper is larger than the under, and which are articulated with the heads of the ribs. In the first nine dorsal vertebrae, the upper and under surfaces of the body are heart-shaped; but, in the rest they arc rounded. The spinous processes are long, of the form of a triangular prism, tubercular at the summit, inclined downward.s, and imbricated. The trans^