APPENDIX. 823 presents ciifferenccs, according as it is examined, in tlie male or in the female. In the former, it invests the base of the vesiculae se- minales, and is rellected over the rectum, forming two semilunar folds, separated by a j)retty deep cul-de-sac, and called the Poste- rior Ligaments of the Bladder. At the level of these folds, and of their separation, the peritoneum is applied superiorly upon the anterior surface of the rectum ; but above it also covers its late- ral surfiice, and constitutes behind it the Mesorectum (2107), which the upper extremity is continuous with the Iliac Mesocolon (2049). In the female, the peritoneum passes from the bladder over the vagina, before which it forms two semilunar folds and an interme- diate cul-de-sac, similar to those which in the male, occur be- tween the rectum and bladder, but less distinct. It then invests the anterior surface, the upper edge and the posterior surface of the uterus, and a portion of the corresponding wall of the vagina, prolonging itself to the right and left to form the Broad Ligaments (297^)- From thence, it gains the rectum, axrd presents the same disposition as in the male. The peritoneum then ascends before the sacro-vertebral articu- lation, and unites with the lamina which forms the mesentery. We have examined the course of the peritoneum in the middle part of the hypogastric region; let us now follow it upon the sides of that region. It is at first seen reflecting itself from the walls of the abdomen over each iliac fossa, covering a part of the iliac and psoae muscles, embracing to the left the sigmoid flexure of the co- lon by means of the Iliac Mesocolon, and to the right the coecum and its appendages by means of the Mesocoicum (2086). From thence, it ascends forwards behind Poupart’s ligament, and forms two depressions on each side, which are called the Inguinal Fossae, and which are distinguished into internal and external. These fossae are separated from each other by the fold of the membrane which the umbilical artery supports. The ex- ternal, which is wider, is generally triangular. At the bottom of its summit, which is directed downwards and inwards, the peritone- um is seen to dive a little into the internal orifice of the inguinal canal (1090). Posteriorly, the peritoneum, which has invested the iliac fossae, ascends to be continued into the lumbar mesocolon. 2997- Epigastric Portion of the Peritoneum. Of much greater extent, and more complicated than the other two, it exhibits a dif- ferent disposition to the right, to the left, and in the middle. 1. To the left, the peritoneum invests a considerable part of the inferior surface of the diaphragm, and sinks into the most retired region of the hypochondrium as far as the vertebral column, whence it is successively reflected over the posterior surface of the splenic vessels, the posterior half of the inner surface of the spleen, its outer surface, its whole circumference, and the anterior half of its inner surface. 4'hcre, it meets the sjdenic vessels a second time near the lissure of the liver, jxasses over their anterior part,