MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 3G5 longer before than behind, from the anterior surface of the body of the^puhes, close to the symphysis, from the ramus of that hone, and from that of the ischium, h'rom thence it descends vertically on the inside of the thigh ; contracts rapidly, and when near the knee, is terminated by a slender and rounded tendon, which com- mences on the posterior edge of the muscle at the middle of the thigh, and which is accompanied anteriorly by fleshy fibres as far as the knee. There it becomes free, passes behind the inner con- dyle of the femur, enlarges, descends from behind forwards over the upper and inner part of the tibia, unites with the tendon of the semi-tendinosus (1294), and is attached to the hone behind that of the sartorius (1281). By its posterior edge it sends a fibrous expansion to the aponeurosis of the leg. 1308. Its inner mrface is covered by the fascia lata, and be- low by the sartorius. The outer covers the adductor and semi- membranosus muscles, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. 1309. The gracilis bends the leg upon the thigh, or the thigh upon the leg. If the leg is extended, it brings the thigh towards that of the opposite side, &c. OF THE ADDUCTOR PRIMUS OR LONGUS. 1310. This is along, fiat, thick, triangular muscle, broader below than above, situated before the other two adductors, at the inner and upper part of the thigh. It arises, by a narrow but strong tendon, from the spine, the anterior surface and the symphysis of the pubes. It is prolonged for a long time, under the form of an aponeurosis, over the inner edge of the fleshy body, which descends obliquely outwards and backwards, becoming broader and thicker as far as its middle part, but which then becomes thinner, to terminate between two aponeurotic laminae uniting into a single one, which is attached to the middle part of the interstice of the linea aspera, over a .space of about three inches, between the triceps extensor and adductor magnus, with which it is firmly united. This aponeurosis sends some fibres to the tendon of the latter muscle, which concur, with it, to form an aperture through which the crural artery passes. 1311. The anterior surface of the adductor longus is covered by the fascia lata, the sartorius, and the crural artery. The pos- terior covers the other two adductor muscles, and is firmly united to them below. Its outer edge is parallel to the pectineus muscle ; the inner is concealed by the gracilis. 1312. It brings the thigh toward that of the opposite side, bends it a little, and carries it outward in rotation. When one stands upon a single foot, it keeps back the pelvis.