rAUENCHi'MA OF THE LiVEU. 781 is much more apparent in the places of the surface of the liver wliere it exists alone, than in those where it is in connection with the peritoneum, to which it adheres in a pretty intimate manner. b. BLOOD-VESSELS AKD LYMPHATICS OF THE LIVER. 2829. They are very numerous. Some of them carry the blood to the liver: such are the hepatic artery (2449), the vena portm (2688), and, in the fetus, the umbilical vein. Others carry it off, after it has resided for some time in the organ : these are the hepa- tic veins (2677)- have already described all these vessels. The lymphatics of the liver have also been described (2756, 2759). They are extremely numerous. Its nerves are also very abundant. They come from the pneumo-gastric nerve (1640), the diaphragmatic nerve (1665) and the hepatic plexus (1846). C. PARENCHYMA OF THE LIVER. 28.30. Considered with respett to its interior, the substance of the liver presents a reddish or yellowish tint superadded to the brown colour of its surface. Its general aspect is porous, from the great number of small vessels which have been divided in cutting it. There are moreover observed in it small yellow dots irregular- ly disseminated, which correspond to the radicles of the excretory ducts of the bile. Another remarkable fact is, that the nature of the vessels which traverse the parenchyma of the liver in different directions, is indicated by the direction which they follow. Thus the branches of the vena portae and hepatic artery, and the roots of the hepatic duct, proceed horizontally in the direction of the great diameter of the liver, while the trunks of the hepatic vems direct themselves in a converging manner towards its posterior edge. Further, the orifices of the divided branches of the vena portae are collapsed, and those of the hepatic veins remain circidar. This depends upon the circumstance, that the former of these vessels is accompanied by a cellular sheath which prevents it from adhering to the parenchyma of the liver, while the others being destitute of that particular envelope, are intimately united to it. 2831. If the tissue of the liver be torn in place of being cut, it then appears uneven and formed of an immense quantity of round- i.sh grains or solid polygons, in which end the extreme ramifications of the vena portae and hepatic artery, and whence proceed the ra- dicles of the biliary ducts, hepatic veins, and deep seated lympha- tics. These granulations are about the size of a millet seed, of a soft consistence and dark red colour, and appear to be united to each other by cellular tissue, which docs not form them into lo- bules as in the salivary glands and the pancreas. I’lie most mi-