450 ORGANS OF SENSATION. without its being possible, however, to affirm in a positive manner wliethcr they cross each other, so tliat the left nerve passes to the right, and the right to the left, or whether the substance is mingled and identified in this place, which appears more probable ; but com- parative anatomy and pathological affections furnish nearly as many facts for the one as for the other of these opinions. At the place of this union, the optic nerves form a quadrilateral body, which rests upon a transverse groove of the sphenoid bone, gives attach- ment by its upper surface to the membrane which closes anteriorly the third ventricle, and is manifestly continuous behind with the tuher cinereum, whence the pituitary shaft arises. 1559« The optic nerves then separate again ; but they are now perfectly cylindrical and isolated on all sides. They direct them- selves forwards and outwards toward the optic foramen, through which they issue from the skull, along with the ophthalmic artery, which is placed at the lower and outer part. In this second part of their course, they begin with being enveloped by a neurilemma, Wilde from the moment when they issue from beneath the middle lobe of the brain untd that of their union, they were only covered by the pia mater and arachnoid membrane, and at the under sur- face only. 1560. The latter membrane, however, at the foremost part, forms around them a sheath which accompanies them into the op- tic foramen, and is then reflected over the dura mater, which also furnishes them with a fibrous canal, which we have already de- scribed (1489). In passing through the optic holes, they bend slightly at an obtuse angle, and become of smaller diameter. At their entrance into the orbit, they are surrounded by the posterior extremities of the four recti muscles of the eye, from the fleshy bodies of which they are separated by a considerable mass of adi- pose cellular tissue, in which are found immersed the ciliary nerves and vessels, and the ophthalmic ganglion. During their pas- sage in this cavity, the optic nerves describe a slight curvature, of which the convexity is directed outwards. On arriving at the pos- terior, internal, and inferior parts of the eye, they experience a manifest contraction, traverse the sclerotic and choroid mem- branes, and terminate at the middle of the retina by a truncated extremity. 1561. Until the moment of their union, the optic nerves are soft and entirely pulpy ; they present at their surface no trace of striae or cineritious substance; they only pretty generally present some apertures which are traversed by blood-vessels. Beyond their commissure, they become denser and firmer. 1 rom the optic liole to their termination, they are surrounded by an exterior neu- rilemma, very distinct from the meningeal sheath, with which they arc, however, connected by small somewhat laminar prolongations. Tliis neurilemma is thicker, stronger, and whiter than that of the other nerves. From its internal surface there arc detached pro- longations in the form ol partitions, which seem to divide the iutc-