817 OF THE FOLDS OF THE PEllITONEUM. times designated by the name of Ova of Naboth. No excretory ducts have as yet been discovered for these vesicles. - 2973. Proper Tisme. It occupies the interval which separates the peritoneum from the mucous membrane. Its thickness is great and amounts to five or six lines. It is of a dense and close texture, and yields great resistance to the knife. It is elastic and of a gray- ish white colour. Its adhesion to the mucous membrane is very great. Its intimate nature is yet little known. It is traversed by a very great number of blood-vessels. It is impossible to distin- guish in any part of its extent, the disposition of the fibres of which it is composed. Towards the neck, it is denser and less gray than in the walls of the body. It would appear, that during gestation, this tissue becomes truly muscular. 2974. The arteries of the uterus come from the spermatic and hypogastric. Their principal branches are placed beneath the pe- ritoneum ; they are very flexuous, and anastomose frequently to- gether. Its veins follow the‘same course, but are still more flexuous, and form cavities in its walls which become very large during ges- tation, and which are called Uterine Smuses. Its nerves come from the sciatic and hypogastric plexus. Its lymphatics are very numerous, and during gestation acquire enormous dimensions. 2. OF THE FOLDS OF THE PEKITONEUM NAMED THE BUOAD LIGAMENTS. 2975. These folds, improperly called ligaments, are placed in the excavation of the pelvis, and form with the uterus and upper part of the vagina a kind of transverse septum which divides that cavity into two parts, an anterior for the bladder, and a poste- rior for the rectum. They are continuous by the inner edge with the peritoneum which invests the two surfaces of the uterus, and externally are expanded upon the sides of the excavation of the pelvis. They are formed of two laminae placed back to back, in the interval of which is contained cellular tissue rarely containing fat. It is also between these two laminae that there are placed, on each side and superiorly, the Fallopian tubes, then beneath, ante- riorly, the round ligament, and posteriorly the ovary. The tube occupies the free edge of the ligaments; the other two organs raise each of their surfaces angularly, and thus form two smaller folds which are named little wings. 3. OF THE HOUND LIGAMEN'IS. 2976- The Hound Ligaments (Cordnyis sus-puhievs) arise fi-nm the lateral, superior and anterior part of the uterus, bencatli and before the insertion of the tubes, d hey direct themselves from thence towards the inguinal ring, pass through it, and terminate