287 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. Tempof'o- JSlaxUkiry Region. OF THE MASSETER.* (M. Zygomato-maxUlaire, Cliauss.) 990. The Masseter is of nearly the same form as tlie internal pterygoid muscle, and lies upon the outer surface of the lower jaw. It arises from the two anterior and outer thirds of the inferior edge of the zygomatic arch, from the inner surface of the arch, and at the same time a little from the internal aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. These three origins take place in a distinct manner ; the first, by a very strong, broad, and thick aponeurosis, which covers the outer surface of the muscle to beyond its middle part, and is divided into several digitations wliich are interposed between its fleshy fibres; the second, by small aponeurotic bundles, which are much shorter; the third by small fibrous planes of stiU less ex- tent. The fleshy fibres which come from these three points follow different directions. The first, which constitute the principal part of the muscle, pass obliquely downwards and backwards, to be in- serted at the outside of the angle of the lower jaw, by small apo- neurotic laminae; the second descend vertically and are attached a little higher; the third proceed obliquely downwards and forwards to terminate behind the coronoid process by other aponeuroses. 991- The external surface of this muscle is covered posteriorly by the parotid gland; below, by the platysma myoides; in the middle by Steno’s duct, the facial nerve, and the transverse facial artery ; anteriorly and above, by the orbicularis palpebrarum and zygomaticus maior. All the other parts of this surface are in con- tact with the skin. The internal surface covers the ramus of the jaw, the tendon of the temporal muscle, and the buccinator, from which it is separated by a great quantity of fat. 992. The masseter raises the lower jaw, and acts much during mastication. OF THE TEMPORAL MUSCLE, TEMPORALIS. (M. Temporo-maxillaire, Chauss.) 993. The Temporalis is a broad triangular muscle, thin above, narrow and thick below, which fills the whole temporal fossa. It is inclosed, as it were, in a sort of sheath, formed internally by seve- ral of the bones of the skull, and externally by an aponeurosis, which is attached to the whole of the curved line of the temporal bone, to the posterior and superior edge of the malar bone, and to the upper edge of the zygomatic arch. 7'his aponcuro.sis is of a violet tint above, where it is membranaceous, and pearly white be- comedo.