ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 227 the cuneiform bones with each other. A synovial membrane and six ligaments are observed here. 'J6'2. Dorsal Ligaments. ()f these there are three, an internal, a middle, and an external. Their insertions into the scaphoid bone are confounded with each other. They take place at the upper part of that bone, whence they proceed in a diverging manner to the corresponding extremity of each of the cuneiform bones. The first, which is divided into two fasciculi, is thicker below than above, and is strengthened by the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The others are not so broad or strong. 7(13. Plantar Ligaments. These are also three in number, and are less distinct than the preceding. Their fibres, which are pa- rallel and close, arc united into a single fasciculus beneath the sca- phoid bone, but separate on arriving at each of the cuneiform bones. Some of the fibres of these ligaments come from the ter- mination of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. 764. Synovial Membrane. It is common to the articulations of the cuneiform bones with each other, and with the scaphoid bone. It lines the ligaments by which they are connected together with their investing cartilages. 12. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES WITH EACH OTHER. 765. The cuneiform bones are mutually articulated by surfaces covered with cartilage. Two ligaments directed transversely, which seem imited into one, fasten them at their upper part, passing from the dorsal surface of the second to those of the third and first. Two other ligaments, transverse also, but less distinct, and co- vered by a prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, pro- ceed from the plantar surface of the second to those of the first and third also. That which is on the inside is much stronger than that which is on the outer. Between the articular surfaces, there are observed some interosseous fibres. The synovial membrane is the same as that of the preceding articulation. 13. ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE TARSUS AND METATARSUS. 766. We have already pointed out the disposition of the surfaces which contribute to the formation of these articulations (533—539), which are so many very close plain arthrodim. They are invested by a thin cartilage, and kept in connection by dorsal and plantar ligaments. There are also observed synovial capsules in them. 767- Dorsal Ligaments. Each of the metatarsal bones receives one from each of the tarsal bones with which it is connected. Thus the first presents a broad and thin ligament which comes from the first cuneiform bone; the second presents three, which come from