MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 387 digitorum and peroneus longus. Infcriorly, it sends a prolonga- tion between the two latter. OF THE AXXCLAR LIGAMENTS OF THE T.\I18US. 1397. Anterior Annular Ligament. This is a quadrilateral fibrous bundle, extended transversely over the ankl«, much thicker externally than at its inner part, and embracing the tendons of the extensors of the toes, and of the tibialis anticus and peroneus ter- tius. It is attached to the outer portion of the fore part of the superior depression of the calcaneum, whence it is immersed in the cellular tissue, and from whence it is directed inwards. It soon di- vides into two laminae for the purpose of embracing the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius, beyond which these laminae unite to separate again at the level of the tibialis an- ticus and extensor poUicis. Lastly, it terminates at the fore part of the malleolus internus, sending a very distinct prolongation to the os scaphoides and inner edge of the plantar aponeurosis. Its anterior surface is covered by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the tendons just mentioned, the anterior tibial nerve and ves- sels, and a small part of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis. Its upper edge is continuous with the aponeurosis of the leg. The lower sends over the back of the foot a thin and indistinct aponeu- rotic lamina, which gradually loses itself towards the toes in the cellular tissue, and which is commonly designated by the name of dorsal aponeurosis of the foot. 1398. Internal Annular Ligament. It is broader and less re- gularly defined than the other, and descends from the fore part of the malleolus internus to the posterior and inner part of the calca- neum, forming with that bone a sort of canal which contains the sheath of the tendons of the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digi- torum, and flexor pollicis, as well as the plantar vessels and nerves, and a great quantity of adipose tissue. Above, it is continuous with the tibial aponeurosis; below, it gives attachment to the ad- ductor poUicis, and is covered by the skin. OF THE PLANTAR APONEUROSIS. 1399. The Plantar Aponeurosis is stronger and denser than the palmar (1255), to which it has a considerable resemblance in other respects. It is of a somewhat triangular form, and is divided into three portions, a middle, thicker, and broader, and two lateral, which are very thin, and applied upon the muscles of the great and small toes. It is attached, posteriorly, where it is very strong, to the posterior and inferior eminences of the calcaneum, directs itself forwards, becoming broader, and permitting its fibres to separate,