648 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 2235. Crico-thyvoid Hranch. A little smaller than the preced- ing, it descends obliquely inwards over the thyroid cartilage, gives twigs to the thyro-hyoideus muscle, and passes transversely over the crico-thyroid membrane, at the middle of which it anastomoses with that of the opposite side, after furnishing ramifications to the crico-thyroideus muscle. 2236. When the superior thyroid artery has arrived at the thy- roid body, it separates into three branches. One of these dives between the thyroid body and the walls of the larynx. Another, which is larger, proceeds along its outer edge. The third follows its inner edge, and before the cricoid cartilage unites by a reversed arch with the like branch of the opposite superior thyroid artery, while the two first anastomose with the twigs of the inferior thy- roid artery of the same side. They are all distributed, by a great number of divisions, in the parenchyma of the thyroid body. op THE FACIAL, Ott LABIAL, OR EXTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. (Arth'e palato-labiale, Chauss.) 2237- It extends to almost all the regions of the face as fiir as the root of the nose. It arises from the fore part of the external carotid, above the lingual artery, and behind the digastricus muscle. Its size is considerable. Immediately after its origin, it directs it- self almost transversely inwards and forwards ; and, after describ- ing several flexuosities, gains the inner part of the angle of the lower jaw, covered in this course by the hypoglossal nerve, the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles and the sub-maxillary-gland. It then bends back between that gland and the base of the inferior maxillary bone, changes its direction, ascends very obliquely to- wards the commissure of the lips, between the triangularis and masseter muscles, forms a great number of flexuosities, and is co- vered by the skin and the platysma myoides. Near the free edge of the upper lip, it enters under the union of the levator anguli oris and triangularis muscles, and ascends upon the side of the nose, as far as the inner angle of the eye, where it terminates, whether by anastomosing with the nasal twig of the ophthalmic artery or with the infra orbitar, or by spreading out its twigs in the neighbouring parts. In the second part of its course, the fiicial artery is sepa- rated from the .skin by a greater or less quantity of fat, and coitcs- ponds successively and posteriorly to the inferior maxillary bone, the buccinator muscle, from which it is separated by a mass of adipose tissue of which we have already repeatedly spoken, the or- bicularis oris, levator labii superioris and levator labii superioris alasque nasi.