ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORACIC EXTREMITIES. 211 9. akticulation of the metacarpal bones with each OTHEU. 698. The first metacarpal bone is isolated. The others touch each other at their upper part by small surfaces covered with carti- lage, and already described, as well as the synovial capsule (691) which invests them. The anterior surfaces of the four by which the third and fourth metacarpal bones are united, are the only ones for which there exists a small synovial bag. Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments^ to the number of three on each side, having a trans- verse direction, not very distinct from each other, especially before, strengthen the articulations of the four last metacjirpal bones, which have also between them at their upper part, short and dense inter- osseous ligaments, placed immediately under the culs-de-sac of the synovial membrane. 699. Transverse and Inferior Metacarpal Ligament. This is a fibrous band, about two lines broad, stretched transversely before the lower extremities of the last four metacarpal bones, which are not in direct contact with each other. Its anterior surface is marked with four depressions which correspond to the passage of the tendons of the flexors of the fingers, and whose sides are contin- uous with the sheaths of these tendons. It is moreover covered by the lumbricales muscles and by the vessels and nerves of the fingers. Its posterior surface is intimately connected with the li- gaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and corresponds to the tendons of the interosseous muscles. The fibres of this li- gament are transverse. The superficial, which are longer, em- brace the heads of the four metacarpal bones. The deeper, which are shorter, only go from one bone to the other. 10. ARTICULATIONS OF THE METACARPAL IlONES WITH THE PHA- LANGES. 700. These articulations are formed by the reception of the heads of the metacarpal bones into a concave and superficial sur- face, presented by the superior extremities of the first phalanges of the five fingers. The surfaces are equally covered with cartilage, but those of the phalanges are much less extended than those of the metacarpal bones. An anterior ligament, and two lateral liga- ments, serve to strengthen eaeh of these articulations, which are invested with a synovial membrane. 701. Anterior Ligament. Bichat was the first anatomist who gave a description of this ligament, which is a kind of fibrous half ring, embracing the anterior part of each articulation. On each side, it is attached to the metacarpal bone, before the lateral liga- ments ; and anteriorly, it partly confounds its fibi’es with those of the transverse and inferior metacarpal ligament, and with those of