ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the abdomen. This pa.ssagc is rendered the more diillcult by its centre being tbrincd of a solid and elastic bridle, representing the summit of a kind of pyramid, of which the base corresponds to the liver, the two iliac regions, and the upper part of the bladder, and which is constituted by the umbilical vessels, and urachus trans- formed into true ligaments, which have contracted intimate adhe- sions to the eircumfereiice of the aperture. 1099- The Lmea alba, whose use is to limit the motions of the thorax backwards, to prevent it from separating too far from the pelvis, and to furnish a fixed point to the abdominal muscles for their contractions, divides to the right and left, for the latter pur- pose, into two aponeurotic laminae of different dimensions, and si- tuated the one before the other. 1100. The more superficial of these laminae passes before the rectus abdominis, and having arrived at its outer edge, divides into two other lamime, of which the posterior, united to a deeper lami- na, goes to furnish points of attachment to the obliquus internus abdominis, while the anterior affords similar attachment to the ob- liquus externus. Behind them, but in their lower fourth only, is another lamina, which belongs to the transversus abdominis. 1101. The lamina which belongs to the obliquus externus is thin, elongated, less broad above than below, contracted in the middle, so as to terminate by its concave edge outwards. It occu- pies the whole anterior part of the abdomen, and is thicker and more elastic the lower it is examined. Above the umbilicus, it is transparent and formed of fibres running obliquely outwards and upwards, which are confounded, near the base of the thorax, witii the lower insertions of the pectoralis major. At the upper and outer part, these fibres are manifestly intersected at right angles by other very distinct fibres passing obliquely inw'ards and up- wards. Beneath the umbilicus, the fibres are much stronger, and form an opaque layer which no longer permit the fleshy bodies si- tuated under it to be distinguished. They are disposed in small bands parallel to each other, and passing obliquely upwards and backwards, which gives the aponeurosis the appearance of a web merely warped; but, about the distance of an inch and a half from the pubes, it forms an interlaced tissue. These other small bands cross the direction of the first in various ways, most of them however being transverse, and proceed as far as the superior and an- terior iliac spine. Several of them are curved, their convexity being directed downwards. Then the aponeurosis divides internally into two bands, of which the upper, wiiich is curved, broader and thin- ner, is inserted upon the edge of the angle of the pubes, intercros- sing with that of the opposite side, and becoming confounded with the fibres of the symphysis pubis and the suspensory ligament of the penis; while the other, whicli is inferior, straight, less broad, but thicker and stronger, descends obliquely forwards and inwards, above the femoral notch, and terminates at the spine of the pubes. These two bands have generally been called the ■pillars of the inytmial ring, because from their separation results the aperture