OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. 565 1939. Superior Wall. There is observed in it a certain number of porosities wliich give passage to small blood-vessels which form a communication between the dura mater and the mucous membrane of the tympanum. It has very little thickness, and presents no- thing else remarkable. 1940. Inferior Wall. There is seen in it the glenoid fissure (I73), through which issue the long process of the malleus and the corda tympani (1802), and by which there enter the anterior mus- cle of the malleus and some blood-vessels. 1941. Posterior Wall. In the upper part of this wall, there oc- curs a short scabrous canal, not lined with a layer of compact tissue, like the other bony canals, directed obliquely backwards and down- wards, placed above the short branch of the incus, with a triangu- lar free orifice, not closed by a membrane. This canal leads to the Mastoid Cells, formed in the interior of the mastoid process (175), developed in the direct ratio of the age, and varying in number and figure. Those of the circumference are in general of the same size as the cellules of the diploe of the rest of the temporal bone ; but, at the centre, there are three, four, or five much larger, and even sometimes confounded together so as to form a single cavity. They all communicate with each other ; but are separated from the other cellules of the bone by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the tympanum. Beneath the aperture of the mastoid cells, behind the fenestra ovalis, and at the lower part of the prominence formed by the aque- duct of Fallopius (1938), is a small hollow conical eminence, more or less prominent. This is the Pyramid or Eminentia pyrami- dalis. Its summit is directed forwards, and gives passage to the tendon of the muscle of the stapes, the fleshy body of which is con- tained in a canal which occupies the centre of the eminence. Under the base of the pyramid is a small aperture which com- municates with the aqueduct of Fallopius, and through which the upper twig of the vidian nerve penetrates into the tympanum (1804). Sometimes also the summit of the pyramid is connected with the promontory by one or two bony filaments. 1942. Anterior Wall. It presents a small, thin, projecting bony plate, curved upon itself from beneath upwards, and com- monly named the Processus cochleariformis. This plate separ- ates in its whole length two canals situated in the retiring angle of the tympanum, which receives the spine of the sphenoid bone (181), and placed one above the other. The superior canal is rounded, lined with a very delicate periosteum, and filled by the internal muscle of the malleus. It presents the aperture of an extremely narrow canal which ascends in the groove placed before the hiatus Fallopii, and which gives passage to a filament of the superficial petrous nerve, which goes to meet on the promontory another filament of the same nerve of which we shall presently speak. The inferior forms the bony portion of the Eustachian tube. Under the