OF THE GLANS. 809 sue of the prostate gland. Opposite its membranous portion, it acquires considerable density, and is strengthened by the fibres of the levatores ani, bulbo-cavernosi, transversi perina^i and sphincter ani muscles. 2944. Sponyy Tissue. It surrounds the three anterior fourths of the length of the urethra. It commences by forming the bulb, then diminishes m thickness and constitutes a uniform and cylin- drical layer as far as the glans. Beneath the fossa navicularis, it becomes thin in a remarkable degree, and collects above and behind to form the glans by expanding. It is attached to the corpus ca- vernosum by a great number of blood-vessels which it receives from that part, and by a lamina of its fibrous membrane. The cellules of this tissue are pretty large in the glans, but very small in the rest of its extent. From microscopical observations recently made, it would appear that this tissue contains fasciculi of longitudinal muscular fibres, which are very short, interlaced together and united by their extse- mity and origin. The thickness of this kind of fleshy layer is greater at the upper part of the penis than at the lower, and towards the external orifice of the canal than elsewhere. 2945. The arteries of the urethra are numerous and come par- ticularly from the internal pudic. The largest branches penetrate into the bulb (2529). Its veins follow the course of the arteries, and its lymphatic vessels go to the inguinal and hypogastric plexus. Its nerves come from the pudic (1765) and inferior glutasal (1764). 4. OF THE GLANS. 2946. The Glans (Balanus) of the penis, which is continuous with the urethra and forms the extremity of the penis, presents it- self under the appearance of a cone slightly flattened in the same direction as the corpus cavernosum. Its sumynit, which in some individuals is covered by the prepuce and in others free, is perfo- rated by the orifice of the urethra. Its base, which has a very oblique direction from above downwards and from behind forwards, embraces the extremity of the corpus cavernosum, and is connected with it by vessels and by a very dense cellular tissue. It is circumscribed by a prominent edge called the Corona Glandis, behind which the in- ner membrane of the prepuce forms a cul-de-sac by being reflected. Beneath the urethra, the corona glandis is interrupted by a small groove which extends to the orifice of that canal, and which is filled by the frenum praeputii (2925). 2947. The glans is invested by the mucous membrane of the prepuce, which, over it, is thin, rather dry, destitute of mucous crypts, and covered by a very delicate epidermis. Its internal tis- sue is spongy, erectile, and of the same nature as that of the ure- thra, only it appears liriner and denser.