754 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. 2710. Mesocolic Ganglia. Much less numerous than the pre- ceding, and placed between the lamintE of the mesocolon, they are distributed along the colon, and are more numerous in its trans- verse than in its lumbar or iliac portions. They are situated near its concave edge. Some of them, which are smaller than the rest, are even disseminated over its two surfaces. 2711. Gastro-epiploic Ganglia. They occupy the two curva- tures of the stomach, and surround the gastro-cpiploie arteries and the coronary artery of the stomach. They are not numerous, there being only five or six for each curvature. 4. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE THOEAX. * 2712. Ganglia of the Mediastimmi. There are observed three or four upon the diaphragm, and about the same number are dis- tributed upon the pericardium in the inferior separation of the pos- terior mediastinum ; but twelve or fifteen at least surround the thy- mus gland and the large vessels of the base of the heart. 2713. Ganglia of the Walls of the Thorax. They are irregu- larly scattered between the two layers of the intercostal muscles. Twelve are also met with on each side of the vertebral column on the articulations of the ribs. Some are placed near the oesophagus and aorta in the posterior mediastinum. Lastly, there are eight or ten on each side which mark the course of the internal mammary arteries. 2714. Bronchial Ganglia. These we have ahready described. (2129). 5. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2715. Ganglia of the Ann. They are distributed in the course of the brachial artery, from the bend of the arm to the axilla. They are scarcely ever met with in the fore arm. Not unfre- quently there is one at the bend of the arm, near the inner con- dyle. 2716. Axillary Ganglia. They are of large size, and vary in number. They are placed in the axilla, betiveen the pectoralis ma- jor, serratus magnus, latissimus dorsi and subscapularis, around the axillary vessels and their branches, and in the midst of the cellular tissue. Some are met with under the clavicles and between the pectoralis major and the ribs. 6. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 2717. Ganglia of the Skull. No lymphatic ganglia arc met with in the interior of the skull. The outside of that cavity pre-