187 ARTICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. arc absolutely confounded with the posterior common vertebral li- gament Antermrly, this ligament corresponds to the odon- toid process, its ligaments, the transverse ligaments, from which it even receives an appendage (584), and the posterior part of the body of the axis. Posteriorly, it is pretty intimately connected with the dura-inater. It also serves to complete the empty spaces which the odontoid ligaments leave between themselves and between the bones. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE SKULL WITH EACH OTHER. 610. These articulations are synarthroses which admit no kind of motion, and which constitute either sutures or harmonise. We have already described them at length (196—206) ; and have only here to mention a few additional particulars with respect to them. They present differences, according as we examine them at the base or on the vault of the skull. In the former, the surfaces are in general merely placed in juxtaposition, broad, separated by a pretty thick layer of cartilage, especially between the sphenoid and occipital bones, between the latter bone and the temporal, &c.; while, in the latter, they present denticulations which are received by each other, are narrow, and have between them only an ex- tremely thin cartilage, whose existence however may be proved by long maceration, or by boiling. The circumstance of this cartilage being thicker internally than at the outside of the skull (560), ac- counts for the sutures being sooner obliterated in old people, on the outside than on the inside of the walls of this cavity. 2. ARTICULATIONS OF THE FACE. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER JAW. 611. We have already made known the manner in which the face is articulated with the skull (363), and described the different sutures which the bones of the face itself form by their union. We shall only here remark, that in the recent state aU their junctions arc similar in their composition to those of the skull (610) ; that the interlockings seem to circumscribe the face, and occupy its sur- face, that the unions by harmonia are placed at the centre, and that the interval between the surfaces of both orders is occupied by a more or less distinct cartilage. ARTICULATION OF THE LOWER JAW. 612. This articulation, which belongs to the order of arthrodia?, is double, but it is the same on both sides. The glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the transverse process of the same bone (I72, 173) serve to form it, in conjunction with the condyle of the inferior maxillary bone (294). The glenoid cavity, of which the outer extremity is a little more anterior than the inner, is only ar-