PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 138 OF THE SUPEKIOll EXTREMITIES CONSIDERED IN GENERAL, WITH REFERENCE TO THE BONES OF WHICH THEY ARE COMPOSED. 484'. The upper extremities, whose length is such that, in the standing posture, the tips of the fingers reach the middle of tlie thigh, are composed each of thirty-two bones, the weight of which is sustained by the connections, more or less remote, of the shoul- der with the head, the neck, and the vertebral column. In order to point out the different regions into which they are divided for the purpose of facilitating their examination, they are .supposed hanging by the side of the body, with the palm of the hand turned forwards. The following peculiarities are then observed in each of the portions of which they consist. 485. The Shoulder is applied upon the upper part of the tho- rax, in such a manner as to increase its transverse extent on the outside in a great degree. It is longer than broad, and this length is more marked in the female than the male, on account of the greater development of the mammae, which induces an enlargement of the chest at its upper part. With respect to its height, it is the scapula alone that can serve to furnish an estimate of it, the cla- vicle being of no importance in this respect. The shoulder is in general inclined backwards, and the glenoid cavity of the scapula turned directly outwards. The two bones of which it is formed constitute a bent and horizontal lever, which is so disposed that the summit of the angle is above the glenoid ca- vity, and its base dnected inwards and backwards. 486. The Arm, or portion of the thoracic extremity extended between the shoulder and elbow, is formed by a single bone already described, and scarcely presents any thing for our examination in its general conformation. It is protected at its upper part by the projection forriied by the acromion and coracoid process. The pulley which is observed at its lower part is oblique, so as to be directed forwards toward the inner edge of the bone, and outwards toward its outer side. The inner tuberosity of this extremity cor- responds to the head of the humerus, and the outer tuberosity to tlie large tuberosities of the upper extremity. 487. The Fore-arm, which is situated between the arm and hand, is flattened from before backwards, curved a little forwards, and of nearly uniform breadth in its whole length. The two bones of which it is composed, are so disposed that the thickest part of the one corresponds to the thinnest part of the other, so that, in the different parts of the extent of the fore-arm, the sum of their diame- ters remains almost uniformly the same. Both are I'ounded on the side where they are farthest from each other, and terminate in a sharp edge on that by which they mutually approach. They are in contact at their two extremities ; but in the middle are separated by an interval named the intei'osseous space, v hich is contracted above and below, and in the recent state is closed by a membra- niform ligament. Their two carpal extremities are situated nearly