14 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. Those giving passage to the vessels of the medullary organ of long bones. Those intended for tlie vessels of the cellular tissue of the extremities of long bones, and of the short bones. Those for the vessels of the compact tissue. 36. The cavities which transmit the vessels to the medullary or- gan are very distinct, and are always met with on the body of the long bones, where they pass obliquely between the fibres of the compact tissue. Those which belong to the cellular tissue are al- ways associated in great quantities, in which respect they differ from the preceding, which are always single, at least in man. They are equally distinct; but those which are observed in the compact tissue are mere pores, rendered visible principally by the blood which issues from them in the fresh state of the bones. 37. Like the apophyses or eminences of which we have spoken above, the cavities in question are sometimes formed by a single bone, which is the more ordinary case, sometimes by the concur- rence of several osseous pieces ; but they are never, as is too com- monly imagined, the result of pressure. 38. The bones in their fresh state are covered over the greater part of their extent, and excepting only the surfaces by means of which they are articulated to each other, by a fibrous, dense, and strong membrane, shaggy on its outer surface, containing a great number of vessels, feebly adhering to the bone in early age, and affording a point of attachment to all the fibrous organs of the sys- tem, excepting the tunica albuginea, the sclerotica, the pericardium, and the fibrous capsules of the liver, spleen, and other viscera. Various names are applied to this membrane, according to the parts where it is observed. On the skull, it is called the pericra- nium on the cartilages, the perichondrium ;*|* on the bones in general, the periosteum.^ 39. The medullary canal of the long bones is filled by a thin, pellucid, vascular membrane, folded upon itself a great many times, divided into cellules or vesicles, by mvdtiplied prolongations which extend from one of its sides to the other, and filled with an oily inflammable fluid, of a whitish or yellowish colour, which is only so during life, and after death presents itself under the form of small shining grains. This substance has received the name of marrow, (medulla.) It is formed by exhalation. 40. The cellular tissue of the extremities of the long bones, the diploe of the flat bones, and the interior of the short bones, are also lined by a membrane, which appears to be nothing else than an expansion of vessels anastomosing ad infinitum with one another. This vascular network also furnishes a fat substance, resembling the preceding, but having less consistence, and of a reddish tint. 41. The medullary fluid docs not occur solely in the large cavi- * ritj/, clvcn ; rnlvtfria. "f" ciren ; rarfilaffo.. I ITjj/, chetr ;