ORGANIZATION OF THE PITUITARY MEMBRANE. 581 more to the mucous membrane than the bone, a disposition the reverse of the other portions of the periosteum, which are very strongly attached to the bones, and very little to the neighbouring parts. When the membrane has been thus removed, its great thickness is easily seen, and it appears white, solid, dense, and strong on the side next the bones, spongy and red oB the other. The mucous lamina to which the latter qualities belong, is espe- cially formed by a very distinct chorion, which approaches in thick- ness to that of the gums and palate. 1992. On drying, the pituitary membrane becomes transparent and very thin, and is closely attached to the surface of the nasal fossae. If it be then moistened, it resumes in part its usual appearance. Under the influence of humidity it readily putrefies. It then assumes a grayish tint, and presently after the mucous portion may be re- moved from above the fibrous, under the form of a pap, in which all traces of organization have disappeared. Sulphuric acid and chlorin give it a blackish tint. Caustic potash dissolves it, or ra- ther converts it into a soapy matter, with great readiness. By ebullition, it becomes thick, transparent, and gelatinous ; separates from the bones in shreds : crisps and is rolled upon itself, acquir- ing a considerable degree of elasticity. It swells much under maceration; but if, before submitting it to this operation, its vessels be injected, and the fluid in which it is steeped frequently removed, the surface of this membrane be- comes downy, and is covered with very large and distinct villosities, the nature of which cannot be accurately determined. They are extremely close in the nasal fossae, but in the different sinuses are scarcely distinguishable. Bichat supposes their base to be nervous. 1993. In most of the other mucous membranes, there exist glands situated under the chorion or even in its substance, and which continually pour forth, by small apertures, a mucilaginous humour, which lubricates their free surface. This disposition is not very apparent in the pituitary membrane, but it nevertheless exists in it. The fibrous layer being removed, there are sometimes per- ceived in its tissue granulations, which are somewhat difficult to be distinguished, on account of their being very close together, and which seem to form a true follicular layer, similar to that met with in the velum palati and arch of the palate, but less developed than in these places. In other circumstances, they are true crypts, of a pulpy consistence, thick, round or oval, and opening by a pore into the nasal fossae. They are then observed on the two sides of the septum, on the middle and inferior turbinated bones, and in the inferior meatus, especially near the pharynx. Their apertures are always pretty distinct in these different places. At the fore part of the septum there is even seen a large transverse lacuna, common to a great number of these follicles, which form a layer of the breadth of the little finger, of a reddish colour, and parallel to