185 ARTICULATIONS CF THE HEAD. ARTICULATION OF THE OCCIPUT WITH THE ATLAS. 60-i. This articulation constitutes a very close double arthrodia, which results from the contact of the condyles of the occipital bone with the superior articular cavities of the atlas (56, 162). The surface of both these parts is equally mveated with a pretty thick cartilage, which is interrupted in several points of its circumfe- rence by inequalities in which are lodged small masses of reddish cellular tissue. A synovial membrane, which exists on each side, lines the articular surfaces, being reflected from the one to the other. It is very loose anteriorly, because on this side it compre- hends in its circuit a part of the surface of the occipital bone, while in the rest of its extent, it is confined to the circumference of the condyle. Anteriorly, it fines the anterior occipito-atloidal liga- ment ; posteriorly and externally, it is in connection with much cellular tissue; internally, it covers the extremity of the trans- verse ligament, a part of the corresponding odontoid ligament, and small masses of adipose cellular tissue which have been taken for synovial glands. This articulation is further strengthened by two ligaments, the one before, the other behind, besides a great num- ber of small irregular fasciculi of fibres. 605. Anterior Occipito-Atloidal Ligament, (Membrana an- nuli anterioris vertehrce primes, Weit.) It is situated between the anterior arch of the atlas and the corresponding part of the margin of the occipital hole, and is composed of two distinct fasciculi. One of these, which is narrow, round, thick, superficial, and formed of vertical fibres, parallel to each other, has been named the Anterior Cervical Ligament. It descends from the basilar process to the tubercle of the anterior arch of the atlas. The other, which is much thinner, broad, and membranous, ex- tends transversely from the outer extremity of one of the occipito- atloidal articulations to the corresponding point on the opposite side. Its tissue is dense and compact, and the fibres of which it is composed are with difficulty distinguished. Its anterior surface is covered by the preceding fasciculus, the recti capitis antici majores, and minores muscles, and a portion of the recti capitis late- rales. It gives rise, by its sides, to a fibrous arch, of which the concavity is directed upwards, and which is attached to the fore part of the occipital condyle on the one hand, and on the other to the jugular surface of the same bone. This ligamentous arch is traversed by the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and by the internal jugular vein. The posterior surface of this liga- ment rests upon the odontoid process, the ligaments and synovial capsules of the articulation itself. 606. Posterior Occipito-Atloidal Ligament, (Membrana an- nuli post. vert, primes, Weit.) This is broader than the last. It is formed of two lamina? placed the one before the other, which proceed together from the posterior part of the circum-