PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, through the notch to be distributed to its inner surface, while the others proceed nearly as far as the small trochanter. 2. FEMORO-TIBIAL ARTICULATION OR KNEE JOINT. 715. This articulation is the most complex in the body. It is an angular ginglymus, into the formation of which there enter the condyles of the femur, the upper extremity of the tibia, and the posterior surface of the patella. The condyles of the femur, toge- ther with the pulley which exists between them, are invested by a pretty thick cartilage, which is especially so at the middle part of the condyles. This cartilage does not cover the sides of the con- dyles, and ascends much higher before than behind. Another less thick cartilage is extended over the posterior surface of the patella. Lastly, a layer of the same substance is observed on each of the cavities formed on the upper extremity of the tibia, and this is also thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The ligaments of this articulation belong peculiarly to the pa- tella, or are common to the femur and tibia; and they surround a synovial membrane of great extent. 716. Ligament of the Patella. This ligament is in reality no- thing but the continuation of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, in the substance of which the patella seems to be develop^ ed in the same manner as the sesamoid bones (505) ; nor is it ad- mitted as a distinct ligament by most authors. It forms a flat bundle, about two inches long by one broad, narrower at the mid- dle than at its extremities, more developed above than below, ex- tended from the inferior angle of the patella and the depression at the lower part of its posterior surface to the anterior tuberosity of the tibia (510.) Its anterior surface is covered by the skin and a prolongation of the fascia lata. The posterior surface is apphed at its upper part, upon an adipose mass of remarkable size, which itself rests upon the synovial capsule, and at its lower part is sepa- rated from the tibia by a small synovial bursa, which lines a trian-. gular surface of that bone, and which is afterwards reflected over it. This membranous bag is extremely loose, and rather plenti- fully supplied with synovia. The edges of the ligament of the pa- tella are continuous with aponeuroses which the triceps extensor muscle transmits to the tibia. Its fibres are very ditterent from those of the other ligaments. They are parallel, close, and glis- tening. The superficial fibres are continuous at the fore part of the patella with those of the tendon of the rectus muscle; the pos- terior manifestly form a continuation of those of the bone itseh. 717. Escternal Lateral Ligament. It is situated nearer the pos- terior part of the articulation than the anterior, and consists of a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, which descends vertically from the tuberosity of the external condyle of the femur to the outer part of the head of the fibula. It is covered in the greater part of its ex-