ORGANS OF SENSATION. 506 the Other nerves wliich arise from the sides of the spinal marrow ; only the gangliform thickenings of the posterior root, in place of occurring at the outer part of the hole from which they are trans- mitted, occupy the bony canal of the sacrum. The last three are even considerably distant from the inferior sacral holes, so that the common trunk which results from the union of the two roots, runs a certain course before entering them. 1748. The sacral nerves transmit, through the anterior holes of the sacrum, branches which chminish in volume from above down- wards, while on the contrary the posterior branches increase to the fourth, and then diminish. OF THE FIRST SACRAL NERVE. 1749. Posterior Branch. Very small and rather short, at its exit from the first posterior sacral hole, it communicates with that of the following nerve, then descends a httle obliquely outwards be- fore the inferior part of the sacro-spinalis muscle, passes through it, furnishing it with a great number of filaments, and loses itself in the glutasus maximus and skin. 1750. Anterior Branch. It is about the same size as that of the fifth lumbar nerve. On issuing from the first anterior sacral hole, it communicates, by two filaments, with the sacral gangha, then descends outwards along the upper edge of the pyramidahs muscle, and joins above the sacro-lumbar nerve (1744), and below the second sacral nerve, thus contributing to the formation of the sciatic plexus. OF THE SECOND SACRAL NERVE.- 1751. Posterior Branch. Thicker than that of the preceding nerve, it communicates with it and the third, descends obliquely outwards, perforates the sacro-spinalis and glutaeus maximus mus- cles, to which it gives filaments, and expands upon the posterior surface of the latter, and in the integuments of the hip and margin of the anus. 1752. Anterior Branch. It issues by the second anterior sacral hole, between the two upper slips of the pyramidal muscles, com- municates with the sacral ganglia, descends outwards, and throws itself into the sciatic plexus, uniting with the anterior branches of the preceding and following nerves. OF THE THIRD SACRAL NERVE. 1753. Posterior Branch. It communicates, at its leaving the tliirci posterior sacral hole, with the corresponding branches of the 3