248 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. middle part, but at its upper part is thin and Hat, and tendinous at the lower. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the lateral and inferior part of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, from a small portion of the posterior extremity of the twelfth rib, from the side of the bodies of the four first lumbar vertebrae, from the fibro-cartilages which se- parate them, and from the base of the corresponding transverse processes. Between the latter insertion and the others, there ex- ists a space in which are lodged the branches of nerves which con- cur to form the lumbo-abdominal plexus. The fleshy body forms at its upper part a flat and nearly vertical bundle, which becomes rounded as its descends, and which afterwards directs itself towards the sides of the upper strait of the pelvis, where it gives rise, near the crural arch, to a very strong tendon. This tendon is placed at the inner side of the muscle before being totally separated from it, and is even concealed among its fleshy fibres, until close to the lumbar vertebrae. It receives, by its outer side, the fleshy fibres of the iliacus internus, passes under the crural arch, in the notch observed between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior and inferior iliac spine, descends inwards and backwards, over the cap- sule of the femur, and terminates by embracing the trochanter minor. 810. The external surface of the psoas magnus, which is at the same time anterior, corresponds to the diaphragm, the peritoneum, the kidney, and the psoas minor when it exists. At the lowest part, this surface becomes entirely anterior, and is covered by the exter- nal iliac artery, the cellular tissue of the bend of the groin, then by the crural artery and the corresponding vein. Its inner surface, which is applied upon the sides of the bodies of the lumbar verte- brae, and upon those of the corresponding intervertebral fibro-car- tilages, is yet separated from these parts by the lumbar nerves and vessels. It leaves between it and the fifth lumbar vertebra a trian- gular interval, filled with cellular tissue. Then, becoming nar- rower, it is in contact with the external iliac vein and the tendon of the psoas parvus, and descends parallel to the pectineus, from which it is separated, at the lowest part, by the internal circumflex vessels. Its posterior surface is applied above upon the quadratus lumbo- rum, from which it is separated by the lumbar nerves and the an- terior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis. Far- ther down, it is connected with the iliac bone and the capsular liga- ment of the hip joint. (707-) 811. Synovial Bursa. A loose synovial membrane, of great ex- tent, but scantily supplied with synovia, forming a sort of bag Avhich descends to near the small trochanter, separates the branch of the pubes and the capsular ligament of the thigh-joint, from the tendon of the psoas magnus, which it embraces behind. 812. The psoas magnus bends the thigh on the pelvis, directing the point of the foot a little outwards. It acts, especially in the standing posture, by retaining the body when it tends to fall back- wards, and it can even bend the pelvis and vertebral column on the inferior extremity. This flexion is direct when the muscles of both