815 OF THE UTERUS. 29G4. Erectile Spongy Tissue. It forms around the inferior part of the vagina a layer about an inch broad and two or three lines thick. It has a grayish colour and a dense and compact tex- ture. No regularly disposed fibres are distinguished in it. Supe- riorly, it becomes very thin, but it nevertheless ascends as far as the uterus, and seems to be continuous with the proper tissue of tliat organ. It is commonly designated by the name of PLeaius re- tiformis. 290*0. The vagina receives an artery which arises from the hy- pogastric (2388). Its nerves are furnished bv the sciatic plexus <1733). U.—OF THE UTERUS OR WOMB AND ITS APPENDAGES. 1. OF THE UTERUS. a. GEXERAL DISPOSITION. 2966. The uterus or womb, which is destined to lodge the foe- tus from the period of conception to that of birth, is a hollow, sym- metrical organ, pyriform or rather of the shape of a truncated cone, placed in the middle of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, above the vagina and beneath the inferior circumvolutions of the small intestine. It is flattened from before backwards, and is near- ly an inch in thickness. From being about two inches broad in its highest region, it contracts towards the vagina, and terminates by a narrow elongated portion which is called the neck, to distinguish it from the rest of the organ, which is named its body. 2967. Body of the Uterus. It is somewhat less than two inches in length. Its two surfaces are convex, the anterior however a lit- tle more so than the posterior, and invested by the peritoneum. The former is in contact with the bladder, and the latter with the rectum. Its lateral edges are convex, directed downwards, for- wards y&nd inwards. They correspond to the interval of the two laminjE which compose the broad ligaments. Ics upper edge is rounded, transverse, a little convex in the direction of its length, and lined by the peritoneum. By its union with the lateral edges, it produces two slightly projecting angles, in the middle part of which terminate the Fallopian tubes, above the insertion of the liga- ment of the ovarium which is behind, and of that of the round liga- ment which is before. 29C8. Neck of the Uterus. It is almost insensibly continuous at the exterior with the body. Its length is from fourteen to twelve lines, its antero-posterior diameter from six to eight, and the trans- verse from eight to ten. Slightly inflated at its middle part, it is compressed from before backwards and of a somewhat cylindrical form. Its upper part is embraced by the vagina; the rest de- scends projecting into the fundus of that canal. This latter por- 7