ACROMIAL AND SUPERIOR THORACIC ARTEIES. G81 the platysma myoides and a layer of adipose tissue, afterwards by the clavicle and subclavius muscle, and lastly, by the capsule ot the shoulder-joint, the subscapularis muscle, and the tendon of the teres major and latissimus dorsi, which separates it from the upper part of the humerus. 23G1. The axillary vein is always placed before the artery, as we have already said. The brachial plexus is situated behind the latter until near the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, where the principal branches of this plexus embrace the artery and form for it a kind of sheath (1684). BRANCHES WHICH THE AXILLARY ARTERY GIVES OFF OPPOSITE THE THORAX. 1. OF THE ACROMIAL ARTERY. 2362. It is of considerable size, and comes off from the fore part of the axillary artery, opposite the upper edge of the pectora- lis minor, and frequently by a trunk which is common to it and the superior thoracic. Concealed at its commencement by the pec- toralis major, it descends obliquely outwards towards the deltoides muscle, throwing some small twigs into the subclavius, serratus magnus and first intercostal muscle. Arrived at the narrow in- terval which separates the deltoides from the pectoralis major, it divides into two branches, a superior and an inferior. 2363. Superior Branch. It ascends in a tortuous manner in the interval which we have just mentioned, and arrives at the cla- vicle. There it gives off’ a transverse twig which is distributed to the skin of the top of the shoulder and upon the deltoides muscle. It then dives under that muscle, and stiU divides into two twigs, one of which follows the edge of the clavicle to its acromial arti- culation, while the other, which is larger, forms a net-work upon the fibrous capsule of the shoulder-joint. It anastomoses with the superior scapular artery. 2.364. Iriferior Branch. It follows the course of the cephalic vein between the deltoides and pectoralis major muscles (841), and divides into two twigs which are distributed to each of them, anastomosing with the thoracic and circumflex arteries. 2. OF THE SUPERIOR THORACIC ARTERY. 2365. Most commonly it arises along with the acromial. Its size is variable. It descends obliquely forwards between the pec- toralis major and pectoralis minor muscles, to which it is distributed by a great number of twigs, some of which run superficially as far as the mamma. It anastomoses with the intercostal arteries and 5