OF THE VULVO-UTEUINE CANAL. 813 it has been seen to form a complete septum, preventing coition and the flow of the menstrual fluids. Its thickness varies as much as its form and breadth. A few vascular ramifications are seen in it. 2. The CarunculcB myrtiformes arc small reddish tubercles, rounded or flattened, and more or less prominent, which are only observed in women who have lost their virginity, and which are usually considered as the remains of the hymen, lacerated by the introduction of the penis into the vagina, or by child-birth. Their number is indeterminate, and varies from two to five or six. Their colour and consistence are different in different subjects; so that they may be seen of a Vermillion red, livid or pale, firm or flabby. 2956. The Vestibule, Vossa navicularis and Fourchette do not require any particular description. 2. OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE VULVA IN GENERAL. 2957. This membrane, which extends over all the parts which compose the vulva, and which of itself forms several of them, arises upon the free edge of the labia, invests their inner surface, becomes folded to produce the nymphie, surrounds the clitoris with a particular prepuce, lines the vestibule, introduces itself into the urethra by the meatus urinarius, and ascends in the vagina, form- ing at the commencement of that canal the hymen or the carun- culse myrtiformes. It is attached to all these parts in a rather loose manner, espe- cially towards the sides of the clitoris. It is of a vermillion red in virgins and young women, and becomes livid in those who are ad- vanced in age, who have had children, or who have abused coition. It is covered by a very distinct epidermis, but which becomes thinner as it retires. It has under it a very great quantity of mu- cous crypts, the orifices of which are disseminated at the surface of the vulva. These crypts are larger towards the clitoris than on the side next the perinaeum. 3. VAGINA OR VULVO-UTERINE CANAL. a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2593. The Vagina is a membranous, cylindrical canal, com- pressed from before backwards, placed in the interior of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, opening inferiorly at the middle of the vulva, and embracing superiorly Uie neck of the uterus. From six to eight inches long, slightly curved upon itself, and con- cave on the side next the bladder, shorter before than behind, somewhat narrower at its two extremities than at its middle part, the vagina is directed a little obliquely from above downwards, and from behind forwards, or is almost vertical.