284 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. summit to the fossa whicli is observed on the side of the symphysis of the chin, under the alveoli of the incisors, where it presents a small tendon. Its fibres diverge from this point, and are inserted into the skin of the chin, to which they strongly adhere, and where they produce the small hollows that are generally observed on that part. 976- It is covered above by the mucous membrane of the mouth; internally it is separated from that of the opposite side by cellular tissue; ewternally, it is contiguous with the depressor labii inferi- oris and orbicularis oris; helow^ it lies upon the jaw, and is cover- ed anteriorly by the integuments. 977- It raises the chin, and pushes the under lip a little up- wards. Its upper fibres also serve to invert the lip. 6. Inter-maxillary Region. OF THE BUCCINATOn. - (M. Alveolo-labial, Chauss.) 978- The Buccinator, of which the cheek is especially formed, is much larger in glass-blowers and persons who play habitually on wind instruments than in other individuals. It is flat, thin, and quadrilateral, and is situated in the interval between the two alveolar borders. It is attached above to the posterior part of the upper alveolar border, from the last tooth to the second small grinder ; below, to the same part of the lo>ver alveolar border; in the middle, to an aponeurosis which descends from the summit of the inner wing of the pterygoid process, and which receives on the other side fibres from the constrictor pharyngis superior. From these different origins the fleshy fibres proceed toward the commis- sure of the lips, but following different directions, the upper de- scending, the lower ascending a little, and the middle fibres pass- ing horizontally forwards. They all meet at the commissure, where a marked interlacing takes place between the upper and lower, the former passing into the under lip, the latter hi to the upper, where they are confounded with the fibres of the orbicularis oris. 979. This muscle is covered by an extremely thick layer of fat, without which the cheek would appear hollow, and which even forms in the middle of the latter a sort of ball, appearing as if se- parated from the neighbouring parts. By this fat, its external surface is separated posteriorly from the coronoid process, and from the lower part of the temporal muscle; and in the middle, from the masseter. Anteriorly, it is covered by the zygomaticus major, platysma myoides, and triangularis muscles, by the skin, by the labial artery and vein. A kind of whitish membrane, formed of a fibrous cellular tissue, also covers it in its whole extent* adhering intimately to it, and prevents posteriorly the buccal glaaids from being immediately a[q)lied u])on it. The inner surface is lined l)y the mucous membrane of the mouth. Opposite the third molar