ORGANS OF SENSATION. 508 1759- The branches and twigs whicli It furnishes may be dis- tinguislicd into anterior and posterior. The former, which arise especially from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and whose num- ber is very variable, are the hemorrhoidal, vesical, vaginal and uterine nerves. The others are the inferior glutaeal and pudic nerves. OF THE ANTERIOR BRANCHES AND TWIGS OF THE SCIATIC PLEXUS. 1760. Hcemorrhoidal Nerves. They direct themselves towards the lower part of the rectum, penetrate its posterior wall, and se- parate into ascending Jilaments, which proceed upwards toward the sigmoid flexure of the colon and descending filaments.^ which extend to the sphincter ani. Their ramifications stop in part in the muscular coat of the intestine, and are in part expanded in its mucous membrane. 1761. Vesical Nerves or Nerves of the Bladder. These nerves vary in number, and are irregularly interlaced, like the preceding, from which they often arise in part. They pass over the sides of the rectum, and gain the lateral parts and fundus of the bladder, to the muscular fibres and mucous membrane of which they are dis- tributed. Some of their filaments are expanded, in the male, in the prostate gland and vesiculae seminales, and, in the female, in the walls of the urethra. 1762. Uterine and Vaginal Nerves. These nerves exist only in the female. They arise in part separately, in part confounded with the preceding, pass over the sides of the rectum, and pene- trate, separating from each other, into the whole extent of the la- teral parts of the vagina, to the mucous membrane pf which they are distributed. Those which are highest gain the sides of the neck and body of the uterus, where they expand. They are less numerous than those of the vagina. 1763. All these nerves are so intermingled with each other, that it becomes very difficult to trace them individually. They are besides interlaced in a more or less intimate manner with the filaments of the lumbar and sacral ganglia which form the hypogastric plexus, so that they really contribute to the formation of that plexus. OF THE POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE SCIATIC PLEXUS. I7G4. Inferior Glutceal or Small Sciatic Nerve. It is ftirnish- rd, at the posterior and inferior part of the plexus, by the second and third sacral nerves. It also receives some more or less slender roots from the fourth sacral nerve and pudic nerve. Leaving the plexus at the same time with the sciatic nerve, it issues from the pelvis along with it by the sciatic notch, and beneath the pyrami-