PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 4<0 noicl bone arc likewise separated by a margin which is concave, alternately sloped on its two lips, and presenting asperities which are articulated with the temporal bone. On being united with the preceding, this edge forms a very uneven surface, laid over the inner plate, and articulated with the anterior and lower angle of the parietal bone. Beneath, it is confounded with the occipital surface, and there gives rise to a pointed eminence, named the Sphenaidal spine, which gives attachment to the inner lateral liga- ments of the articulation of the jaw and to the anterior muscle of the malleus. This process is received into a retiring angle, formed by the anterior edge of the petrous portion and by the cir- cumference of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. 125. Until of late years anatomists generally distinguished in the sphenoid bone, the Large Wings and the Body. The former com- prehended all the parts of the bone situated to the outside of the cavernous canals; the latter was confined between these two ca- nals, and had a nearly cubical form. 126. Structure. In the centre, especially before the sinuses are developed, at the bases of the processes of Ingrassias and of the pterygoid processes, at the upper and outer part of what is named the Large Wings, the sphenoid bone is thick, and contains a great quantity of cellular tissue. In the rest of its extent, it is thinner and formed of compact tissue. 127. Articulations. The sphenoid bone is articulated with the frontal, ethmoid, occipital, parietal, and temporal bones, with the sphenoidal horns, the cheek bones, the palate bones, and the vo- mer, by the different parts that have been already mentioned; some- times, moreover, this bone is articulated with the upper maxillary bones by inequalities which occur toward the union of the ptery- goid processes with the orbito-nasal surface. 128. Development. The sphenoid bone is developed by seven points of ossification, which commence: 1st, at the centre of the bone; 2dly, at the base of each of the processes of Ingrassias; 3dly, at the place of junction of the pterygoid processes and the rest of the bone; 4th, in the inner wing of the same processes. The last mentioned nucleus is the Omoid Bone of Herissant. In the fetus, the sphenoid bone evidently forms two distinct prin- cipal pieces, the one anterior or spheno-orbital, the other posterior or spheno-temporal, and which might be named anterior sphenoid and posterior sphenoid hones. OF THE ETHMOID* BONE. 129. The Ethmoid (named also the Crihriform) Bone is placed at the anterior, lower, and middle part of the skuU, in a notch form- ed in the frontal bone. It is symmetrical, has a nearly cubical form, and seems composed of the assemblage of a multitude of crihrum ; uief,furma.