669 ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY. enecl edge of the middle lobe of the brain, and goee to open into the posterior cerebral artery, which is furnished by the basilar. Its volume, which is in general rather moderate, frequently varies, however, and is not always the same on both sides. In its course, it sends very slender ramifications to the optic thalami and nerves, the mammillary eminences, the tuber cinereum (1436), the pituitary shaft, the choroid plexus, and the peduncles of the brain. Frequently the twig which belongs to the optic thalami is much larger tliau the others. 2. OF THE AETEUY OF THE CHOROID PLEXUS. 2311. Always less than the preceding, it arises above it, and proceeds obliquely backwards and outwards, towards the peduncle of the brain, close to which it enters into the corresponding lateral ventricle by its inferior slit, to lose itself by subdividing in the choroid plexus. But before this it gives a great number of twigs to the thalamus of the optic nerve. 3. OF THE ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY. 2312. The anterior Cerebral Artery (Artere lohaire anterieure, Chauss.) directs itself obliquely forwards and inwards, between the optic nerve and the posterior region of the anterior lobe of the brain, as far as the great slit which separates the hemispheres of that organ from each other. There, after furnishing small twigs to the pia mater and optic and olfactory nerves, it comes very near the corresponding artery of the other side, and unites with it by a very short, but pretty large transverse branch, which is named the <xnterior communicating artenj. Sometimes this branch is replaced by three or four parallel twigs; but in all cases, it sends one or more small twigs to be distributed to the fornix, the anterior com- missure and the septum of the ventricles. 2313. After thus communicating with each othei’, the two ante- rior cerebral arteries change their direction, proceed forwards and dive parallel to each other between the two anterior lobes of the brain, turning over the corresponding extremity of the corpus cal- losum. They then pass from behind forwards over its upper sur- face, at the posterior part of which they terminate by subdividing, so as to embrace that body entirely in an arch which exactly repre- sents its form. It is to this arch that the name of arteria callosa or urtern of the corpus callosum is commonly given. In this second part of its extent, the anterior cerebral artery sends from its concave side a great number of small twigs to the corpus callosum, v/hilc, by that which is convex, it furnishes some- what larger twigs to the plain surface of the cerebral hemisphere^. These twigs are lodged and subdivide iu the anfractuosities whic^