56 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the cxtojnal auditory canal, one for the squamous portion, one for the mastoid process, one for the zygomatic, and one for the styloid process. The fourth and sixth make their appearance long after the rest. In certain cases, there are two osseous nuclei for the squamous portion. OF THE PARIETAL BONE.* 186. Form. The Parietal Bone, (Os Parietale: os Bregma- tis:) like the temporal, is double and unsymmetrical. It is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, concave internally, convex ex- ternally, and occupies the lateral upper and middle parts of the cranium. It presents the following parts. 187- An Outer Surface, convex, smooth, and covered by the epicranial aponeurosis in its upper half, somewhat uneven in its lower half, where the temporal muscle is inserted, and where there are sometimes observed slight furrows for the deep-seated temporal arteries. This surface is perforated, above and behind, by the •parietal foramen, which varies much as to its size and position, and is sometimes even wanting. It gives passage to small vessels which establish a communication between those of the dura mater and pericranium. It has been seen on the occipital bone, and sometimes loses itself in the diploe, without passing through the bone. In the middle of this same surface there is observed an eminence, which is much more prominent in children than in adults, and is named the Parietal Protuberance. It surmounts a low curved ridge, which is continuous with the one observed on the frontal bone, and with the upper root of the zygomatic process, and which limits the temporal fossa. This ridge gives attachment to the temporal aponeurosis. 188. An Inner or Cerebral Surface, concave, invested by the dura mater, and marked over its whole extent with a great number of deep furrows which give lodgment to the divisions of the middle menyngeal artery, and which on account of their numerous ramifi- cations obtained the name of the from the older anatomists. It also presents cerebral impressions; but they are rather indis- tinct, especially above. In the middle is a depression called the Parietal fossa, which corresponds to the protuberance of the same name. At the upper part, near the edge of the bone, there is ob- served a half groove running in a longitudinal direction, which is united to a similar half groove belonging to the other parietal bone, and is continued into the groove on the inner surface of the frontal bone. There are observed in it small irregular cavities, varying much in their number and arrangement, which receive the granulations of the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. * From i)ariC!, u wjill, because tbe sides of the head are principally formed of these bones.