ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 23G traced in them. Their affinity for phosphate of lime is remarkable, and sesamoid bones are very frequently developed in their sub- stance. They present much the same chemical characters as the liga- ments ; but by maceration they soften readily without dilating or swelling ; their fibres separate from each other, and at length change into a soft whitish pulp, which appears to be homogeneous. In boiling water they curl at first, then soften, become semi- transparent, and dissolve almost entirely into jelly. Exposed to the air, they dry up and become similar to horn. 3. OF THE APONEUROSES. 798. The Aponeuroses are fibrous expansions, which are pro- longations of the ligaments, tendons, or periosteum, but which on being strictly examined appear always to originate from the latter membrane, or to terminate in it. They are more or less broad, and so disposed as to envelope the muscles in a sort of sheath, or to furnish points of attachment to their fleshy fibres ; for it is remarkable that the latter are never fixed directly to a bone or even to the periosteum, but are connected with them by the intervention of fibrous organs, such as tendons or aponeuroses, as we have al- ready said, (797-) The aponeuroses of the first kind may surround a whole limb, and envelope its muscles entirely, as is the case in the thigh ; or they may serve as a bridle to keep the muscles in their place, with- out covering them in all parts, as is observable in that which unites the two small posterior serrati. Those of the second kind are sometimes broad, as is seen on the cruralis, gastrocnemius, &c. In other cases, they form arches for al- lowing vessels and nerves to pass, at the same time that they give at- tachment to the fleshy fibres, as in the diaphragm. Lastly, they are composed of isolated fibres in the substance of the muscle, as in the masseter and pterygoid muscles. The Enveloping Aponeuroses vary much in their thickness, which is, however, in general, so much greater, the larger and more numerous the muscles are which they surround. Their two surfaces are always in contact with cellular tissue; but the inner surfiice frequently sends between the muscles fibrous prolon- gations which extend to the periosteum of the neighbouring bones. They are of a shining white colour, and might be considered as tendons expanded into membranes, did they not offer a little more resistance to maceration and boiling. Their fibres are also more or less interlaced. The Aponeuroses of Insertion sometimes result from the ex- pansion of a tendon, as in the rectus femoris, or arise immediately from the periosteum, as in the masseter. They may also furnish points of attachment by their two surfaces, or by one of them only.