821 ORGANIZATION OF THE MAMMiE. with each other by cellular tissue. From their summits proceeds a bundle of other canals which occupy the centre of the nipple, do not communicate together, and open separately at its surface. All these vessels are destitute of valves. Bichat thinks they are lined by a particular mucous membrane. 2990. The arteries of the mammae come from the thoracic, ax- illary, intercostal, and internal mammary. Their deep veins ac- company the arteries. Others are subcutaneous and follow a dif- ferent course. Their nerves are furnished by the intercostal nerves and brachial plexus. Their lymphatics are numerous and form two layers. They communicate with those of the abdomen and thorax, and go to the axillary ganglia. APPENDIX. 1. OF THE PEUITONEUM.* 2991. The Peritoneum is a membrane of the order of serous membranes. It is thin and translucid, has a very complicated course, invests the inner surface of the walls of the abdomen, forms several more or less marked folds in that cavity, and is prolong- ed, under the form of an envelope, over most of the viscera which are contained in it, and which belong to the organs of digestion, of the secretions, and of generation. The peritoneum, therefore, can only be studied with advantage after these organs are known, which is the reason that has induced us to postpone the examination of this membrane until now. 2992. Considered in the male, the peritoneum represents, like all the other serous membranes, a sac, without aperture, whose in- ternal surface, which is to appearance smooth, but in reality covered with very fine villosities, and moistened with serous fluid, is every- where in contact with itself. In the female it presents at first sight the same disposition ; but it is found to be perforated with an aperture opposite the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube (2978), with the mucous membrane of which it seems to be con- tinuous. 2993. To facilitate the simultaneous study of the peritoneum, and of the connections which the abdominal viscera have with it, it is usual to divide the abdomen-f* into three large zones distin- guished into superior, middle, and inferior, and separated from each other by transverse lines, one of which passes under the lower edge of the twelfth rib of each side, v/hile the other extends between • Ilif/, circa ; rtiuM, icmlo. f From aMcre, to conceal, because tliis cavity contains the principal viscera of the body.