636 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. apace. In their interval, there is seen rising, in the adult, a kind of pretty thick, rounded ligament, seeming to follow the course of the artery itself, and passing from its walls to the concave part of the arch of the aorta. In the foetus, this ligament is a true vessel, which is named the Ductus arteriosus, and which transmits to the aorta the blood of the right ventricle of the heart. 2188. The right pulmonary trunk, which is longer and less vo- luminous than the left, passes transversely behind the aorta and vena cava superior, forms an arch which embraces anteriorly the corresponding bronchus (2153) ; gains the lung, and divides in- to three principal branches. 2189. The left pulmonary trunk passes obliquely before the aorta and above its arch, embraces the bronchus of its side, and divides into two branches only, one for each lobe of the lung. 2190. Once entered into the lungs, the first divisions and the successive ramifications of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchi to their last extremities, multiplying like them, so that there is no part of the organ however small which does not receive twigs from them. At their termination these minute twigs anasto- mose with the roots of the pulmonary veins, and with the bronchial arteries and veins. 2191. The pulmonary artery has the same structure as the aorta, of which we shall speak as we proceed ; only its walls are much weaker, and are observed to be collapsed in the state of va- cuity. d. PULMONARY VEINS. 2192. They arise from the last extremities of the pulmonary ar- teries, and are collected into smaU twigs and branches, becom- ing successively larger, which never leave the divisions of the bron- chi, and proceed along with those of the arteries. Only it is ob- served that in general the venous twig is placed beneath, and the arterial above the bronchial twig. At length all the pulmonary branches and veins unite into four trunks which leave each lung, two and two, at the middle of its internal surface, and penetrate into the pericardium. The Superior Right Pulmonary Vein emerges under the bronchus, directs itself obliquely downwards, and opens into the upper part and to the right of the left auricle of the heart. The Inferior comes from the lower lobe of the lung, and ascends ob- liquely towards the inferior right part of the same auricle. They are both difficult to be exposed, being concealed by the vena cava superior and the neighbouring part of the right auricle. The two Left Pulmonary Vehis follow the same course, and arc merely a little nearer each other. 2193. The ])ulmonary veins have the same structure as the other veins of the body, from which they dillcr in the circumstance that during life they contain red blood. It is by them that the