710 ORGANS OP CIRCULATION. the periosteum of the sacrum. They anastomose on the fore part of tlrat bone with the lateral branches of the middle sacral artery. e. OF THE GLUTVEAL OR POSTERIOR ILIAC ARTERY. 2503. This is one of the largest branches of the hypogastric ar- tery, from which it rises a little beneath the preceding, which are often furnished by it. Directed downwards, outwards and back- wards, it issues from tlie pelvis by the upper part of the sciatic notch, above the pyramidalis muscle, between the sacro-lumbar nerve and the anterior branch of the first sacral nerve. It gains the posterior part of the pelvis, is covered by the glutmus maximus, and near the posterior edge of the glutoeus minimus, divides into two branches, the one superficial, the other deep. 2504. Before issuing from the pelvis, this artery sends some small twigs to the rectum, pyramidalis muscles and neighbouring cellular tissue. 2505. SujjerJicial Branch. It directs itself a little outwards, between the glutaeus maximus and glutaeus medius muscles, and se- parates into a great many twigs which are diffused in their substance, and in the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament. Some of them anasto- mose with those of the sciatic artery. 2506. Deep Branch. It ascends from behind forwards, between the glutaeus medius and glutaeus minimus, gives first a nutritious twig to the posterior part of the iliac bone, and immediately sub- divides into three secondary branches. Of these, the upper fol- lows the direction of the convex edge of the glutaeus minimus, ap- proaches the iliac crest, and forms a large arch which terminates near the anterior and superior spine, after furnishing numerous twigs to the glutaeus medius by its convexity, and to the glutaeus minimus by its concavity. The second, middle and transverse twig, which is much larger, passes over the glutaeus minimus, from which it is separated by much fat, gives twigs to it, and then throws itself into the glutaeus medius, reaching to near the great trochanter. The third or lower twig, which is about the same size as the upper, first gives some twigs to the pyramidalis and glutaeus minimus muscles. It then descends upon the latter, traverses its fibres, passes over the iliac bones, enters beneath the tensor va^ ginae, and loses itself upon the capsule of the hip-joint and in the glutaeus medius and minimus and rectus femoris muscles, anastomos- ing with twigs of the femoral artery. ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE HYPOGASTRIC ARTERY.’ a. OF THE UMBILICAL ARTERY. 2507- Directed obliquely forwards and inwards as far as the la- teral and upper part of the bladder, it then bends upwards to as-