OF THE EXTERNAL MOTOR NERVE OF THE EYE. 463 small grinder inclusive; but opposite the mental hole (284) it di- vides into two branches. One of these, the smaller, remains in the substance of the jaw, and is distributed to the roots of the canine teeth and incisors. The other, which is larger, emerges by the mental hole, and divides into a great number of filaments which arc distributed to the triangularis, quadratus, levator menti, buc- cinator and orbicularis oris muscles, and anastomose with twigs of the fiicial nerve, hlost of these filaments commence with as- cending between the membrane of the mouth and the muscles. ()thci*s go to the free edge of the under lip, where they form a sort of plexus, the mucous follicles which occur in it, and the skin of the neighbouring parts. 1600. Auricular or Superficial Temporal Twig. Its origin takes place sometimes by a single root, sometimes by two, in the interval of which passes the middle meningeal artery. It then winds backwards and outwards between the condyle of the jaw and the auricular canal, and there it gives off two filaments which anasto- mose with the facial nerve. Then, covered by the parotid gland, it ascends deeply before that canal, furnishes a filament to the temporo-maxillary articulation, and gains the base of the 2ygoma- tic process, after giving off ramifications to the deep parts of the ear, and especially to the skin of the meatus auditorius, at whicli they arrive by passing between its bony and its fibro-cartUaginous portions. Several of them spread a little farther upon the pavi- lion and in the concha. It then divides into filaments, the one an- terior, the other posterior, which subdivide and accompany the branches of the temporal artery, and are spread out in the integu- ments of the temple, forehead, and top of the head, anastomosing frequently with those of the facial nerve and of the occipital twig of the second cervical nerve. The posterior filament in particular sends a great number of ramifications to the external ear, that is to say, to the helix and the prior auriculae and attolens auriculam muscles. OF THE EXTEHNAL MOTOK. NEllVE OF THE EYE, OR SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES. 1601. At first sight this nerve would seem to arise from the groove which separates the annular protuberance from the spinal marrow ; but a little attention shows that its roots are situated beside the pyramidial eminences, along which they ascend as far as the groove, where they divide into two distinct bundles, which the last fibres of the protuberance sometimes cover, and whicli quickly unite a little more anteriorly. Each of these bundles is composed of two or three filaments placed behind each other. 1602. The nerve, thus formed, is intermediate in size between the pathetic and common motor nerves. It is surrounded with a neurilemma from the moment when it appears under the protuber-