PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the sheath of the flexor muscles of the fingers. From this dispo- sition it is formed of two curved planes, meeting each other by their convexity, of which one corresponds to the tendon and the other to the articulation. It is in the substance of this ligament that, in the thumb, are developed the two small sesamoid bones between which passes the tendon of the flexor longus proprius poUicis. 702. Lateral Ligaments. They arise from the lateral parts of the head of each metacarpal bone, behind the preceding, and in a small special depression, and descend obliquely forward, to be attached to the two sides of the upper extremity of the phalanx. They are thick, broader above than below, rounded, and composed of longitudinal, parallel and very numerous fibres. Externally the collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers run along them, and internally they are covered by the synovial membrane. 703. Synovial Membrane. It is at first expanded in a small space at the fore part of the cartilaginous surface of the metacarpal bones, and then directs itself behind the anterior hgament and on the inside of the lateral hgaments, whence it gains the articular sur- face of the phalanx. After this it forms a very loose bag, free in a great part of its extent, beneath the tendon of the extensor mus- cle, and lastly covers the head of the metacarpal bone. 11. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PHALANGES. 704. The articulations of the phalanges with each other are per- fect angular ginglymi, and are all very much alike in respect to their articular surfaces and ligaments. The thumb has only one, while each of the other fingers has two. The condyles of the lower extremity of the first and second phalanges are crusted with carti- lage, as well as the corresponding cavities of the upper extremity of the second and third. Each of these articulations has an anterior ligament, two lateral hgaments, and a synovial capsule. The an- terior ligameoit, which is of the same form as that of the preceding articulation, is attached to the two sides of the extremity of the phalanx above, and receives anteriorly a great number of dense and glistening fibres, which proceed from the sheath of the flexor ten- dons. It is less marked in the first than m the last phalangeal ar- ticulation. The lateral ligaments are precisely similar to those of the articulation of the metacarpus and first phalanx, diflermg only in being inserted above into a phalanx. Lastly, the synovial mem- brane also resembles that of the above mentioned articulation. It is intimately connected posteriorly with the tendon of the extensor digitorum in the last articidation. J I.—ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 1. ILIO-FEMOKAL ARTICULATION, OR HIP JOINT. 705. This articulation is an cnarthrosis, resulting from the con-