ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4-14 fetus, and becomes ^adually firmer as the person advances in life. Its specific gravity, in the adult, is 1310. Its odour is somewhat nauseous, tenacious, soluble in water, insoluble in alcohol and oils. This substance is not homogeneous throughout, but presents two distinct modifications; 1452. 1st. A soft, spongy, and seemingly vascular substance, of a grayisli colour, named the Cineritious or Cortical substance, most commonly forming a kind of superficial envelope to the differ- ent parts of the organ, but also distributed through different parts of its interior, and sometimes mixed in a more or less intimate manner with the white substance. This pulp, which is the least consistent of all the solid parts of the body, and is not possessed of any very evident organization, receives a considerable quantity of arterial vessels. It is reddish in children, ash-gray in old people, pale and colourless in dropsical persons; these appearances no doubt depending upon the greater or less quantity of blood distri- buted to it. In some places of the brain which we shall presently make known, -this substance acquires a dark or yellow tint, and this circumstance has induced Soemmering and Gennari to admit in the composition of the brain two particular substances, the one black and the other yellow, which however have not been adopted by other anatomists. Its colour is destroyed by maceration in water, acids or alcohol. By boiling in water or oil, it assumes a granu- lar appearance. It is of the same nature in the brain and cere- bellum. When examined with the microscope, it appears composed of an immense quantity of irregularly rounded globules, of unequal size, and eight times smaller than the globules of the blood. They are connected with each other by a very delicate transparent tissue, filled with a very abundant serous fluid, and appear as if heaped together in a confused manner. It is in this part of the substance of the brain that the most minute arterial branches and veins are found. 1453. 2d. A White or Medxdlary substance, firmer, denser, and less plentifully supplied with fluid than the former, which makes it resist putrefaction a little better, and prevents it from losing more than six-tenths of its weight by desiccation, while the other loses eight-tenths. Its mass is also much greater than that of the cineritious substance, and it especially occupies the interior of the base of the organ. It is filled with a prodigious quantity of very delicate vascular ramifications, whose section represents so many red dots, and whose calibre is much greater towards the cen- tre than at the circumference of the brain. It evidently becomes fibrous in many places. The globules of which it is composed ap- pear, under the microscope, disposed in straight lines, and are of a larger diameter than in the cineritious substance. There is much variance in the opinions respecting its intimate structure. Some maintain it to be solid, others tubular ; some assert that it is abso- lutely destitute of vessels, others that it entirely consists of them.