5 PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. that in the human body, the solids as well as fluids are formed of microscopic globides and an amorphous substance, which in the latter is Huid, in the former concrete, coagulable in the one kind, and coagulated in the other. OF THE niFFEllENT KINDS OF TISSUES. 16. The elementary fibres or lamellae variously combined or associated, form the containing parts of the body, those which es- pecially determine the form, and impress motion: that is to say, tissues more or less compound, organs more or less complex, of which none is isolated, but which are all interlaced and mutually connected. They are as follows: A. The Cellular or Areolar Tissue, (Tela cellularis) an as- semblage of whitish, filamentary, extensile, tenacious, and retrac- tile lamime, which is met with in all parts of the body in general, surrounds aU the organs, penetrates into their interstices, serving at the same time to unite or separate them : a sort of web which is everywhere extended, and forms the more or less soft, extensile, contractile, spongy, and permeable parenchyma of their substance. B. The Memln'anes, (Memhrance) broad, thin, and soft or- gans, composed of fibres or lamime variously aggregated, lining the different cavities of the body, surrounding many of the viscera, often serving to facilitate the motions, and containing in their structure many vessels of different orders, and frequently nerves. C. The Vessels, ( Vasa) which are branched canals, more or less elastic, formed by the superposition of different membranes, and distinguished according to their uses and general disposition into Arteries, Veins, and LymjAiatic Vessels. The Arteries, (Arterice) after leaving the heart, proceed in a radiating manner from the centre to the circumference, and are distributed through all parts of the body, whither they carry the blood which has undergone the changes operated upon it by respiration. * The Veins, ( VencB) in general, arise from the extreme ramifica- tions of the arteries, unite into trunks of greater or less size, and proceeding from the circumference to the centre, pour into the heart the blood which they have collected from the whole system. Besides being much more numerous than the arteries, the veins are more capacious. I'heir walls are semitransparent and much thinner than those of the arteries, which arc opaque, thick, tuid of a yellowish colour. Their internal cavity is interrupted at inter- vals by valves which are not met with in the arteries, and which arc intended to support the blood, so as to obviate the effect of gravity upon it. Tlic pulmonary artery conveys to the lungs the dark or venous blood which has already circulated in the body. K.