LEFT VENTRICLE. 637 blood is carried to the left cavities of the heart, after its elabora- tion in the lungs. e. LEFT PAQT OF TJIE HEART. LEFT AURICLE. 2194. Situated at the upper, posterior and left part of the heart, the Left Auricle is almost entirely concealed by the great vessels of the base of that organ, so that, at first sight, there is nothing per- ceived but its appendage, near the left side of the pulmonary artery. Its form is somewhat cubical, while that of the right auricle may be in some measure compared to a segment of an ovoid. Its ca- pacity is about a fifth less than that of the latter. Posteriorly, it rests upon the vertebral column from which it is separated by the pericardium. Anteriorly and internally, it is united to the rest of the heart. From its inner and upper part there is seen rising an appendage similar to that of the right auri- cle (2179), but smaller and directed to the right. Its edges are equally jagged, but its form is triangular. 2195. Its hiner surface presents four walls or sides for examina- tion :— 1. The posterior side is smooth and presents nothing remarkable below. Above, it receives the right pulmonary veins. 2. The anterior presents below a wide aperture which leads into the left ventricle, and above the cavity of the appendage, which contains much fewer musculi pectiuati than that of the right appen- dage (2181). 3. The right is smooth and formed by the inter-auricular sep- tum (2181). There is observed upon it a semilunar valve which presents its concave edge anteriorly and to the left, and which forms the bottom of the fossa ovalis, of which we have spoken. 4. The left is perforated by the two corresponding pulmonary? veins, the orifices of which are very near each other, and even seem to be confounded. Like those of the right pulmonary veins, they are destitute of valves. LEFT VENTRICLE. 2196. It occupies the posterior and left part of the heart. It is a little narrower, but longer than the right, and advances more upon the summit of the organ. Its form is that of a pyramid a little flattened; but, as its walls are very thick, it never presents the same falling in as the opposite ventricle. At its exterior, it pre- sents nothing remarkable, only that the fat is less abundant there tlian on the right side. In the interior, it presents columpa; carnca: similar t.o those of