818 ORGANS OF generation. by expanding in the cellular tissue of the groins, inons veneris, and labia pudendi. The structure of these organs is little known. They are whitish, rather dense, flattened, narrower at the middle part than at their extremities. There are distinguished in their substance longitudi- nal fibres, which for a long time were believed to be muscular, but which appear to be nothing but condensed celluhar tissue. Many tortuous vessels creep among their fibres. Fallopius asserts that these cords are enveloped by a kind of cremaster muscle, but 1 have never been able to see this disposition. 4. OF THE FALLOPIAN OR UTERINE TUBES. 2977- The Fallopian Tithes ( Tuhee uferinoe sive Fallopiance) ,are two canals floating in the abdomen and placed along the upper edge and in the duplicature of the broad ligaments. They extend from the upper angles of the cavity of the uterus to near the sides of the upper strait of the pelvis, and are thus four or five inches in length. In the inner half of their length, they are straight and of very small diameter, for they scarcely equal the vas deferens at its commencement. They afterwards acquire the size of a writing quill, and become flexuous. A little before terminating, they contract again and seem strangled. Their free extremity is wide, floating, and fringed. It is called the Morsus Diaboli or fimbri- ated extremity of the tube. Among the fimbriae of this part, one is observed, a little' longer than the rest, which goes to attach it- self to the corresponding extremity of the ovary. The surface of the fimbriated extremity of the tube is generally directed back- wards. 2978. In their interior, the Fallopian tubes contain a canal wliich commences at the upper angle of the cavity of the uterus. Almost capillary in its first half, it afterwards dilates and opens at the sur- face of the flbriated extremity by a very small orifice, the only place in the whole body where a serous membrane communicates with the exterior. In this cavity, there is generally fomid a con- siderable quantity of mucous fluid; but no valves are ever seen in it. 2979. The Fallopian tubes are internally lined by a mucous membrane still thinner than that of the uterus. It is soft, reddish, and slightly villous, and presents several longitudinal phea^. No mucous foUicles have hitherto been discovered in it. 2980. Externally, these organs are formed by a very thin layer of a spongy and erectile tissue, similar to that of the urethra, and invested by the peritoneum. 3. OF THE OViVRIES. 2981. The Ovaries (Ovaria), which for a longtime were called