PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 10 with a fibrous membrane, called the periosteum, and are moisten- ed through their whole substance by an oily fluid. 20. The bones receive their nourishment from the blood, which is carried to them by the arteries, and whose re.siduum is carried off by the veins which accompany the latter. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in them; but M. Dumeril has seen nerves which penetrated into their tissue along with the arteries. That they contain much cellular tissue, is demonstrated by the phenomena of the formation of callus, and by long maceration in acidulous water. 21. On examining these organs with reference to their intimate constitution, it is observed that they are composed of two principal elements, viz. an organized parenchyma, formed of gelatin, and an inert salino-terreous substance, which fills up the areolas of the parenchyma, and which exists in the midst of these living parts on- ly for the purpose of giving them a solidity which is absolutely ne- cessary for the performance of the functions that have been allotted to them. 22. The existence of the parenchyma of bones is demonstrated, 1st, By immersing them in a mineral acid diluted with water, which removes the saline matter, and leaves untouched a cartilagi- nous body retaining the form of the bone; 2dly, By boding in Papin’s digester, which produces an opposite effect, the parenchyma being dissolved and forming a jelly, and the bone, reduced as it were to its skeleton, retaining its form, but becoming friable; which also takes place when the gelatine of pounded bones is ex- tracted by the process of MM. Cadet de Vaux and d’ Arcet; 3dly, By the appearances exhibited in certain diseases, in which the bones become soft and almost cartdaginous, as in rachitis in particular. 23. If a bone be burnt, its gelatinous part is destroyed, and there is obtained another element, which is white, friable, and brittle, un- less the heat employed has been so great as to reduce it to a state of imperfect vitrification. If it be exposed to the action of the air for a long time, it falls into powder for the same reason. If pot- ash is poured into the acid in which a bone had been partly dis- solved, the earthy matter is precipitated. Lastly, Some diseases, cancer for instance, render the bones very fragile, on account of the greater relative quantity of this matter which they induce in them. 24. The gelatin and fat constitute mere than half the weight of the bones. The rest of these organs is composed of inorganic mat- ter, which is formed of phosphates of lime, magnesia, iron, and manganese, carbonate of lime, and sihea and alumina, as has been demonstrated by M. Vauquelin. Sulphate and fluate of lime, and pho.sphate of ammonia and soda, have also been supposed to be detected in them. Phosphate of lime, however, undoubtedly forms the predominant ingredient in the constitution of the bones. 25. By the combination of the various elements of which wc have been speaking, there are formed fibres, which arc of the same nature in all the honqs, hut which present themselves under two diftcrent aspects, which gives occasion to the distinction in these