135 OF THE METACARPAL BONES. riorly, this extremity of the bone bears a tuberosity which gives at- tachment to the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior, and, anteriorly, inequalities for the tendon of the flexor carpi radia- lis. The lower extremity^ or head, of this bone is similar to that of the first, and is articulated with the first phalanx of the fore- finger. OF THE TKIIU) METACARPAL BONE. 474. This bone is a little shorter than the Receding. Its body presents exactly the same disposition. Anteriorly, it gives attach- ment to the flexor brevis poUicis for the upper fourth part of its length, and in the lower three-fourths affords insertion to fibres of the adductor poUicis. Externally the second, and internally the third dorsal interosseous muscles, are inserted into it. Its upper extremity presents a nearly plain surface, horizontal at the fore part, inclined forwards and inwards posteriorly, which is arti- culated to the os magnum. Posteriorly, this extremity gives at- tachment to ligaments, and to the tendon of the extensor carpi ra- dialis brevior. Anteriorly, it receives ligaments only. Externally, it presents a concave smooth surface, which is articulated with the second metacarpal bone; and, internally, there are observed two surfaces separated by a depression, which are connected with the fourth metacarpal bone. Its lower extremity, which is articulated ■vvdth the first phalanx of the middle-finger, is similar to that of the preceding bone. OF THE FOURTH METACARPAL BONE. 475. It is shorter and smaller than the third, and presents the same form in its body, which gives attachment externally to the second palmar, and third dorsal interosseous muscles, and on the inside to the fourth dorsal. Its upper extremity presents two smooth articular surfaces, of which the inner is broader and some- what concave, and articulates with the unciform bone, while the other, which is external and posterior, is very small and plain, and is connected with the os magnum. Before and behind, this extre- mity gives attachment to ligaments ; externally, it has a double surface connected with the third, and internally a simple surface, somewhat concave, united to the fifth metacarpal bone. The lower extremity is articulated to the first phalanx of the ring-finger. OF THE FIFTH METACARPAL BONE. 476. This bone is shorter than the fourth. Its body is a little flattened from behind forwards. Posteriorly, it is marked with an oblique line which divides it diagonally into two portions, the outer of which is concave, and gives attachment to the fourth dor- sal interosseous muscle, while the inner, which is convex and liroader, is covered by the tendons of the extensors of the little fin-