805 OF THE SUrEllIOR THYROID ARTERY. glana. There it covers two or three rows of sebaceous, whitish, rounded follicles, of the size of a mustard seed, more or less pro- minent, and which furnish a thick, unctuous humour of the con- sistence of butter and of a very fetid smell, which collects between the glans and prepuce. The cellular tissue intervening between these two membranous layers has the greatest resemblance to that of the scrotum. It is ex- tremely loose, and allows the skin to slide upon the mucous mem- brane. It very readily permits the infiltration of serous fluid. 2. OF THE COEPU8 CAVERNOSOM. a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2926- The Corpus cavernosv/m almost of itself determines the dimensions of the penis, and forms about two-thirds of its volume. It embraces the urethra, and extends from the anterior and internal part of the sciatic tuberosities as far as the substance of the glans. Many authors describe two corpora cavernosa in the penis, but there only exists one, as MM. Salvatier, Chaussier and Roux have demonstrated. There are distinguished in it two roots, an anterior extremity, and two surfaces. 2927. The Roots of the Corpus cavernosicm are attached to the inner edge of the rami of the ossa ischii and pubis, and are covered internally by the ischio-cavernosi muscles. About two inches in length they commence at the fore part of the sciatic tu- berosities by a very slender extremity, and unite before the lower part of the symphysis of the pubes. The triangular space which separates them from each other is filled by fat and by the urethra. 2928. The anterior ecotremity of the corpus cavernosum repre- sents a truncated cone, united to the base of the glans, and per- forated by several apertures for the passage of vessels. 2929. Its upper surface is marked with a longitudinal and shallow groove, in which creep the dorsal artery and veins of the penis. At its backmost part, it gives attachment to the Suspen- sory Ligament of the Penis, a fibrous, triangular, tranversely flat- tened bundle, which sometimes presents vestiges of muscular fibres, and which is attached on the other hand to the lower part of the symphysis of the pubes. 2930. Its inferior surface presents a broad groove, deeper than that of the upper surface, and which receives the upper part of the corpus spongiosum urethrae, to which it is attached by a fila- mentous cellular tissue. b. ORGANIZATION OF THE CORPUS CAVERNOSUM. 2931. The corpus cavernosum is essentially composed of a fibrous and very strong external membrane, and of an internal spongy tissue, the intimate nature of which is not yet very well known.