676 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. INFERIOU BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY, 1. OF THE INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. 2338. The Internal Mammary Artery, (Artere sous-sternale, Chauss.) It separates from the subclavian at the .same level as the inferior thyroid. Very long, but of moderate thickness, it descends at first a little inwards before the scalenus anticus muscle, and externally of the diaphragmatic nerve. It then dives into the thorax, and places itself beneath the pleura, along the posterior surface of the sterno-costal cartilages and internal intercostal muscles, whose direction it crosses. In descending, it gradually approaches the sternum, places itself between the triangularis sterni and the walls of the thorax, and, towards the xiphoid cartilage, divides into two branches which are prolonged to a greater or less dis- tance into the walls of the abdomen. 2339- Near its origin, the internal mammary artery sends a great number of branches to the thymus gland, the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles, and the neighbouring lymjihatic ganglia. 2340. Anterior Mediastinal Artery. It comes off from the up- per part of the mammary artery, and sometimes from the arch of the aorta itself, to descend into the superior separation of the an- terior mediastinum. At its commencement, it throws some ramifi- cations upon the portion of the pericardium which surrounds the origin of the aorta, and presently after divides into two branches. One of these branches ascends towards the lower part of the neck, behind the sterno-thyroideus muscle, and loses itself in the paren- chyma of the thyroid body, anastomosing with the mferior thyroid arteries. The other, which is larger, continues to descend in the mediastinum, and divides into two twigs which separate from each other, and go to subdivide in one or other pleura, still sending rami- fications to the thymus, to the substernal lymphatic ganglia, and to the cellular tissue of the mediastinum. 2341. Superior Diaphragmatic Artery. Although of very small size, it always exists, and comes off from the internal mam- mary artery at the level of the sternum. Directed inwards, back- wards and downwards, between the heart and lungs, it exactly ac- companies the diaphragmatic nerve, forming several sinuosities. It furnishes some small twigs to the fibrous membrane of the peri- cardium, among which there is observed one which descends so far as the diaphragm, and these turn backwards to lose itself upon the oesophagus. It also sends some to the diaphragmatic nerve, the thymus gland, the mediastinum, the internal surface of the lung, and the walls of the pulmonary veins. When this artery has ar- rived at the middle and fore part of the diaphragm, it di^^des into several branches which are consumed in its fleshy fibres, and anas- tomose there with the inferior diaphragmatic arteries.