OF THE INFEIlIOIl MESENTERIC ARTERY. 703 Arches in like manner give rise to other twigs which form third arches.; and from these again come olf others of a fourth order, wliich themselves produce a lifth, quite close to the intestine. 2467. All these twigs thus constitute in the mcsentci7 a kind of net-work, of which the very numerous areolae vary in their form and size. These areolae are themselves traversed by very delicate twigs which go from one branch to another, and which by the way give ramifications to the mesentery and its lymphatic ganglia. 2468. Near the edge of the small intestines, in the jplace where the two laminm of the mesentery leave a triangular interval be- tween them, the vascular net-work, which we have described, ab- ruptly ceases, and furnishes a great number of small parallel twigs, which proceed directly over the two surfaces of the intestines, and dive in the cellular tissue between the mucous and muscular coats. There, they ramify and subcUvide to infinity, taking the appear- ance of small shrubs. When they have arrived at the convex edge of the intestine, those of one side anastomose with those of the op- posite side, in such a manner as to represent a kind of rings. 2469. The capillary ramifications which the mucous membrane receives from all these branches form at its surface a net-work of the greatest delicacy, which spreads out in the valvulse conniventes and in the villosities which it presents. d. OF THE INFEllIOU MESENTERIC ARTERY. 2470. Somewhat smaller than the superior, it arises much lower from the anterior and left part of the aorta, at the distance of au inch and a half from its termination. It descends at first a little to the left, behind the lamina of the peritoneum, which goes to form the corresponding lamina of the mesentery. Then, bending to the right,- it enters into the substance of the iliac mesocolon (2125), forming a much less extended curve than that of the supe- rior mesenteric artery, and whose convexity also looks to the left. Arrived at the brim of the pelvis, it prolongs itself into the poste- rior separation of the mesorectum, and reaches near to the anus. 2471. The concavity of the curve formed by the inferior mesen- teric artery produces no l)ranch, but there issue a great quantity from its convexity. Of these the three principal branches have re- ceived the name of Left Colie Arteries. 2472. Superior lA>ft Colic Artery (Grande Colique gatiche^ Chau.ss.) It is the largest of the three, and comes off oppo.site the bifurcation of the aorta. Directed almost transversely to the left, it arrives near the lumbar colon of the same side, and there sepa- rates into two branches, one of which ascends as far as the arch of the colon, and anastomoses with the left branch of the superior right colic artery (2462), while the other descends in the iliac me- .socolon, and there inosculates with the ascending branch of the middle left colic artery.