OF THE BALL OF THE EYE IN GENERAL. 545 conjunctiva forms another rather indistinct fold, which is some- times named the Memhrana nivtitans* because in man it seems to be the ruiliment of an organ of the same name which is higldy de- veloped in certain animals. This fold is semilunar or crescent- shaped. Its concave edge is directed outwards. It is rendered much more apparent by turning the eye from the nose. UlOO. I’he inner surface of the tunica conjunctiva is attach- ed to the eyelids and ball of the eye by cellular tissue, which is very dense behind the tarsal cartilages, but rather loose everywhere else. The outer surface is smooth, not villous, and constantly moistened. When the eyelids are closed, it corresponds to itself* in all points, when they are open, it is in part exposed to the con- tact of the air. This membrane contains a considerable niunber of capillary blood-vessels, especially on the eyelids. Its arteries are derived from the ophthahnic artery. The only nervous filaments which it appears to receive are very minute, and are supplied by the lachrymal nerve (1580), and external nasal (1585). I have in vain searched for those which are said to be sent to it by the ex- ternal motor and pathetic nerves. D. OF THE BALL OF THE EYE IN GENERAL. 1881. Situated at the inner and somewhat anterior part of the orbit, more or less prominent in different individuals, but always of about tlie same volume, the bah. of the eye has the form of a sphe- roid, of which the greatest diameter extends from before backwards. Shghtly depressed above, below and on the sides, it presents at its middle and anterior part a gi’eater convexity than in the other parts of its periphery, and which is more distinct in young subjects than in old persons. The antero-posterior diameter of the eye has an extent of from ten to eteven lines in the adult. Its other diameters are about a line less. In general also it presents smaller dimensions in the fe- male than in the male. The direction of the eye is not the same as that of the orbit. Its axis is parallel to that of the other eye, while the axis of the orbit inclines inwards (350). There results from this arrangement that the optic nerve, which is directed inwards, is inserted into the inner side of the eye, and not into its middle part. Viewed in profile, the eye appears composed of two distinct portions of a sphere united to each other, and of different diameters. The anterior segment, which forms about the fifth of the ball, has the smallest diameter. Anteriorly, the eye is covered in a great part by the tunica con- junctiva; posteriorly, and in its whole contour, it corresponds to the recti and obliqui muscles which terminate upon it, to a great number of nerves and vessels, and to the soft and half fluid fat * This fold is considered by most comparative anatomists as the rudiment of the third or vertical eyelid so highly developed in birds. K.