OIIIGIN OF THE VENA rORT/E. 74-9 often collect into a single trunk which ascends vertically over the groove which separates the ventricles from the auricles, and open along with the others at tlie posterior part of the right auricle, un- der the vena cava inferior. 4. Of the System of the Vena For tee. a. ORIGIN OF THE VENA PORTyE. 2685. The Vena Pm'tce derives its origin from aU the organs contained in the cavity of the abdomen, excepting the kidneys and bladder, and the uterus in the female. But these origins unite to form two principal trunks, which are called the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. 2686. Splenic Vein. It arises from the spleen by a number of branches varying from three or four to seven or eight, which, after a short course, unite upon the pancreas into a single trunk. Less flexuous than the artery which it accompanies, the splenic vein then directs itself transversely from left to right and beneath it, before the pancreas, to unite with the superior mesenteric, opposite the vertebral column. In its progress, it receives the veins which correspond to the vasa breviora (2429), hi which M. Bauer has very recently (September 1820), discovered true valves which I also once observed: the right and left Gastro-epiploic veins, the Duodenal and Pancreatic Veins, the Coronary Vein of the Sto- mach, and the Small Mesardic or Mesenteric Vein. The last-mentioned vein receives the blood of the left part of the arcli of the colon, and of the descending colon and rectum. Its roots correspond to the immediate branches of the inferior mesente- ric artery, of which it even accompanies the trunk to above the sig- moid flexure of the colon. It then leaves it, ascends vertically be- hind the peritoneum of the left lumbar region, passes between the transverse mesocolon and the vertebral column, enters beneath the pancreas, and joins the splenic vein nearly at a right angle. 2687. Superior Mesenteric or Great Mesardic vein. Its dis- position is almost precisely the same as that of the artery of the same name (2430), to the right and a little anteriorly of which it is placed. It is formed by all the veins of the small intestine, and by three veins which correspond to the three right colic arteries, and which are designated by the same name. Its roots constitute, in the substance of the mesentery, a net-work similar to that of the ramifications of the artery. On arriving at the attached edge of the transverse mesocolon, its trunk enters beneath the pancreas, and unites with the splenic vein at a right angle, after receiving several duodenal and pancreatic veins.