articulations of the thoracic extremities. 209 pyramidal to tlic unciform bone, constitute the two artlirodim. The cnarthrosis is formed by the reception of the liead of the os magnum into a cavity formed by the scaplmid and semilunar bones. The surfaces by which these bones are in contact, are covered by thin cartilages, and they are kept together by ligaments. 688. EMernal and Internal Lateral Ligaments. They are very short and appear to be continuous with the lateral ligaments of the radio-carpal articulation. The hrst, which is the strongest and most apparent, arises from the outer part of the scaphoid bone and terminates at that of the trapezium. The second descends from the pyramidal bone to the os unciforme. 689. Anterior Ligament. This ligament, which is formed of short and close fibres, is much more visible on the inside of the ar- ticulation than externally. It consists of several oblique and pa- rallel fasciculi, which, arising from the three first bones of the first row of the carpus, direct themselves inwards and backwards, to ter- minate on those of the other row. 690. Posterior Ligament. This ligament varies much as to size and direction. Like the anterior, it is formed of several fibi’ous fasciculi, which arise from the posterior part of the bones of the first row to terminate on those of the second. This and the preceding have the same relations as the ligaments of the radio-carpal articu- lation, with which they seem to forni a fibrous membrane envelop- ing the whole carpus. 691. Synovial Membrane. It lines the surfaces by means of which the two rows of the carpus are in contact, and moreover fur- nishes two prolongations which proceed upwards between the three first bones of the first carpal row to the interosseous ligaments. It also sends off three inferiorly, which descend between the four bones of the second carpal row, to invest the surfaces of the articulation of the carpus with the metacarpus and of the superior metacarpal articulations, terminating between the latter in small culs-de-sac. In certain parts of its passage, this membrane presents small adi- pose grains and prominent red dots, analogous to the synovial fringes. It also occasionally leaves the articular surfaces : thus it entirely covers the neck of the os magnum behind. It also lines the inner surface of the ligaments of all the articulations, between which it establishes a communication. If we except the pisiform bone, a single synovial membrane therefore is common to all the surfaces by which the bones of the carpus arc articulated together. 692. Ligaments of the Pisiform Bone. I’hey are two in num- ber, and arc very strong and distinct. They arise fron) the lower part of the pisiform bone, and are situated in a plane much anterior to that of the other ligaments of the carpus. One is external, and goes to the process of the unciform bone; the other, which is in- ternal, separates from the preceding, and terminates at the u))per part of the fifth metacarpal bone. They complete the channel in which the tendons of the flexors of the fingers pass, and arc in part confounded with the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnavis and abduc tor r