756 OIIGANS OF ABSORPTION. fcencl along the inner and outer ride of the thigh, approaching each other, and continually anastomosing, and at length terminate in the superficial inguinal ganglia. But, in their course, they are accompanied and augmented by other vessels of the same nature, arising particularly upon the fore part of the thigh, and by others, in smaller number, which come from its posterior region. 2724. All these vessels are so numerous, and their anastomoses so frequent, that they form a net-work upon the foot, leg and thigh, which completely surrounds these parts. They are immers- ed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. 2. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE INFEIUOB EXTREMITIES. 2725. They follow the course of the blood-vessels, and may be distinguished into four kinds, according as they accompany the ex- ternal saphena vein, or the anterior and posterior tibial and fibu- lar arteries. 2726. Those which accompany the external saphena vein are two or three in number. They originate by a multitude of radi- cles on the outer part of the back and sole of the foot. AU these radicles unite towards the outer maUeolus, under the aponeurosis, and the two vessels which result from this union ascend along the outer edge of the tendo Achdlis, where they receive some twigs which come from that tendon. They then place themselves between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, which also affords them se- veral branches, and arrive in the ham, where they successively di- vide in the popliteal ganglia, to unite partly with the other deep absorbents, and partly with the superficial, in the latter case per- forating the aponeurosis. 2727. Anterior Tibial Lymphatics. These are also two in number. One of them has its roots in the sole of the foot, around the plantar arch; the other originates upon the outer part of the back of the foot. The first ascends upon the back of the foot along the dorsal artery (2551), between the first two metatarsal bones, whence it passes between the anterior muscles of the leg, to terminate in a small ganghon near the upper extremity of the inter- osseus ligament at the posterior surface of the leg, where it unites with the other deep vessels. The second follows the same course as far as the middle third of the leg, where it traverses the interos- seous ligament to unite with the fibular absorbents. 2728. Posterior Tibial Lymphatics. They originate deeply in all parts of the sole of the foot, and form several trunks which as- cend along with the posterior or tibial artery, which they embrace on all sides as far as the popliteal ganglia. 2729. Fibular Lymphatics. They arise in like manner from the sole of the foot, follow the course of the fibular artery, and ter- minate in the popliteal ganglia.