201 MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. OF THE INTEIICOSXALES INTEU.NI. (M. Inter-costaiuv internes, Cliauss.) 858. These are also twelve in number, and correspond to the external intercostal muscles in form and breadth, differing however in only extending from the angle of the ribs to the sternum. Their fleshy fibres are equally intermingled with aponeuroses ; but they descend obliquely backwards, and arc inserted above into the inner lip of the lower edge of the ribs and of their cartilages, and below into the fore part of the upper edge of the ribs and cartilages. Tlicy arc less oblique than those of the external intercostal muscles. 859. Tlieir outer surface is covered by the preceding muscles, and is in connection with the intercostal vessels and nerves. The iimer surface is lined by the pleura, and a thin layer of a nearly fibrous cellular tissue. 860. The intercostales externi and interni have the same uses ; they raise or depress the ribs, in the motion of inspiration or ex- spiration, according as the upper or lower rib is the point from which they act. OF THE LEVATOEES COSTAEUM.* 861. Each rib receives from the summit of the transverse pro- cess situated above that with which it is articulated, a small, flat, thin, triangular fleshy bundle. These small muscles, to the num- ber of twelve, form a series which extends along the posterior part of the trunk. They are directed obhquely downwards and for- wards, and are attached by aponeuroses intermingled with the fleshy fibres, to the upper edge of the rib below, and occasionally to that of the next, by means of an appendage which passes over the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The upper are smaller and thinner than the lower. 862. Tiiere are also observed, in various places of the inner sur- face of the thorax, small muscular planes, which vary much in respect to number, size, and situation. They descend obhquely backwards from one rib to that which is beneath, or to that which follows it. They have been designated by the name of Infra- costales. 863. Tliese small muscles assist in raising the ribs, and arc therefore subservient to inspiration. OF THE TEIANGULAEIS STEENI. {M. Sterno-costal, Chauss.) 864. The Triangularis Sterni is a thin, triangular, flat mus- cle, situated within the thorax, behind the cartilages of the M. M. Boyer and Chaussier consider these as appendages of the external in- tercostal muscles.