761 OF THE LYMPHATJC VESSELS. 2753. Lymphatic Vessels of the Great Omanturn. They are not numerous, and ascend to unite with the preceding in the ganglia of tlie great curvature of the stomach. 8. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SPLEEN, PANCREAS, AND LIVER. 2754. Lymphatics of the Spleen. They are formed of a great number of supei*ficial and deep bi'anches, more numerous on the convex surface of the organ, and all uniting together, near its fis - sure, into a few trunks w'hich form a plexus around the splenic vessels, divide in some ganglia, enter beneath the duodenal extre- mity of the pancreas, and unite with the inferior lymphatics of the liver. 2755. Lymphatics of the Pancreas. They arise in the sub- stance of that gland, follow the pancreatic blood-vessels, and unite with the lymphatics of the spleen and stomach. 2756. Lymphatics of the Liver. They are extremely numerous, nor does any organ in the body appear to contain so many. They also seem generally to a certain extent destitute of valves in their interior, or at least these valves are much looser than any where else. They are distinguished into superficial and deep. 2757. Superficial Lymphatics of the Upper Surface of the Liver. On the right lobe they are naturally collected into four bundles. The first is formed by those which arise between the laminae of the suspensory hgament, which, uniting into two or three trxmks, enter into the thorax, between the diaphragm and ensiform carti- lage, pass through one or two of the gangha of the mediastinum, again subdivide, receive some lymphatics from the mediastinum and pericardium, pass into some other ganglia, ascend to near the internal jugular vein, and open into the thoracic duct near its ter- mination. The second arises by a great number of roots, near the circum- ference of the same lobe to the right side, passes between the la- minae of the right lateral ligament of the liver, and divides into two sets of vessels. The superior pass through the diaphragm, place themselves between it and the pleura, proceed to the left, forming a pretty complicated plexus, and enter into the abdomen, along with the aorta, to terminate in the ganglia lodged between that artery and the vena cava inferior. The inferior vessels pass between the attachments of the diaphragm and the laSt ribs, and glide along the latter as far as their articulation with the vertebra?, where they unite with the intercostal lymphatics, to traverse some ganglia, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The third, of which the roots are scattered upon the middle of the right lobe, gains the posterior part of the liver, and unites in part with the preceding. Some of the trunks of which it is com- posed ascend in the thorax, between the oesophagus and aorta, and open directly into the thoracic duct.