45 SPHENOID TURBINATED BONES. which is formed between the basilar process of the occipital bone and the sphfcnoid, they must necessarily be considered as dis- tinct. 145. The base of the triangular pyramid represented by these bones is adapted to the posterior part of the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone in such a manner as to close the corresponding cells, permitting them, however, by means of a notch or a rounded aper- ture, to communicate with the sphenoidal sinuses. Its summit, w'hich is pointed and hard, is inserted in a groove situated near the base of the pterygoid process, and is in part concealed by the pos- terior process of the palate bone. The lower surface forms part of the nasal fossa?. Most commonly it furnishes an irregular papy- raceous prolongation, which passes under the sphenoid bone, and proceeds toward the inferior ridge of that bone, directing itself to- ward that of the opposite side, to be united with the upper edge of the vomer. The outer surface is open above, to correspond to the entrance of the sphenoidal sinuses. Below, it concurs with the palate bone, in forming the spheno-jmlatine hole, which, in young subjects, does not in any way belong to the sphenoid bone, whose name it bears. This surface, moreover, frequently sends a thin lamina into the interior of the sinuses, and seems, as it were, to line its walls. Frequently also the floor of these cavities is entirely formed of the bones in question. 146. Structure, Articulations, Development. The sphenoidal turbinated bones, which, I believe, were first described by Bertin, are entirely compact and hollow, with the exception of the summit alone, which contains a little cellvdar tissue. They articulate with the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the palate bone and the vomer; and are developed by a single point of ossi- fication, generally after birth, although it is not rare to meet with their rudiments in fetuses of the seventh or eighth month. About the age of from tv/elve to fifteen, they unite first with the sphenoid bone, and at a later period with the ethmoid. OF THE FRONTAL OR CORONAL BONE. 147. Form. This bone is symmetrical, of a more or less semi- circular form, convex and smooth anteriorly, concave posteriorly, and very unequal below. It is divided into the following parts. 148. Orhito-ethmoidal Surface. This surface, which is un- even and turned downwards, presents in the middle a broad quad- rilateral notch, which receives the ethmoid bone, and is accordingly named the ethmoid notch. Around this notch there are observed anteriorly the nasal .<ipine and the orifices of the frontal sinuses ; on the sides, portions of cellules, which unite with similar portions belonging to the ethmoid bone. There are two or three small transverse apertures formed between these cellules, which contri- bute to form the internal orhitary canals. 1