ORGANS OF SENSATION. 584 appears as if divided into two lateral portions by a slight and super- ficial groove, at the posterior extremity of which, near the base of the tongue, there occurs a considerable depression, varying in form, and which is named the Foramen caecum, of the tongue. In some subjects, this hole is wanting; but in others, it has a depth of se- veral lines. It is in its interior that the excretory ducts of the mucous follicles placed in its vicinity terminate. From its sides proceed two lines, varying in form, but always diverging so as to represent a V with its summit directed backwards. These two lines are formed by the mucous follicles. The rest of this surface presents a great number of papillae, the structure of which we shall expose. 2003. Inferior Surface of the Tongue. It is free and invest- ed by the mucous membrane of the mouth in its anterior third and on the sides; but at the middle and posteriorly, it is connected with the lower maxillary bone by means of the genio-glossi mus- cles, and to the hyoid bone by means of the hyo-glossi. There is observed at its middle part a longitudinal groove which separates two oblong prominences formed by the lingual muscles. 2004. Edges of the Tongue. Thick behind and thin before, they are rounded in their whole extent, and present narrow and vertical striae above, which are parallel to each other, and continu- ous with papillae of the dorsal surface. 2005. The Point of the Tongue, or its anterior extremity, is rounded and free. Its breadth varies much in different indivi- duals. The Base of the Tongue, or its posterior extremity, is con- tinuous with the epiglottis and pillars of the velum palati. From being very thick at the level of the foramen ccecum, it becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the hyoid bone, so that the or- gan is thinner than anywhere else at the moment when it is attach- ed to that bone. b. ORGANIZATION OF THE TONGUE. 2006. Fleshy or Muscular Portion. It forms the greater part of the organ, and is composed of fibres of the stylo-glossi, hyo- glossi and genio-glossi muscles, which we have already described, and of those of an intrinsic fieshy body presenting beneath and on each side two parallel planes which are named the lingual muscles (985). All these muscles have their fleshy fibres interlaced in an inextricable manner, and form at the upper region of the tongue a layer in which it is impossible to decern them, and in which there is interspersed a multitude of small globules filled with an almost fluid fat, placed very close upon each other, which gives them a flattened form, and so much the less red the nearer they approach to the back of the organ. On the sides of the tongue, however, there is still pretty easily distinguished an inferior longitudinal muscular plane, formed by the lingualcs and stylo-glossi muscles,