ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 223 groove of tlie tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis. Its fibres are numerous, the anterior shorter than the posterior, and they are divided into distinct fascicuh. 741. Tibio-tarsal Ligament. This is an assemblage of some irregular fibres, which do not form a distinct fasciculus, immersed in adipose cellular tissue, and covered by the tendons of the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis, and extensor communis digito- rum. They descend obliquely from within outwards, from the an- terior part of the tarsal extremity of the tibia, to the fore part of the articular pulley of the astragalus. 742. Synovial Membrane. Of all the membranes of this de- scription, that in question always contains the greatest quantity of synovia. It extends over the cartilaginous surfaces of the fibula and tibia, and ascends between these two bones into the inferior articidation of the tibia and fibula (731.) It is prolonged on the interior of the two maUeoli, lines the ligaments which we have de- scribed, and ascends upon the lateral articular surfaces, and over the cartilaginous pulley of the astragalus. It is very loose ante- riorly and posteriorly, and is there in contact with a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. 5. ARTICULATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS WITH THE CALCANEUM. 743. The inferior surface of the astragalus is articulated by arthrodia in two places, with the superior surface of the calcaneum. We have already described the surfaces by which this twofold con- nection is effect^, and of which the posterior are much larger than the anterior, which constitute an articulation common to them with that of the scaphoid bone and astragalus. All these surfaces are invested with cartilage. Three hgaments and a synovial membrane are observed here. 744. Interosseous or Superior Ligament. This ligament, which is narrow and flattened internally, and thick externally, is composed of a great quantity of fibres, of which the external are longer than the internal, and which are concealed in a mass of adipose tissue, although they are very dense and close. It is at- tached below to the calcaneum, in an uneven and oblique depres- sion, which separates its two articular surfaces, and ascends from thence to a similar groove, which the astragalus presents at its lower surface. 745. Posterior Ligament. It is confounded in a great measure with the sheath of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis, which covers it, and from which it is however distinct. It is form- ed of a few parallel fibres, which, from the posterior part of the as- tragalus, direct themselves obliquely inwards to be attached to the neighbouring part of the ealcaneum. 746. Eosternal Ligament, l^his is a round fasciculus, with dense fibres, which descends parallel to the external lateral lig;i-