OF THK THYMUS GLAND. Cm timate structure of the lung, as we know several of thq organs which enter into its composition. But when we come to consider it with some attention, without reference to its eonstituent parts, we find that it is divided into several lobules, distinct even at the exterior, and se]>aratcd from each other by small whitish grooves. They are especially very well seen on tearing the tissue of the or- gan after submitting it to boiling. They vary much as to volume and form. They present, in general, a number of small surfaces, bounded by prominent angles, and present in their intervals a loose, filamentous cellular tissue, destitute of fat, very extensible, and ca- pable of becoming emphysematous with the greatest ease, whether during life, by the rupture of a division of the bronchus, or after death, by insufflation. Each of these lobules is divided into smaller, without its being possible to discover the precise termination of this division. The intimate structure of these last lobules is unknown. Willis asserted that they have a racemiform arrangement around the ramifications of the bronchi, which, however, does not appear to be the case. It is only very probable that they are formed by the union of the last extremities of the bronchi, vessels and nerves which are distributed in the lungs. 2161. Besides the parts which we have already seen to enter in- to the composition of the lungs, there also occur the pulmonary arteries and veins, of which we shall speak when we come to treat of the heart. They in fact establish an intimate connection between the organs of respiration and those of circulation. II OF THE THYMUS GLANDS 2162. This name is given to an organ, the uses of which are en- tirely unknown, but which, on accouirt of its position in the ante- rior mediastinum, naturally comes to be examined after the organs of respiration. It is parenchymatous, \>\iohs.te, glandifor7n, oblong, soft, lobular, and of very variable colour and size. It is to be ob- served that in the fetus it extends nearly from the thyroid gland to the vicinity of the diaphragm, and progressively diminishes with age, so that in the adult it is, as it were, in a state of atrophy, and in old persons can only be discovered with difficulty in the midst of the cellular tissue. 2163. The thymus gland occupies the upper separation of the anterior mediastinum, and corresponds posteriorly to the trachea (2152), the inferior thyroid veins, the left subclavian vein, the vena cava superior, the arch of the aorta, and the pericardium. Ante- riorly, it is covered by the upper part of the sternum and by the lower part of the sterno-thyroidei muscles. Its edges arc in contact with .the pleurae below. Its upper extremity is divided by a notch into two portions, of which the right is generally thicker and longer • (puft); of the Greeks.