42.9 OF THE DURA WATER. vessels which they contahi, and arc continued into the periosteum of the orbit Lastly, altogether on tjie sides, the dura mater ad- heres but little to the orbitar arches, even at the place of the sphenoidal suture (197-) 1 MK). More posteriorly, it adheres in a more decided manner to the groove placed itt the fore part of the supra-sphenoidal fossa, and penetrates into the optic foramina, forming an envelope for the op- tic nerves. This cylindrical envelope separates when it arrives at the posterior insertion of the recti muscles of the eye. Its outer lamina, w'hich is rather thin, expands into the periosteum of the or- bit; the inner, which is whiter, denser', thicker, and immediately applied on the nerve, accompanies it to the globe of the eye^ and is continued into the sclerotic membrane. Behind the optic hole, the dura mater presents a circular aper- ture which embraces the internal carotid artery at the moment when it issues from the cavernous sinus. Some hbres arising from the circumference of this aperture, seem to throw themselves into the walls of the artery. At its anterior part, there oocurs the ori- fice of a small canal formed inferiorly between the two laminae of the envelope of the optic nerve. It transmits the ophthalmic arv lery into the orbit The dura mater then lines the pituitary fossa (115,) where it is covered by the body of the same name (1432) v/hich sepa- rates it from the arachnoid membrane at this place. It then passes over the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone, where it divides into Hvo lamime, to form the cavernous sinuses. The iir- ncr of these laminaa is tliin, and immediately covers the cavernous groove; the outer, which is free, forms the opposite waU of the sinus, 1491. On the free edge of the processes of Ingrassias, the dura mater forms a small fold which enters into the fissura Sylvii; then, descending from thence vertically, it closes the sphenoidal fissure, and sends through it a prolongation, thicker on the inner side, which proceeds into the orbit, and is continuous with the perios- teum of that cavity, which appears to be nothing else than an ex- pansion of the dura mater. This prolongation presents several apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves which enter the orbit. 1492. The membrane then extends into the middle lateral fosr sm of the Imse of the skull, to which it adheres but feebly; but, ,on approaching the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone, it furr nishes first an envelope to the superior and inferior maxillary nerves in the bony canals by which they are transmitted to the outside of the skull. It also gives one to the middle meningeal artery, and concurs to form the caveraious sinus and various ca- nals. One of the latter is for the common motor nerve of the eye. It commences a little before the posterior clinoid process. It is fibrous in its whole circumference, and invested by the arach- poid coat at the commencement of its course, but the latter after-