OF THE SEMI-CinCULAR CANALS. 573 longated hollow cone. Frequently it is very amall, and even seems to be wanting altogether. 3. OF THE SEMI-CIKCULAB CANALS. 1968. These canals, whose form is indicated by their name, arc formed in the substance of the petrous process, and open by their two extremities in the interior of the vestibule, behind which they are situated, corresponding posteriorly and inferiorly to the mas- toid cells. They are three in number, and their direction is dif- ferent, two being vertical, the one superior, the other posterior, and the third horizontal. They leave between them a pyramidal space the base of which is directed outwards and the summit inwards and backwards. This space is filled by the diploe of the petrous pro- cess. In the foetus, it remains empty, and is occupied by a pro- longation of the dura mater. 1969. The Stcperior Vertical Canal, which is a little smaller than the posterior, but larger than the horizontal, presents the convexity of its curvature directly upwards. One of its sides is anterior, the other posterior, and of its extremities the one is ex- ternal the other internal. It commences at the upper and fore part of the vestibule, by a pretty large and elliptical aperture, close to one of those of the horizontal canal. It terminates by uniting pos- teriorly and internally with the posterior vertical canal, and forms with it a common canal, about two lines in length, which opens at the upper and inner part of the vestibule by a single rounded orifice. This common canal has not a greater capacity than either of the two from which it results. 1970- The Posterior Vertical Canal presents its convexity backwards, one of its extremities being directed forwards and up- wards, the other forwards and downwards. The first is united, as we have said, with the preceding canal. The other opens separate- ly in the lower and inner part of the vestibule, a little aboye one of the apertures of the horizontal canal, by a wide, rounded, or elliptical orifice. 1971. The Horizontal Canal is the smallest of the three. Situated between the other two, it commences anteriorly by a pretty wide infundibuliform aperture, between that of the superior ver- tical canal and the fenestra ovalis, and terminates internally of the vestibule by a narrow aperture, between the common orifice of the two vertical canals and the lower orifice of the posterior. Its con- vexity is turned backwards. 1972. The three semicircular canals open therefore in the ves- tibule by five orifices only, and these orifices arq unequal for each canal in particular. Their walls are formed of a compact lamina, immersed in the spongy tissue of the petrovis process. Their in- ternal surface is smooth and polished.