MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 2C9 multaneously with tlie pectoralis major. When it is suspended by the liands, and an effort is made to raise it, it pulls the trunk upon the arms. By taking its fixed point upon the humerus, it can also raise the ribs to whicli it is attached, and thus become a muscle of inspiration. Lastly, it is a tensor of the aponeurosis which covers the sacro-spmalis muscle, Avhose contractions it thus favours, III.—MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. A. MUSCLES OF THE SKULL. Of the Epicranial Aponeurosis. 8815. This name is given to a broad fibrous expansion, adher- ing strongly to the integuments, and loosely attached to the peri- cranium by a lax cellular tissue which is destitute of adipose sub- stance. It covers the whole upper part of the head. The fieshy fibres of the frontal, occipital and auricular muscles terminate in it. Its fibres, which are very distinct, white and parallel posteriorly, are in the rest of its extent gi-cyish, interwoven and indistinct, in so much that it often appears to degenerate into cellular tissue. They are also frequently divided into bundles, and leave intervals of greater or less size between them. 1. Ejncranial Reg-ion. OF THE FRONTALIS.^ 889. The Frontalis is a membranous muscle, of an irregularly quadrilateral form, covering the forehead, to the skin of which it strongly adheres. Its fibres, which are short and directed obli- quely outwards toward the temple, become longer, parallel and straight in the middle, to be afterwards shortened more internally, where they arc interwoven a little with those of the opposite side. Inferiorly they seem to unite with the pyramidalis nasi, palpcbi-alis and corrugator supercilii. Its upper edge, which is continuous with the epicranial aponeurosis, describes, toward the fronto-jia- rietal suture, a curve whose convexity is directed backwards, and is sometimes sinuous. 890. Its anterior sicrface is covered by the integuments; the posterior rests upon the os frontis, a little upon the temporal and superciliary muscles, and upon vessels and nerves which arise from the orbit to be distributed over the forehead. 891. It brings forwards part of tlie integuments of the head. • IM. M. Boyer, Clmu-ssier, Soemmering, and most anatomists confouml this musele with tlie following, under the general iiaine of Occiinlo-fronlalis, or Ei>icrunmu 7