720 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 2554. In this course, the deep muscular artery gives off out- wards the external circumflex, inwards the internal circumflex, and backwards the three perforating arteries. 2555. Ecvternal Circumflex Artery. (Art. Sous-trokanterienne, Chauss.) It comes off from the outer side of the profunda, at the place where the latter forms a bend to descend inwards. Its size, although generally rather moderate, sometimes equals that of the trunk from which it comes off. Directed almost transversely outwards, behind the sartorius and rectus femoris, it presently divides into two branches, the one transverse the other descending. The first turns over the upper part of the femur, to gain the outer and back part of that bone. There it divides into several twigs, some of which a.scend in the capsule of tlie hip-joint, while the others are distributed to the inner surface of the outer portion of the triceps extensor, to the glutaeus medius, glutaeus minimus, tensor vaginjE femoris, and rec- tus femoris muscles. The second branch, which is much larger, descends along the fore part of the thigh, between the triceps ex- tensor and rectus femoris, and divides into several twigs which are lost in their substance. Some of these twigs extend as far as the patella, and anastomose with the superior articular arteries. 2556. Internal Circumjlex Artery. (Art. Sous-trokantinienne, Chauss,) Largerthanthe preceding, it arises from the very commence- ment of the deep muscular artery at its inner and back part. It almost immediately dives from before backwards, between the pectineus and the united tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, turns over the inner part of the neck of the femur, running along the obturator ex- ternus muscle, under the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. It gives several twigs to these different muscles, the parts of generation, and the ilio-femoral articulation, and arrives behind the neck of the femur, where it divides into two branches. One of these, the as- cending, is smaller, mounts obliquely upon the neck of the femur, before the quadratus femoris muscle, and dives into the digital cavity of the great trochanter, where it loses itself, being distributed to the quadratus femoris, gemelli, and obturator internus muscles. The other, which is transverse and larger, passes at first outwards, between the quadratus femoris and the femur, and divides into two twigs, one of which loses itself in the common origin of the flexor muscles of the leg at the tuber ischii, while the other is distributed to the upper part of the adductor magnus. 2557. Upper Perforating Artery. It is larger than the other two, and arises from the back part of the profunda, below the small trochanter. Directed backwards, it passes through the tendons of the second and third adductors, which receive twigs from it, and gains the back part of the femur, where it divides into two branches, one of which ascends in the substance of the glutmus maximus, while the other is distributed in the long portion of the biceps, the outer portion of the triceps, in the semi-membranosus and upon the sciatic nerve. This artery anastomoses with the internal circumflex, ischiatic and middle perforating arteries. 2558. Middle Perforating Artery. It comes off lower than the