ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 28G after receiving fibres from tlie middle groove of tlie upper suiface of the palatal tuberosity, and some others from the outside of the summit of the outer wing of the pterygoid process. It then be- comes thinner, and terminates internally of the angle of the jaw by aponeuroses equally long and distinct with those of its origin, which form more or less prominent ridges that are observed in this place, and are interposed between the fleshy fibres as above. From this disposition the fleshy and tendinous fibres are in nearly equal quantity in the internal pterygoid muscle. 985. Its inner surface covers, at its upper part, the circum- flexus palati and constrictor pharyngis superior, and inferiorly the sub-maxillary gland. I'he outer surface lies internally upon the branch of the lower jaw, much in the same manner as the mas- seter does externally. It is separated from that bone above by an interval, in which are found the lingual and dentar nerves, the in- ferior dentar artery, and the internal lateral ligament of the tempo- ro-maxillary articulation. (614.) 986. When the two muscles act simultaneously, the jaw is rais- ed and earned a little forwards. If one only contracts, it carries it a little obliquely toward the opposite side. When the lower jaw is fixed, they depress the upper. OF THE PTEIIYGOIDEUS EXTEKNUS. (M. Petit pterygo-maxillairey Chauss.) 987- Tliis muscle, which is of a conical form, or rather tetrahe- dral and short, is situated in the zygomatic fossa. It has two ori- gins, one from the outer surface of the pterygoid process and from the palatal tuberosity, the other from the zygomato-teinporal sur- face of the sphenoid bone (122), immediately beneath the upper edge of the spheno-maxillary fissure. These attachments are form- ed by aponeuroses, which advance as far as the middle front of the muscle. The internal maxillary artery often passes between them, in an interval filled with cellular tissue. From thence the muscle is directed outwards and backwards, becoming gradually thinner, and is inserted into a small fossa at the anterior surface of the neck of the condyle of the jaw and into the fore part of the circumference of the inter-articidar hbro-cartilage (617-) 988. Its otiter surface is in contact with the temporal muscle, and most commonly with the internal maxillary artery. The iu7ier surface corresponds to the pterygoideus internus, the inferior max- illary nerve, the middle meningeal artery, and sometimes the in- ternal maxillary artery. The upper surface touches the upper part of the zygomatic fossa, and the deep temporal and masseteric nerves. 989. The outer pterygoid muscle draws forward the condyle of the jaw and the fibro-cartilagc of the articulation, moving the chin in the opposite direction. When the two act together, the jaw is drawn directly forwards.