INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE AND NASAL BONE. 79 which the corresponding upper maxillary and palatal bones pre- sent. 269. Structure and Development. The inferior turbinated bone is in general thin. Its surface, which is covered with vermi- cular marks, porous and spongy, has been for this reason consider- ed by most anatomists as consisting of cellular tissue. This opi- nion, however, I believe to be erroneous. Portions of cellules, such as these, which are frequently inequalities or small spines, which sometimes pass through the bone from one side to the other, and which are neither lined by a medullary membrane nor moisten- ed by a fatty juice, cannot be likened to the diploe of the bones of the skull, or to the areolae of the short bones. It is developed by a single point of ossification, which makes its appearance at the fifth month. 270. Articulations. The inferior turbinated bone is articulated to the upper maxillary, palatal, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones, by the various points already mentioned. Frequently, even in chil- dren, it occurs united with the latter bone, so that in many sub- jects the lower turbinated bone seems to constitute an appen- dage of the ethmoid, as Bertin has remarked. Sometimes it is in- timately united to the aperture of the sinus ; but it is always slight- ly attached to the horizontal crests of the palatal and maxillary bones. OF THE NASAL BONE. 271. Form. T\ie Nasal Bones, (Ossa Nasi,) axe o^smaW. size, and occupy the interval existing between the two ascending pro- cesses of the maxillary bones. They are thick at the upper part, thin below. Their form, although in general quadrilateral, is ex- cessively variable ; and it is seldom that they are exactly the same on both sides. 272. Their anterior surface, which is covered by the pyramidal muscle and the skin, is traversed by a few small vascular fur- rows. It is concave from above downwards, convex transversely. At its middle part it presents the orifice of a hole which passes through the bone, and transmits a small vein to the pituitary mem- brane. This hole is frequently accompanied with several smaller ones. It is sometimes wanting in one of the bones. 273. Their posterior or nasal surface, which is concave, uneven, especially at the lower part, and narrower than the anterior, pre- sents distinct furrows, and is fined by the pituitary membrane. The of the vascular hole just mentioned is seen upon it. 274. The upper edge is denticulated, short, inclined backwards, thick, and united to the nasal notch of the frontal bone. The lower edge is longer, thin, sharp, and inclined obliquely backwards and downwards. It joins the lateral cartilage of the nose, and presents in its middle a narrow notch for the passage of the nerve which is distributed to the lobe of the nose.