ORGANS OF SENSATION. 408 lamina?, (Folia Cerebelli,) from a line to a line and a half thick, placed against each other, concentric, regular, more extended pos- teriorly, shorter before, separated by narrow grooves, which are lined by the pia mater, and over which the arachnoid membrane passes. Of these laminae, some are confined to the upper surface of the cerebellum, the others to the lower surface. They are not confounded with each other, and none of them extends round the organ. Each lobe of the cerebellum commonly presents from sixty to sixty-five of these laminae, from thirty to thirty-five on its upper surface, and from twenty-four to thirty on the lower. But on se- parating these principal laminae, there are perceived many other simi- lar in form, but smaller and thinner, entirely concealed in the grooves and covering each other in part. Some of them are very short, and are scarcely a line or two in height; others are larger; but none of them reaches the surface of the cerebellum, and they are air attached by their base to one of the principal circumvolutions, of which they are in a manner so many ramifications. Chaussier, who first made hnown the greater part of these peculiarities, says, that the number of these secondary laminae, which is always very great, is subject to many individual.variations. They would appear generally to amount to six or seven hundred. The principal laminae themselves, although they are all separat- ed by a groove, unite together to the number of two, three, four, five or six, in such a manner as to divide the surface of the cere- bellum into fasciculate lobules. These lobules are distinguished from each other by broader and deeper grooves, as well as by the disposition and direction of the laminae, which are not parallel, but almost all intersect each other at a more or less acute angle. Their number is considerable, there being commonly sixteen, five supe~ nor, two posterior, and nine inferior. 1438. Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. Flat, inclined ob- liquely backwards and outwards, and covered by the tentorium ce- rebeUi, it presents on its fore and middle part, an elongated pro- minence, named the Processus Vermiformis superior, which is formed by the reciprocal crossing of the laminae of which the tAvo lobes or hemispheres of the organ are composed. The whole of this upper surface is occupied by five fascictdate lobules, common to the two lobes, and disposed in transverse arched bands. Their convexity is directed backwards. They are only flexuous in the median line, and they are nearly of the same form. The first or most anterior, which is of less extent than the other, is less curved than they. Its laminae extend without interruption from one lobe to the other, and are only a little broader in the median line, where they form a pretty considerable prominence. The other four lo- bules are successively longer and less arched. Their laminae seem interrupted along the median line. Some of them separate from one to unite with another, or are bent in such a manner as to form a sort of nucleus. Others terminate at the bottom of a groove by an angular slip. Some laminae of the right lobe end on the left.