^77 MUSCLES or THE LEG. and passes into .a sp-oovc of the outer surface of tlie calcancum, where it is again kept down by a particular librous slieath, but is lined by the same synovial membrane, which forms a cul-de-sac to- wards the os cuboidcs. It then turns over the side of that bone, penetrates into the deep groove Avhich it presents, and is there bound down by another ligamentous sheath, w’hich also eontains a distinct synovial membrane. It then directs itself inwards and for- wards, and is inserted upon the inner and outer part of the poste- rior extremity of the first metatarsal bone. A sesamoid bone is often met with in its substance, to the outside of the os cuboidcs, and another is occasionally observed behind the malleolus externus, or along the calcaneum. 1357. In the leg, the outer surface of the peroneus longus is covered by the tibial aponeurosis; the inner is applied upon the fibula, and the extensor digitorum communis and peroneus brevis; the posterior corresponds above to the soleus, and is united below to the flexor longus pollicis. The various relations of this tendon have already been sufficiently noticed. 1358. It extends the foot on the leg, turning its point outwards, and raising its inner edge. It also acts upon the leg, which it ex- tends upon the foot. OF THE PERONEUS BREVIS. 1359. It has the same form as the preceding muscle, but is not so long. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the lower half of the outer surface of the fibula, and from two aponeurotic partitions, which separate it anteriorly from the peroneus tertius and ex- tensor communis ciigitorum, and posteriorly from the flexor lon- gus digitorum. It descends a little obliquely outwards, and, at the lower part of the foot, degenerates into a tendon which had commenced very high upon its outer side. Behind the malleolus externus, the tendon enters a groove which is common to it and the peroneus longus (1357), passing through it becomes broader. On emerging, it contracts, becomes rounded, leaves the tendon of the peroneus longus, passes above it over the outer sur- face of the calcaneum, where it is separated from it by a fibrous partition, becomes broad a second time and is inserted at the upper part of the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, fre- quently sending a prolongation to the tendon of the extensor ten- don of the little toe. 13G0. Its outer surface is covered by the peroneus longus and tibial aponeurosis. The inner covers the fibula, and corresponds to the extensor digitorum communis and peroneus tertius, and at its lowest part to the flexor longus pollicis. The synovial mem- brane which envelopes its tendon and that of the preceding muscle behind the malleolus, is prolonged into tlic particular sheath which