OllGANS OF CiaCULATION. G7O tills surface presents, and arc prolonged as far as tlie convex part of the same hemispheres, where they communicate with those of the middle and posterior cerebral arteries, 4. OF THE MIDDLE CEUEBRAL ARTEIiy. 2314. The Middle Cerebral Artery (Arth’e lobaire tnoyenne, Chauss.) is much larger than the anterior, it seems to be truly the terminating branch of the internal carotid. Directed outwards and backwards, it gives at first a great number of twigs to the lower part of the brain, to the pia mater which covers its peduncles, and to the choroid plexus. In then enters into the fissura Sylvii; and divides into two large branches which belong, the one to the ante- rior lobe, the other to the middle lobe of the brain. These bran- ches bend backwards, following deeply the fissure, and end to- wards the posterior part of the brain, where they subdivide into a great number of twigs. In their course, they also furnish some, and all enter together into the cerebral anfractuosities, forming many windings, and ramifying in the pia mater, to such a degree as to convert that membrane into an extremely fine and close vascular net-work, from which issue the arteries which lose themselves in the substance of the brain, and which are truly capillary. It is only in some particular places, which we have already made known, that this organ receives trunks of any size, as in the optic thalami, near the medullary roots of the olfactory nerves, &c.* OF THE SUB-CLAVIAN ARTERIES. 2315. They are situated upon the posterior part of the thorax and lateral and inferior parts of the neck. At the origin, they present some differences between them which it is of importance to observe. 2316. The right, which is generally a-little larger than the left, arises upon the corresponding side of the trachea, and comes from the brachio-cephalic trunk. The left separates from the aorta at the end of its arch : Both extend as far as the upper part of tlie first rib, in the interval of the scaleni muscles; but the right is obviously shorter than the left. They also differ in respect to their position, direction, and relations to the neighbouring organs. Thus the right subclavian is more superficial than the left, which appears to depend especially upon the direction of the arch of the aorta. The right directs itself obliquely outwards and upwards as far as the interval of the scaleni muscles ; the left ascends vertical- ly to near them ; and suddenly turns backwards to penetrate into f;heir interval. Thus the anterior side of the right subclavian is covered, from • It is necessary to study the arteries which arc furnished to tlie hrain by the ver- tebral arteries of the sub-claviau, at the same time that those which the internal carotids transmit to it arc examined.