120 OF THE ULNA. OF THE ULNA. 457. Form. The Ulna or Cubitus, is a long irregular bone, situated at the inner part of the fore-arm. It is larger above than below, is a little longer than the radius, and like it is divided into a body and two extremities. 458. The Body or Middle Portion is curved forwards at its upper part, backwards and outwards at the. lower, while its middle region is straight. Its anterior surface, which is concave above and below, gives attachment at its upper part, where it is broad, to the flexor profundus, which is also attached to its middle; and at the lower part, where it is narrow, to the pronator quadratus. Near its upper part is observed the orifice of a canal for the pas- sage of vessels into the bone, which is cUrected upwards. The pos- terior surface is cUvided into two parts by a longitudinal prominent line ; of these parts, the inner, which is broader, gives attachment, from above downwards, to the anconedus and extensor carpi ulnaris ; while the outer, which is narrower, receives, in the same direction, the supinator brevis, extensors of the thumb, and extensor in- dicis. The inner surface, which is very broad and somewhat concave at the upper part, is covered for three fourths of its length downwards, by the flexor profundus; while at the lower part, it is much contracted, and becomes sub-cutaneous. 459. These three surfaces are separated by as many edges. The ojiter is sharp for three fourths of its length from above, rounded below, and gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The anterior edge, which is more rounded, gives insertion, at its upper part, to the flexor profundus, and, below, to the pronator quadra- tus. The posterior edge is very distinct for three fourths of its length from above downwards, and there gives attachment to an aponeurosis common to the flexor carpi ulnaris, flexor profundus and extensor carpi ulnaris. It gradually becomes obliterated below. 460. The Upper or Humeral Extremity is very large, of an irregular form, difficult to be described, and is formed principally by two processes. One of these is called the Olecranon.* It is situated posteriorly, and at a much higher level than the rest of the bone. At its upper part it gives attachment to the triceps extensor. Posteriorly, it presents a narrow triangular surface, covered solely by the skin ; while anteriorly it is concave and in- vested with cartilage. The other process, which is named the Coronoid, is situated before and beneath the olecranon. At its upper part it is cartilaginous and inclined backwards ; but below, it is directed forward, and presents a very distinct impression for the brachialis internus. On the inside, it gives attachment to some fibres of the pronator teres and flexor sublimis, together with the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Externally, it presents • fl’Xt«favov, cubUi pars gilbera ; cubitus; x.^ay»t, galea. K