178 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 2. AUTICULATION OF THE TWO FIllST VERTEBRiE WITH EACH OTHER. 582. This articulation is of the kind named lateral or axmdal ginglymus, and is capable of great mobility. It takes place by se- veral points at once, viz. by the toothlike process of the axis or dentata with the anterior arch of the atlas, and by the lateral arti- cular surfaces of both these vertebrae, which are horizontal and much larger than those which succeed. 583. Synovial Membranes of the Odontoid Articulation. They are two in number, the one anterior.^ the other posterior. The first extends over a concave oval surface, covered with a thin carti- lage, situated behind the anterior arch of the atlas, and a corres- ponding convex surface, which the odontoid process presents anteriorly. This capsule is very thin, transparent, a little looser above than below, and surrounded with much cellular tissue. The posterior membrane is equally thin, and enveloped with cellular tissue at its upper part and on the sides. It covers an oblong con- vex surface, tipped with cartilage, which exists at the posterior part of the odontoid process, and is even prolonged a little upon its sides; whence it proceeds backwards over the anterior jmrt of the transverse ligament, to which it adheres but little, and which it renders smooth and polished. It is contiguous laterally with the synovial membrane of the occipital condyles, and even blends a lit- tle with it. 584. Transverse or Crucifoi'm Ligament. This ligament, which consists of a thick, strong, and firm bundle of fibres, flatten- ed from before backwards, and a little broader in the middle than at its two extremities, extends from the inner part of one of the lateral masses of the atlas to the corresponding point of the oppo- site side, passing behind the odontoid process. There results from this arrangement, that it describes in its passage a fourth of a cir- cle, and forms with the anterior arch of the atlas, a sort of ring in which the odontoid process turns, or which turns upon it. Its pos- terior surface., which is convex, is covered by the occipito-axoidal ligament. The anterior surface, which is concave, is contiguous to the odontoid ligaments, at the odontoid process, and is a httlc covered by the posterior synovial capsule of the same process. From the middle part of its inferior edge, there is detached a small fasciculus of vertical fibres, about a line in breadth, which is at- tached to the posterior part of the body of the axis. From the cor- responding point of its upper edge, there also proceeds a very dis- tinct fasciculus of fibres, broader above than below, which ascends to attach itself to the anterior surface of the occipito-axoidal liga- ment, with which its fibres are confounded.* Its extremities arc • Soemmering describes under the mime of Appendix Superior, n small fibrous fasciculus, which proceeding from the same point, tenninates at a line before the occipitaUhole, on the basilar surface.