OF THE SUPRA-SCAPULAR ARTERY. 679 butcd among them, communicating with several branches of the superior scapular artery. 2351. Opposite the rhomboicleus muscle, the transverse cervical artery separates into two equal branches, one of which follows the posterior edge of the scapula, and spreads out in the sub-scapula- ris, serratus magnus, rhomboideus, serratus posticus superior, la- tissimus dorsi and trapezius muscles, as well as in the integuments of the back ; while the other proceeds outwards, under the scapula, and is destined for the serratus magnus and subscapularis alone. 2352. In some subjects the transverse cervical artery comes from the axillary, and then, instead of passing above the nerves of the brachial plexus, it glides in one of the intervals which they leave between them. 2. OF THE SUPRA-SCAPULAU ARTERY. 2353. Less voluminous than the preceding, it pretty frequently arises from it, and still more commonly comes off'from the inferior thyroid than from the subclavian itself. Sometimes it has a trunk which is common to it and the transverse cervical or internal mam- mary artery. In all cases it proceeds in a tortuous manner from within outwards, behind the clavicle and above it, covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, platysma-myoides and trapezius musclesj and arrives at the upper edge of the scapula, following exactly the course of the supra-scapular nerve (1683). On arriving near the supra-spinatus muscle, it passes above the coracoid ligament, dives between the supra-spinatus muscle and the fossa of the same name, directs itself outwards under the arch formed by the clavicle and acromion process united, winds over the edge of the spine of the scapula, and enters into the fossa infra-spinata, between the bone and the infra-spinatus muscle. 2354. In the first part of its course this artery furnishes several twigs to the subclavius and platysma myoides muscles, to the clavicle, the cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia of the lower part of the neck. Before passing over the coracoid ligament, it sends to the supra-spinatus muscle a pretty large superficial branch, which itself gives twigs to the trapezius muscle and acromio-clavi- cular articulation. They anastomose with the transverse cervical artery. Lastly, in the fossa infra-spinata the supra-scapular artery anastomoses with the sub-scapular which comes from the axillary artery, and divides into two principal branches, of which one follows the anterior edge of the scapula and belongs to the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, while the other pro- ceeds transversely backwards under the spine of the scapula, and throws a multitude of twigs into the infra-spinatus muscle. 3. OF THE POSTERIOR OR DEEP CERVICAL ARTERY. 2355. (Arti've frachelo-cerxncale, Chauss.) It arises from 2y