MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 283 5. Inferior Maxillary liegion. Of THE HEi’llKSSOU ANGULI OlllS, Oil TllIANUULAlUS LAIUORUM. (M. Maxilla-labial, ,Chauss.) 969. This muscle, which is thin, flat, and triangular, is situated at the lower part of the face, arising from the external maxillary line, between the masseter muscle and the mental hole, by short aponeurotic fibres, succeeded by fleshy fibres, of which some ap- pear to come from the platysma myoides. These fibres ascend toward the commissure of the lips, those in the middle vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards, and the posterior from behind forwards. At the summit of the muscle, they are confounded with the zygomaticus major and orbicularis oris, but more espe- cially with the levator anguli oris. 970- "I'lie outer surface adheres strongly to the skin. The in- ner covers the platysma myoides, buccinator and depressor labii inferioris, to which latter it is united. 971- It lowers the commissure of the lips, and acts especially m grief. OF THE DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS, aUADRATUS GENiE. (M. Mento-lahial, Chauss.) 972. It is situated to the inside of the preceding muscle, and is thin and quadrilateral. It arises from the external oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, and ascends in the lower lip, where it is confounded with the orbicularis oris. Its fibres, which are pa- rallel, and seem to be continuous with those of the platysma myoides, are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, uniting in the most intimate manner internally and above with those of the opposite side, and internally and below with those of the levator menti, while externally and below they arc interlaced with those of the preceding muscle. 97'h Its (mterior surface is covered by the depressor labii in- ferioris and by the skin, to which it strongly adheres. The jioste- rinr surface is applied upon the lower jaw, the mental nerve and vessels, and the orbicularis oris and levator menti. 974. This muscle depresses the lower lip. OF THE LEVATOR MENTI,* OB LEVATOR LABII INFERIORIS. 97'5-^ 'This muscle is situated between the two depressores labii infcriorifei;' It is short, thick, and conical. It is attached by its “ M. Chaussier coribiders it as a portion ol his vtcnlo-lub'ml.