748 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. posterior vertebral ligament, and receiving by their middle and an- terior part, the veins which arise in the spongy tissue of the ver- tebrm. By their outer side, the vertebral sinuses communicate with the posterior branches of the vertebral (2618), intercostal (2619) and lumbar (2641) veins, in the interval of the transverse processes. By their posterior side, they receive the very numerous and very slender veins which creep upon the dura mater that envelopes the spinal marrow. 2680. In the sacral canal, the vertebral sinuses become much diminished, and change their appearance. Here they are only cylindrical veins of considerable size, immersed in an adipose cel- lular tissue, and have no adhesion to the osseous parts. Their in- ferior extremity is a very delicate twig, which is lost in the fat. Externally they form anastomoses with the lateral sacral veins (2636) ; and, internally, send transverse twigs of communication to each other. 2681. The veins of the spinal marrow have the same disposition as the arteries of that name. They accompany them, and open into the inferior cerebellar veins. 3. Of the Cardiac Veins or Coronary Veins qf the Heart. a. EIGHT CORONAEY VEINS. 2682. Great Right Coronary Vein. It commences towards the summit of the heart by several radicles which anastomose with those of the small right coronary vein and of the left coronary veins. It then ascends in the adipose groove of the thick edge of the heart, accompanying a branch of the corresponding coronary ar- tery. It receives a great number of lateral twigs, turns over the blunt edge of the heart, passes into the groove which separates the auricles from the ventricle, becomes horizontal, and directs itself to the right and upwards. 2683. Small Right Coronary Vein. It arises like the pre- ceding, passes into the groove of the posterior surface of the heart, receives the veins of that surface and of the septum of ^the ventri- cles, ascends vertically upon the wall of the auricle, and umtes with the preceding. h. LEFT CORONARY VEINS. 2684. They are much smaller than the right, and vary m\^h in respect to number. They commence along with the preceding at the summit of the heart, by several roots which unite upon the •convex surface of that organ into two or three branches. T.hesc