POSTERIOR AND ANTERIOR CIRCUMFLEX ARTERIES. 683 it gives a remarkable twig to the latissimus dorsi, near its tendon, and throws some small twigs into the subscapularis, teres major and teres minor muscles. After bending over the edge of the scapula, it enters into the fossa infra-spinata, where it divides into two twigs. One of these twigs, which is superficial and smaller, glides betw'een the skin and aponeurosis of the infra-spinatus muscle; while the other, which is deep and much larger, passes under the teres minor and infra-spinatus muscles, and is distributed in their substance by three or four large secondary twigs One of them ascends under the acromion to enter into the fossa supra-spi- nata, and goes to anastomose Arith a branch of the supra-scapular artery. 2. OF THE POSTERIOn CIUCUMFLEX ARTERY. 2371 • Less voluminous than the preceding, it arises from the posterior part of the axillary artery, above the head of the humerus, passes between the subscapularis and teres major muscles, and before the long portion of the triceps extensor. It gives them some twigs, then dives under the deltoides, and arrives at the fore and outer part of the humerus. There then come off from it superior twigs which ascend to be distributed to the capsule of the shoulder joint, and to the teres minor and infra-spinatus muscles, as well as to the fleshy fibres of the deltoides, between which it anastomoses with the acromial artery; and inferior twigs, which descend in the substance of the deltoides as far as its tendon. The artery itself dives into that muscle, and there loses itself by several branches which communicate with those of the anterior circumflex artery. 3. OF THE ANTERIOR CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. * 2372. It is very small, and is frequently furnished by the preceding. It directs itself horizontally forwards and outwards, under the coraco-brachialis muscle and under the short portion of the biceps flexor, running along the upper edge of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. It then turns over the upper part of the humerus, runs between that bone and the deltoides as far as the bicipital groove (442), passes under the ten- don of the long portion of the biceps, and dives into tho substance of the deltoides where it loses itself. This artery is always imme- diately applied upon the bone, and adheres to it in a decided man- ner. It gives but very few twigs to the deltoid muscle until the moment of its termination ; but it sends a great number upon the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint, and upon the subscapularis muscle, near its attachment. • M. CImussicr aesignates the two circumflex arteries by the name of scapula, humcralci. *