ORGANIZATION OF THE HEART. 039 In the Left AuHcle, the fleshy layer is mucli thicker and more uniform than in the right. Here the muscular fibres seem to come from the pulmonary veins on which they begin to appear by pa- rallel bundles from the moment when these vessels issue from the lungs. On the auricle itself, they retain their original direction at the surface, and form a transverse plane; but more deeply, they cross each other irregularly, without however being disposed in iso- lated bundles as in the right auricle. JBctween the two auricles, the muscular tissue forms a thicker and more uniform layer, from which results the inter-auricular sep- tum. 2199. Muscular Tissue of the Ventricles. The walls of the riyht ventricle are rather thin. A uniform fleshy layer invests them externally. More deeply, the muscular tissue collects into bundles disposed like those of the auricles, but stronger and more numerous ; several of these, detached from the walls of the cavity, give rise to the columnae carneae. The Left Ventricle has much thicker walls than the right. Its superficial fibres seem directed longitudinally from the base to the summit. The middle fibres are intermingled in an inextricable manner. The deeper contribute to the formation of the columnae cameae. In the septum, the muscular fibres of the right ventricle are in- terlaced with those of the left, forming very acute angles. They may be separated with patience so as to divide the heart into two portions, the one right and the other left. 2200. The muscular fibres of the heart are extremely numerous and very close upon each other. Their red colour is less florid and darker than that of the muscles of locomotion. Their direction is very difficult to be determined: they intermingle with each other, without any cellular tissue being interposed, as happens in the other muscles, to form distinct bundles of them. Their origin al- so cannot be determined; they rise from all points of the surface of the organ, without passing over its whole extent. They are fleshy in their whole length, the internal columnoe alone being ter- minated by tendons. 2201. Membrane of the Right Cavities of the Heart. It is evi- dently continuous with the membrane which lines the vessels des- tined for the circulation of the black blood. On leaving the vena cavse it covers the whole extent of the auricle, applied upon the muscular bundles, and, in their intervals, against the serous la- mina of the pericardium, to which it is united by a dense but spare cellular tissue. Beneath the vena cava inferior it is folded upon itself to form the Kustacliian valve, and afterwards that of the co- ronary vein of the heart. At the circumference of the auriculo- ventricular orifice, it is separated from the muscular tissue by a layer of thin and semi-fluid fat, which constitutes the white zone of which we have spoken. There also it is folded upon itself, leav- ing the walls of the organ, to give rise to the tricuspid valves ;