ORGANS OF OENEARTION. 7 the scattered, long, and twisted hairs which arise from it in the adult. These hairs are inserted obliquely, and their bulbs produce distinct eminences at the surface. The scrotum is moreover di- vided into two lateral portions by a prominent line, named the Raphe,* which runs from the anterior margin of the anus to the root of the penis. This first envelope of the testicles has the same organization as the skin in general, only its chorion is so thin, that the blood-vessels which creep in the dartos may easily be perceived through it. 2894. Of the Dartos. The Dartos are two cellulo-filamentous membranes, traversed by a vast quantity of vessels of all kinds, entirely destitute of fat, of a reddish tint, attached to the rami of the ossa pubis and ischii, whence they descend towards the raphe, to which they closely adhere. Above it they are reflected from beneath upwards, come into mutual contact, forming a septum, and terminate at the lower parts of the urethra, thus separating the two testicles from each other. Their outer surface adheres to the cutaneous envelope of the scrotum in the greater part of its extent. The inner corresponds to the fibrous coat, and adheres to it by some prolongations. It also covers the extremities of the cremaster muscle. The dartos appear entirely cellular, nor do they exhibit any ap- pearance of muscular fibres, although some authors would have them to be muscles. These membranes are beside^^'considerably strengthened by a thin and flat fibrous band, which proceeds from the tipper and outer part of each inguinal ring. MM. Chaussier and F. Lobstein were of opinion that the dartos do not exist in the scrotum previous to the descent of the testicles, and my friend Dr. Breschet has confirmed the assertion by recent researches.-|* 2895. Of the Tunica Erythroides\ or Cremaster Muscle.^ The Cremaster, which is very thin and often not easily distinguishable, is in a great measure a continuation of the fibres of the obliquus ab- dominis internus which are attached to the anterior and superior iliac spine (1086). However it also seems to receive some fibres from the transversus muscle, and to be in part attached to the inner surface of Poupart’s ligament near the inguinal ring, and to the neighbouring region of the pubes. Arising from these different points, its fasciculi collect towards the ring, form a small mass at the outer side of the sheath of the spermatic cord and pass out- wards. They then separate and expand upon the cord, and disap- pear entirely in the scrotum. This muscle supports the testicle and impresses upon it slight motions from beneath upwards during the act of copulation. • Suiura. ^ Fj^u^QOf, rithcr ; -}■ See Bid. ulosyfgura. dcs Sdcnccs Mcdicakf, T. viii. p. 10. § ligavicntum susjpctuorium.