281 MUSCLES OE THE FACE. it adheres intimately below. At its upper part alone, it is con- cealed by a portion ot‘ the orbicularis palpebrarum and by the labial vein. The posterior szcrface covers the preceding muscle, the as- cending process of the superior maxillary bone, the edge of the levator labii superioris, the depressor ahe nasi, a part of the orbi- cularis oris, and some branches of the infra-orbitar nerve. 954. It raises the upper^lip and the wing of the nose, which it- also di'aws a little outwards. OF THE DEPEESSOR AL^E NASI. 955. This is a small fleshy bundle, somewhat irregular, placed beneath the wing of the nose and behind the upper lip. It arises, by short aponeuroses, near the anterior nasal spine, from a small fossa, whence it ascends in part toward the posterior region of the wing of the nose, and is partly confounded with the levator labii superiorisj aheque nasi and the orbicularis oris. Internally, its fibres are vertical, .externally oblique. They are covered by those of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, and by the mucous mejnbrane of the mouth, and are applied upon the superior maxil- lary bone. 956‘. It depresses the wing of the nose. 3. Superior Maxillary Region. OF THE LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS. W- 957. This muscle is thin, flat, rather short, and of a very irre- gularly quadrilateral form. It is situated at the middle and inner ])art of the face, beneath the edge of the orbit. It is attached above the infra-orbitar foramen, over an extent of about an inch, to the malar and upper maxillary bones, by short aponeurotic fibres, pretty frequently divided into two and sometimes into three fasciculi. From thence it descends, contracting, downwards and inwards, to the corresponding lip, where it is confounded with the orbicularis oris, between the nose and the commissure. 958. Its anterior surface is covered at its upper part by the orbicularis palpelirarum and labial vein, and below by the skin, to which it strongly adheres. The posterior surface is in connection with the levator anguli oris, from which it is separated by the in- fra-orbitar vessels and nerve, as well as by a great quantity of adi- pose tissue. It also covers the depressor aim nasi. Its inner edge is often confounded with the levator labii superioris almque nasi; and the outer is more frequently united to the zygomaticus minor. 959. It raises the upper lip, carrying it a little outwards. . 5