OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 721 preceding, and is inferior to it in size. It also passes through the aponeurosis of the second and third adductor muscles, and on ar- riving at the back part of the thigh, divides into ascending twigs, which go towards the great trochanter in the glutaeus maximus and triceps muscle, anastomosing with those of the preceding artery, and into descending branches which go to the biceps, semi-tendi- nosus, semi-membranosus and triceps muscles, and to the sciatic nerve. The latter communicates with those of the inferior perfor- ating artery. One of them penetrates into the femur by the nutri- tious canal wliich is observed upon the linea aspera of that bone, (491). 2559. Inferior Perforating Artery.* This is the smallest of the three. It comes off from the deep muscular artery much lower than the others, and passes through the aponeurosis of the adductor magnus nearly at the same time as the trunk which furnishes it. Its distribution beliind the femur is' the same as that of the other two. OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. (Portion poplitee de la crurale, Chauss.) 2560. It is the direct continuation of the femoral artery, which changes its name after perforating the adductor magnus. It des- cends a little obUquely from within outwards into the ham, and ex- tends from the commencement of the lower third of the thigh to the end of the upper third of the leg, where it terminates by dividing. 2561. Its posterior side is covered in the greater part of its ex- tent by the sciatic nerve and popliteal vein. The semi-membra- nosus muscle is moreover applied upon it above ; farther down, a great quantity of fat separates it from the aponeurosis and integu- ments, and stUl lower it is protected by the gastrocnemii, plantaris gracilis and soleus muscles. 2562. Its anterior side is separated above from the femur by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue in the middle, and rests upon the posterior surface of the knee-joint, and below upon the pophteus and tibialis posticus muscles. 2563. Its outer side corresponds to the biceps muscle, which separates from it below, to the outer condyle of the femur, the external head of the gastrocnemius, plantaris and soleus. 2564. Its inner side is near the semi-membranosus muscle, which also retires from it as it descends, and is afterwards in relation.with the internal popliteal nerve and the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle. 2565. The popliteal artery gives off a great number of small branches which go to the sciatic nerve, the adipose cellular tissue, and to the neighbouring muscles and parts; but their number is • M. Chaussier designates the three perforating arteries by the general name of Petites Musculaires dc la cuUsc.