^90 ACTIVK OliGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ■which ascend towards the middle ligament of the epiglottis, to be inserted at the dorsal surface of that organ. 1000. The eaiternal surface of the genio-glossus is covered by the sublingual gland, and the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, hnguahs and mylo-hyoideus muscles. Its inner surface is in contact with that of the opposite side, and is even confounded with it below and behind. Its lower edge corresponds to the genio-hyoideus; the upper, to the mucous membrane of the mouth. 1001. The contraction of the inferior fibres of this muscle carries the tongue and hyoid bone forwards, after having previously raised the latter. The superior fibres pull it backwards, and restore it to its natural position; while the middle fibres hollow its dorsal siu:- face into a groove. OF THE STYLO-GLOSSUS. 1002. The Stylo-glossus is narrow above, broad and thin belowy and arises chiefly from the stylo-maxillary hgament, which seems peculiarly intended for it. It is in fact attached to nearly the whole anterior edge of that ligament and to the lower half of the styloid process, by a thin aponeurosis. It there expands, and descends forwards and inwards, to be partly lost upon the edge of the tongue, and to be partly continued into the linguahs, hyo-glossus and genio-glossus muscles, after being divided into two and sometimes into three bundles. 1003. Its outer surface is covered by the digastric muscle, the lingual nerve, the submaxillary gland, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The inner surface covers posteriorly the constric- tor pharyngis superior, hyo-glossus and hngualis. 1004. The stylo-glossus carries the tongue upwards, backwards, and to a side, when it acts alone; but when it contracts at the same time with the other, the tongue is carried directly upwards and backwards- OF THE LINGUALIS. 1005. The Lingualis is a small irregular bundle, entirely com- posed of fleshy fibres, lying under the sides of the tongue, between the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus, which are on the outside, and the genio-glossus, which is within. It is elongated, thicker poste- riorly than anteriorly, and is confounded in its lateral parts with the muscles just mentioned. Its posterior extremity loses itself in the base of the tongue ; the anterior is prolonged as far as the tip of that organ. Its inferior surface is lined anteriorly by the mu- cous membrane of the mouth. The upper is confounded with the fleshy and ravelled texture of the tongue. 1006. It shortens the tongue and depresses its point.