OF THE PERITONEUM. 8^22 tlic two iliiic crests. If we now suppose two other linesj ruised. ver- tically from the anterior and superior iliac spine to the level of the lower wall of the thorax, each of these zones will be found divided into three regions, Dttcidlc and Latcval, ^^ow, the middle re^non of the upper zone is called the E}yigastrmmy* and its lateral ^■gions are named Hypochojidria ,-f the middle region of the middle zone is the Umbilicus, and its lateral region are the Flanks or Sides properly so called ; the HypogastriumX is the middle region of the lower zone, of which the Iliac Fossce constitute the lateral reo-ions. The part of the hypogastrium comprised in the inferior pelvis bears the name of Pubic Region, while the name of Groins or Inguinal Regions is given to the two oblique and angular folds which exist at the point of union of the anterior waU of the abdomen with the upper part of the thighs, and which extend on each side from the anterior and superior spine of the iliac bone to the pubes. The groins are essentially formed by the disposition of the broad mus- cles of the abdomen. 2994. The peritoneum is itself divided, like the cavity of the abdomen, into three portions, of which the middle forms a kind of cincture placed horizontally between the base of the thorax and the iliac crests, and of which the others, the superior and inferior^ re- present segments of an ovoid. 2995. Umbilical Portion of the Peritoneum. It lines the pos- terior part of the linea alba, closes the posterior orifice of the um- bilicus, and adheres pretty closely, in the circumference of that aperture, to the abdominal aponeurosis. From thence, the peri- toneum directs itself horizontally, to the right and left, behind the broad muscles of the abdomen. In the first chrection, it meets the ascending colon; in the other, the descending colon ; and it forms around these intestines two folds which are named the Lumbar Meso- colon (2092, 2094), and which serve to attach them to the posterior waU of the abdomen. At the same time, it passes before the kid- neys, from which it is separated by a pretty thick layer of cellular tissue. Then, covering the ureters, the spermatic and renal ves- sels, the vena cava and the aorta, it advances on each side towards the vertebral column, before which it is reflected from behind for- wards, lying upon itself, in order to form the immense fold known by the name of Mesentery (2069). 2996. Hypogastric Portion of the Peritoneum. In this part of its course, the peritoneum descends from the umbiheus towards the pubes, and covers the urachus and the tw’o umbilical arteries which raise it a little, so as to make it form three folds projecting back- wards, confounded at the umbilical ring, and separated inferiorly. It is then applied against the posterior surface of the recti muscles, and arrives at the upper edge of the ossa pubis, whence it is directed over the summit and posterior region of the bladder. There, it * Etr/, supra ; yairlnj, vcntriculus. -j- ’Tto, infra; CariUiiffO. %'Trct), w/ra; -ytihnf, veniriculus.