ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 219 on the sides and lower part of which it is in contact with much adi- pose cellular tissue. It then separates from the ligament of the patella, rests upon an enormous quantity of fat, and gives rise to a prolongation in the form of a canal, which traverses the articula- tion, and passes between the two condyles of the femur. Some vessels creep over the surface of this prolongation, and it is com- monly lilled with a little fat, for which reason some anatomists have given it the name of Adipose Ligament; but it cannot by any means be considered as belonging to that class of organs. The synovial membrane, on arriving at the articular surfaces of the ti- bia, ascends to the lower surface of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, over the concave edge of which it is reflected, for the purpose of lining their upper surface. At its reflection here it contains a great number of blood-vessels in a sort of loose dupHcature, much more apparent at the extremities of the fibro-cartilages than at the middle of their concave edge, where, however, it evidently exists. Altogether posteriorly, it surrounds the crucial ligaments and the fat behind them, forming a sort of sheath for them, and thus pre- venting their being contained within the joint. Lastly, it arrives at the condyles of the femur by several points at once, that is to say, by the adipose canal, the sheath of the crucial ligament, and the external circumference of the fibro-cartilages. It covers the whole inferior surface of these condyles, and adheres less to them the nearer it is to their tuberosities, where it invests a bony surface destitute of cartilage. Altogether posteriorly, it is reflected on the fore part of the tendons of the gastrocnemius, and surrounds those of the popliteus. 724. It is at the place where the synovial membrane meets the edge of the cartilages which cover the articular surfaces of the fe- mur and tibia that the small globular masses of reddish cellular tissue occur, which are generally found in the neighbourhood of the joints. They form around the osseous surfaces a sort of cord composed of a great number of small mammillary eminences, which receive numerous ramifications from the articular arteries. There are some also in the cavities situated before and behind the spine of the tibia, as well as on the external circumference of the semilunar fibro-cartilages; but the largest mass is that which is observed be- neath the patella and its ligament, and in which Heyligers* says he traced an excretory duct ramified by its roots like that of the pancreas, and opening by several apertures upon the sides of the fibro-cartilages and of the patella. * Diss. Physiol. Anat. de Fab. Int. Art. 1803, p. 57.