OF THE VERTE13UAL AllTERY. G7I within outwards, by the clavicle, the sterno-hyoidci and sterno- thyroidei muscles, the corresponding subclavian vein, and the right pneumo-gastric and phrenic nerves, w'hich cross its direction. Its posterim' side is separated from the vertebral column and longus colli muscle by a pretty large interval. Its outer side comes some- what near the top of the lung, and the inner leaves a triangular space between it and the right common carotid artery. The anterior side of the left subclavian is covered at first by the lung and subclavian vein, then by the pneumo-gastric nerve, which instead of crossing its direction, runs parallel to it. Lastly, the first rib, the clavicle and the sterno-thyroideus muscle are ap- plied upon it in a distant manner. Its posterior side rests imme- diately upon the vertebral column and longus colli muscle. Its outer side lies upon the pleura, which separates it from the lung; the inner runs along the common carotid artery. 2317. The subclavian arteries traverse a considerable space with- out furnishing any branch; but in the vicinity of the first rib, be- fore passing between the scaleni muscles ; they ^ve off a pretty large number, which are distinguished into superior, inferior, and external. SUPERIOn BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 1. OF THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 2318. The Vertebral Artery (Arth'e chehrale posterieure, Chauss.) is the largest branch of the subclavian, almost equalling the axillary artery in size. It is especially destined for the cere^ brum, cerebellum and spinal marrow. It arises deeply from the upper and back part of the subclavian, near the place where the latter changes its direction. To the right it forms a very obtuse angle with it, while on the left side it seems to continue it in the same direction. On both sides, immediately after its commencement, the verte- bral artery proceeds directly upwards, behind the inferior thyroid artery, upon the vertebral column, between the longus colli and sca- lenus anticus muscles. At the end of a more or less short course, it enters the hole with which the base of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is perforated, and sometimes that of the se- venth, without having given rise to any branch. In other rarer cases, it enters these holes only at the fourth or third vertebra. It then ascends in the canal which results from the aggregate of all those holes with which the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are perforated, and which is completed by the inter- transversales muscles. In this part of its extent, it passes before the trunks of the cervical nerves. It thus arrives at the axis, hav- ing only described very slight flexuosities; but it then leaves the canal, directs itself backwards under the complexus minor, and forms, between the first two vertebrae, a vertical curve, the con-