ORGANIZATION OF THE COLON. 613 tcstine; while the lower, which is broader, faces the small intestine above, and the coecum below. Their extremities unite and form a prominent line on each side, which terminates insensibly in the straight part of the coecum. These rugae were called by Morgag- ni the FuBna of the Valvule of Bauhin. b. ORGANIZATION OF THE CCECUM. 2116. Serous Membrane or Coat. The peritoneum wholly covers the inferior portion of the coecum, and invests the greater part of it above. It then leaves it to pass upon the walls of the abdomen, without in general forming any fold. Sometimes, how- ever, a more or less distinct fold is observed, to which the name of Meso-coecum is given. 2117- Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is composed of longi- tudinal and circular fibres. The latter present nothing particular, and have exactly the same disposition as in the small intestine; but the longitudinal fibres are united into three distinct bands, and are shorter than the intestine itself, so that they oblige it to become puckered, shortened as it were, and to present the promi- nences of which we have already made mention (2113). These fasciculi seem to arise from the appendix vermiformis, and on cut- ting them transversely, the coecum is immediately seen to elon- gate, and the transverse folds or prominences which it presented, entirely disappear. The layer of cellular tissue which connects this membrane with the rest is thicker than in the small intestines, but in other re- spects presents nothing remarkable. 2118. Mucous Membrane or Coat. Its villosities are much less apparent than those of the small intestine. It has scarcely any valvuloe conniventes, and contains a greater quantity of mu- cous follicles; but they are isolated from each other. 2119. The ileo-ccecal valve is formed by the mucous coat of the small intestine and the cellular coat which lines it, folded up- on its.elf, in such a manner as to project in the coecum before being constituted by the same membranes of that intestine and of the colon. There results from this that it is formed of four mu- cous laminae, two for each of its lips, and that in their interval there occurs cellular tissue. But moreover, there is observed in the lower lip, a layer of strong muscular fibres of a whitish colour, which are continuous with those of the small intestine. 2120. The appendix vermiformis is exactly similar to the rest of the coecum in its structure ; only its fleshy coat is very thick, and principally formed of longitudinal fibres. It is from it that the three bands of the intestine seem to come, as we have said.