806 ORGANS OF GENERATION.’ 2932. Fibrous Membrane. It is in general very elastic, very thick and very strong, excepting however upon its roots, in the groove which receives the urethra, and at the extiremity which sus- tains the glans, in all which places it is traversed by a multitude of vascular ramifications. Its general colour is opaque white, ex- cepting in the parts just mentioned, where it appears more or less livid. Its fibres are for the most part longitudinal. They are in- terlaced posteriorly with the periosteum of the ossa ilii and the apo- neuroses of the muscles which are attached to the lower edge. 2933. The cavity of this fibrous membrane is divided into two lateral portions by an incomplete middle partition, (Septum pectini- forme,) which commences before the symphysis pubis, but is not prolonged as far as the glans, presenting in its anterior third only a few flattened fibrous fasciculi, separated by intervals of greater or less breadth. 2934. Spongy Tissue. This tissue, which fills the whole cavi- ty of the fibrous membrane, seems to be a very complicated lace- work of arterial and venous vessels, of filaments probably nervous, and of small fibrous laminae, which by crossing each other, form a multitude of cellules, which all communicate together, and in which there is also found a greater or less quantity of blood. An injec- tion made by the cavernous artery penetrates into these cellules; and if they are distended with air, it passes into the cavernous vein, so that we may, to a certain degree, consider them as intermediate between the arteries and the veins. The filament which enter into the composition of this tissue are very distinctly continuous with the fibrous membrane. 2935. The arteries of the corpus cavernosum (2529) come from the upper branch of the internal pudic, and occupy the centre of its lateral portions. They have frequent anastomoses with each other, and communicate with the arteries of the glans and urethra. Its veins follow the same course as the arteries ; buf their volume is much larger. The nerves have not yet been fuUy traced in the spongy tissue of this organ. 3. OF THE UBETHRA. a. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2936. The Urethra* is the excretory duct of both the urine and semen. It is from nine to twelve inches long, extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis, where its exter- nal orifice occurs, is bent several times in the direction of its length, and in such a manner as to represent a kind of S, and has a large capacity, which much exceeds that of all the other excretory ducts. Its walls are partly spongy, partly membranous, and it receives in its course, the ejaculatory ducts and those of the prostate gland, of • Oufnfpci.