ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. 760 processes, and aiTive before the vertebral column, where their nu- merous anastomoses, united with those of almost all the other trunks which we have liitherto examined, constitute the Lumbar Lymphatic Pleoous. 7. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE STOMACH AND INTES- TINES. 1751. Lymphatics of the Intestines. These vessels are com- monly called Lacteals or Chyliferous vessels, on account of their conveying the chyle from the intestines to the thoracic duct. The name however is inappropriate, as they are intimately mingled with other lymphatic vessels, whose roots are distributed in the substance of the coats of the intestines, while most of theirs open at the inner surface of the same tubes. Both also follow the same course, only that the deep ones (the Lacteal Vessels properly so called) are transversely extended upon the intestine, while the su- perficial run in the direction of its length and parallel to its axis. After anastomosing and crossing each other a great many times, they gain the mesenteric and mesocolic ganglia, divide and subdi- vide to infinity, at their level, and at length arrive at the commence- ment of the thoracic duct. It is observed that the number of lacteal vessels is much greater in the course of the small intestine than any where else. Along the coecum, ascending colon and arch of the colon, they are already in much smaller number. The descending colon and rectum present only a few common lymphatics which go to the lumbar and hypo- gastric ganglia, or to those of the mesorectum. 2752. Lymphatic Vessels of the Stomach. They are disposed in two planes, a superficial, situated beneath the peritoneum, and a deep plane, spread out between the muscular and mucous coat. They may also be referred to three distinct orders. Some of them, arising upon the large extremity of the stomach, descend to the left along the vasa brevia (2429), and join the lymphatics of the spleen. Others, (Stomo-gastriques, Chauss.) direct themselves along the small curvature of the stomach, and divide in the ganglia which occur there. They then collect on the right side of the cardia to bend upon themselves to the right, pass through some other ganglia, and unite with the inferior lymphatics of the liver, under the lobulus Spigelii. After this, they descend along with them behind the pancreas, and attain the roots of the thoracic duct. Those of the third order descend from the two surfaces of the stomach towards the ganglia placed along its great curvature, and unite into a few trunks towards the pylorus, pass between it and the pancreas, proceed for some time upon the anterior surface of that organ, then turn round it and descend behind it to divide in the ganglia which surround the coeliac aiid superior mesenteric arteries.