ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 724 inoris and the external lateral ligament of the knee joint. It gives twigs to all these muscles, then winds over the convex edge of the external semilunar libro-cartilage, and advances transversely as far as the lower part of the patella. There it divides into two twigs, a deep one, which first supplies some ramifications which descend upon the tibia and anastomose with those of the recurrent twig of the anterior tibial artery, then loses itself in the adipose cellular tissue placed between the tibia and the ligament of the patella, and a superficial, which ascends upon the latter bone, and anastomoses with the external superior articular artery. 2574. Before dividing, this artery, as we have already said, gives twigs to the popliteus, plantaris and soleus muscles. All the others are expanded upon the other part of the knee joint. 2575. After furnishing the inferior articular arteries, the popliteal descends vertically behind the popliteus muscle ; and, near the head of the fibula, gives off pretty large twigs to the upper part of the soleus muscle. There also separates from it anteriorly, about the same place, a large branch which is named the Anterior Tibial Artery. Then after a course of about an inch, it divides inio two branches, which are the Fibular and Posterior Tibial Arteries. OF THE ANTEKIOR TIBIAL ARTEBY. 2576. Directed horizontally forwards at its commencement, it sends some twigs to the tibialis posticus and flexor longus commu- nis digitorum muscles, as well as to the posterior part of the knee joint, and immediately after passes through the upper extremity of the tibialis posticus and the interosseous ligament. It then places itself at the fore part of the leg, bends downwards, descends oblique- ly between the peroneus longus and tibialis anticus, gradually ap- proaching the tibia, and passes under it below. It then slips un- der the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus, between the exten- sor communis digitorum pedis and extensor proprius poUicis, and henceforth assumes the name of Dorsal Artery of the foot. (Ar- tere pedieuse.) 2577- The posterior side of this artery lies, in its four upper fifths, upon the interosseous ligament, and in its lower fourth, upon the tibia. Its anterior side is successively covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor communis digitorum and extensor proprius polli- cis. The tendon of the latter muscle is the only part which sepa- rates it from the skin below. The inner side is placed against the tibialis anticus muscle and the tibia. The outer corresponds above to the fibula and to the peroneus longus and extensor digitorum communis, and below to the extensor proprius poUicis alone. The anterior tibial nerve lies upon the artery of the same name in its whole extent. 257B. Immediately after passing through the interosseous liga- ment, and sometimes even its passage, the anterior tibial artery fur- nishes a considerable brancli, the Kecmrent Artery of the Kiiee^