OF THE AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS MEMBRANE. 553 the crystalline lens, embracing the vitreous body, and lining the choroid membrane, •without contracting any adhesion to these two parts. It commences posteriorly around a small tubercle formed by the extremity of the optic nerve (1562), but does not at all ap- pear to result from its expansion. The optic nerve, in fact, says M. Ribes, is distributed in the retina, as the olfactory and acoustic nerves in the pituitary membrane and membrane of the labyrinth.* Besides, the tint of these two organs is altogether different. At the level of the ciliary processes, the retina forms a kind of somewhat thicker rim, from which proceeds an excessively delicate and pulpy lamina, wliich is reflected over these small bodies, sinks into their intervals, and arrives at the crystalline lens. It is tliis substance which, between the ciliary processes, is tinged by the pig- mentum nigrum. 1901. At about two Hues distance from the optic nerve, and to the outside of it, there is perceived, on the inner surface of the re- tina, a spot of a yellow colour, pretty deep in adults, paler in child- ren and old people. This spot is about a line broad, and is placed exactly in the direction of the axis of the eye. It is surrounded by several folds, of which one only appears to be constant, and in its centre is observed an irregular and very narrow hole. These dif- ferent circumstances were discovered by Soemmering in 1791.*f* 1902. The retina appears formed of two laminae which are par- allel to each other, and so closely united as to be almost insepara- ble. The outer of these laminae is medullary, pulpy or mucous, and is partly detached by maceration. The inner, is fibro-vascu- lar, firmer, and serves to support the outer. It has been named the tunica vasculosa retincB by some anatomists. It is in the latter especially that the central artery of the optic nerve expands, con- stituting the only known means of union between the retina and the other parts of the globe of the eye. 8. OF THE AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS MEMBRANE. 1903. The Aqueous Humour is a limpid and transparent fluid, which fills the two chambers of the eye, from the cornea to the cry- stalline lens, so that, as we have already said, it is in contact with the two surfaces of the iris. Its quantity is from five to six grams The examination of the retina under the microscope by Dr. Brewster and my- seh disproved very forcibly in our minds these opinions of M. Ribes. K. f I disproved some years ago the constancy of this fold, and showed it to be a post-mortem appearance. The foramen of the retina, which was discovered by Soenimcring, affests only the outer or pulpy layer of the retina. It was supposed by Its distinguished discoverer to be peculiar to the human race, but it w-as soon after shown, by Michaelis, to be present in the quadrumana, and by myself it was dis- covered in the chameleon, and in certain lizards: for a full account of this discovery the student is referred to the Transactions of the Wernerian Society, vol. v. part 1st, and to those of the Royal Society of ^Edinburgh, vol. x. part 1st.—K.