532 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1. OF THE CONNECTING FILAMENTS. 1834. They are strong and of great size, frequently equalling the ganglia themselves in diameter, and are never multiple or ra- mified between two neighbouring ganglia. Their direction is not the same in all, their origin in each ganglion being more or less near the vertebral column. The intercostal arteries always pass behind them. 2. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1835. Their number varies. Sometimes there is only one for each ganglion; but more commonly there are two and even four- In some cases, the single twig bifurcates. They all however pro- ceed upwards and outwards, and, at the end of a short course, anastomose with each of the anterior branches of the dorsal nerves at the moment when they issue from the intervertebral holes. When several filaments proceed from the same ganglion, it is not rare to see them unite at the moment when the anastomosis takes place. The smaller filaments however lose themselves in the inter- costal muscles. 3. OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1836. Their number is considerable, and their distribution ex- tremely variable. Some arise from all the gangha which terminate in the interior of the chest; others, on the contrary, come only from the inferior gangha and constitute the splanchnic nerves. The former, which are very short and slender, become interlaced with each other at their very commencement, and go to the verte- bral column. There, some of them are dispersed in the cellular tissue, while others join the pulmonary plexus of the pneumo-gastric. One of these filaments, which is longer and thicker than the others, comes from the tenth ganglion separate from the small splanchnic nerve, descends forwards, and goes to the fore part of the aorta, whose course it follows subdividing to infinity, and anastomosing with the corresponding filaments of the opposite side. This fila- ment enters the abdomen and terminates in the cceliac plexus. OF THE SPLANCHNIC NERVES. 1837- These nerves arc two in number, and arc distinguished into great and small. They are pretty regular in their occurrence and disposition. They arise from the last six thoracic ganglia.