OttOANS OF SENSATJON. 1.94. artery. Its volume gi-adually diminislies as it descend.s. Towards the lower region of the fore-arm, a little above the wrist, it divides into two branches, of which one proceeds over the back of the hand, while the other goes to the palm. 1704. Before dividing, and after passing through the substance of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar nerve commonly gives off from four to six filaments which are distributed to the neighbouring muscles, and especially to the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digi- torum profundus. One of them accompanies the ulnar artery for a considerable time, and loses itself in the two flexors of the fingers near the wrist. 1705. Palmar BraneJi. Larger than the dorsal, and appear- ing to be the true continuation of the trunk, it emerges from be- hind the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, proceeds along its outer edge, passes between the annular ligament and the integuments, beside the pisiform bone, and, before arriving at the palm of the hand, divides into two tv/igs, a deep and a superficial. The deep tiohj passes behind the upper extremity of the oppo- nens minimi digiti, dives behind the bundle formed by the tendons of the flexors of the fingers and lumbricales, and then bends out- wards, so as to form a kind of arch, of which the concavity is above, and whose convexity furnishes same filaments. Of these, the two first are distributed to the muscles of the little finger, four or five others dive into tlie substance of the interossei muscles, and lose themselves towards the back of the hand, while those which ter- minate the twig are expanded in the adductor pollicis and abductor indicis muscles. The superficial twig gives a filament to the muscles of the little finger beneath the pisiform bone, and presently divides into two secondary twigs, an outer and an inner. The outer is the larger. It descends vertically beneath the palmar aponeurosis, gives oif a filament which anastomoses with the last digital twig of the me- dian nerve (I7OI), furnishes another to the fourth lumbricalis, and bifurcates in such a manner that one of its ramifications de- scends along the inner side of the ring finger, and the other along the outer side of the little finger, being in other respects distribut- ed precisely in the same manner as that of the median nerve. The inner directs itself obliquely inwards, gives at first filaments to the muscles of the internal palmar region, before which it passes, and gains the inner edge of the little finger, at the extremity of which it anastomoses by an arch with the preceding. 1706. Dorsal Branch. Much smaller than the palmar, and winding between the inferior part of the ulna and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, it gains the inner part of the back of the hand, where, after giving one or two filaments to the integuments, it se- parates into two twigs, an inner and an outer. The inner descends along the inner edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, gives a great number of filaments to the abductor minimi