ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 672 vcxity of which is directed backwards, upwards, and inwards. It tlicn proceeds upwards and outwards as far as the transverse process of the atlas, of which it perforates the base directly upwards, under the obliquus capitis inferior muscle; after which, it passes back- wards and inwards, and describes, between that vertebra and the occipital bone, in the triangular space of the recti postici and ob- liqui capitis muscles, a second transverse curve, whose convexity, also directed upwards, is covered by the complexus major and rec- tis capitis posticus major muscles, while its concavity embraces the side of the posterior occipito-atloidal ligament (606). Lastly, the two vertebral arteries pass through the apertures of the two extremities of the same ligament, pass through the dura mater, and introduce themselves into the skull by the occipital fo- ramen, on the sides of the spinal marrow. They then converge and ascend in a tortuous manner inwards and forwards, between the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria (14*46) and the basilar groove, on which they unite angularly, to give rise to the basilar artery. 2319. In the canal of the transverse jrrocesses, the vertebral artery sends off several branches in all directions, of which the ex- ternal, anterior, and posterior emerge between these processes, go to the intertransversales, scaleni, rectus capitis anticus major, complexus minor, and splenius muscles, and communicate with the neighbouring arteries, while the internal penetrate into the vertebral canal, by the inter-vertebral foramina, to expand upon the spinal marrow and dura mater, anastomosing with those of the opposite side. 2320. In its vertical curve, the vertebral artery sends internally and inferiorly of the obliquus capitis inferior a small branch, which bifurcates as it descends. One of its twigs is distributed to the intertransversales cervicis, and the other, (Rame occipito-me- ninge, Chaussier,) ascends under the posterior arch of the atlas, to be distributed to the dura mater. Moreover, there also sepa- rate from it some twigs for the obliquus capitis inferior and com- plexus minor. 2321. In its transverse curve, it sends a considerable number of twigs to the recti postici and obliqui capitis muscles. One of them, which is larger than the others, is transverse. It directs it- self inwards, and presently divides itself into two branches, one of wliich, anastomosing with that of the opposite side, constitutes a kind of arch between the complexi majores and recti capitis postici majores muscles, while the other, descending obliquely, is distri- buted to the latter and to the rectus posticus minor. 2322. Posterior Spinal Artery, (Artcre mediane posferieure dti rachis, Chauss.) It arises from the vertebral artery, near the coi'pora pyramidalia, and sometimes from the inferior ce- rebellar artery. It directs itself downwards and a little obliquely inwards, passes behind the spinal marrow, and continues to descend parallel to that of the opposite side, as far as the second lumbar vertebra. It is extremely slender. All its twigs are transverse.