OF THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 461 a filament of the orbitar twig of the superior maxillary nerve (1586) whicli traverses the cheek-bone. 1593. Masseteric Twig. Situated behind the preceding twigs, it is nearly of the same size as they, and also proceeds at first hori- zontally outwards and backwards between the pterygoideus exter- nus and the upper wall of the zygomatic fossa, before the trans- verse root of the zygomatic process. It then traverses the sigmoid notch of the inferior maxillary bone, between the temporal muscle and the neck of the condyle of the jaw, gives some filaments to the articulation of the jaw, places itself at the inner surface of the mas- seter muscle, furnishes it with some filaments posteriorly, and at length loses itself, by several other filaments, in the middle part of that muscle, without ever descending to its inferior insertion. 1594. Buccal Twig. More voluminous than the preceding, it sometimes arises by a common trunk with the anterior deep tem- poral nerve (1591), but directs itself from its origin forv/ards and downwards, passes between the two pterygoid muscles, and gives some filaments to the outer and to the temporal muscle. It then places itself between the ptei’ygoideus internus and the ramus of the jaw, and passes between the coronoid process and buccinator muscle, on which it divides into several filaments, after proceeding some time without dividing, and becoming more and more superfi- cial. All these filaments, to the number of six or seven, anasto- mose frequently with each other, and come only from the inferior side of the nerve. The first which separate from it are very slen- der, and go to the temporal muscle ; the next are distributed to the buccinator and levator anguli oris muscles, and the skin ; the last go as far as the commissure of the lips, pass under the depressor anguli oris, and lose themselves in its vicinity. Several of them communicate with the facial and infra-orbitar nerves. 1595. Pterygoid Twigs. There are frequently two, sometimes however only one. They are always extremely small and slender. At first deeply concealed between the pterygoidei and peristaphy- liuus externus, they direct themselves downwards and terminate in the pterygoideus internus. 1596. Lingual Twig. A little smaller than the inferior den- tar nerve, it communicates with it, soon after its origin, by a short, but pretty thick filament, which leaves between it and that nerve an interval traversed by the internal maxillary artery. Nearly at the same time the nervous filament known by the name of Corda Tyrnpani, and which arises from the spheno- palatal ganglion, as we shall presently show, is united with the lingual nerve, beneath the glenoid fissure, forming a very acute angle above. The latter nerve is sensibly increased in size by this muon. Situated at first between the pterygoideus externus and circumflexus palati muscles and the pharynx, this nerve afterwards descends obliquely forwards between the pterygoideus internus and the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone, then enters between the submaxillary gland and the mucous membrane of the mouth. It