«T72 ACTIVii ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOy. ^ contr:v?tcd at the extremities, and of an oval form. I’hrce distinct aponeuroses give rise to its Meshy fibres, whieh are very numerous. The .first, which is broad and thin, is attached to the upper extre- mity of the fibula, and to its outer edge. It descends very low upon the outer edge of the anterior surface of the muscle. The second is a kind of fibrous arch whose convexity is directed down- wards, and under which pass the popliteal vessels. It unites the preceding aponeurosis to the third, which is attached to the poste- rior oblique line of the tibia and the middle third of the inner edge of that bone, and which is expanded over tlie inner and fore-part of the muscle. From these origins, the Meshy fibres descend in a converging manner, and terminate successively at the fore-part of a broad and thin aponeurosis which extends over their posterior surface, almost from their upper extremity, and which sends into their interior a sort of fibrous partition or raphe, into which they are inserted, like the barbs of a feather into the shaft. Inferiorly, this aponeurosis unites with that of the gastrocnemii, and contri- butes to form the tendo Achillis. 1338. The posterior surface of the soleus is covered by the gas- trocnemii and plantaris, and by the aponeurosis of the leg. Its an- terwr surface covers the peroneus longus, popliteus, fiexor longus digitorum, Mexor longus pollicis, and tibialis posticus muscles, a portion of the posterior surface of the fibula, and the popliteal, pos- terior tibial, and fibular vessels. 1339. Of the Tendo Achillis. It results from the union of tlie inferior aponeurosis of the three Meshy masses which Ave have just flescribed. Narrower and more rounded in the middle than at its extremities, broader at its upper than at its lower part, formed of very distinct fibres, it descends vertically behind the loAA^er part of the leg, where it forms a remarkable prominence. It slides over the upper half of the posterior surface of the calcaneum, by means of a cartilaginous surface and a synovial capsule, and is inserted into its lower half. It is covered posteriorly by the skin. Anteriorly, it is separated from the muscles of the posterior and deep region of the leg by a great quanthy of cellular tissue, and it receives Meshy fibres from the soleus until near the calcaneum. 1340. The triceps muscle extends the foot upon the leg, and the leg upon the foot. By means of its two superficial bellies, it can bend the leg and the thigh on each other. OF THE PLANTARIS. 1341. This muscle, which is Avanting in some subjects, is long, thin, narrow, and extremely slender. It arises by a small tendon, behind the outer condyle of the femur, from the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and from the tendon of the gastrocnemius exter- nus. It forms lichind the joint a small fusiform Meshy bundle, rounded and conical, which descends obliquely inAvards, and Avhich after passing along a sjxvcc of tAvo or three inches, terminates in a