ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. CGd< or three branches. It then sends to the internal lamina of the re- tina (1903) a multitude of twigs wliicli tliere form a very apparent net-work, and which may be followed as far as the ciliary body, with- out its being ascertained whether it passes farther. One of these twigs penetrates into the vitreous body, furnishes it with some ra- mifications of excessive tenuity, and seems to arrive at the poste- rior part of the capsule of the crystalline lens. 2294. Pretty frequently other two or three small arteries are ob- served, which arise from the ophthalmic, and like the central artery pass into the envelopes of the optic nerve, but without reaching so far as tlie retina. BRANCHES WHICH ARISE FROM THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY DUR- ING ITS PASSAGE ABOVE THE OPTIC NERVE. 1. OF THE SUPRA-ORBITAR OR SUPERCILIARY ARTERY. 2295. It sometimes comes from the lachrymal artery. Its size is moderate. It proceeds from behind forwards, along the upper wall of the orbit, above the levator palpebrae superioris and attollens oculum muscles, under the periosteum, at the inner side of the frontal nerve (1579). Arrived at the base of the orbit, after fur- nishing some minute ramifications to the periosteum and the two muscles above mentioned, it issues from that cavity by the super- ciliary notch, giving off in its passage a small twig to the diploe of the frontal bone. It then divides into two branches, of which the internal, which is larger, ascends upon the forehead, beliind the corrugator supercilii and orbicularis palpebrcirum muscles, and separates almost at once into a great number of twigs, which are dis- tributed in a divergent manner in these muscles and in the frontalis, anastomosing with those of the frontal and superficial temporal ar- teries (2264). The other or external branch follows nearly the same course; but its twigs extend much farther, and communicate externally with those of the lachrymal artery. 2. OF THE POSTERIOR OR SHORT CILIARY ARTERIES. 2296. The Posterior Ciliary Arteries (Arteres uvmles, Chauss.) are very numerous, sometimes amounting to thirty or forty. Almost all of them come from the ophthalmic artery ; but the lach- rymal, posterior ethmoidal, and infra-orbitar or inferior muscular arteries almost always furnish some. They are extremely flexuous, and are found immersed in the soft fat which surrounds the optic nerve, ujion which they are more or less accurately applied. They give off in general some very slender twigs which dive into the groove which embraces that jierve at the moment when it enters the eye.