APPENDIX. tlic whole posterior surface of the stomach, descends behind the gas- tro-epiploic vessels, applies itself upon the portion of the peritoneum which has embraced the spleen and the anterior surface of the stomach, arrives along with it as far as the inferior edge of the great omen- tum, and afterwards ascends towards the convex edge of the arch of the colon. It then leaves this first lamina, covers the up- per surface of the colon, forming the upper lamina of the trans- verse mesocolon (2093), and passes above the pancreas and duo- denum, the base of the pillars of the diaphragm, the vena cava and the lobulus Spigelii. At length it passes through the foramen of Winslow, and is continued over the concave surface of the right lobe of the liver. in following this course, the lamina of the peritoneum of which we have been speaking forms the walls of a large ovoidal cavity, the Posterior Cavity of the Omenta. It is thus to the peritoneum what the arachnoid membrane is to the portion of that mem.brane which penetrates into the ventricles of the brain (1492). This ca- \"ity, which has no other issue than the foramen of Winslow, is formed anteriorly and from above downwards by the hepato-gastric omentum, the posterior surface of the stomach, the two lamellae of the anterior lamina of the great omentum. Posteriorly, and from beneath upwards, it is formed by the two lamellae of the posterior lamina of the great omentum, the upper surface of the arch of the colon, the upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon, and its pro- longation tow'ards the lobulus Spigebi. 2999- Organization and General Relations of the Peritoneum. The peritoneum has precisely the same structure as the other serous membranes which we have already examined. It is in general very thin, although not equally so in all its parts. Its thickness is great- er in the loins and behind the anterior waU of the abdomen than any where else. Upon the liver, spleen, stomach, and intestines, and especially in the omenta, the thinness of this membrane is ex- treme. Nor is its adhesion to the organs which it invests uniform in all parts. It is very decided upon the liver, spleen, and intestines, with the exception of the duodenum ; but is much less so upon the pancreas, bladder, uterus and vagina, as well as upon the dia- phragm and the walls of the abdomen, which is especially remark- able in the lumbar regions and before the kidneys. In general, at the level of these different parts, in the excavation of the pelvis, the peritoneum has beneath it a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. It also contains much of that substance in the different folds which it forms, as the mesentery, mesocolon, &c. 2. OF THE OMENTA OR EPIPI.OA.* 3000. Hepato-gastric Omentum. This is a fold of the perito- Em, upon ; trxiu, to float.