77 OF THE VOMER. Ganglion of the same name, and gives passage to nerves and ves- sels which penetrate into the nasal fossae. Sometimes the sphe- noid bone docs not in any degree contribute to the formation of this hole, which is entirely formed in the palate bone, a bony tongue then stretching horizontally from one process to the other. Very generally also the sphenoidal turbinated bone closes its sum- mit. 259. Strurtnre 07id Development. The palate bones are very thin, and almost entirely formed of compact tissue, presenting cel- lular tissue only in the processes and horizontal portion. Their development, which is yet but little known, appears to take place by a single point of ossification, situated at the place of union of the vertical, horizontal and pyramidal portions. 260. Articulations. This bone is articulated with the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the upper maxillary bone, the lower turbinated bone, the vomer, and the op- posite palate bone. OF THE VOMER.* 261. The Vomer is an azygous bone, situated in the median line, and consequently symmetrical, *!• forming the posterior part of the septum of the nasal fossae. It is thin, flat, quadrilateral, and smooth on its lateral surfaces, which only present vascular fur- rows, and a narrow groove at the lower part which marks the pas- sage of the naso-palatal nerve. It is always covered by the pi- tuitary membrane, and is frequently deflected to the right or left, or even perforated in the middle. 262. This bone has four edges. The first, or Sphenoidal Edge, which is the uppermost, constitutes the thickest part of the bone, and is divided into two laminas, which enter into the grooves on the guttural surface of the sphenoid bone, and which receive into the cavity formed by their separation, the crest situated between these grooves. The surfaces of this articulation never unite in substance, because there exists between them, under the sphenoid bone itself, and under its turbinated bones, to which the vomer here forms some attachment, a small canal which always trans- mits vessels and nervous filaments to the substance of the ethmoid bone. 263. The Supra-palatal edge of the vomer is inferior, and is the longest. Broad, obtuse, and uneven anteriorly ; thin and sharp posteriorly; it is received into the groove which exists be- tween the united maxillary and palatal bones, as we have already said. • Vomer, a plougli-share. tit must not liowever he imagined that the hones situated in the median line are tlie only ones capable of being divided into two equal parts. Many others are equally symmetrical, as Dumeril has remarked. Of this kind, for example, are the phalanges of the lingers and toes.