816 ORGANS OF GENERATION. tion, wliich is more or less prominent, is commonly called the Os TinccB. It presents at its summit a transverse slit bounded by two rounded lips, placed close to each other, and distinguished in- to anterior and posterior. The latter is always thinner than the other. Both are smooth and rounded in women who have not had children, and on the contrary wrinkled and as if lacerated in those who have been repeatedly brought to bed. 2969. Cavity of the Uterus. This cavity is very small in pro- portion to the volume of the organ, which necessarily supposes a great thickness of wall. It occupies the body and neck, and ter- minates inferiorly at the slit of the os tineas. The portion of this cavity, which corresponds to the body, is triangular and flattened. Its edges are curvilinear, and its upper angles present the extreme- ly minute orifices of the Fallopian tubes. Each of its surfaces is longitudinally traversed by a line which does not project much. The cavity of the neck is continuous with that of the body. It is nearly cylindrical, a little compressed however from before back- wards, and slightly dilated before opening into the vagina. It pre- sents, upon its anterior and posterior walls, the continuation of the jjrominent vertical lines of which we have just made mention, toge- ther with some scarcely perceptible transverse rugae. h. OUGANIZATION OF THE UTERUS. 2970. The uterus is composed of an external or serous mem- brane, an internal mucous membrane, an intermediate proper tissue, nerves and vessels. 2971- Serous Membrane. It is formed by the peritoneum, which, from the anterior surface of the rectum and the posterior surface of the bladder, is reflected over thg uterus, to which it forms an envelope adhering pretty firmly along the upper edge, but se- parated from the tissue of the organ upon the two surfaces by a great quantity of vessels and by a layer of dense cellular tissue, destitute of fat. 2972. Mucous Membrane. It is a prolongation of that of the vagina; but such is its tenuity, that many anatomists doubt its existence, and its intimate adherence to the tissue of the organ still adds to this doubt. It sends into the Fallopian tubes two prolongations which we shall subsequently examine. Its colour is white, very slightly tinged with red. This latter tint is especially manifest some days before and during menstruation. It is covered with a great number of very fine villosities, and presents the orifi- ces of some mucous crypts, which are more abundant towards the neck than elsewhere. Frequently also the crypts dilate in that place, and assume the form of small semitransparent vesicles pro- jecting into the interior of the uterus. An old author, Naboth, took them for eggs, and for this reason these small bodies are some-