386 y\CTlVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ■while the other, -which is thicker, sinks under it, and proceeds to tlie fibrous capsule of the thigh joint, and the curved tendon of the rectus femoris. Beneath the extensor muscle, these two la- minae unite, and constitute a kind of very thick and solid band, which descends vertically along the outer part of the thigh, being continuous at its edges with the rest of the aponeurosis. Inferiorly, the aponeurosis is confounded around the knee with that of the leg. It also unites with the tendon of the triceps crura- lis, and with its lateral prolongation, and is attached to the two tuberosities of the tibia, but especially to the outer. 1394. The outer surface of the crural aponeurosis is separated from the integuments by a thick layer of adipose cellular tissue, and by blood vessels, lymphatics and nerves. It sends around each of them a fibrous lamina, which envelopes them in a more or less irregular manner; and there are detached from it on all sides a con- siderable number of small filaments which lose themselves in the chorion of the skin. Toward the fold of the groin, it separates into several laminie, which are interposed between the lymphatic gan- glia of this region. Its inner szirface eovers the lower part of the obliquus externus abdominis, the cremaster muscle, a portion of the abdominal aponeurosis, of the iliacus muscle, and of the crural artery and vein, the sciatic nerve, the popliteal artery, and all the superficial muscles of the hip and thigh. It is separated from aU these parts by adipose tissue. It only gives attachment to a few fibres of the glutaeus medius. 1395. Aponeurosis of the Leg. This is less thick than the apo- neurosis of the thigh. Its fibres also cross each other in different ilirections, but at the lowej: part of the leg, they are almost all transverse. It is very strong and dense anteriorly, and thin in the other directions. It is continuous above with the crural aponeu- rosis ; but it also arises from the head of the fibula, and from se- veral fibrous expansions which are detached froin the tendons of the triceps extensor, sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles. From thence it descends around the leg, attaching itself to the whole extent of the anterior and internal edges of the tibia, and sending down^vards and backwards a pretty thick partition, which passes before the tendo Achillis, (1339)> and behind the muscles of the deep and posterior layer of the leg, to ascend, between them and the soleus, to the middle of the leg, ■where it gradually loses it- self. 1396. Below and before, this aponeurosis is continuous with the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus. Posteriorly, it gra- dually disappears towards the heel. Externally, it is inserted into the sheath of the tendon of the peronei; and internally, to the in- ternal annular ligament. Its otUer surface is covered by the in- teguments, by adipose tissue, blood vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. I'lie inner is applied upon the superficial muscles of the leg, and fiives attachment above to the tibialis anticus, extensor communis