MUSCLES or THE INFEllIOll EXTREMITIES. of the fleshy body, to be afterwards concealed in its substance, the fleshy fibres are short and parallel, and are directed obliquely in- wards. They form a pretty long bundle, thin at its extremities and thick in the middle, and terminate successively in a tendon which occupies their inner edge. This tendon, which is isolated be- hind the knee joint, thick and round, is contiguous anteriorly with that of the external head of the gastrocnemius, from which it is sepa- rated by a synovial capsule, and divides into three portions. The outer, which is thin and narrow, ascends obliquely backwards and out- wards upon the synovial capsule of the knee-joint, which it contri- butes to strengthen, and is attached above the outer cohdyle of the femur. The middle portion, which is broad and thick, is attached to the back part of the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and sends a very distinct aponeurotic expansion over the popliteus. The inner por- tion, which is larger and rounded, descends from behind forwards over the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and is inserted into it. It is contained by a fibrous sheath which is lined by a very delicate synovial membrane. 1299. Its posterior surface is covered by the biceps and semi- tendinosus, and by the fascia lata. The anterior covers the quadra- tus, from which it is separated by a mucous bursa, the adductor niagnus and internal head of the gatrocnemius, the popliteal artery and the knee-joint. Its outer edge is coasted by the sciatic nerve, and concurs with the biceps to form the cavity of the ham. The inner edge is partly covered by the gracilis and the fascia lata. 1300. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. OF THE BICEPS FEMOIUS. 1301. The Biceps femoris is also situated at the back part of the thigh. It is simple below, and separated above into two bundles. Of these bundles, one is longer and rounded, and is at- tached to the upper and outer part of the tuber ischii by a tendon which is common to it and the semi-tendinosus, (1294), and which afterwards degenerates into an aponeurosis extending to the middle of the thigh. This bundle descends from thence outwards, becom- ing larger, and is confounded with the other bundle, which is shorter, flattened, quadrilateral, broader at the middle than at the extremities, and attached by short aponeuroses, to a large portion of the outer lip of the linea a.spera, between the adductor muscles and triceps extensor, from which it is separated by a lamina of the fascia lata. The two portions of the muscle are connected by means of an aponeurosis, commencing very high upon the first, and terminate in a common tendon, which is accompanied very low by the fibres of the second. T’his tendon bifurcates to be inserted into the top of the fibula, embracing the lower extremity of the external lateral li- gament of the knee joint, (V'l?)- The anterior branch of this bi- furcation, which is smaller than the other, sends off a prolongatiop