441 OF TUB LIGAMENTUM DENTATUM. are to the sinus. Some of them are engaged in the separations of the fibres of the dura mater which give j^assage to the veins, and are in some measure continuous with the granulations of the sinus itself. At the base of the brain and around the other sinuses no similar disposition is observed. 1524. The internal pia mater also presents some of these gra- nulations. They are observed in the choroid plexus, where they are of a reddish gray colour, and rather soft. There are also some beneath the choroid web, at the fore part of the pineal gland, where they are disposed in two rows which unite so as to form a triangle, at the base of which the canal of the arachnoid membrane opens. Lastly, they are equally met with in the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. 11- OF THE PEOPER MEMBRANE OF THE SPINAL MARROW. 152-5. Some authors consider this membrane as a prolongation of the pia mater of the brain ; but it presents sufficient differences to render it distinguishable from that envelope. It is formed by a solid, pretty thick, firm, strong, and somewhat fibrous tissue. Its density is so much the greater the lower it is examined. Few ves- sels ramify upon it, but it is traversed by a great number on their way to the spinal marrow. Its colour is yellowish white. By its external surface, it is in connection with the arachnoid membrane, but forms no adhesion to it. Laterally, it is continuous with the neurilemma of the vertebral nerves and with the ligamentum den- tatum. Its internal surface adheres to the spinal marrow in so intimate a manner as to seem to be continuous with it. Its upper extremity is prolonged, becoming insensibly thinner, as far as the cerebral protuberance. 12. OF THE LIGAMENTUM DENTATUM. 1526. The Ligamentum dentatum is a whitish, transparent, thin, but very strong band, which extends from the great occipital hole to the inferior extremity of the spinal marrow, passing on each side between the anterior and the posterior roots of the vertebral nerves. Several modern anatomists have considered the ligamen- tum dentatum as a prolongation of the proper membrane of the spinal marrow; but it is really distinct from it. In its outer edge, each ligamentum dentatum presents succes- sively twenty or twenty-two denticidations,’ from which the liga- ment has received its name, and whose points, which are more or less oblong, are attached to the sheath which the dura mater forms around the spinal marrow, in the interval that occurs between each pair of cervical and dorsal nerves. The base of each of these den- ticulations is triangular ; but their form and size vary much. The