3IUSCLK« OF THE HAND* S47 a very thin aponeurosis, and by the integuments. The postei’ior covers the opponens minimi digiti. 1238. It carries the little finger inwards and forwards, and sepa- rates it from the other fingers. OF THE FLEXOK I’ROPRIUS MINIMI DIGITI. 1239- This muscle does not occur in all subjects, and when it does exist, it varies much in size, as well as in form. It is in gene- ral very thin, and very narrow. It arises, by aponeuroses, from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the anterior edge of the process of the os unciforme, whence it descends a little out- wards, becoming narrower, to be united to the outer part of the tendon of the preceding muscle, and to terminate along with it. Its connections are absolutely the same. It bends the first phalanx of the httle finger, and draws forwards the fifth matacarpal bone. OF THE ADDUCTOE OSSIS METACARPI MINIMI DIGITI, OR OPPONENS ; MINIMI DIGITI. 1240. It has nearly the same form and disposition as the oppo- nens pollicis (1226), but its size is less. Having the same origins as the preceding muscle, its fleshy fibres, which are so much the longer and more oblique the lower they are, descend inwards, and terminates along the inner edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres. Its anterior surface corresponds to the abductor and flexor brevis of the little finger, and to an apo- neurotic expansion, sent off by the tendon of the extensor carpi ul- naris (1193). The posterior surface is applied upon the last interos- seus muscle, the fifth metacarpal bone, and the tendon of the flexor sublimis, which goes to the little finger. It carries the fifth metacarpal bone forwards and outwards, and thus augments the cavity of the hand. 3. saddle Palmar Region. OF THE LUMlilUCALES.* 1241. I’lic Lumhrlcales arc four small, slender, elongated, fusi- form fleshy bundles, folded upon themselves, situated in the ]ialm of the hand, and distin^ished into first, second, third, and fourth, according to their relative j)osition, counting from without inwards, and diminishing in size in the same order. They arise towards the Lnmbricui, an cni th-worm.