OF TUB ARTERIES, OR VESSELS OF THE HEART. G41 at an acute angle. At the place of each division, in the interior of the vessel, is a prominence which is named the spur, and which is formed by the internal membrane. This prominence is circular when the division takes place at a right angle, semi-circular and more distinct when the angle is acute. 2305. The arteries communicate frequently together by true an- astomoses, so that the blood can pass from the one to the other. These anastomoses take plaee between equal trunks which inoscu- late, or between a more voluminous trunk and a small twig which join each other. In the former ease, the anastomoses forms an acute angle, as when two vertebral arteries unite to form the ba- silar. Or a transverse branch unites two separate trunks, as in the anterior cerebral arteries; or, lastly, the two trunks inosculate forming an arch, as is seen in the mesenteric arteries. The more the divisions of the arteries begin to remove from the heart, the more anastomoses do they present. In the last twigs, these inosculations are so numerous as to eonstitute an inextrica- ble laeework. 2206. Viewed in a general manner, the arteries form an assem- blage of vessels whieh go on decreasing in succession ; but on com- paring them with each other, it is discovered that this progressive decrement is far from being a eonstant law. Frequently two or three branches arising from the same trunk have each the volume of the trunk itself. Frequently, also, very small ramifications come directly from the largest branches. Another remarkable circumstance is, that the calibre of the ar- teries does not diminish in the ratio of the number and volume of the branches which they furnish. Thus the aorta is nearly as vo- luminous before the lumbar vertebras as at the moment of its ori- gin. In this manner each artery is cylindrical, and instead of con- sidering their aggregate as a series of cones whose bases are direct- ed towards the heart, and their summits towards the organs, we must view them as a series of cylinders successively added to each other, and successively decreasing. A third general consideration is, that the sum of the united dia- meters of all the arterial twigs much exceeds the diameter of the aorta, so that the arteries may be viewed as constituting, in their aggregate, a cone of which the summit ends in the heart, while its base embraces all the rest of the body. 2207. The last divisions of the arteries ramify to infinity, and form networks which cover all the parts, and which themselves pro- duce others, whose disposition varies, and from which the veins and exhalcnt organs seem to come. But in what preeise manner tlio communication between the arteries and veins takes place, the most minute inquiries have not yet satisfactorily been made known. The existence of such a communication, however, is placed beyond doubt. 2308. d’lie arteries are composed of three membranes lying up- on each other, which arc named C<xits. The innermost of these