ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. CG‘2 forwards and upwards. This portion of the internal carotid artery is in relation with tlie ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganglion (1805) and the lamina of the dura mater which lines the canal. Before emerging, it gives off a small branch, which pe- netrates by a particular aperture into the cavity of the tympanum, to be distributed to its mucous membrane and to the promonto- ry, on which it anastomoses with a twig of the middle menin- geal artery. Frequently also it furnishes another which enters from behind forwards into the Vidian canal (2280). 2286. On emerging from the canal, the internal carotid artery directs itself upwards and a little forwards, enters into the caver- nous sinus of the dura mater (1499), and follows anteriorly its lower wall, on the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone, to above the anterior clinoid process, being enveloped by the inner membrane of the sinus and coasted by the external oculo-motor nerve and ca- vernous ganglion (1803). In this course, the artery forms two curves which pretty exactly resemble those of a Roman S. The convexity of the first is turned backwards and upwards, and that of the second forwards and downwards. While contained in the cavernous sinus, the internal carotid artery sends two or three twigs to the dura mater, the pituitary body, the membrane of the sphe- noidal sinuses and the trunks of the common motor, pathetic, tri- facial, and external motor nerves. 2287- Arrived under the anterior chnoid process, it curves ver- tically upwards, then directs itself a little backwards, is embraced by the dura mater (1488) and arachnoid membrane (1516), and enters into the skull a little externally and posteriorly of the optic nerve. It is afterwards enveloped with a sheath which is furnish- ed it by the arachnoid membrane, ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and separates into several branches opposite the fls- sura Sylvii (1435), where it terminates. But before this, at the moment when it ascends along the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid artery furnishes a very remarkable branch, wliich is the following. OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 2288. The Ophthalmic Artery (Arth-e orlhtaire, Chauss.) is not of large size. Immediately after its commencement, it enters into a small canal which the dura mater presents to it, places itself without and above the optic nerve, passes along with it through the optic foramen, and enters into the orbit between the external motor nerve of the eye and the rectus externus muscle. It then ascends on the outer side of the optic nerve, passes above it cross- ing its direction obliquely from without inwards, being covered by the rectus superior oculi muscle, and becomes horizontal a second time to pass forwards, along the inner edge of the nerve, between the obliquus superior and rectus intenuis muscles of the eye, as