S24 OF TIIF, PEllITOlvEUM. gainsj the canliac extremity of the stomadi, and is continued into the anterior lamina of the great omentum. These lamime of the peri- toneum of which we liavc just been speaking, and wliich are com- prised between the spleen and the stomach, arc called Gastro-sple- nic Omenta by many authors. 2. In the middle, the peritoneum leaves the diaphragm before its (esophageal aperture, arrives upon the anterior surface of the sto- mach, passes before the gastro-epiploic vessels, descends to near the most declivous part of the abdomen, and is reflected from be- low upwards as far as tlie convex edge of the arch of the colon, thus contributing to the formation of the great omentum. It then invests the inferior surface of the arch of the colon, glides beneath the pancreas and duodenum, forming tlie inferior lamina of the transverse mesocolon (2093), and is finally continued into one of the laminae of the mesentery. 3. To the. riqlit, the peritoneum covers a less extent of the in- ferior surface of the diaphragm. Arrived upon the posterior edge of the liver, it is reflected upon that organ, forming a fold which has been inappropriately named its Coronary Ligament. It covers its whole upper surface, at the middle of which it gives rise to an- other triangular fold which is its Suspe7isory Ligament. This fold divides the upper surface of the liver into two unequal parts (2793), corresponds on the other hand to the diaphragm, and is continued inferiorly into another fold, which is named the Falx of the U?nbi- lical Vein. This fold in fact contains that vein in its substance, and descends anteriorly and to the left as far as the umbilicus. The right lamina of the so-called suspensory ligament of the liver is then reflected under the concave surface of the great lobe, unites with the rest of the peritoneum along its sharp edge, covers the gall-bladder, and at length forms altogether on the right, a .small fold which gains the diaphragm, and which is called the Right La- teral Liganmit of the Liver. This same lamina leaves the gall- bladder posteriorly, and slips before the duodenum to proceed over the colon. The left lamina is in like manner reflected under the inferior surface of the left lobe, unites upon its sharp edge with that which lines the upper surface of tlie liver, and bends, near its posterior edge, to form the Lejt Triungidar Ligament of the Liver and the anterior lamina of the Ilepatu-Gasti'ic omentum, and to expand over the anterior surface of the stomach. 2998. Posterior Cavity of the Omenta. Immediately under the neck of the gall-bladder there is observed a triangular aperture, the Foramen or Hiatus of JVinslow, into which the finger may easily be made to penetrate. Through this aperture, there is seen to dive superiorly the lamina of the peritoneum which has formed the anterior lamina of the hepato-gastric omentum, Avhich is applied upon itself, containing in its duplicature the hepatic and pyloric ves- sels, the coronary vessels of the stomach, and the cystic, hepatic, and ductus communis choledochus. This lamina then directs itself over 0