323 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. contracts and becomes tliicker, and terminates at the small tubero- sity of the humerus by embracing it. This tendon adheres strongly to the capsule of the joint, which presents beneath it a true open- ing, (654) so as there to be in immediate contact with the synovial membrane of the articulation, above which there frequently occurs another smaller hole, which communicates with it. Some of the lower fibres of the muscle arc attached directly to the humerus, be- neath its small tuberosity. 1136. The anterior surfrn^, of the subscapularis, which is con- cave internally, and convex outwards, is separated from the serra- tus magnus, with which it forms the hollow of the axilla, by a very thick layer of cellular tissue (851.) Its outer part corresponds to the brachial plexus, axillary artery, and coraco-brachialis, biceps, and deltoid muscles. Its posterior surface covers the scapula, and beyond that bone it is in connection with the teres major and the long portion of the triceps brachialisi Farther on, it covers the capsule of the shoulder joint. 1137. When the arm is separated from the body, the subscapu- laris draws it toward it. When in its natural position, it can turn it inwards, and when raised, it depresses it. It also strengthens the articulation. 3. External Scapular Region. OF THE DELTOIDES. (M. Sous-Acromio-.Humefi'al. Chauss.) 1138. The Deltoides^ so named on account of its resembling the Greek letter A, forms what is called the top of the shoulder. It is thick, flat, triangular, broader above than below, curved upon itself to embrace the shoulder joint, whence it descends to the outer side of the arm, a§.far as its middle. It is composed of seven fleshy bundles, separated by grooves which are more or less deep accord- ing to the individual, and are divided into two orders. Those of the first order, to the number of four, are broad and fleshy above, contracted below, and terminate by strong tendons. One of them, which is strengthened behind by a transverse fibrous band which unites the acromio-coracoid hgament to the pectorahs major, arises from the outer third of the anterior edge of the clavicle, by small aponeuroses, and descends obliquely outwards. Another is insert- ed externally into the acromion by various aponeurotic fasciculi, which are more or less prolonged in or over the fleshy fibres. It descends vertically. The two last proceed from the posterior edge of the spine of the scapula, where they are attached by means of an aponeuro.sis which unites with those of the trapezius and infra- spinatus, and are directed obliquely downwards and forwards. The bundles of the second order, to the number of three, are placed in the interval of these latter, between which they seem to ascend, to terminate in a point at the commencing aponeuroses. All these