457 OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. midst of a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Frequently, before entering the orbit, this nerve receives a filament from the superior cervical ganglion. On entering it, it gives off a slender filament, about six lines in length, which runs along the optic nerve externally, and proceeds to the upper and back part of the ophthalmic ganglion, after having communicated by one or two small twigs with the upper branch of the common motor nerve of the eye (1364). In passing above the optic nerve, the nasal nerve produces two or three cUiarij Jilaments, which are dis- tributed to the baU of the eye, as we shall subsequently point out. It is at the level of the outer wall of the orbit that the nasal nerve undergoes its last division. The two twigs which result from it are of equal size. One is internal and posterior, and penetrates into the nasal fossae; the other is anterior, and is distributed ex- ternally of the orbit. 1583. Internal Nasal Twig. Its course is very remarkable. Accompanied by a small artery, it introduces itself into the internal and anterior orbitar hole, directs itself inwards and upwards in the canal of which that hole is the aperture, iss.ues from it to enter the cranium under the dura mater, which covers it, and keeps it down in a bony groove, until it reaches the sides of the crista galli.— There, it penetrates, without having furnished any filament to the dura mater, and without anastomosing with the olfactory nerve, into a small fissure which exists at the anterior part of the ethmoid grooves, and thus reaches the vault of the nasal fossae, where it in- creases in size and subdivides into two filaments, the one intern^ and the other external. The first descends over the anterior part of the septum betweei?, the two laminae of the pituitary membrane. After a short passage it divides into two other filaments; one of these, the Naso-lobaire of Chaussier, is very thin, and descends upon the posterior surface of the nasal bone, lodged in a bony groove, or even a true canal, which commences at the nasal spine of the frontal bone. It then emerges between the ossa nasi and the lateral portion of the nasal cartilage, increases in size and solidity, and ramifies in the integu- ments of the lobe. The other, which is a little more slender, de- scends upon the pituitary membrane, until opposite the edge of the septum, and terminates near its base, by subdividing. The second furnishes, almost at its commencement, a filament which enters into a bony canal formed behind the nasal bone or on the nasal spine of the frontal bone. It emerges beneath the mem- brane inferiorly, where it passes through one of the small holes ob- served on these bones, to terminate in the skin. Afterwards there are seen to arise two or three other filaments, which descend to the anterior part of the outer wall of the nasal fossae as far as the in- ferior turbinated bone. Sometimes one of them is contained in a bony canal. I have not been able to meet witli the filaments which several