368 ACTIVK ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. It arises from the external tuberosity and upper half of the outer surface of the tibia by short aponeurotic fibres, from the upper and fore part of the interosseous ligament, from an aponeurotic parti- tion which separates it from the extensor digitorum, and from the upper part of the inner surface of the aponeurosis of the leg. From these origins it descends oblicpiely inwards and forwards, becoming at first a little thicker and then diminishing; and when it has ar- rived below the middle third of the leg, it terminates by a flat and pretty strong tendon, which existed for a long time among the fleshy fibres and upon their anterior surface, and into which they are in- serted like the barbs of a feather into its shaft. This tendon de- scends before the anterior extremity of the tibia, passes over the ankle joint, is engaged in a sort of groove of the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus, where it is invested by a small synovi.al bursa, proceeds from behind forwards and from without inwards over the back of the foot, becomes broader, and arrives at the inner side of the first cuneiform bone, where it divides into two portions. Of these portions the posterior, which is larger, slides over the bone by means of a small synovial membrane, and is inserted at its base ; while the other, which is anterior and smaller, is attached to the inner and lower part of the posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone. 1323. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the tibial aponeurosis to which it adheres above, by the annular liga- ment of the tarsus, and by the dorsal aponeurosis of the foot. The inner surface is applied upon the outer surface of the tibia ; the outer corresponds to the extensor communis digitorum above, and the extensor proprius poUicis below, from which it is separated pos- teriorly by the anterior tibial nerve and vessels. Its posterior edge covers the interosseous ligament, the tibia, the tibio-tarsal articula- tion, and the upper and inner part of the tarsus. 1324. The tibialis anticus bends the foot upon the leg, and directs its point inwards at the same time that it raises its inner edge. It also bends the leg upon the foot, and prevents it from falling backwards in the standing posture. OF THE EXTENSOR PROPRIUS POLI.ICIS PEDIS. 1325. This muscle is fleshy, broad, thick, and transversely flat- tened above, slender and tendinous below, and is situated to the outside of the preceding. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the fore part of the inner surface of the fibula, over an extent of five or six inches proceeding from the lower part of its upper third, and from the neighbouring region of the interosseous ligament (7^0). From thence, the fleshy fibres descend forwards parallel to each other, forming a bundle which is broader in the middle than at its extremities. They are all about two inches in length, and termi- nate successively upon a tendon which separates from them toward 3