B PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 1. Some beings are endowed, during a determinate period, with the wonderful faculty of resisting in a certain degree, the general laws of nature, which constantly tend to their destruction, and with which they maintain a sort of continual struggle. This fa- culty constitutes the essential characteristic of the life which these beings possess. Its source is to be found in the existence of the organs which enter into their composition; and the science to which belongs the examination of these organs or instruments of life, the art of mechanically separating them from each other, that of laying them bare to the view, and of isolating aU their parts, in a word, the science of the organization, is named Anatomy.* All organized bodies are the subjects of this science. 2. As living beings are divided into two great sections, namely. Vegetables and Animals, so there are two kinds of anatomy, viz. Vegetable Anatomy or Phytotomy, and Animal Anatomy or Zootomy. 3. The pecuhar object of the latter kind of anatomy is the knowledge of the animal organization, considered in a material point of view, or the aggregate of aU the apparent qualities of the organs which enter into the composition of the body of animals. It discloses the number, situation, forms, proportions, connections, structure, texture, and intimate conformation of. each of them ; it assists in discovering and explaining the laws that regulate the functions which they are destined to perform. The knowledge of this science is obtained by inquiries and experiments made upon dead bodies, by means of dissection, and numerous other processes, .such as desiccation, corrosion, injection, maceration, the construc- tion of skeletons, &c. 4. Animal anatomy is divided into Human Anatomy or An- thropotomyAc Comparative Anatomy^ according as it treats of the organization of the human body, or of that of other animals. * hvatifi-tu, disscco. Some authors liave proposed to substitute for the word /ina- tomy, those of Morphology, Physiography, Organography, and Organology, which, however, have by no means been generally adopted. f homo; To/mi}, dissectio.