aUtiCulations of the trunk. 179 attached to irregular tubercles, presented by the lateral masses of the atlas. This ligament, tvhich is very strong, dense and thickj is compos- ed of transverse, parallel, close fibres, commonly separated by nar- row intervals, filled with cellular tissue, into two or three distinct bundles, placed above each other. 585. Anterior Atloidw-aaioidal Ligament The lower edge of the small arch of the atlas and its middle tubercle^ give rise to the fibres of this ligament, which are attached to the lower part of the base of the odontoid process, and to the fore part of the body of the axis. The latter fibres are the longest, and sometimes form a distinct rounded fasciculus, while the others represent a kind of membranous layer, which occupies the interval of the articular cap- sules, and even covers them a little. The ligament of which we speak has no connection anteriorly, but with the recti capitis antici raajores muscles. 586. Posterior Atloido-awoidal Ligament. This ligament, which is of a membranous appearance, very thin and loose, is at- tached on the one hand to the inferior edge of the posterior arch of the atlas, and on the other to the upper edge of the lamina of the axis. Posteriorly, it is covered by much adipose cellular tissue, and by the obliqui capitis inferiores muscles. Anteriorly, it is con- nected with fasciculi of vertical fibres, of a yellowish colour, sepa- rated from each other by cellular tissue, having a considerable re- semblance to the ligamenta flava, but attached to the inner lips of the laminae of the axis, and to the lower edge of the posterior arch of the atlas. The dura-mater of the vertebral canal is applied over them. 58J. Synovial Membranes of the Articular Processes. The articular surfaces by which these processes are connected, are much larger than in any of the other vertebrae, and, like them, constitute a planiform arthrodia; but it is to be observed that those of the axis are much broader than those belonging to the atlas. They are all covered by a very thin layer of cartilage, and kept in place by a synovial membrane on each side. These membranes are re- markable for their extreme looseness, which is still greater anteriorly and posteriorly than on the sides. They not only embrace the arti- cular surfaces of the processes of the atlas, but are reflected a little over their circumference. They are a little thicker than the synovial membranes of the odontoid process. They correspond anteriorly to the anterior atloido-axoidal ligament; posteriorly, to adipose cellular tissue ; internally, to the odontoid synovial capsules and the transverse ligament; eojternally, to the vertebral arteries, over which they are reflected so as to form a sort of sheath.