THE SPHENOID HONE. 39 perforated by a hole, and is frequently deflected to the right or left, which produces a great difference in their respective capacity. Nor is it rare to And some other osseous laminae, forming subordi- nate partitions, and thus dividing the sinuses. 121. Beyond the opening of the sinuses, there are found in- equalities of greater or less extent, which serve to articulate the bone with the ethmoid above, and with the palate bone below. INIore externally, there occurs, on each side, an irregularly quadri- lateral surface, which is directed inwards and forwards. This sur- face is smooth and plane, and enters into the constitution of the orbit, of which it forms the outer wall. It is surmounted by ano- ther triangular, rugose surface, which unites with the coronal bone, and is itself surmounted by a horizontal, free, blunt ridge, which contributes to the formation of the spheno-maxiUary fissure. It is limited, internally by a rounded edge, which belongs to the sphe- noidal fissure, and which presents at its upper part a notch, or hole, for the passage of a branch of the ophthalmic artery; and exter- nally by another very rough indented margin, which is articulated with the malar bone. The anterior orifice of the upper maxillaiy hole is observed beneath this surface and to the inside. 122. Two zygomato-temporal or external surfaces, inclined outwards and downwards, irregularly elongated, which are divided into two portions by a transverse ridge to which are attached the deepest-seated fibres of the temporal muscle. Above this ridge is a concave quadrilateral surface, marked with some arterial impres- sions and forming part of the temporal fossa. Beneath it there is another oblique surface, also concave, giving attachment to a por- tion of the outer pterygoid muscle, and continued into the ptery- goid process. It belongs to the zygomatic fossa. 123. The cerebral and orbito-nasal surfaces of the sphenoid bone are separated from each other by an edge which may be named frontal. It is directed outwards on each side, proceed- ing from the small process which surmounts the septum of the sinuses. This edge, which is uneven, and from being at first pretty thick is afterwards attenuated, is articulated with the lower edge of the frontal bone, and is interrupted, in its middle part, at the moment when it ceases to belong to the process of Ingras- sias, by the very narrow entrance of a notch of considerable size and great depth, which is named the Sphenoidal Fissure, and which is limited by these apophyses above. It inclines downwards and inwards, is broader in the latter direction than outwards, and affords a passage to the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves, the third, fourth, and sixth pairs, the optic vein, a branch of the lach- rymal artery, or that artery itself in some cases, and lastly, to a prolongation of the dura mater. Beyond the sphenoidal fissure, the frontal margin of the sphenoid bone becomes again rough and un- even ; it becomes very broad, and is articulated to the frontal bone by a triangular surface. 124. The cerebral and zygomato-temporal surfaces of the sphe-