ORGANS OF SENSATION, 400 and to the skin, as well as to the mucous crypts of the lips. Others again, the internal or nasal, are expanded over the back and wing of the nose, in the levator labii superioris aheque nasi, triangularis nasi, and depressor alas nasi muscles, around the aperture of the nos- trils, and communicate with the naso-lahar filaments of the internal nasal nerve (1583.) The last, or external twigs are distributed to the two zygomatic muscles, the levator anguli oris, and the skin. They form anastomoses with the twigs of the facial nerve. OF THE INFERIOn MAXILLARY NERVE. 1590. This branch is the largest of those into which the trifacial nerve divides ; but its course is shorter within the skull than that of the others. Proceeding outwards and forwards, it issues from the skull by the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone, and is com- posed of two distinct portions. Of these portions the outer and larger, which is plexiform, triangular and flattened, comes from the semilunar bulging of the trunk of the nerve; the other which is concealed by this portion, is formed by the larger white filaments of which we have spoken (1573), and is composed of parallel fila^ ments, not united into plexus. These two portions issue separately through the foramen ovale, and only unite in the zygomatic fossa, where the small portion becomes anterior, and appears to be par- ticularly distributed to the buccal nerve and to one of the deep temporal twigs. 1591. Arrived in the zygomatic fossa, between the sphenoid bone and the pterygoideus externus muscle, the inferior maxillary nerve seems to divide into two principal trunks. One, which is superior and external, gives rise to the deep temporal, masseteric, buccal and pterygoid twigs. The other, which is inferior and in- ternal, is larger, and furnishes the inferior dentar, lingual and auri- cular twigs. 1592. Deep Temporal Twigs. They are commonly two and sometimes three in number. In some subjects there is only one. They arise separately or by a common trunk. However this may be, one of them, the anterior, which is sometimes furnished by the buccal nerve, proceeds forwards into the deepest part of the tempo- ral fossa, after being for some time prolonged horizontally between the pterygoideus externus and the upjier ivaU of the zygomatic fossa, llie other, which is posterior, and sometimes arises from the masseteric nerve, follows at first the same course, but presently becomes more superficial. Both turn over the temporal bone to ascend between the temporal muscle and the fossa of the same name, and subdivide into a great number of filaments which lose themselves in the substance of that muscle, or anastomose together or with ramifications of the facial nerve, by means of small aper- tures with which its aponeurosis is perforated. The anterior twig anastomoses moreover with the lachrymal nerve (1578), and with