OF THE URETHRA, 807 Cowpcr’s glands, and of a multitude of mucous follicles. The ex- ternal diameter is not the same in its whole length. At first directed a little obliquely forwards and downwards,. the urethra traverses the prostate gland. On emerging from that body, it passes beneath the inferior extremity of the rectum, under the symphysis pubis, ascends before the latter part, between the two roots of the corpus cavernosum, places itself in the groove of the lower surface of the latter organ, and terminates at the summit of the glans by a vertically elongated aperture. This second part of the urethra changes its direction according to the state of the cor- pus cavernosum. 2937. From the difference of disposition and structure which this canal presents in the different parts of its extent, it is divided into three portions, as follows : 1. A prustatic portion, near the bladder, situated above the in- ferior extremity of the rectum, at about an inch from the anus and perinaeum, and from fifteen to eighteen lines in length. It passes obliquely through the prostate gland, the tissue of which sustains its walls, which are extremely thin. It has the figure of a cone having its summit directed forwards, and is intimately attached to the intestine by cellular tissue and by the recto-vesical aponeuro- sis. 2. A inembranozts portion, only from eight to ten lines in length, connected with the rectum by dense cellular tissue below and be- hind ; it approaches anteriorly the inferior region of the symphy- sis pubis and the anterior fibres of the levatores ani muscles. It rests upon the vesiculm seminales, and is connected with them by an aponeurotic lamina. In this portion of its extent, the urethra is contracted, and its walls are also thin. In this place there oc- cur between it, the bladder and the symphysis pubis, large veins and loose cellular tissue. 3. A spongy portion (corpus spongiosum urethree) which ex- pands anteriorly to form the glans. It commences posteriorly be- fore the inferior extremity of the rectum, to which it is attached partly by means of the sphincter ani, by a bulging called the Bulb of the Urethra, which is placed immediately under the angle of union of the roots of the corpus cavernosum, above the two bulbo- cavernosi muscles and the skin,. between Cowper’s glands, and in- sensibly loses itself anteriorly in the rest of the spongy tissue. This portion of the canal is afterwards in relation inferiorly with the sep- tum of the dartos and skin. Its upper part is lodged in a groove of the corpus cavernosum (2930). 2938. Considered as to its anterior, the urethra has not the same breadth in its whole course. From being pretty wide at the mo- ment of its commencement, it presently contracts, and again dilates in the centre of the prostate gland. The membranous portion which comes next is much narrower than any other part of the ca- nal, which is wider from the bulb to the base of the glans. There, immediately before opening, it becomes the scat of a very decided 3 G