THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 49 rdccivfcs tlie insertions of various muscles, viz. internally, the tra- pezius ^ in the miclcUe, the occipital muscle, externally and he- ncath, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and which has above it a smooth triangular surface, over which the occipital muscle lies. 1C3. Cerebral or anterior surface. This surface is concave, un- equal, and immechately connected with the dura mater. It presents in the middle, and from below upwards: 1st, a broad groove inclined backwards, which sustains the annular pi'otuber- ance, and which is named the Basilar Groove; 2dly, the internal orifice of the great occipital hole, wider than the outer ; 3dly, the Inner occipital Crest., bifurcated below, and giving attachment to the falx cerebelli; 4tlily, the Internal occipital protuberance, some- times substituted by a depression, and in wliich terminates ; 5thly, a channel which descends on one side or the other, more commonly on the right, and which lodges the end of the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. 164. On either side, and in the same direction, there occurs a small channel on the edge of the basUar groove, which lodges the inferior petrous sinus of the dura mater. In the very margin of the great occipital hole are the internal orifices of the anterior con- dyloid foramina, covered by a bony eminence, on the outside of which is a portion of a canal directed inwards and backwards, which lodges the end of the lateral sinus of the dura mater, and contains the internal orifice of the posterior condyloid foramen. This por- tion of canal is surmounted by, 6thly, the Inferior occipital Fossa, which lodges the corresponding lobe of the cerebellum, and which is itself surmounted, Lateral Transverse Channel, which, proceeding from the occipital protuberance, is continuous with the median groove, sometimes on both sides at once, but more commonly on the right side only, although the reverse has also been observed. It receives the commencement of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. Above it is observed, Sthly, the Superior Oc- cijntal Fossa, smaller than the inferior, which receives the poste- rior lohes of the brain, and whose surface is marked with distinct mamillary eminences and digital impressions. 165. The two surfaces of the occipital bone are separated from each other by the Edges, which, in uniting, form angles more or less acute. Two of these edges are inferior, and present anteriorly an elongated surface, not very well defined, which belongs to the side of the basilar process, unites with the inferior edge of the pe- trous bone, and is limited behind by a deep notch which concurs to form the foramen lacerum posterius. Sometimes this notch is divided into two portions by a small bony tongue which the tem- poral bone also occasionally supplies. Beyond this is a square eminence, covered with cartilage, which is articulated to the tem- poral bone, and is named the Jugular process. It seems to divide this edge into two nearly equal parts, of which one has just been described, the other, which is situated higher, is concave, more E