ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4-70 gastric nerves, but nearer the latter, in the groove which separates the corjjora olivaria from the rcstiform bodies. I’his origin is com- posed of two, three, four, or five filaments, more or less separated, and sometimes united into a single root, which is separated from the pneumo-gastric nerve by vessels, by a lamellar process of the circumference of the cerebellum, or by a small portion of the cho- roid plexus of the fourth ventricle (1484). These filaments being united, constitute a bundle placed above and before the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and proceed directly outwards towards the anterior part of the foramen lacerum posterius. There, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve enters an isolated canal, which is fur- nished by the dura mater, passes through the foramen, and on emerging, is separated from the pneumo-gastric nerve by the trunk of the internal jugular vein. It then directs itself downwards and forwards, passes over the internal carotid artery, following its di- rection as far as the posterior and inferior part of the tongue, into which it penetrates. 1627- Immediately after emerging from the skull, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve throws one of its ramifications into the a,uditory canal. It sends off another upon the promontory of the tympanum, to anastomose, after penetrating that cavity, by a hole formed near the stylo-mastoid foramen, with one of the branches of the superfi- cial petrous filaments of the vidian nerve. It then receives a fila- ment which comes from the stylo-hyoid twig of the facial nerve (1609,) and another which the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve sends to it (1633). It afterwards furnishes two long and slender filaments, which descend upon the internal carotid artery^ giving off’ in their course several filaments which anastomose with the pha- ryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, or throw themselves into the plexus of the same name. These two filaments continue to descend internally of the common carotid artery to the lower part of the neck, where they unite with twigs from the cervical ganglia, and particularly with some of the cardiac nerves. After them, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve sends two others into the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. It also furnishes two considerable twigs, iso- lated or united at the moment of their origin, and which come off from it opposite the summit of the styloid process or a little lower. These descend inwards and backwards, and in passing give off ra- mifications to. the upper and middle constrictors of the pharynx, and to its mucous membrane. One of these ramifications throws itself into the tonsil. Two or three others lose themselves in the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and some of them gain the superficial and posterior part of the tongue. The twigs, still continuing to descend, are dispersed in the pharyngeal ])lexus. 1628. After furnishing these different branches, the nerve itself enters beneath the stylo-glossus and hyo-glossus muscles. It then divides into three orders of twigs. The suijeriur pass into the lingualis and glosso-staphylinus muscles, and into the neighbouring mucous crypts. These, together with a filament already described