797 OF THE TESTICLES. 2896. 0/the Fibrous Coat. It forms a kind of small elongated bag, placed in each dartos, broad below, to contain the testicle and epiclidymis, and ascending under the appearance of a narrow sheath, around the spermatic vessels as far as the inguinal ring, between the pillars of which its fibres insinuate themselves. Inferiorly, some of its fibres are also intimately connected with those of the dartos. It is thin, transparent, and possessed oflittle solidity. The older anatomists confounded it with tlie serous coat, under the names of Tunica vaginalis* or elytroides.'f 2897- Q/* Serous Coat or Perididymis. Like all the se- rous membranes, it forms a closed sac, reflected upon the organ which it envelopes, without however containing it in its cavity. Supposing it to arise from the lower part of the preceding fibrous bag, we find it covering the whole of its interior, embracing, espe- cially anteriorly, the lower parts of the spermatic cord, reflecting itself over the epididymis and testicle, and entirely covering the latter, excepting at its upper edge. Its outer surface is invested anteriorly by the fibrous coat; and, posteriorly, adheres strongly to the epididymis and tunica albuginea. Its inner surface is smooth, polished, and bedewed with a serous fluid. This membrane is almost as thin as the arachnoid. It is by it that the fluid is secreted which constitutes the species of dropsy named hydrocele. In very young subjects, before the testicles have descended into the scrotum, it is distinctly continuous with the peritoneum. This circumstance accounts for the formation of congenital inguinal hernice, in which the intestine is in immedi- ate contact with the testicles. 2. OF THE TESTICLES. a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2898. The Testicles (Testes, Testiculi\) are two glandular organs, lodged in the. scrotum, and destined for the secretion of the semen. Their number appears in general invariable, there being no example recorded of the existence of three or four testi- cles. It is also probable that, when only one has been met with, the other has been contained in the abdomen. Their size, m the adult is sufficiently known to every person; one of them is fre- quently larger than the other; the right testicle is also generally a little higher than the left; their form is that of an ovoid laterally compressed; their great diameter is slightly oblique ; their consist- ence and weight are considerable in the adult, and they are much less developed in children and old persons. 2899. The testicles are covered in the greater part of their ex- tent, by the serous membrane of which we have already spoken • Vagina, a sheath. *j* vagina, tegumentum, 4^ A13u/ui>i.