119 OF THF I’ELVIS IN GENERAL. 2. Transverse diameter, 4.290 inclics. 3 Oblique diameters, 4.290 inches. 4. Summit of the arch of the pubes in breadth, I.I70 inches. 5. Base of the arch of the pubes, or the distance between its branches, 3.705. 417. Dimensions of the Pelvic Excavation. 1. Height of the posterior wall, 4.836 inches. 2. Height of the anterior wall, 1.560 inches. 3. Height of the lateral walls, 3.705 inches. 4. Thickness of the symphysis pubis, .546 inch. 5. Depth of the cavity of the sacrum, .702 inch. 6. Length of the coccyx, .97^ inch. 7. Length of the concavity of the sacrum, beneath the arch of the pubes, 4.875 inches.* 418. We have given the dimensions of the pelvis in an article by itself, that they may thus be more easily compared, for the pur- pose of deducing useftil corollaries from them. The measurements in question we have indicated only in the fe- male, because in the male, although the pelvis presents nearly the same general conformation, it no longer presents the same dimen- sions. As it is of no practical utdityj' to become intimately ac- quainted with the measurements of the male pelvis, we shall not much insist on the differences that exist between it and the female. It is in fact sufficient for us to know, that the pelvis of the female has a greater capacity than that of the male ; that its surfaces are smoother, its contours less rugged, the attachments of the muscles less marked. In her, the haunches are more prominent and more rounded, because the upper part of the iliac bones is thrown more outward; the iliac crest and spines are thinner, and less rough ; the sacro-vertebral angle projects less ; the contour of the abdomi- nal strait is wider and more rounded; the sacrum is broader, as well as the pubic arch, of which the branches are less thick, and directed outwards ; the sciatic tuberosities, which are smaller, have also this direction ; the junction of the pubes is not so high ; and the cotyloid cavities are more remote from the centre of the body, which produces a difference in the mode of running. But although the pelvis of the female is broader than that of the male, it is not nearly so high. In the latter, the bones are * Chaussier. Tab. Synopt. des AccoucTiem,, folio, Paris. Notwithstanding this observation of Mr. Cloquet, it may still be useful to re- mind the surgeon, that the male pelvis may be deformed j that the tuberosities of the ischium will be found much nearer each other in certain male subjects than in others ; that the ramus of the pubes and of the ischium may be found quite straight, or almost perpendicular on one side, (generally the left,) whilst on the other side, it will arch widely outwards. It is sufficiently curious also to observe, that this mal-conformation of the male pelvis occurs in skeletons which present not the small-, est deformity in any of the other bones. K.