OllGANS or THL VOICK. 392 above than below. It seems formed by the junction of two qua- drilateral laminae, which, uniting in the middle line of the neck, produce an angle, which is open behind, and more or less promi- nent before, but almost always perceptible beneath the integu- ments. Its anterior surface presents, in its middle, the longitudi- nal prominence just mentioned, and which is more marked above than below. On its sides are two somewhat concave surfaces, in- clined outwards, obliquely traversed posteriorly by a slightly pro- minent ridge, which descends forwards, from the posterior edge to near the lateral third of the lower edge. This line gives attach- ment to the sterno-thyroideus and tliyro-hyoideus muscles, which cover the greater part of the cartilage. Behind it is a small sur- face in contact with the constrictor pharyngis inferior, which is in- serted upon it (1045), and sometimes a hole which gives passage to blood-vessels. The posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage presents in the middle a retiring angle, in which are inserted the ligaments of the glottis and the thyro-aryteiroid muscles. On its sides, two plain surfaces, dhected backwards and inwards, give attachment below to the crico-thyroid muscles, and correspond in part to the crico- arytenoidei laterales. Its upper edge, which is longer than the others, and deeply notched in the middle, especially in the male, gives attachment in its whole extj^nt, to the tliyro-hyoid membrane. The lower edge is divided into three notches, of which the middle is larger, the two lateral a little contracted. The first is separated from the others by two more or less prominent tubercles, in which the two obhque lateral ridges terminate. This edge gives attachment, in its mid- dle part, to the crico-thyroid membrane, and on its sides to the muscles of the same name. The two posterior edges, which are rectilinear, rounded, and pretty thick, give attachment to some fibres of the stylo-pharyngei and palato-pharyngei muscles. They terminate above, each by a prolongation which is called the Great Horn of the thyroid carti- lage. This appendage is more or less elongated, inclined back- wards and inwards, narrower at the middle than at its extremity, and terminated by a small head which is connected with the extre- mity of the great horn of the hyoid bone by a round ligament. Above, they also present each a smaller eminence, which is pretty thick, rounded, and curved inwards. This is the Small Horn of the thyroid cartilage. Its summit, which is blunt, presents at its inner side a small smooth surface, somewhat concave, which is arti- culated with a similar surface of the cricoid cartilage. OF THE CllICOID CAIITILAGE.* 1403. Tl'his is thicker than the other cartilages of the larynx, ■ Kfixos, annulus, a ring.