255 mUSCLES OF TPIE CHEST. cervical nerves, to be attached to tlie lower part of the transverse process above. These insertions take place by means of short apo- neurotic fibres. The anterior inter-transversales colli are covered anteriorly by the rectus capitis anticus major. The posterior are covered behind by the splenius, transversalis colli, and sacro-lum- balis. 834. These muscles draw the transverse processes of the neck toward each other, and contribute to the lateral inflexions of that part of the body. OF THE INTEK-TRANSVEaSALES LUMBORUM. 835. These muscles, which are aU fleshy, and are in number ten, five on each side, resemble the preceding in their general dis- position, only they are more distinct, and are not placed in two rows, ,each inter-transverse space containing only one. The first occupies the interval which exists between the transverse processes of the first lumbar, and the last dorsal vertebra : and the last oc- curs between those of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Their postei’ior surface corresponds to the sacro-lumbalis ; the anterior to the quadratus lumborum. Their lower and upper edges are at- tached to the corresponding edges of the neighbouring transverse processes, by means of very short aponeurotic fibres. 836. These muscles bend laterally the lumbar region of the ver- tebral column, or raise it when it is inclined to the opposite side. They act, however, but feebly, on account of their weakness, and the closeness of their points of attachment and termination. II.—MUSCLES OF tHE CHEST. 1. Anterior Thoracic Region. OF THE PECTORALIS MAJOR. (M. Sterno-humeral, Chauss.) 837- The Pectoralis major is a very large, flat muscle, of a tri- angular form, with rounded angles, and much narrower and thicker externally than internally. It is situated at the fore part of the tho- rax, and before the axilla. It arises from the inner half of the clavicle, from the anterior surface of the sternum, the cartilages of the true ribs, excepting the first, and over an extent so much the larger the lower these attachments are, from a small part of the bony portion of the fifth rib, and lastly, from an aponeurosis which forms a con- tinuation of that of the abdomen. 838. The part which arises from the clavicle is attached to that bone by short aponeurotic fibres; but, upon the sternum, there are observed longer aponeuroses, which are thin, with loose radiat- ing fibres, interlaced with those of the opposite muscle. At the