ORGANS OF GENERATION. 808 dilatation, wliich is named the Fossa navicularis, and is finally contracted at its orifice. ^ 2939. There are observed in the interior of the urethra and in the whole length of that canal, two median whitish lines, the one superior, the other inferior. There are also observed, but in the membranous and spongy portions only, .some longitudinal wrinkles which are effaced when the mucous membrane which forms them is distended, and which does not dive into the fossa navicularis. 2940. The inferior median line ends posteriorly at an oblong prominence, about an inch long, rounded and continuous behind with the Verumontanum (Caput Gallinaginw.) This promi- nence is formed by the mucous membrane, and contains in its most retired part a vast lacuna. Anteriorly, it becomes thin and ends in a point. The oblique orifices of the ejaculatory ducts (2920) are placed upon its sides, those of the prostate gland are seen at its surface (2918), arranged in the form of a semi-circle, and ante- riorly, those of Cowper’s glands. All these orifices are entirely destitute of Valves. Sometimes only the summit of the ridge is drawn back upon itself so as to cover with a kind of prepuce the aperture of the ejaculatory ducts. b. ORGANIZATION OF THE URETHRA. 2941. In its whole extent, the urethra is lined by a mucous membrane, which is backed, in its first two portions, by a cellular membrane, and in the last, by a layer of a soft and spongy tissue. 2942. Mucous Membrane. It is continuous, on the one hand, with that which covers the glans, and on the other, with the inner coat of the bladder (2899), and with the membranes which invest the ejaculatory and prostatic ducts, &c. It does not adhere firm- ly to the subjacent parts, excepting towards the glans and in the prostate. Its colour varies according to the different parts where it is examined, being of a bright red near the external orifice, very pale and whitish in the rest of its extent. It is folded upon itself in the direction of its length, and furnished with a multitude of small holes which are the orifices of the oblique ducts placed in its substance, and which are named Sinuses of Morgagni. These ducts appear to be lacunae, for they are not seen to proceed from follicles, as is the case in many other mucous membranes. They begin to exist opposite the bulb, and become more and more abun- dant as far as the fossa navicularis. The mucous membrane of the urethra is very delicate, so as not to be distinguishable from epidermis. It is traversed by a great number of very minute blood-vessels. 2943. Cellular Membrane. It seems to arise from the white tissue peculiar to the neck and triangular space of the bladder (2887), and at first separates the mucous membrane from the tis-