OF THE SUB-OCCIPITAL NERVES. 471) gains tlic stcrno-hyoiclcus, and divides in its substance as far as its inferior attachment, sending some filaments to the sterno-thyroideus muscle. The small plexus which terminates this branch gives off several sets of twigs. The internal, to the number of two, glide under the omo-hyoideus muscle, and throw themselves into the sterno- thyroideus, where they divide into the ascending and descending filaments. The external, which are also two in number, descend under the omo-hyoideus, and are lost in its scapular extremity. The inferior, which are more slender, and of which there are two or three, proceed along the common carotid artery, furnish some filaments to its walls, and then go to communicate with the third and fourth cervical nerves, and frequently with the diaphragmatic nerve. ,1653. Lingual Branch. This is the true continuation of the trunk. It enters at first between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glos- sus muscles, increases considerably in volume by the separation of its fibres, gives off a pretty large twig to the thyro-hyoideus muscle, receives one from the superior cervical ganglion, and sends some filaments to the constrictor pharyngis superior, stylo-pharyngeus, genio-hyoideus, mylo-hyoideus and genio-glossus. In the two last muscles there is observed a union between one of the filaments of the hypoglossal nerve and the mylo-hyoid filaments of the inferior dentar nerve (1599). Several of these filaments ascend upon the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, form there a kind of plexus by their frequent anastomoses, and all communicate with filaments of the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (1593). Amved at the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus muscle. This branch dives, along with the lingual artery, between the genio- glossus and linguahs muscles, and directs itself inwards, forwards, and upwards. It then terminates, at about an inch from the point of the tongue, by a great number of filaments which are not dis- tributed to the papdla; of its mucous membrane, but lose them- selves in the fleshy fibres of the muscles of this region, where they communicate frequently with each other. oy THE SUB-OCCIPITAL NEBVES, OR FIRST PAIR OF CERVICAL NERVES OF MANY AUTHORS. 1654. I’lie Suh-occipital Nerve arises upon the sides of the spinal marrow, immediately under the medulla oblongata, by se- ven or eight filaments united into two or three bundles before the ligamentum dentatum. Sometimes two or three other filaments, is- suing from the spinal marrow behind that ligament, form a sepa- rate root for it, a little inferior to the other. The spinal accessory nerve sometimes passes between these two origins; but most com- monly it is placed behind the posterior and communicates with the anterior (1646).