63 THE SKULL IN GENERAL. posterior. The former gives passage to the glosso-pharyngeal, pneu- mo-gastrie, and spinal accessary nerves, as ■well as to some vessels. The latter is traversed by the internal jugular vein. The anterior extremity of the petro-occipital suture opens into the Foramen lacerum anterius, the margin of which is still more irre^lar than those of the posterior, and which is formed by the meeting of the sphenoid and occipital bones, and the petrous portion of the tempo- ral. It is entirely closed by a cartilaginous substance in the re- cent state, and does not give passage to any organ. 212. On the outside of the petro-occipital suture, there is ob- served an uneven surface belonging to the petrous process of the temporal bone, and giving insertion to the internal peristaphyline muscle and tensor tympani of the malleus ; the lower orifice of the carotid canal; the styloid and vaginal processes; the petro-sphenoidal suture, which seems continuous with the glenoid fissure, and which presents at its outer extremity the orifices of the bony portion of the Eustachian tube, and of the canal of the inner muscle of the malleus; the sphenoidal spine; the two portions of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, in one of which there is frequently noticed a small canal for the chorda tympani; the transverse root of the zygomatic process ; the spheno-temporal suture ; and lastly, the foramen spheno-spinosum and foramen maxiUare inferius. 213. Anteriorly to the basilar suture, there is seen the sphenoidal crest which enters into the upper edge of the vomer. On the sides of the latter are two small grooves which receive the lips of this edge, and which are often perforated at their bottom, but only in young subjects, by the lower orifice of a narrow canal which occurs in the outer wall of the sphenoidal sinuses. There are also seen in it two narrow and not very deep channels, which concur to form the pterygo-palatine canals. Still more outwards, we find the pterygoid process ; the posterior orifice of the vidian canal, which occupies its base; the scaphoid depression situated on the upper and outer part of the inner wing of the pterygoid process, perfo- rated by vascular apertures which terminate on the other hand on the sides of the super-sphenoidal fossa, and giving attachment to the external peristaphyline muscle; the pterygoid fossa, into which is inserted the pterygoideus internus; the bifurcation which re- ceives the tuberosity of the palate bone ; and the hook over which is refiected the tendon of the peristaphylinus externus. 214. Before the pterygoid process, which descends vertically, and which forms the most prominent part of this region of the skull, is observed the anterior orifice of the vidian canal, which is wider than the posterior. Beside it, and a little to the outside, is the external orifice of the foramen rotundum ; and, anteriorly and inwards, the entrance of the sphenoidal sinuses and the junction of the sphenoid bone with the sphenoidal turbinated bones and the ethmoid bone. The perpendicular plate of the latter bone is situated between the orifice of the sinuses, and presents, on either side, two deep and narrow channels which form part of the nasal fossae, and