OF TIIF TllACIlKA AND DRON'CIIEA. 6^23 above, and is filled bdow with adipose cellular tissue, which eom- munic’ates with that of the abdomen through a separation of the fibres of the diaphragm, on the sides of the ensiform cartilage (H72). On leaving the anterior part of the mediastinum, the pleurae cover the internal inammar)- vessels and a certain number of lym- phatic ganglia. 214H. The degree of adhesion which the pleurae contract with the subjacent organs is not the same in their whole extent. They are easily detached from the sternum, ribs, intercostal muscles, and sides of the vertebral column, but are united in a more inti- mate manner to the surface of the lungs, although there exists be- tween them and the parenchyma of the organ a kind of rather dense membrane, formed of celluljir tissue. They are connected in a loose manner with the anterior and posterior part of the lateral surfaces of the pericardium, but on their middle region, and oppo- site the pulmonary vessels, they adhere with extreme firmness. 2149. The inner surface of the pleurae is smooth, polished, moistened by a serous fluid, and free of all adhesion in the natural state; those which are frequently observed upon it being always the eifect of some disease. By boiling, they lose their transpa- rency, and acquire an opaque opaline tint. Oh the sides of the diaphragm, they present small adipose appendages, similar to those which we have described as occurring on the large intestine (2126), and they are a little tliicker at the posterior surface of the chest than at the anterior. 2150. The arteries of the pleurae come from the intercostal, in- ternal mammary, diaphragmatic, inferior thyroid, thymic, pericar- diac, and bronchial arteries. The veins exactly correspond to the arteries. A prodigious quantity of lymphatics is perceived in these membranes; but no nervous filaments have yet been traced in them. 2. OF THK AEKIFEBO0S CAXALS OF THE LUNGS, Oil THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. a. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2151. The Trachea, called also the Trachea, Arteria, As~ pern Arteria, or Windpipe, is a cylindrical, fibro-cartilaginous and membranous tube, a little flattened posteriorly, placed before the vertebral column, extending from the lower part of the larynx to opposite the second or third dorsal vertebra, in the posterior me- diastinum. Running along the median line of the body, symme- trical and regular in its whole extent, slightly mobile and exten- sible, the trachea has a diameter of about eight or ten lines, which remains the same in its w'hole extent, varying only according to the age and certain individual peculiarities. It is in general pro- portional to the size of the lungs. 6