OF THE INTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRACHIAL NERVE. 4-89 aerve. Sometimes also the sixth cervical nerve furnishes it with one. That of the fourth sends a filament to lose itself in the sca- lenus posticus and levator anguli scapula?. Then, united into a single trunk, they pass behind the axillary vessels, and desceiid upon the sides of the thorax, adhering to the serratus magnus, in the lower third of which they are exhausted by a great number of ramifications, without having previously given off any filaments. SUPKA-SCArULAR BRANCH. 1683. Issuing from the upper and posterior part of the brachial plexus, and furnished especially by the fourth cervical nerve, it descends obhquely backAvards toward the upper edge of the scapu- la, passes under the ligament which closes the coracoid notch (649>) previously gives a fdament to the subscapularis muscle, then obliquely traverses the outer region of the fossa supra-spina- ta, and furnishes several filaments to the supra-spinatus muscle, under which it is situated. It then passes into the fossa infra- spinata, at the fore part of the spine of the scapula, towards the base of the acromion process, and divides into three or four twigs which descend and are subdivided in the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles. INFRA-SCAPULAR BRANCHES. 1684. They arise at variable points of the brachial plexus, and sometimes from the axillary nerve, which itself comes off from it, either separately or by a common trunk. Their number is as sub- ject to variation as their origin; but in general there are three of them. The first., which is the largest, comes from the posterior part of the plex'us, and passes behind the axiUai'y vessels to descend be- tween the serratus magnus and subscapularis, traverse the teres major, and lose itself by tAvo or three twigs on the anterior surface of the latissimus dorsi. The second, which is the smallest of the three, also issues from the plexus behind, throws itself upon the inner surface of the sub- scapularis muscle, and is distributed to it. The third has sometimes a common origin with the first, and also frequently comes from the axillary nerve. It descends obli- quely along the subscapularis muscle, and ramifies in its substance as well as in the teres major and teres minor.' OF THE INTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRACHIAL NERVE. 1685. It is the smallest of the six branches which terminate the