288 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. low whore it is thick and covered by a large quantity of llbrous cellular tissue, to which it intimately adheres. It is even there divided into two laminm which contain in their interval a certain quantity of fat. The fleshy fibres take their origin from the whole extent of its inner surface, and from the periosteum of the temporal fossa, as well as from the small ridge which separates the latter from the zygomatic fossa. They all proceed obliquely over the two surfaces of another aponeurosis occupying the middle of the muscle, broad, radiated and triangular like it, and becoming gradually thicker as it descends. From its position, it separates the fleshy fibres into two planes, an outer and an inner, the former rather thin, the latter much thicker. Opposite the zygomatic arch, it separates from the fleshy fibres, and is converted into a very strong tendon, which descends vertically towards the coro- noid process of the inferior maxUlary bone, which it embraces in its whole extent, excepting at the outside, where the masseter is in- serted. 994. The ewternal surface of the temporal muscle is covered by the epicranial aponeurosis, the superior and anterior auricular muscles, the orbicularis palpebrarum and masseter, the superficial temporal vessels and nerves, and the zygomatic arch. The internal surface is applied upon all the bones which form the temporal fossa, the internal maxillary artery, the pterygoideus extemus and buccinator muscles, from which it is separated by much fat. The upper edge of this muscle is curved ; the anterior extends from the external orbitar process of the frontal bone to the anterior edge of the coronoid process of the lower jaw. The posterior edge., which is at first attached to the horizontal root of the zygomatic process, is reflected from above downwards over the base of that process, to proceed to the posterior edge of the coronoid pro- cess. 995. The temporal muscle strongly raises the lower jaw, lowers the upper a little, and presses the teeth against each other. The posterior portion draws the jaw backwards, when it has been car- ried forward by the action of the external pterygoid muscles. 9. Lingual Region. OF THE HYO-GLOSSUS. 990. The hyo-glossiis is a thin, broad, quadrilateral muscle, si- tuated at the upper and fore part of the neck. It arises from three different points of the os hyoides, on which account it has been de- scribed by Albinus as consisting of three different muscles. The first, or Cerato-glosstis, is attached by short aponeurotic fibres tp the upper surface of the great horn of the hyoid bone. It ascends a little obliquely from behind forwards, contracting in its progress,