ORGAJJS OF SENSATION. 58G the velum palati, lips, &e., and which open upon the tongue hy very perceptible orilices, either superficially, or at the bottom of a small depression. They receive many filaments of the glosso- pharyngeal nerves, and are situated above the entrance of the latter into the tongue. 2. Ftmyiform Papillae. Their number is indeterminate, but always greater than that of the preceding. They are irregularly disseminated near the edges of the tongue, and present a rounded and flattened head, supported upon a short and narrow pedicle. Their colour is whitish. Their true nature is not known. 3. Cmiicul Papillce. These are the most numerous of all.— They occupy the space comprised between the lenticular papillae, and the edges and point of the tongue. Their arrangement is more regular behind than before. They resemble small cones, attached to the tongue by their base, and free at the summit. The posterior are larger and vertical. The anterior, which are smaller, are a little inclined, and have a more mobile summit. Those which are placed upon the fore part of the edges of the organ are filiform. They appear produced by the expansion of the filaments of the lingual nerve (1-568), and are enveloped by a very apparent vascular lace-work. They lie close upon each other, but frequent- ly leave, from space to space, intervals in the form of irregular clefts, which are more frequent anteriorly than posteriorly. 2011. The nerves of the tongue are furnished by the inferior maxillary (1568), glosso-pharyngeal (1598), and hypo-glossal (1625), nerves. The filaments of the two latter belong especially to its muscles or mucous follicles. The first is distributed to the membrane, and to the conical papilla? in particular. 2012. The arteries of the tongue are furnished by the lingual branches of the external carotid arteries, and by the palatal and tonsillar twigs of the labial. Its veins are the Superficial lingual, ranine, lingual, and submental. They open into those of the pha- rynx and larynx. Its lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia situated on the edge of the hyoglossi muscles. 2013. Under the mucous membrane, there scarcely occurs any cellular tissue, unless it be beyond the foramen coecum, between the fleshy fibres and the glosso-epiglotic folds (1416), where a thick, membraniform layer of it is seen, which never contains fat, and is fixed upon the concavity of the hyoid bone. It is about an inch in length, and receives anteriorly some fibres of the genio- glossi muscles and of the base of the tongue. Between the fleshy fibres of the tongue, there is besides found a very fine fat, more abundant posteriorly than before, and which does not appear to be enveloped by any tissue. • 2014. Behind each of the fringes formed under the tongue by the mucous membi’ane, there is perceived a glandular, amygdaloid- al granular mass, of a reddish-gray colour, traversed by a great quantity of blood-vessels, and by filaments of the lingual nerve of the inferior maxillary.