4.11 OF THE CEREBllAL PROTUBEUANCE. middle by a sort of longitudinal raphe. After passing beneath the anterior notch of the cerebellum, this lamina becomes broader, and a little thinner, and is united to the posterior wall of the fourth ventricle. By its sides it is evidently continuous with the superior peduncles of the cerebellum. Immediately beneath the point where it leaves the pons Varolii, there is observed an aperture which is the posterior orifice of the Aqueduct of Syicius, by which the third and fourth ventricles communicate across the sub- stance of the pons Varolii itself Farther down, is a slightly ex- cavated and nearly vertical surface, which constitutes the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle. It is covered with a layer of grayish substance, and separated in its whole length by a narrow angular groove, which commences at the aqueduct of Sylvius, and termi- nates in the spinal marrow opposite the atlas. This groove is commonly named the Calamus Scriptorius, on account of its forming an acute angle at its termination, having some resemblance to the point of a pen. Several white and very delicate oblique lines proceeding from above downwards and from without inwards, meet in this groove. They seem to be a kind of bands slightly apphed upon the surface of the protuberance. Haller, Vicq d’Azyr and Soemmering, consider these white filaments as the commencement of the acoustic nerve; but as their number and direction vary much, and as they are sometimes wanting, Pro- chaska and Gall declare against this opinion. Of these striae, however, the upper pretty generally go to the acoustic nerve, the middle and inferior to the cerebellum. 1444. The upper extremity of the Pons Varolii is broad and prominent, and forms a sort of rim whose sides are continuous with the peduncles of the brain. The lower surface is less voluminous and more rounded, and is separated from the spinal marrow by a transverse groove, which is produced, not by an interruption in the continuity of the cerebral substance, but by the thickness of the transverse layers of the cerebral protuberance itself. Its sides are united to the peduncles of the cerebellum. 4. OF THE MEDULLA SPINALIS, CONSIDEIIED AS TO ITS EXTERIOR. 1445. The Medulla Spinalis or Spinal Marrow,’is a thick and long, irregularly cylindrical cord, which descends from the cerebral protuberance, within the vertebral canal, to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebra, and always in the adult lower than in the child. Its weight varies from the nineteenth part to the twenty-fifth part of that of the brain in the adult man. In the new-born child, it does not form more than the fortieth part. The weight diminishes proportionally by desiccation, much more than that of the other portions of the cerebral organ. Its volume va- ries in the different parts of its extent. It is very bulging at its commencement, which is only distinguished from the cerebral pro- tuberance by a transverse depression. It then contracts much.