OF THE SKIN. 587. ARTICLE FIFTH- OF THE SKIN CONSIDERED AS THE GENERAL ORGAN OF TOUCH. 2015. The Skin constitutes the general envelope of the body, under the form of a dense, compact, firm membrane, of consider- able thickness, very flexible, possessed of great sensibility, exposed to the immediate contact of the air, and perforated opposite the eyes, nostrils, ears, mouth, anus and genital organs, by orifices of greater or less size, but always furnished with more or less strong and apparent hairs. In the circumference of these apertures, it is also always continuous with mucous membranes. 2016. The outer surface of the skin is surmounted by a great number of small eminences resembling papiUm, and furrowed with a multitude of wrinkles, some depending upon the action of mus- cles, as on the forehead and eyebrows, in the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot; others produced by the rows of papiUae, as at the extremities of the fingers and toes, or by the presence of an articulation; or, lastly, by a particular disposition of the cellu- lar tissue, as in the neck. This surface is covered with hairs which vary according to the regions which they occupy, and which do not exist at all the pe- riods of life. It presents moreover a multitude of pores, of which some are the excretory orifices of sebaceous follicles, whilst the others are exhaling, and absorbent mouths. The latter are scarce- ly visible without the aid of optical instruments. 2017. The colour of the skin is not the same in the different nations distributed over the globe, and even varies in individuals. It is black in the Negro, copper-coloured in the American, taAvny in the Arab, white in the European. In general also, this mem brane is finer and whiter in women and children, than in adults and inen. In old people, it becomes dry and shrivelled. 2016. The inner siirfuce of the skin is connected with the dif- ferent parts which it covers by a cellular tissue, the nature and disposition of which are not the same in the whole extent of the body. It is in general filled with adipose vesicles (783) ; but, in some parts, it is absolutely destitute of them, as in the eyelids, scrotum, penis, &c. The adhesion of the skin to the subjacent organs is subject to similar variations, being frequently slight, as- in the neck and lower belly, while at other times this membrane furnishes points of attachment to muscles, as on the forehead, and eyebrow, and in the palm of the hand. 2019. The skin is composed of three very distinct layers, the. derm 'is or chorion, the rete mucosum, and the epidermis or cu- ticle.