ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 350 tJie ring-finger. Its posterior surface is covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the fourth to the iifth metacarpal bone, by the extensor tendons of the little finger, and by the skin ; the anterior ■is concealed above, beneath the interosseous muscle of the little finger, and appears below between it and the preceding muscle. It carries the ring-finffer inwards. 1248. Interosseus Digiti Minimi. It is an abductor, of the same form as the others, and is inserted into the two anterior thirds of the outer surface of the fifth metacarpal bone, and into the liga- ments by which it is connected with the os unciforme. Its ten- don is attached to the outside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx and of the exterior tendon of the little finger. Its ante- rior surface is covered by the opponens minimi digiti; the outer corresponds to the preceding muscle. It carries the little finger outwards. 1249. From their connections with the tendons of the extensors of the fingers, the interossei and lumbricales may contribute to ex- tend the fingers. OF THE ENVELOPING APONEUIIOSIS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 1250. A fibrous sheath, varying in strength and closeness in the different parts of its extent, surrounds all the muscles of the upper extremity from the shoulder to the hand. The place where it ori- ginates cannot be precisely determined. It is evidently confounded with the cellvdar tissue in the arm-pit, before and behind which it proceeds as far as the . tendons of the pectoralis major (840) and latissimus dorsi (884). The deltoid muscle does not appear to be covered by it: it seems only to be detached from its humeral ten- don ; but beyond that muscle it is continuous with an aponeurosis which ascends to the spine of the scapula, covering the infra-spina- tus. From these different points of origin, to the elbow joint, this sheath bears the name of brachial aponeurosis. It descends along the arm, which it closely envelopes, is separated from its muscles by nerves, vessels, and much cellular tissue, adheres nevertheless to the different fibrous laminaa which separate the brachialis inter- nus from those which surround it, sends off near the elbow some prolongations into the subcutaneous celkdar tissue, is inserted by two bundles into the external and internal condyles, and is continued before and behind over the fore-arm. It is very delicate, transpa- rent, and is cellular in several places. It also however presents oblique, longitudinal, and transverse fibres, which cross each other in various directions. Of all the aponeuroses of the limbs, it is the least capable of resistance. Its oiiter surface is covered by the skin, by cellular tissue, and by the superficial veins, nerves, and lymphatics of the arm. It appears to form very thin sheaths for these different organs. Its inner surface is applied upon all the muscles of the arm, and upon the bundle of vessels and nerves which descends along its inner and fore part.