764 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. twigs which unite with the preceding, and come from the pleur.m, diaphragm, posterior mediastinum, &c. C. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH TERMINATE PARTLY IN THE THORACIC DUCT, PARTLY IN PARTICULAR TRUNKS OPEN- ING INTO THE VEINS. 1. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE LUNGS. 2764. Superficial Lymphatics. Placed beneath the pleura, they form on the surface of the lung a series of areolae of various forms, more commonly hexagonal, and unite into a certain number of trunks which enter the ganglia with which the bronchus is sur- rounded at its entrance into the organ. These vessels are re- markable for the extreme thinness of their walls. 2765. Deep Lymphatics of the Lungs. Disseminated through the whole tissue of the lungs, they follow the divisions of the veins, communicating by a great number of twigs with the superficial lym- phatics, with which they at length entirely unite in the bronchial ganglia, whence both emerge to ascend upon the bronchi as far as the trachea. There they meet with new ganglia, divide in them, and more particularly in one of them which occupies the angle formed by the bifurcation of the trachea. From this large ganglion there issue several trunks, some of which, after ascending upon the trachea and traversing some small ganglia, unite and open into the right great lymphatic vein, while the others, which are much more numerous, traverse ganglia situ- ated in like manner upon the trachea, under the thyroid gland, and collect into two trunks which bend obliquely to the left, behind the internal jugular vein, to discharge themselves into the thoracic duct, or separately into the corresponding internal jugular or sub- ' clavian vein. 2. SUDSTERNAL, DIAPHRAGMATIC, CARDIAC, THYMIC, AND {ESOPHAGEAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 2766. Suhsternal Lymphatics. They accompany the internal mammary vessels, embracing them on all sides. They arise from the upper half of the anterior wall of the abdomen, and their roots anastomose with those of the epigastric lymphatics. They enter the thorax between the xiphoid appendage and the diaphragm, ascend behind the sides of the sternum, traverse several ganglia, form some plexus, and unite into trunks of greater or less size. One of these trunks only directs itself to the left side, crosses an- teriorly the subclavian vein, throws itself into the inferior jugular ganglia, and terminates in the thoracic duct. The rest open se-