ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6H B. OF THE COLON.* a. CONFORMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2121. The Colon forms the most considerable portion of the large intestine. It extends from the right iliac region to the left, between the ccecum and the rectum, with which it is continuous, and describing various turns which have caused it to be divided into four portions : 1. The Right Lumbar or Ascending Ccdon ; 2. The Arch of the Colon or Transverse Colon; 3. The Left Lumbar or Descending Colon; 4. The Sigmoid Flexure or Left Iliac Colon. 2122. The Ascending Colon commences at the coecum and ascends upwards and a little backwards to near the edge of the corresponding false ribs. Anteriorly, it is covered by the peri- toneum and small intestine; posteriorly, it corresponds immedi- ately to the quadratus lumborum and kidney of the right side; internally, it is connected with the inferior lamina of the trans- verse mesocolon and the right lamina of the mesentery (2109) ; externally, it is applied against the walls of the abdomen. Its volume does not much exceed that of the small intestine. Its mobility is not great, on account of its being connected with the kidneys and quadratus lumborum by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Sometimes, however, the peritoneum forms for it posteriorly a more or less loose fold, which is named the Right Lumbar Mesocolon. 2123. The Arch of the Colon occupies the anterior and inferior region of the epigastrium, beneath the stomach, above the small intestine, behind the great omentum’’and before the transverse me- socolon. It commonly proceeds directly from one hypochondrium to the other; but sometimes also it is inflected in the middle and descends into the umbilical region. This is the longest and largest of the four portions of the colon. Its upper surface is free and smooth. It corresponds to the liver and the great curve of the stomach, which advances more or less upon it, and at its left end is in relation with the spleen. Its lower surface, which is also smooth and polished, rests upon the mass of the small intestine. Its anterior edge, which is convex, gives attachment to the great omentum, and is in contact with the walls of the abdomen; the pos- terior is concave, and embraced by a fold of the peritoneum nam- ed the Transverse Mesocolon. 2124. The Descending Colon commences under the spleen, and bears the greatest similarity, in respect to size, fixedness, and relations, to the ascending portion. Like it, it is placed behind the small intestine, and before the left kidney and quadratus lum- “ KuXat of the Greeks, from fcr/iihco.