PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 52 lissuvc there pass the tendon of the anterior muscle of the malleus, some vessels, and a nerve called the Cord of the Tympanum. 173. This fissure, passing inwards and a little downwards, di- vides into two portions the Glenoid Cavity of the temporal bone, which is a sort of shallow fossa, turned downwards, outwards, and forwards, of an irregularly oval form, circumscribed externally by the superior root, and anteriorly by the transverse root of the zy- gomatic process, so that it seems to occupy the interval which ex- ists between them. The anterior portion of this cavity is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and is articulated with the con- dyle of the lower maxillary bone. Its posterior portion, which is less smooth and less concave, is covered with periosteum, and does not form part of the joint. 174. Behind and to the outside of the glenoid cavity, between the two divisions of the upper root of the process, is seen the ori- fice of the external auditory canal, (meatus auditorius extern nus.) This canal seems formed of an osseous plate twisted upon itself, blending above with the rest of the bone, and forming below an unequal rugged edge, more or less prominent, which gives attachment to the cartilage of the ear. On this account the entrance of the meatus always appears lacerated at its lower part. The canal itself has a direction from behind forwards and from without inwards, is a httle curved downwards, wider in the middle than at the two extremities, opens into the cavity of the tympanum, and is lined with a prolongation of the skin. Its length is about nine lines. Above and behind, it terminates sooner than below and before. In the fetus, it is substituted by a bony circle sepa- rated from the rest of the bone and interrupted above. 175. Beyond the meatus auditorius there is observed a conical eminence, named the Mastoid Process on account of its form, which has been compared to that of a nipple. It is much more prominent in old people than in young subjects, has a rough and granular surface, is more or less obtuse, more or less straight or curved, more or less convex, and is sometimes terminated by a sort of scale. It gives attachment to the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and is surmounted by a rough surface, into which that muscle is inserted, together with the splenius and small complexus. It is here that the Foramen Mastoideum commonly occurs, although it varies much in its position, being sometimes met with in the occi- pital bone, and not unfrequently in the suture by which that bone is joined to the temporal. It gives passage to an artery and an emissary vein of Santorini. Sometimes it is wanting on one side, and occasionally there are three or four in each bone. To the in- side of the mastoid process is a longitudinal depression named the Digastric Groove, on account of its giving attachment to the muscle of that name, and another groove, less deep, for the small complexus muscle. 176. A Cerebral or Internal Surface. This surface presents at the upper part a space which is obliquely cut, deeply striated,