378 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. contains it alone at the level of the calcaneum, so that it seems bifurcated at its lower part. 1361. It extends the leg and foot mutually upon each other, raising the outer edge of the latter a little. C. MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 1. Dorsal Region of the Foot. OF THE EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. 1362. This is a broad flat muscle, thin and fleshy behind, ter- minated anteriorly by four tendons. It arises from the upper sur- face of the calcaneum, before the groove which lodges the tendon of the peroneus brevis, from the external ligament of the calca- neum and astragalus (749), and from the annular ligament of the tarsus (1397)5 proceeds forwards and inwards, increasing in breadth, and soon divides into four portions, of which the two inner are larger and shorter. Each of these portions is terminate cd by a thin and flat tendon, at first concealed among the fleshy fibres, but afterwards isolated. These tendons cross the direction of those of the extensor longus, passing under them, and travers- ing the metatarsus obliquely. The first, on arriving at the articu- lation of the metatarsus with the phalanx of the great toe, be- comes broader and is inserted at the upper part of the posterior extremity of its first phalanx. The other three pass over the up- per surface of the first phalanges of the second, third and fourth toes, and join the outer edge of the tendons of the extensor longus muscle to terminate along with them. (1328). 1363. The upper surface of this muscle is covered by a very thin aponeurotic lamina, extended over the back of the foot, and by the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum pedis. The infe- o'ior surface covers the tarsus, the metatarsus, the interossei dor- sales muscles, and the phalanges. 1364. It extends the first four toes, and directs them a little out- wards. 2. Middle Plantar Region. OF THE FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. 1365. This is a flat elongated muscle, much narrower and thicker behind than before, where it is divided into four portions. It arises from the posterior and inferior part of the calcaneum, between the adductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated by two aponeurotic partitions. Some of its fibres also arise from these partitions, as well as from the plantar