427 STllUCTURE OF THE CEREBELLUM. long.T!tions which ascend from the rcstiform processes, there is.ivund the Ventricle of the Cerebellum or Fourth Ventricle^ formed at once by tlic ccrebelknn, the eorpus callosum, and the medulla, ob-r longata. Its anterior ivall is formed by the posterior surface of the latter, and presents the Calatmis scriptorius, transverse white stria', and the posterior orifice of the aqueduct of Sylvius (1443.) Its lateral walla arc limited by the prolongations which come from the tubcrcula quadrigemina and qorpora restiformia, which separate from each other as they ascend, so that the ventricle is broader above than below. Its posterior wall is shorter than the other, and is formed by a part of the anterior notch of the cerebellum. Its upper extremity is closed by the valvula Vieussenii (1443.) Its lowei' extremity is also closed, but by a dense and strong mem- brane, of a grayish colour, appearing to be continuous with the pia mater. The latter forms beneath it a small fold resembling the choroid web. There also occurs in this place a small mass of blood- vessels and reddish granulations, which is designated by the name of Choroid Plexus of the Fourth Ventricle. It forms a small three- lobed body, of which the middle lobe projects in the ventricle, while the two lateral, which are smaller and rounded, occupy the sides of the fissure which separates the cei-ebcUum from the cere- bral protuberance. Between these two portions, at the extremity of the middle lo- bule of the cerebellum, in the substance of the fold of the pia ma- ter, is a small conical tubercle, the Laminar Tubercle of the Fourth Ventricle., the summit of which is composed of several transverse and parallel laminae, while its base is connected with the substance of the cerebellum by a peduncle. Moreover, on each side, it sends to the lobular appendage of the cerebellum (1439) a membranous fold, in the interior of which is a lamina of white substance, and of which the outer edge is concave, free and floating. This tubercle has a great resemblance to the pineal gland. 1484. Each of the peduncles having arrived at the centre of the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, forms an elongated oblong mass, sending from its circumference a lamina into the cen- tre of each of the lobules. These laminae are much less distinct above than below, and especially than behind. Each of them is divided into several branches for each of the principal laminae of the cerebellum, and these branches divide into ramuscules for the secondary laminae. To this assemblage the name of Arbor Vitce has been given. It is enveloped on all sides by tlie cineritious .substance. Moreover, the valvula Vieussenii and the two prolongations of the tubercula quadrigemina emit from their upper part various white laminae, which are distributed in the central part of the cere- bellum much in the same manner as the laminae of the arbor vitae arc in each of the hemispheres. These ramifications are distribut- ed into the laminae of the vermiform process. 1485. The arteries of the cerebrum and cerebellum come from