OF THE SUBLINGUAL GLAND. 7T5 ed in this direction with the parotid gland. Internally, the super- ficial portion of its anterior extremity advances towards the digas- tric muscle, and the deep portion, which is engaged behind the mylo-hyoideus muscle, touches the sublingual gland. In the same direction, it is separated from its fellow by the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles and the genio-hyoidei. Anteriorly, it is co- vered by the inferior maxillary bone, and posteriorly, is in con- nection with the lingual nerve, the stylo-glossus and hyo-glos- sus muscles, and the facial artery, which it embraces. Inferiorly, it rests upon the platysma myoides and the integuments. Superior- ly, it is prolonged more or less between the pterygoideus internus and mylo-hyoideus. It is moreover surrounded by a pretty consi- derable, although variable number of lymphatic ganglia. 2808. The excretory duct of the sub-maxillary gland is com- monly designated by the name of Whartoii's Duct. It is much smaller than Steno’s duct, and has much thinner walls, which are transparent, and more elastic. Arising in the same manner by very slender radicles in the lobules of the gland, it issues from its deepest portion, passes between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus muscles, and proceeds nearly horizontally from without inwards, and a httle forwards, between the genio-glossus and the sub-lingual gland, from which it often receives several excretory ducts. When it has arrived upon the side of the frenum linguae, it places itself beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, and terminates in this place by a very narrow orifice, situated in the middle of a slightly prominent tubercle. It is coasted, in its whole extent, by the lingual nerve, and lined in its interior by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the mouth. Perhaps it is entirely formed by the latter. 2809. The arteries of the sub-maxUlary gland are numerous, but of small size. They are furnished by the trunk of the facial and the branches of the lingual arteries. Its veins correspond exactly to the arteries. Its nerves come from the lingual nerve (1596), the myloid branch of the inferior dentar nerve (1598), and the sub-maxillary ganglion (1893). The cellular envelope of the submaxillary gland is proportionally much thinner than that of the parotid gland. The structure of the two organa is precisely similar. OF THE SUBLINGUAL GLAND. 2810. The Sublingual Gland is placed in the substance of the inferior wall of the mouth, under the fore part of the tongue, and seems in general to be merely a sort of appendage to the submaxil- gland. Its position is nearly horizontal, and its direction pa- rallel to that of the opposite side. It is smaller than the submaxil- la.ry gland, of an oblong form with its greatest diameter from be- hind forwards, transversely flattened, and nearly of the shape of