MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 35J OF THE OBTURATOU INTERNUS. 1272. This muscle is almost entirely situated within the pelvis. It is flat and triangular, forms an angle, and is reflected upon itself as it emerges from the pelvis, to proceed to the upper and posterior part of the thigh. It arises, by rather indistinct aponeurotic fibres, from the posterior surface of the pubes, within and above the obturator hole, from the obturator ligament (637,) excepting to- wards the aperture through which the obturator vessels and nerve pass, where it is connected with a small fibrous arch, and from the bony surface which separates the obturator hole from the sciatic notcii, immediately beneath the upper strait of the pelvis. Arising from all these points, the fleshy fibres converge, and descend un- der the sciatic spine. But before they reach that point, they meet with four or five distinct, isolated, tendinous slips, occupying at first the interior of the muscle, then appearing upon its outer sur- face, approaching each other, and at length turning outwards over the edge of the small sciatic notch, as over a pulley, where they are lodged each in a small groove incrusted with cartilage. On emerg- ing from the pelvis, these slips unite into a single horizontal, thick and flat tendon, separated from the fleshy fibres, situated between the two geraelli, confounded with their tendons and inserted along with them, into the cavity of the trochanter, between the pyrami- dalis and obturator externus. 1273. The outer surface of this muscle is applied within the pelvis against the iliac bone and obturator ligament. Externally of that cavity, it is covered by the sciatic nerve and glutaeus maxi- mus. Its inner surface corresponds to an aponeurosis into which is inserted the levator ani (1073), and passes over the capsule of the ilio-femoral articulation. 1274. Synodal Bursa. At the place where the obturator mus- cle bends, there is observed a synovial capsule, plentifully mois- tened, lining the cartilaginous layer which incrusts the small sciatic notch, and reflected over the slips of the tendon, and a little over the outer surface of the muscle, especially at its outer part. 1275. It rotates the thigh outwards, and draws it in the same direction. OF THE OBTURATOU EXTERNUS. 1276. Situated at the upper and inner ])art of the thigh, and of the form of a flattened conoid, this muscle arises from the lamina of the iliac l)one which limits the obturator hole anteriorly, and from the inner part of the anterior surface of its ligament. From thence, it descends outwards, becoming narrower, then ascends behind the neck of the femur, where its fleshy fibres terminate upon a tendon which comes from several slips that had existed in the substance of the muscle, contracts, becomes thicker, and is