OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 661 penetrate into the accessory palatine canals, and issue from them on the tuberosity of the same name to be distributed to the velum palati. With respect to the trunk itself, after leavmg its canal, it is reflected from behind forwards between the membrane and the vault of the palate, lodged in a particular groove of the latter. In this course, the artery is very flexuous, and furnishes a great num- ber of twigs to the mucous membrane and follicles of the palate- One of these twigs ascends to the nasal fossa? by the anterior pala- tine foramen. 4. OF THE SPIIENO-rALATINE AllTEUY. 2283. This may be considered as the terminating branch of the internal maxillary artery. It penetrates to the posterior part of the superior meatus of the nasal fossae (356) by the spheno- palatine foramen. There, beneath the pituitary membrane, it di- vides into two or three principal twigs; but frequently this divi- sion takes place previously, and in the spheno-maxillary fossa itself. One of these twigs is distributed to the septum of the nasal fossae. The others lose themselves around the ethmoidal turbinated bone, in the superior and middle meatus, the maxillary sinus and the posterior ethmoid cells. Their ramifications anastomose with those of the ethmoid arteries, and give a deep red tint to the pituitary membrane, on accouxit of their great number and their superficial }M)sition. OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 2284. It separates from the external behind the digastrieus muscle, enters the space which exists between the ramus of the in- ferior maxilla and the pharynx, and ascends a little inwards before the vertebral column, becoming deeper and deeper as it approaches the skull, into which it introduces itself by the carotid canal. It is accompanied externally by the internal jugular vein, internally by the pneumo-gastric nerve, the superior cervical ganglion and the twig by which it communicates with the middle cervical gan- glion. It is connected with these different parts by a loose and filamentous cellular tissue. Its direction is by no means rectili- near. It forms at first a curve whose convexity rests upon the vertebral column, and near the skull presents another having its convexity directed outwards. '^J'liese flexuositics are extremely va- riable, and are very rarely found the same in two subjects. In all this part of its course, the internal carotid artery furnishes no branch. 2285. In passing through the carotid canal, it accommodates it- self to the different directions which it follows (170)i that from being at first vertical, it afterwards directs itself a little obliquely