458 ORGANS OF SENSATION. anatomists describe as coming from the internal nasal nerve, in the frontal sinuses and ethmoid cells. 1584. E.'i'ternal Nasal Twig. It proceeds in the original di- rection of the nerve, along the inner wall of the orbit, and on ar- riving beneath the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquus oculi supe- rior muscle, anastomoses witli a filament of the internal frontal nerve, issues fVom the orbit, and divides into several filament.? which are distributed to the upper eyelid, where they unite with the filaments of the internal frontal nerve; to the lower eyebd, where they meet those of the infr^orbitar and facial nerves ; to the Caruncula lachrymalis; the lachrymal sac; the back of the nose, where they frequently anastomose with the ramifications of the first division of the preceding twig; the pyramidaUs muscle, and the skin. 2. OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 1585. Larger than the ophthalmic, and smaller than the inferior maxillary, the superior maxillary nerve arises from the middle part of the common bulging of the trifacial nerve, proceeds for- wards and a little outwards, and penetrates into the foramen rotun- dum of the sphenoid bone, to pass into the spheno-maxiUary fossa (361). From its origin to this point the nerve, which is at first broad, afterwards contracts, presents a triangular form, and pre- serves a grayish tint and a very apparent plexiform disposition. At its entrance into the spheno-maxillary fissure, it resembles the other nerves. It traverses the fissure horizontally, introduces it- self into the infra-orbitar canal, passes through it, and emerges to be expanded upon the cheek. 1586. Orhitar Twig. In traversing the foramen rotundum of the' spheniod bone, sometimes in the spheno-maxiUary fossa, the superior maxUlary nerve furnishes a pretty considerable twig, which directs itself forwards and upwards, and penetrates into the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure. It there divides, beneath the depressor oculi muscle, into two filaments. One of these, the malar, first anastomoses with the lachrymal nerve, passes through a canal of the cheek bone, is distributed to the orbicularis palpe- brarum muscle and the skin, and terminates by uniting with a fil- ament of the facial nerve. The other filament, the temporal, passes through the orbitar portion of the same bone, enters the temporal fossa, communicates with a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, ascends obliquely outwards and backwards, pierces the temporal aponeurosis, becomes subcutaneous, accompanies the superficial temporal artery, anastomoses with some filaments of the facial nerve, and loses itself in the skin of the temples and the top of the head. 1587- In the spheno-maxillary fissure, the superior maxillary nerve receives one or two short and thick twigs, which come from 3