PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 116 angular curvilinear space, the angles of which are very rounded, and whose base corresponds to the sacrum. This line is named the Brim or Margin of the pelvis, while the space which it em- braces is called the Upper or Abdominal Strait, or the Entrance of the Ewcavation of the Pelvis. Proceeding from the junction of the sacrum with the last vertebra, this line passes over the ilium and is prolonged upon the pubes. It is much more distinct pos- teriorly and on the sides than before. The abdominal strait has the form of an ellipse, whose greatest axis is transverse, and whose circumference is interrupted posteriorly by the projection of the promontory. Its capacity is measured by four diameters, whose dimensions are greater in the female than in the male, and which are as follows : 1st, the antero-posterior or sacro-pubic, extending from the upper edge of the sacrum to the inner surface of the junction of the pubes, which is the smallest; 2dly, the transverse or iliac, from one side of the pelvis to the other, intersecting the preceding at right angles, and which is the largest; 3dly, two oblique, measured from the cotyloid waU of one side to the union of the sacrum with the iliac bones on the other, and which are in- termediate in size. 406. Above the upper strait, is seen the Great Pelvis, a sort of cavity which leads into the pelvis properly so called, or that ex- pansion which constitutes the haunches, in which are observed, posteriorly, the Sacro-vertebral Angle; on the sides, the iliac fossae; and, anteriorly, a large notch, filled up by the broad muscles of the abdomen. 407. Beneath this strait is the Small Pelvis or Pelvic Excava- tion, remarkable for its capacity, which is somewhat greater than that of the strait itself; for the disposition of its walls, which all form smooth planes, inclined toward the lower aperture of the pel- vis ; and for its length, which is greater than that of the upper pelvis, although its breadth is much smaller. It seems to consti- tute a sort of curved canal, dilated in the middle and contracted at its upper and lower extremities. Posteriorly, where it is concave from above downwards and directed downwards, it presents the concave surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx; anteriorly, where it is transversely concave and directed upwards, the posterior parts of the junction of the pubes, two surfaces which correspond to the bladder, and the two obturator holes ; and, on the sides, the great sciatic notches and a portion of the articulation of the sacrum and iliac bone. UPPER CIRCUMFERENCE, OR BASE OF THE PELVIS. 408. It is inclined upwards and forwards, is very uneven, and is wider in the female than the male. It presents laterally the two iliac crests ; posteriorly, the sacro-vertebral angle, on the sides of which are two depressions filled by the muscles of the loins, and in