490 ORGANS OF SENSATION. brachial plexus, from the inner and lower part of which it comes, being furnished almost exclusively by the first dorsal nerve and the last cervical. It descends vertically under the brachial aponeuro- sis, along the inner surface of the arm, near the basilic vein, which is sometimes placed before, sometimes behind it, and sometimes on its sides. At first deeply concealed in the cellular tissue of the axilla, between the median and ulnar nerves, it becomes more su- perficial as it descends ; but it only gives off some very slender filaments which lose themselves in the cellular tissue and skin, and of which one directs itself towards the inner condyle. It is near this tuberosity, and sometimes sooner, that the trunk of the nerve itself divides into two branches, an external, and an internal. 1686. External Branch. Smaller than the other, it runs along the edge of the biceps muscle, almost immediately pierces the brachial aponeurosis, and directs itself obliquely downwards and forwards, placed above the median nerve, which it accompa- nies as far as the lower part of the biceps muscle. Then travers- ing the middle of the bend of the arm, it remains on the surface of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm until near the wrist, where it ter- minates by twigs which are distributed to the integuments, and which cannot be traced beyond the annular ligament of the wrist (1252.) In passing over, the fore-arm, it gives off on either side filaments which may be distinguished into radial and ulnar, and which proceed obliquely downwards, and are distributed to the m- teguments of this part of the upper extremity, anastomising on the one hand with the twigs of the external cutaneous brachial nerve, and on the other, with those of the internal branch of the internal cutaneous nerve itself (1687). 1687- Internal Branch. This may be regarded as the conti- nuation of the trunk. It continues to descend upon the brachialis internus muscle and accompanied by the basilic vein. Near the inner condyle, that is to say, after a short course, it divides into two twigs. Of these, the anterior directs itself obliquely over the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, passing sometimes behind some- times before the median-basilic vein, and then furnishes, especially by its inner side, several filaments which descend very far behind the fore-arm and ramify in its integuments. Some of them ex- tend as far qs the inner edge of the hand.- The posterior turns backwards under the condyle, descends along the ulna, and ter- minates by a great number of filaments which may be followed in the integuments as far as the back- of the hand and to near the little finger. OF THE EXTEllNAL CUTANEOUS iJKAClIlAL NKKVE, 1688. A little larger than the preceding, but smaller than the otlier brachial nerves, it arises from the outer })art of the j)lexus, and comes in particuh.r Irom the fi'urth and filth cervical ncrvciJ,