647 OF THE SUPERIOU THYROID ARTERY. 2231. Inferiovly, tlic external carotid is only covered by the platysma myoides and the skin ; but it presently sinks under the hypoglossal nerve and the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and lastly under the parotid gland. Internally, it is in relation below with the internal carotid artery, at the middle with the stylo-pharyngei and stylo-glossi muscles, and above with the styloid process of the temporal bone. 2232. The branches which this artery furnishes may be dis- tinguished mto those Avhich arise from its anterior part, which are three in number, and are named the Stipenur Thyroid, Faoicil and Linyual Arteries; those which come from its posterior region, which are two in number, and are called the Occipital and Auru cular Arteries; that which issues from its inner side, the Inferior Pharyngeal Artery ; and, lastly, those by which it terminates, the Temporal and the Internal Maxillary Arteries. ANTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. . a. OF THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. 2233. Situated at the fore and upper part of the neck, it ex- tends from the external carotid to the thyroid body and larynx. It arises from the fore part of the external carotid, very near its origin, and even sometimes opposite to it, then descends inwards and forwards towards the side of the larynx, where it changes its direction, and, proceeds almost vertically downwards, towards the summit of the corresponding lobe of the thyroid body, where it arrive^ after describing different sinuosities, which vary in different subjects. In this course it is covered, from without inwards, by the platysma myoides, omo-hyoideus, and sterno-thyroideus muscles, to which it gives some small ramifications, which arrive at the skin and other neighbouring muscles, as the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, sterno-hyoideus., thyro-hyoideus, and constrictor pharyngis medius. 2234. Laryngeal Branch. Towards the upper part of the larynx, the superior tliyroid artery furnishes this branch, which directs itself transversely behind the thyro-hyoideus muscle over the thyroid membrane, gives the latter some small twigs, which are also dis- tributed to the muscles of the hyoid bone, and anastomose with those of the opposite side, and traverse it in company with the in- ternal-laryngeal nerve of the pneumo-gastric (1680). On entering the larynx, this twig bifurcates. One of its branches throws itself into the crico-arytenoidcus lateralis, and crico-thyroideus muscles ; the other winds around the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and loses itself in the crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle. Both unite witli those of the opposite side, and send a prodigious number of ramifications over the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane of the larynx. 2 u