MUSCLES OF THE INFP^RIOR EXTREMITIES. 353 muscles of the thumb and those of the little finger. Its anterior surface is connected with tlie dermis by numerous fibres, and ad- heres to an adipose tissue disposed in small rounded masses. The posterior surface lies over the flexor tendons, the lumbricales, and the vessels and nerves of the palm of the hand. II. MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. A. MUSCLES OF THE HAUXCH AND THIGH. 1. Region of the Mips. OF THE GLUT/EUS MAXIMUS. 125(). This muscle which is broad, very thick and quadrilateral, is what especially forms the hip. It is attached above by short aponeurotic fibres, to the upper part of the crest of the iliac bone, to an uneven, convex, and naiTow portion of the outer surface of the same bone, (389,) to the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, over which it is continued into the aponeurosis of the sacro-spinalis and latissimus dorsi, (823, 884;) in the middle, to the inequalities of the posterior surface of the sacrum, to the circumference of the notch which terminates the sacral canal, and to the lateral parts of the coccyx, as far as the summit of that bone ; externally and in- feriorly, to the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament. The fleshy fibres arising from these difterent places, collect into very distinct fasciculi, separated from one another by lines filled with cellular tissue. All these fasciculi, which are parallel to each other, and longer the nearer they are to the lower part of the muscle, descend obliquely outwards and forwards, towards the great trochanter. The upper fasciculi terminate at the upper part of a tendon, very thick and narrow below, broad and thin above, and so confounded externally with the fascia lata, as to be inseparable from it. This tendon, as it descends, receives the other fleshy fibres in succession along-its posterior edge, from the level of the great trochanter, and is after- w'ards inserted, in an extent of about three inches, into a rough im- pression, which proceeds from the base of the great trochanter to the linea aspera of the femur, and into the upper part of that line, between the third adductor and the triceps. 12.57- I’he posterior surface of the glutaeus maximus is imme- diately covered by a very thin lamina of the fascia lata, and con- nected with the skin by a layer of extremely thick adipose tissue. The anterior surface is applied upon the iliac bone, the sacrum, the coccyx, the origin of the sacro-spinalis, the glutaeus medius, py- ramidalis, gemelli, obturator internus, andquadratusfemoris muscles, the sciatic nerve, the tuber ischii, the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, the upper extremity of the biceps and semitendinosus, the great trochanter, and the adductor magnus and triceps extensor muscles. 2 a