73 UPPER MAXILLARY BONE. markable prominence in its interior; behind, where it presents the mark of the posterior dentary canals to the maxillary tuberosity ; below, by a surface less broad than in the other directions, to the alveoli of the molar, and sometimes of the canine teeth. The roots of these teeth pretty frequently raise up the thin bony plate which forms the floor of the sinus, and have even been seen to per- forate it. Entirely to the outside, the summit of this cavity is seen formed in the malar process, and the bony plate, by which it is se- parated from the cheek-bone, is so thin as to be frequently broken when that bone is separated. The orifice of the sinus, which is sometimes double, is articulated above with the ethmoid bone; below and before with the inferior turbinated bone; behind with the palate bone ; and these bones contract it in a singular degree. This cavity is lined by a prolongation of the pituitary membrane. 244. At the lower part of the aperture of the sinus, there oc- curs an oblique sht directed forwards and outwards, of which the posterior hp is inclined into the sinus, and the anterior toward the nasal fossae, and which receives a plate of the palate bone. At the upper part of the same aperture, there are seen portions of cells which unite with those of the ethmoid bone. Before it is a deep channel, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, directed obliquely downwards, backwards and inwards, slightly ponvex be- fore and outwards, continuous with the lachrymal groove, and forming the greater part, sometimes even the whole of the Nasal Canal. Behind the orifice of the sinus, there are observed an un- even surface, which is united to the palate bone, and a superficial channel which proceeds downwards and forwards, and contributes to form the Posterior Palatal Canal. 245. Circumference. At the back part, the two surfaces of the upper maxillary bone are separated by an unequal eminence, which is called the Maxillary Tuherosity. It is much more prominent in young subjects than in old people, because it contains the last molar tooth, and diminishes considerably after its protrusion. It is perforated by the Posterior Dentary Canals, which open exter- nally in the form of two or three small holes, and which, as weU as the anterior, disappear as they approach the alveoli, and leave the nerves and vessels to descend from one cellule to another, in the diploe of the bone. 246. Anteriorly, between the two surfaces of the bone, there is observed a free edge deeply concave at its upper part, which forms a portion of the anterior aperture of the nasal fossae. At its lower part it is prominent, and articulates with the bone of the opposite side, and in its middle presents an eminence which forms the half of the Anterior Nasal Spine. This edge unites above with that which terminates anteriorly the nasal process of the frontal bone, forming a more or less projecting angle with it. 247. Lastly, at the lower part, the two surfaces of the bone are separated from each other by the Upper Alveolar Edge or Alveolar Process. This edge is thick, less so however before than behind.