602 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. of the Greeks, II. OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES, OR ORGANS BY WHICH THE CHYME AND CHYLE ARE ELABORATED. 1. Of the Stomach. a. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2075. The Stomach (Ventriculus),* the principal organ of di- gestion, is a conical, elongated musculo-membranous reservoir, curved from before backwards and from below upwards in the di- rection of its length, slightly depressed on two opposite sides, con- tinuous on the one hand with the oesophagus, on the other with the duodenum, situated beneath the diaphragm, between the liver and spleen, behind the left false ribs, occupying, at the upper part of the abdomen, the epigastrium and a portion of the left hypochon- drium, and destined to convert the alimentary substances into chyme before transmitting them to the intestines. 2076. The volume of this viscus is liable to change much in the different circumstances of life, so that very frequently it is no long- er concealed by the false ribs, but descends beneath them, behind the parietes of the abdomen. This happens in particular when it is much distended with food. In general, also, the stomach is larger in individuals who eat much than in other persons. Its greatest diameter is transverse. The small diameter, which is vertical, gradually diminishes in proceeding from the oesophagus towards the duodenum. Its two orifices are considerably contract- ed, and are directed upwards and backwards. Its direction is generally nearly transverse, and only a little in- clined downwards, to the right and forwards, so that its right ex- tremity is a little anterior and inferior to the left. When the vis- cus is filled with food, this obliquity is increased, and the stomach approaches the vertical direction. 2077" There are distinguished in the stomach an outer surface, an inner surface, two curves or edges, and two extremities, each having an orifice, a larger to the left, and a smaller to the right. OF THE STOMACH CONSIDERED AS TO ITS EXTERIOR. 2078. Its anterior surface, which is more convex than the posterior, and is turned a little upwards in the state of repletion, corresponds, from right to left, to the left lobe of the liver, to the diaphragm and the false ribs, and in the state of distention only, to the anterior wall of the abdomen, over a greater or less extent. It is always inclined downwards and forwards.