PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 184. formed of a cellular substance in which there arc perceived some irregular fasciculi of fibres of a reddish colour, which occuj)y the interval situated between the rib and the anterior surface of the corresponding transverse process. 602. Inferior Transverse Ligament. The first and last ribs are destitute of this ligament; and, in the others, it does not really belong to their articulation, since it does not proceed from the transverse process to be attached to the corresponding rib. It presents the appearance of a fasciculus composed of long diverging fibres, narrower above than below, broader and thinner in the lower ribs than in the upper, and always more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly. It is inserted into the lower edge of each transverse process, and descends from thence inwards, to be attached broader to the upper edge of the rib beneath, near its articulation with the body of the vertebra. In most subjects, it seems composed of two fasciculi, of which one, smaller than the preceding, crosses its di- rection. The latter arises immediately from the base of the pro- cess, and is attached to the head of the rib beneath. The inferior transverse ligament corresponds anteriorly to the intercostal nerve and vessels ; posteriorly, to the longissimus dorsi. Externally, it is continuous with a thin aponeurosis of the intercostal muscles, and serves internally to complete an aperture, filled with cellular tissue, and traversed by the posterior branch of the corresponding intercostal nerve. C. ARTICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. 1. ARTICULATIONS OF THE SKULL. Articulations of the Skull with the Vertebral Column. 603. Ligamentum nuehae. All authors do not admit the existence of this ligament, which some do not distinguish from the aponeuroses of the muscles of the posterior part of the neck. In the large quadrupeds, in which it serves to sustain the head, it is extremely large and distinct, and resembles in its tex- ture the ligamenta flava of the vertebrae ; but in man, it is a very elongated, narrow fibrous cord, formed of pretty close parallel fibres, which it is often very difficult to distinguish from the apo- neuroses of the trapezius, which are attached to it. It arises from the seventh cervical vertebra, and ascends between the trapezius, splenius and complexus, to be attached to the external occipital protuberance. From its anterior part, it furnishes a cellular pro- longation, which proceeds as far as the external occipital ridge, and to the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae ; but this prolongation is entirely destitute of fibres, and has the appearance of a septum which separates the posterior cervical muscles from each other. Posteriorly, this ligament lies directly under the skin.