43 THE ETHMOID BONE. plate, but also frequently end in this direction, cither with the tur- binated bones of the sphenoid, or with the sinuses of the same name. They are lined by a prolongation of the pituitary mem- brane. Inferiorly, these parts are bounded by another bony plate, rugose at its surface, larger than the upper, more curved, thinner, and continuous above with the rest ot the bone, free and thick beneath, especially at the fore part, convex interiorly, concave ex- ternally, and terminated behind by free inequalities. This plate is the middle turbinated bone of the nasal fusses or the ethmoidal turbinated bone. Its lower edge is marked by a vascular groove, audit contributes, by its outer surface, to form a portion of the middle meatus, under the appearance of a longitudinal channel, anteriorly to which is a lacerated aperture, which leads to the an- terior ethmoid cells. These cells are much larger and more nu- merous than the posterior, with which they have no communica- tion whatever. One of them, named the inf undibulum, situated behind the others, represents a sort of flexuous canal, directed for- wards and upwards, widened beneath, where it corresponds to the aperture mentioned, and opening above into one of the half-cells, which are covered by those of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, and which communicate with the frontal sinuses. The ethmoid cells, anterior as well as posterior, are therefore completed above by the frontal bone, anteriorly by the upper max- illary bone and the lachrymal bone, behind by the palatine bone. 135. The outer olfactory canals, which are in general shorter than the inner, some of which are prolonged upon the middle tur- binated bone, but of which there are none that penetrate into the meatuses or the ethmoid cells, occupy the greater part of the sur- face which we have just described, especially the superior turbi- nated bone, and the square surface which occurs before it. The numerous apertures of these canals, together with the presence of several vascular grooves, renders the inner surface of the tiu’binat- ed bones very rough; but the outer surface, and the interior of the cells, are smooth and polished. 136. Lastly, the nasal surface of the ethmoid bone presents at its lowest part several variously recurvate, thin, fragile, and fre- quently unciform laminae, which articulate with the opening of the maxillary sinus, and with some portions of cells formed above it; as well as with the inferior turbinated bone of the nose. These laminae generally break when they are disarticulated from the bones. 137. A Sphenoidal or Posterior Surface. This surface pre- sents, in the middle, the posterior edge of the perpendicular plate, and, on each side, externally of the posterior extremity of the ethmoid grooves, a convex irregular surface, corresponchng to the posterior ethmoid cells, articulated above with the sphenoid bone, beneath with the palate bone, and between the two, with the .sphenoidal turbinated bone. 138. A Naso-Maccillary or Anterior Surface. This is of very