356 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. below, is covered, above the crural arch, by the peritoneum, and by the coecum to the right, and the sigmoid curve of the colon to tlic left. The portion of this surface which is below the arch, cor- responds externally to the sartorius ; internally, to the pectineus and the crural vessels and nerves; anteriorly, to the cellular tissue of the fold of the groin, which separates it from the crural aponeu- rosis, Its 'posterior surface covers the iliac fossa, the upper extre- mity of the rectus muscle, and the articulation of the thigh. 1268. It bends the thigh upon the pelvis, and the latter upon the thigh, and acts powerfully in maintaining the body in the erect posture.* 3. Pelvi-trochantei’ic Region. OF THE PYIIIFOUMIS. 1269. This muscle is of an elongated conical form, flattened from before backwards. It is situated in the pelvis and at the up- per and back part of the thigh, and arises by a kind of digitations from the anterior surface of the sacrum, to the outside of the ante- rior sacral holes, and in the spaces by which they are separated from each other. It is also attached to the lower part of the pos- terior sacro-sciatic ligament (627,) and to the upper and back part of the ossa ilii. From thence it proceeds outwards and a little downwards, contracts, issues from the pelvis by the sciatic notch (406,) runs along the glutoeus medius and glutteus minimus, and terminates by a tendon. The latter, which is at first broad and con- cealed by the fleshy fibres, appears sooner before than behind, is separated from the tendon of the glutoeus medius by a synovial bursa (1261,) is confounded by its upper edge with the tendon of the gemellus superior, and is inserted, above the latter muscle, in the digital cavity of the great trochanter (496.) Sometimes the pyramidalis is longitudinally split, in which case a branch of the sciatic nerve passes between its two portions. 1270. In the pelvis, its a.nterior surface is covered by the rec- tum, the sciatic plexus, and the hypo-gastric vessels. After emerg- ing from that cavity, it is applied upon the ibac bonfe, the capsule of the hip-joint, and the glutoeus minimus. Its posterior surface is covered by the sacrum and the glutoeus maximus. Its upper edge corresponds internally to the glutoeal artery, and externally to the glutoeus medius and glutmus minimus. The lower edge corresponds, internally, to the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament, and externally, to the gemellus superior, from which it is at first separated by the sciatic nerve. 1271. This muscle rotates the thigh outwards. It may also make the pelvis turn upon the thigh. • Tills muscle should not be consideped separately from the p.soa.s niapnus.