OllOANS OF SENSATION. 473 1032. The pneumo-gastric nerve is at first placed befoft the hypoglossal, but almost immediately becomes posterior to it as it descends, and is entirely separated from it at the level of the trans- verse process of the atlas. It then passes over the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, externally of the common carotid artery and behind the internal jugular vein, to which it is united, as well as to the communicating cord of the cervical gan- glia, by cellular tissue less dense than that which surrounded it at its exit from the skull, but, lilie it, destitute of fat, filamentous and membranous. Arrived at the inferior part of the neck, the trunk of the pneumo- gastrie nerve enters the thorax, gliding behind the subclavian vein, and is differently distributed to the right and left. In the former direction, it passes before the subclavian artery ; in the latter, be- fore the arch of the aorta. It passes at first backwards, and in- creases in size. When situated behind the trunks of the bronchi, it leaves them to accompany the oesophagus through the diaphragm, and terminates upon the stomach. In the latter part of its course, the nerve of the right side is manifestly placed much farther back than that of the left side. 1633. In the very interior of the foramen lacerum posterius, the pneumo-gastric nerve sends off one or two filaments to anasto- mose with the spinal nerve, and, on emerging, it communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (6199) by another filament which de- scribes a curve, from the convexity of which escape some ramifica- tions which lose themselves in the rectus capitis anticus major. It also anastomoses with the hypoglossal nerve, and with ramifica- tions of the superior cervical ganglion. 1634. Pharyngeal Twig. Close upon the filament of commu- nication with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and either above or be- neath it, the pneumo-gastric nerve gives off to the walls of the pharnyx a twig of considerable size, which at the moment of its origin is joined by a filament of the spinal nerve. This twig de- scends obliquely inwards behind the internal carotid artery, whose direction it crosses, and to which it is closely united opposite the atlas. There, it furnishes one or two filaments which unite with those which the glosso-pharyngeal nerve sends around that artery, and form with them a kind of reticulated plexus which embraces it. The twig then approaches the pharnyx, increases considerably in size, and divides into a great number of filaments towards the upper edge of the constrictor pharyngis medius. These filaments anas- tomose in a multitude of different directions with filaments of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, of the upper laryngeal twig, and of the first cervical ganglion. They constitute with them the pharyn- geal pleoGus, whose irregular meshes, varying in number in differ- ent individuals, send numerous and frequently very extended ra- mifications, over the whole pharynx. Some among them which, like the plexus itself, have a grayish tint, jisccnd in the constrictor superior, while others descend in the inferior. One or two follow