OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BONES OF THE EAR. 569 at its extremities, convex internally and concave externally. It presents a form corresponding to that of the fenestra ovalis (1938), which it closes inaccurately, and to the circumference of which it is united by the mucous membrane of the tympanum. 1952. The bones of the ear are almost entirely composed of compact tissue. The malleus, incus, and stapes alone present a little cellular tissue in their thick portions. Each of them appears to be developed by a single centre of ossification, and they are re- markable for the size and compactness which they already possess in the fetus. Their articulations are destitute of ligaments, and they appear to be connected with each other only by means of the mucous membrane which lines the cavity of the tympanum. It is not known whether they have a periosteum, the existence of which it would be difficult to ascertain. 3. OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BONES OF THE EAR. 1953. Of the Tensor Tympani or Internal Muscle of the Malleus. It arises in part from the rough surface which the pe- trous process presents before the inferior orifice of the carotid canal, and in part from the fibro-cartilage of the Eustachian tube. At first aponeurotic, it soon becomes fleshy, directs itself backwards and outwards, and enters into a particular canal of the temporal bone (1942), separated from the Eustachian tube by the proces- sus cochleariformis, and surrounded by a very strong membrane. On arriving at the tympanum, it degenerates into a small tendon, which is reflected over the extremity of the processus“cochlearifor- mis, and is inserted into the process of the handle of the malleus. Its use appears to be to stretch the membrana tympani, by draw- ing the malleus inwards. It receives a filament from the facial nerve (1605). 1954. Of the Laxator Tympani, or Anterior Muscle of the Malleus. Much more slender than the preceding, it arises from the spine of the sphenoid bone and from the outer part of the fibro-cartilage of the Eustachian tube, by very short aponeurotic fibres. It ascends outwards and backwards, enters the glenoid fissure, and is inserted, by a tendon, into the summit of the pro- cess of Raw, (1948). It probably relaxes the membrana tympani, by drawing the malleus outwards and forwards. 1955. Of the Stapedius or Muscle of the Stapes. Still smaller than the preceding, it arises from the bottom of the cavity of the pyramid, which contains the whole of its fleshy portion in its inte- rior. It presently changes into a very short tendon which issues by the summit of that eminence, directs itself forwards,'?and after a course of one line, attaches itself to the posterior part of the neck of the stapes. It appears to impress a see-saw motion on this bone, in consequence of which the posterior extremity of the base is sunk