MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. S7y aponeurosis. From thence it directs itself forwards, increases at first in size, then diminishes, and at the middle of the sole of the foot, divides into four distinct bundles, of which the inner arc the largest. These bundles successively cover each other from within outwards, and are each terminated by a tendon, which appears sooner above than below. These tendons advance beneath the heads of the metatarsal bones, pass between the shps of the plantar aponeurosis, are engaged along with those of the flexor longus in the fibrous sheath placed under the toes, split to allow them to pass (1347), exactly in the same manner as those of the flexor sublimis of the fingers (1173), and are inserted, by two slips, upon the sides of the second phalanx of each of the last four toes. 1366. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, with which it is intimately connected behind. The upper surface is covered by the lumbricales and accessory muscle of the flexor longus, by the plantar vessels and nerves, and by the tendons of the flexor longus. Its inner edge is connected posteriorly with the adductor pollicis, from which it is separated anteriorly by the ten- don of the flexor longus, and by a portion of the flexor brevis of the great toe. The outer edge is united posteriorly with the ab- ductor minimi digiti, and is contiguous anteriorly to the flexor brevis, minimi digiti. 1367- It bends the second phalanges of the toes upon the first, and these upon the metatarsal bones. It also augments the con- cavity of the arch of the foot. OF THE MUSCULUS ACCESSOIllUS. 1368. It is situated at the back part of the sole of the foot, and is of a quadrilateral form, flat and thin. It arises by means of aponeurotic fibres, and by two distinct bundles, from the lower and inner surface of the calcaneum, whence it proceeds forwards and a little outwards, in a horizontal direction. Its fibres, which are all parallel, terminate on the outer and upper part of the ten- don of the flexor longus digitorum pedis, near the point where it divides. They frequently present there an aponeurosis prolonged upon the inner edge, while the aponeurosis by which they arc at- tached to the calcaneum is more distinct at their outer edge. Its inferior surface covers the adductor pollicis, flexor brevis digito- rum, and abductor minimi digiti, as well as the plantar vessels and nerves. The upper surface is covered by the calcaneum, the inferior cidcaneo-cuboid ligament (758), and by the extremity of the ab- ductor minimi digiti. This muscle serves as an auxiliary to the flexor longus, and rec- tifies its obliquity.