ORGANS OF SENSATION. This septum is composed of two laminm of fibrous white substance, lined in their whole extent by the arachnoid membrane, and only applied against each otlicr. There exists a separation between them, which is more or less apparent in different subjects, and is often much greater in the fetus than the child, and in the latter than the adult. It is cordiform in the earliest stage of life, an elongated slit in old persons. It is sometimes filled by a pretty abundant serous fluid. This separation is the Fossa Sytvii (Fifth Ventricle, Cuvier ; Sinus of the Median Septum, Chauss.) It is doubtful whether it is lined by a membrane or not. The bro- thers Wenzel think it is, and in certain cases of disease flakes may easily be raised from it. With respect to its alleged communica- tion with the ventricles, the same anatomists have discovered, at its posterior extremity, a small fossa, the extent of which is not al- ways in relation to that of the principal cavity. It is triangular or cordiform, and a bristle passed into it, penetrates into the third ventricle. But in the natural state, the aperture which affords a passage under the anterior commissure cannot be discovered. 1474. Beneath the corpus callosum and the septum of the ven- tricles, there is observed the Fornix or Three-pillared Vault, formed by the converging filaments of the posterior circumvolu- tions of the middle lobe. This is a lamina of soft, white, fibrous substance, having the form of a triangle curved upon itself, and whose summit, which is directed forwards, is bifurcated. It forms part of the two lateral ventricles and of the third ventricle. Its upper surface is, in a great part of its extent, contiguous to the corpus callosum. In the median line, it is continuous with the septum of the ventricles. The inferior surface is applied upon the tela choroidea and the optic thalami. Its two edges are coasted, in their whole extent, by the choroid plexus. Posteriorly, it pre- sents a few stri® or prominent lines, more or less oblique with re- spect to each other. This is the Lyre, or Corpus Psalloides, and is considered by Dr. Gall as the general union of the communicat- ing filaments of the fornix. The anterior extremity, anterior pillar or peduncle of the fornix, is divided into two cylindrical bundles, at first contiguous to each other and curving around the striated bodies to proceed directly downwards, then separating a little, sinking into the substance of the circumvolutions, and ter- minating at the pisiform tubercles of the inferior surface of the brain, after passing behind the anterior commissure. Behind each of these cords, and under the origin of the toenia semicircularis, is an oval aperture, more or less wide, by which the lateral ventricles communicate with the middle ventricle, and by which also the cho- roid web is continued into the choroid plexus. 1475. The posterior angles, peduncles or pillars of the fornix, furnish each a prolongation, which is bifurcated. One of the branches, which is very short and thin, loses itself in the white layer of the cornua Ammonis. The other, which is very long, and is named the Corpus fimhriatum, is a flattened band, which pro- ■1