OF THE TRUNK OF THE VENA CAVA SUPERIOR. 741 vertically behind the pleura, on the side of the bodies of the ver- tebne, successively receiving branches from each intercostal space. Towards the third vertebra, it presents a slight curve, which re- ceives three or four veins which descend from the lirst intercostal space. It then passes behind the lung and aorta, a little externally of the latter, and there, the Left Bronchial Vein discharges itself into it. After this it issues from the thorax and opens into the left subclavian vein. OF THE TRUNK OF THE VENA CAVA SUPERIOR. 2651. Formed by the union of the two subclavian veins which carry all the blood of the head, superior extremities, and a portion of the thorax, the vena cava superior commences opposite the car- tilage of the first rib, a little above the arch of the aorta, and des- cends to the left and forwards as far as the base of the pericardium, from which it receives a fibrous sheath more or less prolonged upon its walls. It then enters into that membranous sac, descends ver- tically to the right of the aorta, from which it is a little separated, is invested by the serous membrane of the pericardium, and opens into the right auricle of the heart, beliind its free appendage, a little above the vena cava mferior, and confounded with the latter in a greater or less extent. 2652. The vena cava superior corresponds a,nteriorly to the thymus gland and cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum ; pos- teriorly, to the superior right pulmonary vein and aorta; to the right, to the lung; to the left, to the portion of the pericardium which ascends upon the aorta. 2653. Before penetrating into the pericardium, the vena cava superior receives the Vena azygos, right internal mammarij and inferior thyroid veins, and several thymic, mediastinal, pericar- diac and superior diaphragmatic branches, aU from the right side. 2654. Right Internal Mammary Vein. It is precisely similar to the left (2645), differing from it only in its termination. Towards the umbilicus, its first root anastomose with those of the epigastric vein. 2655. Right Inferior Thyroid Vein. In the first part of its course, it is in all respects similar to the left, with w'hich it consti- tutes the thyroid venous plexus (2646). But farther down, it de.scends outwards, between the pneumogastric nerve and the bra- chio-cephalic artery, which are behind, and the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, which are before, and opens into the vena cava superior, between the two subclavian veins. 2656. Vena Azxjgos, (Veine prelomho-thoracique, Chauss.) It forms a communication between the two venae cavae. It opens into the vena cava superior, immediately above the right bronchus, form- ing around it and the right pulmonary artery, a hind of arch, by bending from before backwards, and a little from left to right. I t