PASSIVE ORGANS OP LOCOMOTION. a. UPPEE EADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. GCy. In this articulation, it is the inner side of the circumfer- ence of the head of the radius that is received into the small sig- moid cavity of the ulna, (460.) These surfaces are invested with a cartilaginous crust, which is continuous with the cartilage.s of the preceding articulation. The same synovial membrane also extends to it. This articulation has only a single ligament. 668. Annular Ligament, (Ligamentum orbiculare radii, \V"eit.) This is a very strong, flat, flbrous band, about two lines broad, very dense, often penetrated with gelatin and having a cartilaginous appear- ance, with circular fibres more apparent at the extremities than in the middle part. It suiTOunds the superior extremity of the radius, and with the small sigmoid cavity forms a sort of ring in which the radius turns with ease. The ligament forms about two-thirds of this ring, and is attached, on the one hand, to the anterior edge of the small sigmoid cavity, and on the other, to its posterior edge. Its outer surface is covered by several muscles and by the exter- nal lateral ligament of the preceding articulation which unites with it. Its inner surface is lined by the synovial membrane. Its upper circumference is. fixed by several of the ligaments of the humero-cubital articulation ; the lower is free, and corresponds in the greater part of its extent to a replication of the synovial mem- brane in the form of a cul-de-sac ; only some oblique fibres, aris- ing from the posterior part of the ulna, beneath it, are attached to it posteriorly. b. MIDDLE RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. 669. Interosseous Ligament, (Membrana interossea, Weit.) This ligament and the following are the only means which nature has here employed to prevent the bones from separating. They are moreover intended to close up the interval existing between these bones, which present no contact of surfaces as in the other articulations. The interosseous ligament fills up the space which exists between the radius and ulna, although it is not quite so long, being defi- cient from the humero-cubital articulation to the under part of the bicipital tuberosity, where there is nothing but an empty interval through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. It presents itself under the form of a thin, aponeurotic, resplendent membrane, a little thicker above than below, composed of a great number of flat parallel fibrous fasciculi, placed one above the other in the same plane, and descending obliquely from the inner edge of the radius to the outer edge of the ulna. These principal fasciculi are con- nected by other very attenuated, downy, loose and flexible fibres, leaving in their intervals small apertures more or less apparent, which allow vessels and nervous filaments to pass from one of the