PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 60 very distinct, and it is but rare that triquetrous bones occur in it, wliich is also the case with the futures already mentioned. 201. From the opposite angle there arises the Squamous suture, which describes about a third of the circumference of a circle, pro- ceeding backwards and downwards. It separates the temporal bone from the lower edge of the parietal, and is formed by an over- lapping of these bones, the latter sustaining the other, which fre- quently projects outwards. A little before it terminates, it changes its direction, forming an obtuse and retiring angle, and proceeds backwards to meet the occipital bone. The last mentioned part of the suture is not squamous. It results from the junction of the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone with the mastoid portion of the temporal. It is always formed by very irregular and very distinct indentations, and almost always contains super- numerary bones, which are not often met with in the squamous portion properly so called. 202. From each extremity of the basilar suture there is seen arising a line which separates the petrous process of the temporal bone, and the sides of the basUar process of the occipital, and af- terwards the latter bone from the temporal. From being at first concave, and directed outwards and forwards, this line becomes afterwards straight, and proceeds dhectly backwards when it has arrived at the middle part of each condyle of the occipital bone. The first part of this line is named the Petro-Occipital Suture, while the name of Mastoidal Suture is apphed to the second por- tion, which slightly rises to meet the extremity of the squamous suture, and which in general presents neither distinct indenta- tions nor supernumerary bones. The petro-occipital suture is a true groove, deep and pretty wide, in which the bones are not in immediate contact, but present an intervening thin layer of cartilage. 203. From the angle formed by the union of the mastoidal and squamous sutures, there arises another suture, with very distinct denticulations, which separates the occipital from the parietal bones, and which is named the Lambdoid or Occipito-Parietal su- ture. It ends at the corresponding point of the opposite side, and gives rise, in its middle part, to an acute angle projecting forwards so as to form the two sides of a triangle having its base directed downwards. In general there are numerous triquetrous bones in this suture; and of all the sutures of the skull, this has its denti- culations most distinctly marked. 204. Another longitudinal suture, which separates the two pa- rietal bones, and is named the Sagittal, arises from the angle form- ed by the last described. It presents distinct indentations, and is sometimes traversed posteriorly by the parietal hole. It falls up- on the middle of the coronal suture, and is then continued, pretty frequently in adults, and always in children, into another longitu- dinal suture, which divides the frontal bone into two equal parts.