381 musci.es of the foot. OF Till-: FLEXOU BItKVIS POLI.ICIS PKDIS. V3'io. Short, thin, and narrow posteriorly, l>road, tliick, and bi- furcated anteriorly, this muscle is situated externally of the pre- cecUng. It arises from the anterior and inferior part of the edea- neum, and from the last two cuneiform bones and their ligament, by a pretty thick tendon, at least an inch in length, and which ex- tends nearly over the whole of its upper surface. Several of these fibres also arise from the aponeurotic partition which separates it from the adductor pollicis (13/3). They are all short and oblique, and advance a little inwards, forming a bundle which increases in size, presents at its under surface a groove for lodging the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis (1354), and divides into two portions, at first united by cellular tissue, and afterwards isolated. Near the anterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone, the outer unites with the tendon of the preceding muscle, terminates along with it at the first phalanx of the great toe, and is moreover attached to the inner sesamoid bone of the articulation. The outer portion, which is thinner, and confounded with the abductor * pollicis, is inserted along with it into the lower and outer part of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and the outer sesamoid bone (543). I37G. Its wi/mor .«/r/hce rests upon the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, the plantar aponeurosis, and the adductor pollicis, with which it is partly confounded. The 'icpper surface has above it the tendon of the peroneus longus and the first metatarsal bone. Its outer edge is united anteriorly with the abductor pollicis. 1377' It bends the first phalanx of the great toe upon the first metatarsal bone. OF THE ABDUCTOR POLLICIS.* 1370. This muscle is situated to the outside of the preceding, at the middle and anterior part of the sole of the foot. It is short, thick, and of the form of a triangular prism. It arises by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, from the inferior surface of the os cu- boides, from the ligamentous sheath of the peroneus longus, and from the posterior extremity of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, as well as from the ligaments by which they are connected. Increasing at first in size, and then diminishing, it proceeds from thence forwards and inwards, is confounded with the outer portion of the preceding muscle (1375), and, a little fiirther on, with the transversus pedis (1381), to be attached along with them to the outer and under part of the first phalanx of the great toe and its outer sesamoid bone, by an aponeurosis which occupies its inferior surface. 1379. Its m/ermr 67:t/c covers the flexor longus digitorum, the * Aihhictor of liritisli writer?.