530 ORGANS OF sensation. 3. OF THE INFEUIOU CAllDIAC NERVE. I827. On the riglit side, the filaments which are destined M compose it form, on leaving the inferior cervical ganglion, a kind of plexus which unites into larger twigs, which descend vertically behind the sub-clavian artery, close to the recurrent nerve. They direct themselves to the left along the brachio-cephalic trunk, run upon the anterior side of the arch of the aorta, and go between it and the pulmonary artery, to lose themselves in the anterior car- diac plexus. 1328. Most commonly, on the left side, the middle and inferior cardiac nerves are united into a single trunk (1826). 3. OF THE NERVOUS GANGLIA OF THE CHEST. OF THE CARDIAC GANGLION OR PLEXUS. 1829. This is the central point of union of the cardiac nerves. It is placed behind the arch of the aorta, near the origin of that artery and before the division of the bronchi, and extends from above downwards, from the origin of the brachio-cephalic artery to the division of the pulmonary artery into two branches. It is elon- gated, sinuous, of an unequal size in the different parts of its course, and of a grayish colour. It has a transparent and gela- tinous appearance, and its consistence is very soft. Its upper part receives the right and left middle cardiac nerves, some filaments of the superior cardiac nerves, especially of the left, and also some of the inferior cardiac nerves of the right side. But anteriorly, pos- teriorly, and inferiorly, it furnishes filaments which constitute various plexus which we proceed to examine, and into the forma- tion of which there also enter numerous and isolated filaments of the inferior and superior cardiac nerves. 1830. Its aviterior Jilaments, which are in very small number, are distributed to the walls of the fore part of the aorta. Some of them join the anterior plexus, beneath it. 1831. The posterior filaments are numerous. They are very short, and throw themselves into the fore part of the pulmonary plexus, (1640). 1832. The inferior, which are stiU more numerous and much larger, belong especially to the heart. They may be divided into two classes. 1. Some of them, collected into a pretty large bundle, and always pulpy and gelatinous like all the other twigs of this ganglion, em- brace posteriorly the arterial ligament,* and turn from above down- • This at ferial ligavicnf is the remains of the dretus arteriosus whieh in tlic firtus j)ussed from tlie piilinonaiy artery to the aorta.