OUGANS OF CIRCULATION. 686 iticrus, directing itself backwards and downwards, and when it lias arrived at the middle of the posterior surface of the arm, enters be- tween the triceps extensor and brachialis internus, emerges through the interval which separates them, and becomes superficial. It then descends vertically, and at a greater or less distance from the shoulder joint separates into two branches. 2384. Near its origin, the deep humeral artery gives off’ 'poste- rior twujs which descend to a greater or less distance in the triceps extensor muscle, and of which one follows its inner portion to near the olecranon. At the same point, there also separate from it ex- ternal branches which direct themselves into the outer portion of the muscle, the brachialis internus, and over the periosteum of the humerus. One of them introduces itself into that bone by its nu- tritious canal, and is distributed to its medullary membrane. 2385. Two branches terminate this artery ; one of them follows its original direction and loses itself in the triceps extensor muscle, near its insertion into the olecranon The other directs itself be- tween the brachialis internus and the integuments, and gives a gi’eat number of ramifications to them as well as to the upper part of the supinator longus. 2386. In many cases, the trunk itself of the deep humeral ar- tery anastomoses a little above the outer condyle with a branch given off’ farther down, and with which it forms a transverse arch, which embraces the humerus externally. The twigs which issue from this arch are diffused over the elbow joint and the origins of the extensor muscles of the hand. 3. OF THE RAMUS ANASTOMOTICUS MAGNUS OR INTERNAL AND INFERIOR BRANCH. 2387. (Artere coUaterale du coude, Chauss.) It arises from the brachial, very near the inner condyle, and directs itself transversely inwards, before the brachialis internus muscle and behind the median nerve, whose direction it crosses. It pas- ses through the aponeurosis placed between the brachialis in- ternus and the inner edge of the triceps extensor, and there di- vides into two twigs. One of them follows the edge of the hume- rus as far as the inner condyle, on which it subdivides, and where it communicates with the anterior ulnar recurrent artery. It sends off a secondary twig which descends upon the fore-arm, between the olecranon and inner condyle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to a certain distance. The other passes backwards into the olecra- nal cavity, subdivides and throws itself into the lower parts of tlie triceps muscle. It anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. The ramus anastomoticus magnus moreover furnishes many small twigs to the brachialis internus and pronator teres muscles, the elbow joint, the integuments, and the ulnar nerve. A second anastomosing artery is frequently met with.