PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 15i. OF THE THIRD OK MIDDLE* CUNEIFORM DONE. 527. This bone is of intermediate size between the first and se- cond cuneiform bones. It is situated externally of them, and in- ternally of the os euboides. Its anterior surface is flat, smooth, and triangular, and is articulated with the third metatarsal bone. The ])osterior surface, which is of the same form, inclines a little forwards, and is connected with the os scaphoides. The inner surface presents anteriorly a narrow surface which is articulated to the second metatarsal bone, and posteriorly another somewhat con- vex surface connected with the second cuneiform bone. These two surfaces are separated by a rough depression which gives at- tachment to ligaments. The outer surface is surmounted, pos- teriorly and above, by a flat, rounded surface, which is connected with the os euboides ; and anteriorly, by another small and almost linear surface, which articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone. The rest of this surface presents impressions of ligaments. The Base of the bone looks upwards and a little outwards. It is rough and slightly convex. Its Summit, which is directed downwards, is thick and tubercular. 528. Structure and Development. The structure is the same in all the bones of the tarsus, their interior being formed of spongy tissue, very soft, and plentifully moistened by fluids in the recent state, while the surface is invested by a very thin layer of compact tissue, which has a lamellar or fibrous appearance, and is capable of being torn asunder. The calcaneum and astragalus take their rise from two centres of ossification; aU the others are developed by a single point, which, in the three cuneiform bones in particular, does not appear until after birth. The description of these bones is so short and simple, that I consider it useless to recapitulate their articulations. IV.—OF THE METATARSAL BONES.t THE FIRST METATARSAL BONE. 529- The First Metatarsal Bone is shorter and larger than the other, to the inside of which it is situated. Its Body, which is prismatic and triangular, presents an upper surface, which is con- vex and inclined inwards; an inferior surface, concave, broader at its extremities than in the middle, and covered by the flexor brevis pollicis pedis ; and an outer surface which is also a little concave, and corresponds at its upper part to the first dorsal inter- osseous muscle, and below to the abductor pollicis. Of the three edges by which these surfaces are separated, two are superior. * Or External,, with reference to its position. ^lirotra.^d’top: MsriXf post; 'Taoffo:^ tarsus.