AJIXICULATIONS OF THE SUPEIUOR EXTREMITIES. 199 notch of the upper edge of this bone, the other is stretched between the ^cromion and coracoid process. 651. Coracoid Ligament^ (Ligamentum proprium posterius^ Weit.) This ligament is sometimes wanting, when the notch which it completes is converted into a hole by osseous sub- stance. In other cases it is double. It consists of a thin and flat fasciculus, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, broader posteriorly than anteriorly, with close aponeurotic fibres, which are in part continuous with those of the coraco-clavicular ligament. It is attached on the one hand to the base of the coracoid process, on the other to the posterior part of the notch. The supra-scapular nerve passes almost always under this ligament, above which creep the vessels of the same name. 652. Acromio-coracoid Ligament, (Ligamentum propriu/m an- terius, Weit.) It is triangular, broad, thin, and flat, and stretches transversely between the coracoid process and the acromion, broader at the end next the former than at the other. It is in fact attached in the whole extent of the outer edge of the coracoid process by two fasciculi, at first separated by cellular tissue, and afterwards united into a common bundle, which becomes narrower and thicker as it approaches the summit of the acromion, to which it is attach- ed. One of the two roots of this bundle is anterior, shorter, broader and thinner, and directed transversely outwards; the other, which is posterior, longer, narrower, and thicker, is directed obliquely backwards and outwards. Both are, however, connected by a slight fibrous membrane. The upper surface of the acromio-coracoid ligament is covered by the clavicle and the deltoid muscle ; the inferior covers the su- pra-spinatus muscle. Its anterior edge is continuous with a pretty dense cellular lamina, subjacent to the deltoid muscle, and applied over the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles. This ligament completes the kind of vault formed by the acromion and coracoid process above the head of the humerus. 3. HUMEEO-SCAPULAU ARTICULATION. 653 The bony parts which concur to form this articulation are, on the one hand, the head of the humerus (448), and, on the other, the glenoid cavity of the scapula (433). Both are covered with diarthrodial cartilages, thicker at the centre of the former and at the circumference of the latter than in the rest of their extent. It is also to be remarked, that the depth and extent of the glenoid cavity are not proportional to the volume of the head of the hu- merus, so that a portion of this eminence is always without the ca- vity, and corresponds to the articular capsule. 654. Capsular or Orbicular Ligament. It surrounds the whole articulation, and constitutes the sole means of ensuring the mutual connection of its surfaces. It presents the form of a hollow conoid,