OF THli CERVICAL NERVES. OF THE SECOND I'AIIl OF CEIIVICAL NEllVES. 16'G1. Posterior Branch. Half the size of the anterior, this branch turns over the lateral articulation of the axis and third cer- vical vertebra, and in particular over the synovial capsule. It at first descends a little, then ascends before the complexus major, crossing the inferior twigs of the posterior branch of the first cervi- ral nerve (1659,) perforates that muscle and the trapezius, and be- comes subcutaneous towards the upper part of the neck. Its first filaiment ascends to unite with a filament of the preceding'nerve. It furnishes another more considerable twig, which passes between the articular and transverse processes of the third vertebra, gives three or four filaments to the posterior recti and oblique of the head, throws one into each superior interspinalis muscle, glides under the edge of the complexus minor, splenius, transversalis colli and semi- spinalis colli muscles. While it terminates itself in the integuments of the back of the neck and occipital region, as well as in the trape- zius muscle. 1662. Anterior Branch. It proceeds forwards and outwards, covered by the splenius and levator anguli scapulae, communicates upwards with the anterior branch of the preceding nerve (1660,) downwards with that of the third cervical nerve, bifurcates, and thus concurs to form the cervical plexus. By its middle part, it re- ceives a filament of the superior cervical ganglion, and another from its cord which descends towards the middle or inferior ganglion. It also gives some filaments to the rectus capitis anticus major and levator anguli scapulae. OF THE THIRD PAIR OF CERVICAL NERVES. 1663. Po.'terior Branch. Smaller than that of the second pair (1661,), it is lodged in a groove formed between the articular processes of the third and fourth vertebrae, passes between the in- sertions of the complexus major and semi-spinalis colli, descends for some time between them, gives them some filaments, traverses the splenius and trapezius muscles, and loses itself in the integu- ments. It communicates with the preceding nerve by a small fila- ment, and also sends some ramifications to the complexus minor, transversalis colli, and levator anguli scapula*. 1664. Anterior Branch. Directed at first outwards, then turn- ing (/ver the fourth vertebra, it communicates with the su])erior cervical ganglion and the second and fourth pairs of cervical nerves, and contributes to the formation of the cervical plexus. OF THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 1665. Bach of the anterior branches of the first, second, and