229 ARTICULATIONS OP THE HYOID BONES. 771. Transverse Metatarsal Ligament. It connects together Uie anterior extremities of the five metatarsal bones ; which have no direct connection by bony surfaces; and is in all respects simi- lar to that which we have described for the heads of the last four metacarpal bones (699-) 15. ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSAL BONES WITH THE PHALANGES. 772. These articulations constitute arthrodim, and are formed by means of surfaces covered with cartilage (529—535), and strengthened by two lateral ligaments and an inferior ligament, per- fectly similar to the lateral and anterior ligaments of the articula- tions between the metacarpus and phalanges of the fingers (697» 698). The synovial membrane is only here a little looser and more extended than in the hands. 16. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PHALANGES OF THE TOES. 773. Their surfaces, ligaments and synovial membranes are in all respects similar to those of the fingers, only the ligaments are a little smaller on account of the inferior size of the bones themselves. C. ARTICULATIONS OF THE HYOID BONES. 774- The hyoid bone is not directly connected with any of the surrounding bony organs; but it has distant connections with the temporal bone by means of the stylo-hyoid ligament. The differ- ent pieces of which it is composed touch each other by cartilagin- ous surfaces, and are kept in position by ligaments. The latter articulations become obliterated with age. 775. Stylo-hyoid Ligament, or Suspensory Ligament of the Hyoid Bones. This is a slender and very elongated fascicidus, broader below than above, formed of parallel, whitish and glistening fibres, which descend obliquely forwards and inwards from the sty- loid process of the temporal bone (177) fo small horns of the os hyoides (323), where it is attached so as to form an extremely acute angle with the great horns. It is frequently full of bony granulations, varying in size and number. Sometimes it scarcely exists, which happens when the styloid process descends to the hyoid bone, as is observed to be the case in some subjects. It va- ries exceedingly in other respects also, and has even been seen substituted by a muscle.* • Weitbreclit. Syndesm. 4to. Petropoli, 171-2, p. 213.