OF THE DURA MATER. 435 1508. Coronary Sinus (Circular Simts, Soemm.) It sur- rounds in a more or less regular manner the pituitary fossa and body, ])assing behind the channel of the optic nerves and before or above the cjuadrilateral lamina of the sphenoid bone. It is very narrow in its whole course; and it receives the venules of these different parts and those of the neighbouring portion of the dura mater, and opens to tlic right and left into the cavernous si- nuses. 1509. Cavernous Simtses.—These sinuses are much more complicated than all the rest. They commence beneath the ante- rior clinoid processes, behind the inner third of the sphenoidal fissure, proceed from thence horizontally backwards upon the sides of the pituitary fossa, whence they descend into the place which separates the smmnit of the petrous process from the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone. There they terminate by emptying themselves into the superior and inferior petrous sinuses. Their breadth is considerable, and they are lodged in the lateral gi-ooves of tlie body of the sphenoid bone, between two laminae of the dura mater. Of these two laminae, by an arrangement already partly described (1490,) the inner immediately lines the bony surface, and is prolonged into the sphenoidal fissure; while the other, which is much thicker, forms the outer wall of the sinus, which contains in its substance the common motor, the pathetic and ophthalmic nerves, and closes the two outer thirds of the sphenoidal fissure, becoming confounded above with the extremities of the tentorium cerebelli (1498,) which contain the sinus in that direction. Altogether in- ternally, the latter lamina is united with the first. The cavity of the cavernous sinuses generally presents a great number of soft reddish filaments, interlaced and as it were reticulated. The inti- mate nature of this kind of cellular structure is very difficult to be determined. It appears to me to be evidently formed at once by nervous filaments of the superior cervical and cavernous ganglions, the fibres of the dura mater, and the folds of the internal mem- brane of the veins. There are moreover met with, in the interior of these same sinuses, the internal carotid artery and the external motor nerve of the eye, placed against their inner wall, and im- mersed in the blood, from which they are only separated by the delicate internal membrane of the veins which envelopes them. The cavernous sinuses receive a great number of meningeal veins, the ophthalmic veins, whose roots originate in the interior of the eye and orbit, several emissary veins which traverse the sphenoid bone, and the two coronary sinuses. Beneath the pituitary body the two cavernous sinuses have a very distinct communication, which forms the Sinus transversalis Sell^B equince of Haller. 1510. Suyeriov Petrous Sinuses.—They seem to arise from the termination of the preceding sinuses, towards the summit of the petrous process, whose upper edge they follow, lodged in a pretty distinct groove, and in a part of the great circumference of