ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 274 Its posterior surface, which is inclined downwards, is covered by the two complexi and by the splenius. The anterior passes over the occipital bone, the vertebral artery, and the attachment of the rectus capitis posticus major. 915. It extends the head, inclining it to its own side. 5. Posterior Occipito-Cervical Regioti. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS. (M. Atloido-sous-occipital, Chauss.) 916. This muscle appears to be analogous to the intertransver- sales colli (833), and might even be considered as the first of them. It is thin and flat, and of an elongated square form. It is attach- ed inferiorly, by a small tendon, to the upper and anterior parts of the transverse process of the atlas, whence it ascends vertically to the occipital bone, to terminate at an impression which that bone presents behind the jugular fossa. Its anterior surface is covered by the internal jugidar vein, the posterior corresponds to the ver- tebral artery. 917- It inclines the head laterally and forwards. B. MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 1. PALPEBRAL REGION. OF THE ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARU.V. (M. Naso-palpebral, Chauss.) 918. The Orbicularis palpebrainim surrounds the base of the orbit, and occupies the greater part of the upper and lateral region of the face. It is broad, thin, and circular, and is slit transversely in the middle for the aperture of the eyelids. It has three distinct points of origin internally for its fleshy fibres. 1st, At the ascend- ing processes of the upper maxillary bones and the internal orbitar process of the frontal; 2dly, at the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove and the neighbouring part of the base of the orbit; 3dly, at the two sides and fore part of a small tendon, about half a line broad, and two lines long, stronger toward its point of attachment than toward the place where it terminates, and proceeding trans- versely outwards, from the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove, to the internal commissure of the eyelids, w'here it bifurcates to l>e continued into each of the fibro-cartilages, situated in the substance. Posteriorly, this tendon adheres intimately to a thin aponeurosis, which covers the lachrymal sac, which also gives rise to some fleshy fibres, and which was formerly called the refected tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum.. After originating in this manner, the upper and lower fibres of the muscle proceed, in opposite directions, to the upper and under parts of the base of the orbit, and following its curvature, unite at