PASSIVE ORGANS OP LOCOMOTION. 72 by a third edge, wliicli is rounded, of small extent, forming part of the contour of the orbit, andi.giving attachment to some fibres of the levator labii superioris. Between this edge and the posterior, is observed a triangular and very rough eminence, named the ma- lar or zygomatic process, which is articulated to the cheek-bone. 241. From the outer angle of this process, there descends ver- tically a blunt prominent edge, concave from above downwards, behind which is a portion of the bone belonging to the zygomatic fossa, while before it is a pretty distinct depression, called the infra- orhitar fossa or fossa canina, perforated above by the infra-orbitar hole, which gives passage to the infra-orbitar vessels and nerves, and affording attachment below to the canine muscle. Anteriorly, this fossa is bounded by the myrtiform fossa, an indistinct depres- sion, into which is inserted the depressor of the wing of the nose. 242. Inner or Naso-palatal Surface. This surface can only be Avell seen when the bones have been separated. Above, where it is invested by the pituitary membrane, it is concealed in the nasal fossae; while below, where it is lined by the palatine membrane, it forms part of the arch of the palate. It is divided into two por- tions of different extent, by a broad flat horizontal eminence, very thick before, which is named the palatal process. This process corresponds below to the mouth, and above to the nose. In the latter direction, where it presents at its fore-part one of the superior apertures of the anterior palatal canal, it is transversely concave, smooth, and polished. In the former direction, on the contrary, it is rough, uneven, and marked with several furrows, which are sometimes converted posteriorly into small bony arches, more or less complete, under which the palatine nerves and vessels pass. Posteriorly, it is bounded by. a slope which sustains the palatal bones; internally, it unites with the opposite bone by a thick striated edge, presenting anteriorly a channel which occupies only the lower half of its thickness, and is directed obliquely forwards. By uniting with a similar channel in the other bone, it forms the anterior palatal canal. This edge is also surmounted by a ridge, deflected a httle outwards, more prominent before than behind, and which constitutes the half of a groove, into which the vomer is received. 243. Beneath the palatal process, there is observed a concave surface of small extent, uneven, and covered with furrows. Above it, on the contrary, is seen a broad vertical surface, in the middle of which is a large and very irregular opening, with thin and rag- ged edges. This opening conducts to a large cavity formed in the substance of the bone, and which is named the maaallary sinus or aiitrv/m Higlvmorianum. This sinus, which is the largest of those of the head, and which is sometimes divided by septa, has nearly the form of a triangular pyramid, with the base turned inwards. It corresponds above to the floor of the orbit, and contains in its upper wall the infra-orbitar canal; before, to the canine fossa, and the upper and anterior dentary canal, which frequently forms a re-