OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. FEMUR. 141 leno-tli, and is flattened from before backwards in tlie remaining or lower fourth. Its anterior surface, wliich is convex, broader above and be- low than in the middle, and slightly twisted upon itself, gives attachment in the three upper fourths of its length to the triceps extensor, which covers it entirely. The 07cter surface is slightly concave above, convex below, and gives attachment to the external portion of the triceps extensor muscle. The irmer surface, is broader than the preceding, nearly plain, and covered by the inner portion of the triceps extensor, to which it gives attachment in its two upper thirds. 495. These surfaces are separated by three edges, of which two are lateral, rounded, rather indistinct, and give attachment to the triceps extensor muscle. The third is posterior, very prominent, rough, and furnished with distinct asperities, and has received the name of Linea aspera. This line, whose direction is parallel to the axis of the bone, is much more distinct at its middle part than at the extremities. It has besides a certain breadth, and presents two lips or edges separated by an interval, and retiring to a great distance from each other at the upper and lower parts of the bone, which makes it appear bifurcated at its two extremities. It gives attachment externally to the triceps extensor and the short head of the biceps. Internally, it also receives the insertion of the former of these muscles; while its middle part receives a portion of the fibres of the three adductor muscles of the thigh. The canal for the vessels of the bone, which is directed upwards, is seen af the middle of this line. It is generally single, but occa- sionally there are two or three apertures. The external branch of the upper bifurcation of the linea aspera ascends to the trochanter major. It is very rough, and gives attachment externally to the tri- ceps extensor, internally to the adductor magnus, and in the middle to the tendon of the gluteus maximus. The internal branch, which is not very distinct, passes upwards and inwards to the tro- chanter minor, and gives attachment to the pectineus and triceps extensor. The quadratus femoris and adductor magnus cover the triangular interval existing between these branches. The branches of the lower bifurcation of the linea aspera are longer than those of the upper. They descend toward the posterior part of the con- dyles, above which they terminate by very distinct imprc.ssions, and are more widely separated than those of the upper bifurcation. The external branch, which is more prominent than the inner, affords in- sertion to the triceps extensor and biceps flexor muscles; the internal, which is depressed at its upper part, and even almost entirely ef- faced toward the middle for the passage of the crural artery, which runs across it, gives attachment to the triceps extensor and adductor magnus. These two lines are separated by a triangular flattened sur- face, which corresponds to the popliteal vessels and nerves, and is li- mited at its lower part, and laterally by rough impressions, which arc placed immediately above the posterior extremity of the condyle, and which give attachment to the tendons of the gastrocnemius ex- ternus muscle.