PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 428. Under the spine is the Fossa Infra-spmalis, which is much larger than the preceding, a little rounded in the middle, but pretty concave outwards. There is observed upon it a longitudi- nal ridge, which gives insertion to an aponeurosis common to the infra-spinatus and teres major and minor muscles. Between this ridge and the axillary edge of the scapula is an elongated surface, broader below than above, divided into two parts by another ridge, which descends from that edge and joins the preceding at an acute angle. The upper and narrow portion of this surface gives attach- ment to the teres minor; the lower, to the teres major. Lastly, the whole infra-spinal fossa is filled by the infra-spinatus muscle, which is inserted into its three inner fourths. 429- Anterior or Costal Surface. This surface is inchned in- wards, and is concave for the purpose of lying upon the ribs, form- ing what is called the Sub-scapular Fossa. It is divided by more or less prominent ridges, running obhquely from above down- wards, and from without inwards, into several broad and superfi- cial grooves, occupied by fasciculi of the sub-scapularis muscle, which is inserted into the inner two-thirds of their extent, and at- taches its aponeuroses to the ridges mentioned. Behind the sub- scapular fossa, are observed, above and below, two plane surfaces to which the serratus magnus is attached. 430. Upper or Cervical Edge. This edge is thinner and shorter than any of the others. Posteriorly, it gives attachment to the supra-spinatus muscle; anteriorly, to the sub-scapularis; in the interval, to the omo-hyoideus. Externally, it presents a notch converted into a hole by a ligament, and giving passage to the su- pra-scapular nerve, which is sometimes accompanied by the vessels of the same name. Lastly, it is terminated, anteriorly to this notch, by a narrow elongated eminence, curved upon itself, having always more breadth than thickness, at first passing from below up- wards, and presently directing itself from behind forwards, and from above downwards. This is the Coracoid* Process. The upper surface of this process is convex and uneven, and gives at- tachment to the coraco-clavicular hgaments. The lower stirface is smooth and concave. The pectorahs minor is inserted into its anterioi’ edge, the acromio-coracoid hgament into the posterior ; while the biceps and coraco-brachiahs are attached to its summit. 431. Posterior or Vertebral Edge. This edge, which is also named the Base of the Scapula, approaches the vertebral coliunn above, from which it retires at the lower part. At the distance of a fourth of its length from the upper part, there is observed a very blunt angle, which corresponds to the commencement of the spine of the £capvda. This edge itself gives attachment posteriorly to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus, anteriorly to the serratus mag- nus, and in the middle to the rhomboideus. At its union with the upper edge, it forms an acute angle, approaching to a right angle, * Kipal, coivusf ilicsyjigura ; tbnt is to say of the shaj>c of the beak of a crotr.