ORGANS OF SENSATION. <080 spheno-palatine foramen, which transmits to it a certain quantity of nerves and vessels, and which allows a lamina of the periosteum of the pterygo-maxillary fissure to join it. It then directs itself to the vault of the nasal fossae, where it lines the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, of which it closes all the holes, so that the olfactory nerves terminate there at its external surface. Posteriorly, it covers the body of the sphenoid bone and sinks into the sphenoid sinuses, forming at their orifice a fold which contracts them more or less, according to the subject. Anteriorly, it is reflected over the posterior surface of the nasal bones, passes over the two or three foramina observed upon them, receiving the vessels to which they give passage. It descends from thence to the aperture of the nostrils, where it is furnished with a consider- able number of hairs, and where it is distinguished by very re- markable peculiarities of organization. Finally leaving the vault of the nasal fossae, the pituitary mem- brane descends over the septum which separates them, without forming any replication, and thus arrives at the place from which we supposed it to set out. E. OF THE OBGANIZATION OF THE FITDITARY MEMBRANE. 1989. Similar to the other mucous membranes with respect to the fluid which it furnishes, the pituitary membrane is continuous with several of them, that is to say, with those of the organs of di- gestion and respiration, and with the tunica conjunctiva of the eye. It also lines, like them, the interor of a cavity which communicates with the skin by apertures which that envelope presents at the surface of the body. But it differs from the other organs of the same kind in being thicker and softer, and truly deserves the epi- thet villous. 1990. The colour of the pituitary membrane varies in the dif- ferent points of its extent, where it appears sometimes white and sometimes red. The latter tint predominates so long as it is not introduced into the sinuses, and is much more intense than in the other mucous membranes, even than in those of the stomach and small intestines. This red colour of the pituitary membrane de- pends upon the blood, which is in a state of circulation in it, and not upon the combination of that fluid with its tissue 1991. With respect to its more general disposition, this mem- brane cannot be considered as a mere mucous membrane, being evidently formed of two distinct laminae, one of which is mucous, while the other, which is fibrous, is nothing else than the perios- teum or perichondrium of the nasal cavities. The union of these two laminae is of the most intimate nature, but their existence may be very easily recognised on the turbinated bones, and especially on the septum. On breaking the latter, and removing it by frag- ments, it is detached from the fibrous portion, which adheres much