294 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, The latter sometimes ascend to the orbicularis palpebrarum, or di- rect themselves toward the ear, covering the trapezius a little ; but the last of them, which are much shorter than the rest, do pot reach so far as the jaw-bone, They are also frequently strength- ened by a thin muscular plane, constituting the Musculus riaorius of Santorini, which, arising before the parotid gland, or the aponeu- rosis of the masseter muscle, proceeds horizontally toward the angle of the mouth, 1019, The external surface of the latissimus colli is covered by the skin, from which it is separated by a dense cellular tissue, con- taining in general little fat. The inner surface covers at its lower part the deltoides and pectoralis major, as well as the clavicle; in the middle, the stemo-cleido-mastoideus, omo-hyoideus, sterno- hyoideus, sterno-thyroideus, thyro-hyoideus, digastricus and mylo- hyoideus, the externaljugular vein, the carotid and superior thyroid arteries, and the maxillary gland. At the upper part, it lies upon the body of the lower jaw, part of the parotid gland, the masseter, buccinator, depressor anguli oris, levator menti, and zygoraaticus major muscles, and the labial artery. 1020. It depresses and carries outwards the commissure of the lips; lowers the skin of the cheek and that of the neck, which it wrinkles transversely ; assists in lowering the under jaw; and may also raise the skin which covers the upper part of the chest. PP THE STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOIDEUS, OR STERNO-MASTOIDEUS. 1021. This muscle is long, flat, about two inches broad, nar- rower in the middle than at its extremities, bifurcated below, and situated obliquely upon the anterior and lateral parts of the neck. The two branches of its bifurcation are separated from each other by an interval fiUed with cellular tissue. The inner or anterior, which is thicker and narrower than the other, arises from the fore part of the upper extremity of the sternum, by a tendon which ascends very high upon the fleshy fibres. The outer, which is sometimes ^vided into several portions, arises, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, from the inner and upper part of the clavicle, over an extent which varies in different subjects. These two por- tions of the muscle foUow different directions. The first ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and covers the second, which is nearly vertical. After thus crossing each other, they remain for some time distinct, but are at length confounded, so as to form but a single bundle, terminated by a broad and thin aponeurosis pos- teriorly, where it is attached to the outside of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, narrow and thicker anteriorly, where it is inserted into the mastoid process. At the union of its two por- tions, or a little above it, the stcrno-cleido-mastoideus is obliquely traversed by the spinal accessory nerve. 1022. Its outer surface is covered nearly in its whole extent by