730 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. tliose of the metatarsal artery (2585). Lastly, between the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulations, these branches separate each into two large twigs, which are distributed to the corresponding edo-es of the toes, from the inner part of the little toe to the outer part of the second, and which have exactly the same distribution as the colla- teral arteries of the fingers (2421). III. OF the veins, or vessels which carry the blood FROM THE DIFFERENT FARTS OF THE BODY TO THE •HEART. a. GENERAL REMARKS. 2607- The Veiois* ( Vencv) are vessels destined to contain the dark blood, as the arteries contain the red. They occur in all parts of the body to which arteries are distributed; but they may be distinguished into two principal orders, two systems which are en- tirely separated from each other. One of these systems, which is much more extensive than the other, commences in all the organs by very minute radicles, and ends at the heart by the venae cava?. The other, which is confined to the cavity of the abdomen, com- mences in like manner by a great number of radicles in the diges- tive organs and spleen, and terminates in the liver by a single trunk -rt^hich subdivides in its substance. This is called the System of the Vena Portce. 2608. With respect to their general disposition, the veins may, in some measure, be compared to the arteries, but they differ es- sentially from them in respect to their number, situation, functions and organization. 2609- Their form is cylindrical like that of the arteries, and their cahber remains the same so long as they do not receive branches; but this cylindrical figure is interrupted from space to space by more or less remarkable contractions, which are owing to the pre- sence of valves in their interior. 2610. Each artery is accompanied by at least one vein, which divides like it, has as many roots as it has branches, and whose size is much greater than that of the artery. There results from this that, at first sight, there seem to be as many veins as arteries; but the number is found to be much greater when it is observed that an artery is often accompanied by two veins of equal size with itself; that the roots of the veins also are more numerous than the branches of the arteries, and that many veins are entirely isolated from the arteries, as is observed under the integuments of the limb and trunk, in the brain, &c. 2611. The radicles of the veins unite successively so as to form trunks which become so much the larger the nearer they approach the heart; but as the sum of the diameter of all these radicles is 'I’Aii^- of tlip Greeks.