Active organs of locomotion^ 302 upper curved line of the occipital bone, from the whole length of the superficial cervical ligament (603), the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, as well as from the interspinal ligaments by which they are comiected. All these ori- gins take place by aponeuroses. That from the occipital bone pre- sents a thin and broad aponeurosis, the fibres of which are fre- quently more than an inch in length. Along the cervical ligament the fibres of these aponeuroses are very short; but from the sixth cervical to the third dorsal vertebra inclusive, they acquire consi- derable size, and form a membrane which represents the half of an ellipse. They then shorten again, to be elongated a second time at the lower part of the back, where there is observed a triangular and pretty long aponeurosis. The fleshy fibres succeed these apo- neuroses. Those which come from the occipital bone and cervical ligament descend obliquely outwards and forwards, turn upon themselves, and terminate at the outer third of the posterior edge of the clavicle. Those which arise from the last cervical vertebra and the upper dorsal, are shorter than the others, and proceed ho- rizontally outwards, to be attached to the acromion, the acromio- clavicular ligament, and the spine of the scapula, by long aponeu- rotic fibres, very strong and very distinct. All the others, which are the more oblique the lower they are, ascend outwards toward the inner extremity of the spine of the scapula, and there degene- rate into a triangiflar aponeurosis which slides, with the assistance of a very loose tissue, over a bony surface of the same form, and whose summit is attached to a small tuberosity. 1057- The posterior surface of this muscle is entirely covered by the skin, from which it is separated by a cellular tissue contain- ing little fat, and denser above than below. The anterior surface is applied, at its upper and inner part, upon the complexus major; farther down, upon the splenius, levator anguli scapulae, and ser- ratus posticus superior. At its lower part, it covers the supra- spinatus, infra-spinatus, rhomboideus, latissimus dorsi, and sacro- spinalis muscles, and the inner extremity of the spine of the sca- pula. The layer of cellular tissue interposed between it and these different parts is in general rather thin, excepting toward those above the spine of the scapvda. 1058. When the whole of the trapezius contracts at once, it carries the shoulder and clavicle backwards. Its upper fibres di- rectly elevate the tip of the shoulder, the lower indirectly. When both trapezii act together, the two scapulae are brought nearer each other and carried backwards. W^heu the shoulder is fixed, it extends the head and inclines it laterally. OF THE KHOlIBOinEUS. (M. Dorso-Scapulaire, Chauss.) 1059. The Rhomboideus is a thin flat muscle, of a nearly square form, occupying the upper part of the back and the lower part of