PASSIVE ORGANS OE LOCOMOTION. 1?!^ IV.—OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN PARTICULAR. A. AIITICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. a. Articulations of the Vertebral Column. 572. These articulations are very numerous and complicated, from the very circumstance that the region of the trunk to which they belong is composed of a great number of bones which touch each other by several points at once. Nevertheless, as these bones have a great resemblance to each other, the hgaments which unite tliem present a similar disposition, and may be described together, with the exception of those which connect the axis with the atlas. 1. COMMON ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRA. 573. Each vertebra, from the third cervical to the last lumbar inclusive, is placed in contact with that which precedes or follows it, by its body and articular processes; the laminae and spinous processes of all the vertebrae being moreover connected by Hga- ments. There results from this, that the common articulations of the vertebrae present themselves under the appearance of an am- phiarthrosis for their bodies, and of a plain arthrodia with obscure motions for their articular processes, and that they are ftu-ther strengthened by a kind of accessory Hgaments, capable of great re- sistance. We also observe that each vertebra has, on the one hand, isolated and pecuHar means of union, as the Hgamenta flava and the fibro-cartUages; and on the other, participates in the use of common organs, which extend at once over the whole vertebral column, or at least the greater part of it, such as the anterior and posterior vertebral Hgaments, &c. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BODIES OF THE VERTEBR.E. 574. Ligamentum commune anterius. (Fascia lo7igitudinalis anterior, Weitbrecht.^ This Hgament occupies the anterior region of the vertebral column, from the axis to the upper part of the sa- crum,. It is membraniform, of a very beautiful mother of pearl as- pect and gHstening appearance, and presents very distuict longi- tudinal striae, which separate so many bundles of fibres, between which there exist smaU intervals, irregular as to form and position, for the passage of blood-vessels and cellular tissue, Tliis ligament is very narrow in the neck, broader in the back, stiU broader in the lumbar region, and so disposed as to cover the greater part of the bodies of the vertebrae. It is thin in the cervical and lumbar re- gions, thicker in the back, and everywhere follows the inequalities of the vertebrae, accommodating itself to aU their Ilexuosities. Its